Connecting Pieces of Your World 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS in brief Ansaldo STS is a technological company listed on the Milan Stock Exchange. It is active in the railway and urban rail transportation system market, designing and supplying traffic management and signalling systems and related services. It designs, builds and manages transportation and signalling systems for freight and passenger railway and urban rail lines. It is a general contractor, system integrator and supplier of large scale turnkey projects around the world. ANSALDO STS IN BRIEF 1 Performance indicators 1 The Pillars of Sustainability for Ansaldo STS 2 Letter from the Chairman and CEO 4 CONTENTS 6 COMPANY PROFILE 9 Performance indicators ANSALDO STS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 (K€) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 53 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS OUR PEOPLE 75 ACQUIRED ORDERS 1,483,587 1,492,346 ORDER BACKLOG 5,601,021 5,683,253 SUPPLY CHAIN 101 REVENUE 1,256,419 1,247,849 OPERATING PROFIT (EBIT) 118,093 117,073 COMMUNITY 109 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 74,815 75,696 NET WORKING CAPITAL 21,027 (48,147) SUSTAINABILITY OF THE AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS 119 NET FINANCIAL POSITION (net cash position) (260,078) (301,982) ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 139 SOCIAL HIGHLIGHTS TOTAL VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO STAKEHOLDERS 1,229,102 1,219,453 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS 152 VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO EMPLOYEES 309,454 311,988 VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO SUPPLIERS 806,302 802,121 METHODOLOGICAL NOTES 158 VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO THE COMMUNITY (taxes, donations and sponsorships) 43,902 43,216 VALUE DISTRIBUTED TO LENDERS (shareholders and banks) 69,444 62,128 GRI CONTENT INDEX 160 INVESTMENTS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 32,036 32,260 INVESTMENTS IN TRAINING 2,392 2,069 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE 171 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING 19.9 18.7 THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY GREENHOUSE GASES (tCO2e) 22,705 28,818 ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER HOUR WORKED (kWh/no. of hours) 3.48 3.27 % ENERGY FROM RENEWABLE AND NUCLEAR SOURCES 38% 36% WASTE PRODUCED PER HOUR WORKED (Kg/no. of hours) 0.06 0.08 % WASTE RECOVERED 68% 48% INJURY FREQUENCY RATE production sites 1.21 1.17 INJURY FREQUENCY RATE – offices 0.09 0.34 INJURY SERIOUSNESS RATE production sites 52.23 72.76 INJURY SERIOUSNESS RATE offices 1.34 3.61 1 Ansaldo STS in brief | The Pillars of Sustainability for Ansaldo STS Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The Pillars of Sustainability for Ansaldo STS • INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE • FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE Composed of the managers of the main company functions, this committee defines strategic guidelines, commitments and projects for sustainable Ansaldo STS reports on direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope development and social responsibility. It reports directly to the Chairman and CEO I, II and III) in accordance with the GHG protocol1, undertaking to decrease and, through them, to the Board of Directors. these emissions, in part through people mobility policies, plans to cut energy consumption and improve efficiency, use energy from renewable sources and manage waste effectively. • MATERIALITY Ansaldo STS defines the content of the Sustainability Report by asking its • WORKERS’ HEALTH AND SAFETY stakeholders for their opinion on the different aspects to be considered in the report. This enables the company to more genuinely report on sustainability Promoting the health and safety of its workers is a strategic commitment for issues that affect its stakeholders’ judgements and decisions. Ansaldo STS. The company also tracks “near misses” – which are accidents without consequences resulting from undesired or unexpected situations, which could potentially harm people or things – to identify the appropriate solutions • STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT before a real accident happens. Ansaldo STS is committed to understanding the needs and expectations of its people and involving them in projects to develop skills and expertise. It is • SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY focused on constantly monitoring its customers’ satisfaction and it promotes the company’s technological progress by participating in training and research projects Ansaldo STS is committed to defining, sharing and implementing a sustainability in collaboration with universities and institutions, particularly with respect to the roadmap for its supply chain to promote a sustainable business culture with its safety and energy efficiency of rail transportation systems. suppliers. This will progressively improve the economic, environmental and social impact (labour and safety practices, respect for human rights and the development of local communities) along the supply chain. • INTEGRATED ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND QUALITY SYSTEM Ansaldo STS has an integrated management system (“IMS”) for the environment, • SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS AND DISCUSSION safety and quality, which integrates all group processes in one single structure, enabling the organisation to operate with shared objectives. It has also certified This is the fifth year that Ansaldo STS has prepared the Sustainability Report in its individual sites in accordance with UNI EN ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and with certification standards. by an independent auditor. Ansaldo STS has signed the Global Compact and is a founding sponsor of the Global Compact Network Italian Foundation. It also participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project and is on UNIFE’s Sustainable • INNOVATION, SAFETY AND RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT IN PRODUCTS AND Transport Committee. SOLUTIONS A section of its website is dedicated to sustainability, where it publishes a Ansaldo STS has invested approximately Euro 32 million in each of the past navigable integrated review of its report, supplementing information on operating, two years in research and development to supply its customers and end users social and environmental management. with cutting edge products and solutions, very best railway and urban rail transportation system design and construction methods and procedures to increase safety and reduce their direct and indirect environmental impact. 1. T he Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) is the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions. 2 3 Ansaldo STS in brief | Letter from the Chairman and CEO Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Letter from the Chairman and CEO We would like to take this opportunity to address everyone transport. An even more significant contract in Riyadh for the new metro increase can be seen in emerging (line 3) and the first contract for new who interacts and works with Ansaldo STS every day: the markets, while there are significant Tramwave®technology in the China, millions of passengers who transit safely using our railway opportunities in the US and for the city of Zhuhai. and metro transportation technologies, our customers, our Australia as well. Ansaldo STS shareholders, our men and women workers, institutions, our boasts strong roots on markets This demonstrates how Ansaldo STS in industrialised countries, is well is a company of value, and what partners and the communities and associations with which positioned on emerging markets is more, as demonstrated every we operate and collaborate and which continuously motivate and meets global demand by day by our people, it is a company us and provide us with invaluable recommendations. drawing on its demonstrated skills founded on values. These values and expertise in delivering on time represent who we are and explain and on budget. why customers choose us and Ansaldo STS management and all its employees are our products. They guide us in the committed to achieving strategic objectives for profitable In this highly competitive scenario, development of our abilities and they growth and ensure that they are in synergy with our the standardisation of certain help us grow. sustainability values, respect for the environment and quality products and innovation are crucial elements which management knows Our values run alongside the “high of life. how to manage. speed” track that we are on, with enthusiasm and dedication, as we This mission is described in our is Ansaldo STS’ 2013 sustainability Ansaldo STS’ business model translate them, every day, into real Stefano Siragusa Sergio De Luca charter of values, which represents report dedicated to our stakeholders, is sound and validated by its action. CEO, Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Chairman, Ansaldo STS S.p.A. who we are and reminds us why but it is written with and for them. leadership, making it possible customers choose us, why our to successfully offer global and These actions are aimed at growth, workers are so committed to Ansaldo STS’ presence on the integrated railway and metro keeping a close focus on customers, our company and that we are world’s leading markets ensures that transportation solutions for innovating and excelling, and we are “upstanding” people who do things we have the necessary solutions passengers and freight. aware that none of our objectives can the “right” way, working together to for customers and the various local be achieved by one person alone, but innovate and meet the needs of our companies seeking the benefits of 2013 presented changes and only by a group of people, including valued customers. technologies that improve the safety developments that led the company you, our stakeholders. and efficiency of railway and metro to focus increasingly on boosting This is why we have begun publishing transportation. growth, innovating its products and We would like thank everyone, a report called the integrated review consolidating its experience and Ansaldo STS’ workers and families, on the Ansaldo STS website. The For the first time, Ansaldo STS has expertise. for having demonstrated their ability report highlights the close ties devoted a section of this document to achieve results, responding to the between economic, social and to a local business that is particularly It was another year in which we challenges of change by calling them environmental aspects. sensitive to sustainability issues, upheld our commitment to roll out opportunities. Australia, in which the best practices automated metro lines, like those in In accordance with the G4 guidelines and local characteristics of a key Milan and Brescia, and to complete of the Global Reporting Initiative, domestic Ansaldo STS company are work that enabled us to activate the we aim to genuinely consider our described. Ankara and Mumbai metro lines in stakeholders’ expectations and this early 2014. is why Ansaldo STS’ sustainability In macro terms, Ansaldo STS’ committee has conducted a market is sound and shows, at We also met our commitments in the materiality analysis. global level, annual growth rates signalling segment, delivering version in the range of 2% to 3%. Key 2.5.3 of the ERTMS (the ESTER We are always striving to improve market drivers remain positive: project) in Sweden and the central and this is why we have started growing global trade and rising device on the Turin-Padua line. comparing our stakeholders’ opinion traffic, urbanisation processes, of Ansaldo STS’ performance in environmental concerns and Moreover, we achieved our objectives these aspects with our own opinion growth in emerging markets, in terms of acquiring important, of the same. Accordingly, not only infrastructures and intermodal strategic orders, like the Saudi 4 5 Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Contents Company Profile 9 Supply Chain 101 Business lines 11 Types of purchases 102 Ansaldo STS around the world 12 Supply chain sustainability policy 104 Main projects acquired in 2013 14 Vetting and eligibility of suppliers 104 Company history 16 Contractual tools 106 Monitoring 107 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility 19 Internal Sustainability Committee 21 Community 109 Materiality analysis 22 Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions 111 Ethics and integrity 25 Trade associations 112 Stakeholder engagement 30 Partnerships with universities: technological and managerial training 113 Product innovation, safety and liability 34 Media relations 114 Corporate governance 38 Ansaldo STS and the community 117 Organisational structure 48 Sustainability of the Australian Business 119 The Environment, Health and Safety 53 Materiality 120 Environmental policy 54 Ansaldo STS in Australia 121 Integrated management system 55 Corporate Governance 121 Environmental training 56 Our people 123 Climate change 58 Health and safety 128 The Carbon Management System 59 The Environment 133 Carbon disclosure project (CDP) 62 Community 136 Environmental performance 62 Economic Performance 139 Health and safety 69 The business model 141 Costs and investments for the environment, health and safety 73 Strategy 142 Our People 75 Value directly generated and distributed 144 Human resource management policy 76 Customers and the market 145 Recruitment and hiring 81 Shareholders 147 Training and development 82 Remuneration and incentive systems 86 SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS 152 People Care 90 Trade unions 96 METHODOLOGICAL NOTES 158 In house communications 99 GRI CONTENT INDEX 160 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE 171 6 7 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Company Profile Business lines Ansaldo STS around the world Main projects acquired in 2013 Company history 8 9 Company Profile Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Company Profile Business lines Ansaldo STS operates in the high speed and conventional Railway Transportation and Urban Rail Transportation (automated and traditional underground and light rail systems) sectors. CONVENTIONAL HIGH SPEED MAIN LINES SUB-URBAN METRO With over 4,100 people and a global presence, Ansaldo Ansaldo STS considers the social, economic, logistics, STS is an international leader in the Signalling sector and architectural, environmental and structural context of in the construction of Integrated Transportation Solutions. each project that it handles, planning, designing and For both Railways/Mass Transit carrying passengers building signalling and railway and metro transport and Freight transportation, it designs, builds, plans and systems that provide the best possible combination implements signalling systems and components to of safety, efficiency and return on investment. manage and control railway and metro traffic. DRIVERLESS TRAMWAVE® LIGHT RAIL FREIGHT UTO METRO (CATENARY FREE) System Integration activities Ansaldo STS develops, designs, tests, installs, manages, maintains and provides training on the automation and safety of control systems and equipment for railway and urban passenger transportation and the transportation of freight: • Interoperability signalling systems: ERTMS/ETCS (Railway) CONTRACTUAL CAPABILITIES • Communication-Based Train Control: CBTC (Metro) • Contracting for Design & Construction • Train control systems: ATC / ATP / ATO • Project Financing • Computer-Based Interlocking (CBI) • Centralised Traffic Control (CTC) • Public Private Partnerships (PPP) • Land and line components • Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) • Support and operating systems • Design, Build, Operate and Maintain (DBOM) • Integrated safety solutions 10 11 Company Profile | Ansaldo STS around the world Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS around the world Ansaldo STS, headquartered in Genoa, has four main operating companies: Italy-based Ansaldo STS S.p.A. LOCATIONS COMPANY with sites in Genoa, Naples, Piossasco (TO) and Tito Scalo (PZ); US-based Ansaldo STS USA, with sites in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania) and Batesburg (South Carolina); France-based Ansaldo STS France, with sites in Italy, Naples Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Riom and Les Ulis; and Australia-based Ansaldo STS Australia, with sites in Brisbane and Perth. Italy, Genoa – registered office Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Italy, Piossasco (TO) Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Ansaldo STS also owns operating entities in Germany, Sweden, Finland, the UK, Spain, China, India, Italy, Tito Scalo (PZ) Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Malaysia, South Africa and Botswana as well as many permanent establishments and partnerships in other Denmark, Copenhagen Ansaldo STS S.p.A. countries such as South Korea and Turkey. Romania, Bucharest Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Greece, Thessaloniki Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Turkey, Ankara Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Germany, Munich Ansaldo STS Deutschland GmbH Arab Emirates, Abu Dhabi Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Saudi Arabia, Riyadh Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Western Europe and Africa France, Les Ulis Ansaldo STS France S.A. France, Riom Ansaldo STS France S.A. UK, London Ansaldo STS UK Ltd. Spain, Madrid Ansaldo STS Espana S.A.U. Sweden, Solna Ansaldo STS Sweden AB Sweden, Johanneshov Ansaldo STS Sweden AB Sweden, Torsby Ansaldo STS Sweden AB Morocco, Rabat Ansaldo STS France S.A. Tunisia, Tunis Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Botswana, Gaborone Ansaldo STS South Africa PTY Ltd. South Africa, Johannesburg Ansaldo STS South Africa PTY Ltd. The Americas US, Pittsburgh (2 office sites) Ansaldo STS USA Inc. US, Batesburg Ansaldo STS USA Inc. US, Hawaii Ansaldo Honolulu JV US, Rockville Ansaldo STS USA Inc. US, Kansas City (Lenexa) Ansaldo STS USA Inc. Canada, Toronto Ansaldo STS Canada Inc. Canada, Kingston Ansaldo STS Canada Inc Asia Pacific Headquarter (Genoa) Australia, Brisbane Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Local Offices / Departments Australia, Perth Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Belmont Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Production sites Australia, Canningvale Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Projects underway in these Countries Australia, Karratha Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Sydney Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Newcastle Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. EMPLOYEES REVENUE (€’000) ORDERS (€’000) South Korea, Daejeon Ansaldo STS France S.A. GEOGRAPHICAL COMPANY 2013 2012 AREAS 2013 2012 2013 2012 India, Bangalore Analdo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd ASTS ITALY 1,545 1,532 Italy 352,069 445,450 230,394 287,214 India, Kolkata Analdo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Delhi Analdo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd ASTS FRANCE 734 622 Rest of Europe 284,357 251,249 312,180 208,279 Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur Ansaldo STS Malaysia SDN BHD ASTS USA 742 769 North America 140,437 123,448 145,587 205,951 Taiwan, Taipei Ansaldo STS S.p.A. ASTS APAC 1,040 1,003 Asia Pacific 424,377 385,151 180,645 704,699 China, Beijing Ansaldo STS Beijing Ltd. ASTS CHINA 67 65 Rest of the world 55,179 42,551 614,781 86,203 China, Shanghai Ansaldo STS USA Inc. Total 4,128 3,991 Total 1,256,419 1,247,849 1,483,587 1,492,346 China, Hong Kong Ansaldo STS Hong Kong, Ltd. 12 12 13 13 Company Profile | Main projects acquired in 2013 Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Main projects acquired in 2013 Country Project Customer Value (M€) Saudi Arabia* Metro Riyadh – package 2 ADA 511.3 Italy, France, US, China, UK and Sweden Components, Services and Maintenance Various 141.4 Denmark* Copenhagen – M1/M2 O&M three years Metroselskabet 135.4 Australia* Rio Tinto – implementation of RAFA orders Rio Tinto 58.6 Morocco AV Marocco (Tangiers – Kenitra) ONCF 57.9 Italy* Rome Metro Line C – extension of T3 Roma Metropolitane 52.9 Italy* Milan Metro Line 4 (rider agreement) Milan Municipality Authorities 47.4 Algeria ERTMS Oued Tlelat – Tlemcem Condotte 40.0 Spain AV Madrid – Llerida Maintenance 2013–2015 ADIF 26.9 China* Zhuhai – TramWave® stage 1 JV CNR/GRC 26.0 Denmark* Copenhagen – O&M order change Metroselskabet 25.4 US Washington DC – WMATA Dulles corridor WMATA 21.6 US Los Angeles Crenshaw / Green line LACTMA 19.6 US* Honolulu – order change HART 19.4 Italy SCMT / others CTC – sundry contracts & order changes RFI 18.3 Turkey Metro Ankara – order change DLH 17.4 US New York – Long Island LIRR Speonk/Montauk section LIRR 15.4 (*) Orders acquired by the Transportation Solutions business unit in 2013, the remaining orders were acquired by the Signalling business unit. 14 15 Company Profile | Company history Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report 2010-11 Company history 2013 • 2010: After Genoa and Naples, the 1995 year ends with the acquisition of the Copenhagen contract to build Through US&S, it first enters the Cityringen. the Australian market and then • 2011: Ansaldo STS arrives in With the awarding of the 1880 the Asia Pacific. n 1997, US&S Hawaii by signing a very important contract by His Highness 1988 Australia becomes the regional headquarters. contract worth a total of US$1,344 million for the and Governor of Riyadh, Ansaldo e C. is founded for the In 1996, Ansaldo Trasporti Ansaldo STS will handle the technology and supply of vehicles construction and maintenance of Ansaldo Trasporti acquires creates Ansaldo Signal NV in technological part of the for the new driverless urban rail in railway equipment. At the turn of 100% of Union Switch & Signal which all activities of Ansaldo, longest line over 40 km Honolulu. The contract entails the the century, the company begins (US&S), now Ansaldo STS USA, Union Switch & Signal and of the new Riyadh metro in design, construction, operation and Saudi Arabia, confirming that building boats. Production stretched from the port of a leading signalling system company. In 1989, it acquires CSEE (of which it acquires the remaining 51%) are 2006 maintenance of Honolulu's new line, stretching roughly the company is increasingly renowned for its solutions and 1935 Genoa towards Sampierdarena 49% of CSEE Transport, concentrated. The company 32 kilometres long and stopping and Sestri Ponente, and the formerly known as Compagnie In 2006, a special purpose experience in the development is listed on the NASDAQ and at 21 stations. company employed more than de Signaux pour Chemins de entity Ansaldo STS acquires of metro lines around remains so until 2000. 10,000 people. Ansaldo & C. is rescued by the Fer, headquartered in Paris. all Ansaldo Signal and the world. In the field of Bank of Italy after the war and Ansaldo Trasporti Sistemi innovation, in 2013, research the collapse of 1929. The crisis Ferroviari shares from projects become fruitful with ends with the establishment of Finmeccanica. the first contract for a tram IRI (Istituto per la Ricostruzione At the end of March 2006, powering solution catenary Industriale, Italian Institute for Ansaldo STS is admitted to free called Tramwave® in the Industrial Reconstruction) which the STAR segment of the city of Zhuhai (China). takes control of Ansaldo and Milan Stock Exchange. sells it to Finmeccanica in 1948. 2007-09 2001 • 2007: Ansaldo STS develops the first Vital Positive Train Control™ Ansaldo Trasporti transfers its system for the railway network in 1990 systems integration business Alaska. 2012 unit to Ansaldo Trasporti • 2008: the first ERTMS line in 1980 Ansaldo Trasporti Sistemi Ferroviari, a new India is rolled out, supplied and In Australia, Ansaldo STS' signalling enters the Northern company created in 2000. delivered. Ansaldo Trasporti is delisted • 2009: the new tram powering solution is hailed as a revolutionary Finmeccanica and Ansaldo market by acquiring the and merged into Finmeccanica. solution catenary free called technological innovation at global jointly create Ansaldo transportation division of Finmeccanica now owns 100% Tramwave® is presented for the level. Indeed, the centralised Trasporti (ATR), which Standard Radio & Telephon of both Ansaldo Signal and first time at the trade fair UITP. interlocking and automatic train operates as a company/ (SRT). The new company is 1904 prime contractor active named Ansaldo Trasporti Ansaldo Trasporti Sistemi Ferroviari. protection (ATP) system uses satellite positioning. in the integrated system Signal System AB (ATSS). Ferdinando Maria Perrone segment and is listed on In 1993, Ansaldo Trasporti acquires Ansaldo. In a few years, the Milan Stock Exchange lists US&S on the NASDAQ. 1853 the company grows to own the production sites, encompassing iron in 1986. Gio. Ansaldo e C. is and steel processing, foundries and founded in Genoa. military production sites, employing At the time, Ansaldo approximately 17,000 employees was already synonymous in Genoa alone. with excellence in In 1918 Ansaldo reaches a record of 80,000 employees. 17 Genovese industry. Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility Internal Sustainability Committee Materiality analysis Ethics and integrity Stakeholder engagement Product innovation, safety and liability Corporate governance Organisational structure 18 19 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility Internal Sustainability Committee Ansaldo STS boasts a widespread presence in international markets, with operations In 2011, Ansaldo STS set up the Internal Sustainability Committee (also referred to as the “Committee”), made up of the managers of the main company functions. The Committee’s mission is to define the company’s strategic in many contexts and different stakeholders, making the management of relationships guidelines for sustainable development and the promotion of social responsibility initiatives and see that they are between Ansaldo STS and its stakeholders of the utmost importance. Stakeholders include implemented. The Internal Sustainability Committee reports directly to the Chairman and CEO of Ansaldo STS and any party people, groups, companies, institutions that are public or private, Italian or collaborates and coordinates with the company’s organisational units. foreign, with a direct interest in the company’s activities. The Committee is responsible for: • the assessment of social and environmental risks that concern the company’s operations and evaluating the Legal compliance, transparency and upstanding transportation systems and create increasingly related performance; conduct in operations and trust and cooperation sophisticated products and solutions that are safe • the definition and monitoring of the sustainability programme, made up of financial, social and environmental with stakeholders are the ethical principles to and environmentally-friendly; objectives; which Ansaldo STS aspires to effectively and • it is based on the ways in which the company • the implementation of the relevant codes and rules of social and environmental conduct defined by the company loyally compete on markets, improve customer pursues its mission: Ansaldo STS has a corporate (code of ethics and HSE procedures and policies) or relating to international standards (Global Reporting satisfaction, increase value for shareholders and governance model, an internal control and risk Initiative, the Global Compact, the Carbon Disclosure Project, etc.); develop the skills and professional growth of its management system and an integrated environment, • the definition and coordination of listening to, discussing with and involving stakeholders: sharing results and the human resources. The company’s socially responsible safety and quality management system and it has steps to be taken; conduct leads to its focus on Sustainable established an Internal Sustainability Committee, • the definition and implementation of an internal and external sustainability communications plan. development, which for Ansaldo STS is two-fold: enabling it to continue on a sustainable growth path • it is tied to the achievement of the company’s and ensure that each member of its staff acts in mission, which is to develop railway and urban rail accordance with a culture of responsibility. BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN and CEO INTERNAL STAFF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTIONS FUNCTIONS COMMITTEE In 2013, the Internal Sustainability Committee met to: •p  lan and perform the materiality analysis, which entailed an internal survey to define the strategic level of the aspects that characterise Ansaldo STS’ sustainable development and an external investigation to involve the various categories of stakeholders and understand how they prioritise these aspects; •d  efine and discuss the 2013 reporting project with the following objectives: – improve the level of application of the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 guidelines; – c onfirm the Global Compact and participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project; – improve internal and external sustainability communications; –p  articipate in the Global Compact Network Italy projects; –e  xplore the sustainability of Ansaldo STS Australia’s business in a specific section of the report. 20 21 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Materiality analysis Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Materiality analysis Impact on stakeholders’ opinions and choices The third step of the materiality analysis involved the various categories of stakeholders in order to determine Materiality measures the threshold over which an aspect or indicator is significant and should therefore be the impact that the aspects considered could have on their opinions and choices. Ansaldo STS asked its considered in the report. To identify this threshold, Ansaldo STS has adopted the principles and methodologies stakeholders, on the basis of their knowledge of the company and its dynamics and considering their sensitivity, set out in the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (G4). to prioritise each aspect, using the same scoring system as the company (internal perspective analysis). To gain a more complete picture of stakeholders’ viewpoints, the questionnaire prompted stakeholders to Identification of relevant aspects indicate any aspects that had not been considered. The panel of external stakeholders was selected to The Internal Sustainability Committee’s first step was to carefully select the most significant aspects for Ansaldo STS' represent the different categories, including all countries where the company is present (in accordance with the sustainability (these were aspects and issues that had already been identified in previous years. Indeed, this is now completeness criterion). the fifth year in which Ansaldo STS reports on its sustainability performance) considering a combination of internal ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDERS’ OPINIONS AND CHOICES AVERAGE and external factors, such as mission, values, company strategies, risk assessment activities, integrated quality Anti-corruption and prevention of corporate crimes 8.8 management system, safety and the environment, climate change strategy and research and development aimed at Occupational health and safety 8.8 creating increasingly safe and environmentally-friendly products and solutions. In addition, Ansaldo STS has considered Customers satisfaction 8.7 the indications included in the Global Reporting Initiative, the Global Compact and the Carbon Disclosure Project, as well Respect for human rights 8.6 as the aspects emphasised by rating agencies, which include ESG (environment, social and governance) criteria in their Quality of governance 8.5 ratings and initiatives in progress in the railway transportation sector. Product innovation 8.5 Respect for local communities 8.5 Impact on Ansaldo STS’ performance Supply chain monitoring (environmental, labour practices, human rights assessment) 8.5 The next step was to score the various aspects according to their strategic importance (priority) based on the Creation of economic and financial value 8.5 following criteria: Social and environmental risk management 8.5 • probability and seriousness of the impact that could arise from the aspect considered; Integrated Management System for the environment, safety and quality 8.4 • impact that the aspect could have on the company’s performance; Stakeholder engagement 8.1 • possibility of gaining competitive edge. People care 8.1 People training and development 8.0 The members of the Internal Sustainability Committee filled out a scorecard with three ranges: low (from 0 Diversity and equal opportunity 7.8 to 3), medium (from 4 to 7) and high (from 8 to 10). Reduction of energy consumption 7.5 Mitigation of environmental impact of products and services 7.4 ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT ON ANSALDO STS’ PERFORMANCE AVERAGE Monitoring and mitigation of GHG (greenhouse gas) 7.3 Customers satisfaction 9.5 Reduction of the use of materials; use of renewable or recycled materials 7.2 Creation of economic and financial value 9.2 Management of waste and effluent 6.8 Product innovation 9.0 Efficient use of water resources 6.7 Anti-corruption and prevention of corporate crimes 8.8 Protection of biodiversity 6.5 Occupational health and safety 8.5 AVERAGE 8.0 Quality of governance 8.3 STANDARD DEVIATION 0.7 People training and development 8.2 People care 8.1 Respect for local communities 7.8 Analysis of results Stakeholder engagement 7.7 The first item noted is how the internal assessment of impact on Ansaldo STS’ performance is substantially in Respect for human rights 7.7 line with the external assessment of the impact on stakeholders’ opinions and choices. Overall, the average Social and environmental risk management 7.6 scores given to the various aspects is high for both: the average score that Ansaldo STS management gives is Integrated Management System for the environment, safety and quality 7.6 7.3, while the average score that the various stakeholders give is 8. The aspects with the highest variability of Diversity and equal opportunity 7.6 responses (larger dot) are those that are considered relatively less important. Supply chain monitoring (environmental, labour practices, human rights assessment) 7.4 Reduction of the use of materials; use of renewable or recycled materials 6.4 Based on Ansaldo STS’ internal scoring, customer satisfaction, ability to create economic/financial value, Mitigation of environmental impact of products and services 6.3 product innovation, the effectiveness of the anti-corruption policy, health and safety in the workplace, the quality Reduction of energy consumption 6.2 of governance and personnel training and development have the greatest impact on performance. Not far behind, Management of waste and effluent 5.2 are respect for human rights and local communities, aspects relating to environmental impact and ethical control Monitoring and mitigation of GHG (greenhouse gas) 4.9 of the supply chain. The protection of biodiversity, the efficient use of water and monitoring and controlling Efficient use of water resources 4.9 greenhouse gases are considered less significant on performance. The latter is due to the company’s perception Protection of biodiversity 4.8 that it already contributes to cutting greenhouse gases given the type of business it performs. AVERAGE 7.3 Stakeholders’ opinions and choices with respect to Ansaldo STS depend on the effectiveness of its anti-corruption STANDARD DEVIATION 1.4 policy, focus on workers’ health and safety, the company’s ability to satisfy customers, respect for human rights and local communities, product innovation and ethical control of the supply chain. Not far behind, are training, development and care for human resources and equal opportunities. Environmental issues are farther off. As with the internal analysis, the less significant aspects are protection of biodiversity and the efficient use of water. 22 23 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Materiality analysis Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Materiality Matrix Ethics and integrity 10.0 Considering its history and vocation, the Ansaldo STS Group has always based its business development on the creation of safe, efficient, reliable and environmentally-friendly railway and IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDERS’ JUDGEMENT AND CHOICES 9.0 metro transportation systems and solutions, placing its full focus on the people these systems and solutions serve, who live in increasingly complex contexts with increasingly complex lifestyles. 8.0 MISSION 7.0 Ansaldo STS combines experience and human, financial and technological resources to provide innovative solutions in the design and construction of equipment and systems for conventional and high speed railway lines and urban rail network signalling and automation for both 6.0 passengers and freight. Our commitment to sustainable development can be seen in the countries in which we operate, across five continents, through the widespread application of our business vision, focus on environmental and social issues, 5.0 and how we foster a collaborative environment and respect for local cultures through our work. The more we make sustainable long-term decisions, the better interaction between our company, society and the environment will be, and this approach gives us a competitive edge. 4.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.0 9.0 10.0 IMPACT ON ANSALDO STS’ PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC ASPECTS AND GOVERNANCE ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS CORE VALUES Customer satisfaction Reduction of the use of materials; using of renewable or recycled materials To achieve its objectives and grow and maintain its sector leadership, Ansaldo STS, Creation of economic and financial value Mitigation of environmental impact of product and services bases its operations on solid, unwavering ethical values and principles. Everyone in the Product innovation Reduction of energy consuption organisation around the world is required to uphold this culture and make the same Anti-corruption and prevention of corporate crimes Management of waste and effluent commitment to ethical conduct, embracing the company’s principles and values. Monitoring and mitigation of GHG (greenhouse gas) Quality of governance Stakeholder engagement Efficient use of water resources Ansaldo STS’ values and those on which it has based its business are: Protection of biodiversity Social and environmental risk management Integrated Management System for the environment, safety and quality Focus on customers Ansaldo STS exists and celebrate success: a place you’d recommend to SOCIAL ASPECTS because of its customers, insofar as the company a friend. Occupational health and safety is able to understand and meet their requirements People training and development and expectations, helping them resolve any related Team spirit None of these operating objectives problems. can be achieved by one person alone. The company’s People care professionals are capable and eager to work Respect for local communities Innovation and excellence Understanding, together with their colleagues in a single, integrated Respect for human rights studying and developing solutions to improve organisation, capable of making the most of their Diversity and equal opportunity responses to customers and market offers lie at different cultures and professional training. This team Supply chain monitoring (environmental, labor practice, human right assessment) the centre of Ansaldo STS’ activities, in which work spirit can also be found in managers who ensure is constantly focused on providing customers with cooperation and the growth of the company culture, innovative and excellent products that incorporate while achieving established objectives and the Other suggestions from stakeholders the basis of the company’s competitiveness on the company’s mission. Suggestions received from the stakeholders involved in the materiality analysis include emphasising the market. relationship between sustainable development and the company’s medium/long-term results to a greater Integrity If people are to work together effectively, extent in the report, with better clarification of personnel’s involvement in the achievement of these objectives. People Customer satisfaction and the mutual trust must be fostered, and this is only development of new products depend on the abilities possible if everyone works and acts in a way that of the professionals working to achieve them, is transparent, loyal, honest and proper. Similarly, Ansaldo STS’ employees. This is why Ansaldo STS customers must have the absolute certainty that is a company founded on people. Everyone in the integrity is a fundamental value for Ansaldo STS, and company’s organisation works to make Ansaldo STS that this value is reflected in its products, through the a good place to work, where people learn, achieve utmost care and attention to safety. 24 25 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Ethics and integrity Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report CODE OF ETHICS GLOBAL COMPACT With confirmation of its participation in the network, Ansaldo STS continues to strive to make the The code of ethics clarifies the commitments and responsibilities that guide the Global Compact and its principles an integral part of its strategy. company’s business and activities, requiring compliance by anyone involved in any way with Ansaldo STS. Principles of the Global Compact Ansaldo STS The code of ethics is available on the company’s web site. It is a key element of the internal control system, and compliance HUMAN RIGHTS with it enables Ansaldo STS and the group companies to prevent 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of • Code of ethics and training certain irregularities or illegal acts prohibited by the regulations internationally proclaimed human rights • Declaration of respect for human rights of the various countries where Ansaldo STS operates, particularly 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in • Personnel management policy Legislative decree no. 231/01 in Italy. human rights abuses • Fair remuneration • Company climate and improvement measures The code of ethics was formally adopted for the group companies • Internationalisation and multi-cultural management by resolution of the respective boards of directors or equivalent • Worker health and safety policy management bodies. It was shared with all group personnel using • Product liability the same methods as those applied by the parent Ansaldo STS. • Ethical control of the supply chain In addition, a code of ethics control body was set up within each LABOUR group company to promote the implementation of the code of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and • Code of ethics and training ethics. A specific information channel for the code of ethics the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Labour policy declaration was also created, and can be used to report any conduct that is 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of • Remuneration and incentives inconsistent with the principles of the code of ethics by sending forced and compulsory labour • Fair remuneration an email. The reports are sent and managed in accordance with a 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child • People Care – Employee initiatives group procedure. labour • Personnel management, recruitment and hiring policy 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination • Training and development 2013 reports – One report was received in 2013 concerning in respect of employment and occupation • Trade unions Ansaldo STS Australia. The report related to a prospective • Company climate and improvement measures transaction in potential conflict of interest with an employee. • Litigation management The code of ethics control body did not believe that there effectively was a conflict of interests. In any case, the • Ethical control of the supply chain reported transaction was not performed. ENVIRONMENT In 2013, Ansaldo STS Australia’s code of ethics control body was asked to interpret the application of the code in 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to • Environmental policy and management system relation to third parties’ offers of gifts to employees. environmental challenges • Environmental certification and registration 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater • HSE training Training on the code of ethics environmental responsibility • Taking a prudent approach Ansaldo STS relentlessly promotes and fosters awareness of the code of ethics, related protocols and updates, as 9. Businesses should encourage the development and • Carbon management system (Scope I, II and III emission measurement) well as knowledge of the areas of activities in the various functions with responsibilities, hierarchical relationships, diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project duties and training. It informs employees on the code of ethics and related protocols first by distributing specific •M easurement and control of environmental impact (energy documentation to all employees and workers collaborating with the company in any way, and requires, when the consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water resources and waste) material is delivered, that they sign a statement certifying that they have read the documentation received. • Commitment to improve performance • Product innovation to reduce environmental impact In addition, company personnel can, at any time, ask supervisors for guidance and clarifications on the content • Italian and EU research projects for railway transportation safety and of the code of ethics, protocols and duties assigned to them. When new employees are hired and/or contracted, to reduce its environmental impact Ansaldo STS immediately gives them the information necessary for adequate knowledge of the code of ethics and ANTI-CORRUPTION protocols, with particular respect to those that concern them specifically. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, • Code of ethics and training including extortion and bribery • Organisational, management and control model pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/2001 • Procedural system applied by all Ansaldo STS companies 2. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts.message-asp.com/files/downloadspage/asts_cod_etico_italiano.pdf 26 27 La Corporate Social Responsibility di Ansaldo STS | Etica e integrità Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Integrated management system Ansaldo STS has implemented an integrated management system (“IMS”) for the environment, safety and quality, which integrates all group processes in one single complete structure, enabling the organisation to operate as a single unit with shared objectives. At central level, global policies and procedures have been established to ensure controlled management of processes and activities relating to safety in the workplace and environmental protection. On this basis, and where there are specific legislative requirements, each legal entity has established local guidelines to ensure compliance with the requirements applicable to its processes. All company bodies are required to closely comply with the principles of the environmental management Human rights3 system, and they are actively involved in preparing and updating it. Ansaldo STS is currently completing the Ansaldo STS upholds and promotes human rights in every context in which it operates, by creating equal certification process for its sites under UNI EN ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 standards. opportunities for its people and fair treatment for all regardless of race, nationality, political creed, religion, gender, age, minority status, disability, sexual orientation, personal or social condition – and always respecting the dignity of each individual and each employee. (Code of ethics). Development and extension of environmentally-friendly technologies Ansaldo STS is constantly committed to providing its customers and end users (passengers and freight) with the Labour 4 best and safest products, using the best design methodologies and procedures and the best existing building Ansaldo STS offers equal opportunities, ensuring fair treatment on the basis of individual expertise and methods and processes, in line with its commitment to reduce energy consumption and its direct and indirect abilities and hiring people under legal employment contracts, mainly on an open-ended basis, in accordance impact on the environment. with laws, national labour agreements, company agreements and current regulations. Ansaldo STS also promotes technological and managerial training through partnerships with universities, Over the course of employment, training is a crucial lever to make the most of human resources and update specifically in terms of information communication technology, sustainability and the health and safety of their skills to the market context, thereby expanding upon the abilities and knowledge of each employee, in transportation systems. line with the company’s values. Ansaldo STS also applies a policy based on the recognition of one’s merits and equal opportunities. Ansaldo STS’ internationalisation process has also consolidated work experience abroad, The Group actively participates in research projects co-financed by Italian and EU institutions on how to improve thereby enabling people to share their different experiences and foster the value of multiculturalism. safety, energy efficiency, environmental impact, sustainable mobility and the interoperability of transportation systems. Ansaldo STS guarantees that its workers are free to join trade unions, and sees that its relationships with the unions are cooperative and friendly in which workers may report their opinions to Human Resources directly or Anti-corruption and the prevention of corporate crimes via delegates. Ansaldo STS has adopted the organisational, management and control model (the “Model”) pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/2001, which deals with, inter alia, corruption against the public administration and among people. The Model has been adopted in the Group’s pre-existing Italian companies (which merged into the parent in 2009) Child labour since the introduction of Legislative decree no. 231/2001. Ansaldo STS does not allow and does not tolerate employment situations that violate current regulations on child labour, women’s labour and immigration. This also applies to its external contractors, suppliers and Ansaldo STS S.p.A.’s employees are required to comply with the Model and the procedures, which specify the business partners. operating methods of the various company processes. These procedures relate, in particular, to the following: • advisors and sales representatives; Forced labour • sponsorships, publicity campaigns and contributions to associations and bodies; Ansaldo STS carefully monitors the risk of forced labour. In addition, the company requires its contractors and • conferral of advisory engagements and professional services; sub-contractors to guarantee the same in order to contribute to the abolition of such illegal practices. • gifts, hospitality, facilitating payments and entertainment expenses; • M&As (mergers and acquisitions). Environment5 Ansaldo STS’ commitment to sustainable development translates into guaranteeing quality of life, continuous These procedures have been adopted in line with Finmeccanica’s initiatives to strengthen the internal control access to natural resources and avoiding permanent damage to the environment. system, concerning, in particular, corruption and corporate crimes. Protecting the environment is part of Ansaldo STS’ social responsibility. This is a key element in its business Specifically, the procedure for advisors and sales representatives was subsequently updated to include and better strategy, with the aim of promoting long-term growth in the company’s value. The optimisation and development define due diligence activities. In order to verify that it is effectively applied, various audits were also performed. In of its processes and organisational structure are central to this strategy: the aim is to produce in the safest the event of acts of corruption (which has never occurred in the Group thus far), Ansaldo STS would respond with possible way, using the least possible quantity of resources. the disciplinary sanction provided for by the Model, which also includes dismissal without notice. The main risk areas, including direct risks and the areas that could potentially facilitate acts of corruption, subject to the requirements of the Model, are the sales area, contract management, sites, administration, finance and control, HR and soft loans. 3. A  nsaldo STS acts in accordance with the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN’s International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the ILO’s Fundamental Conventions (nos. 29, 87, 98, 100, 105, 111, 138 and 182), the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the UN’s Convention on the Rights of Children, the ILO’s Conventions nos. 107 and 169 on the Rights of Indigenous and Tribal Populations, the European Convention on the Rights of Man and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational corporations. 4. See: Human resources 5. See section: Environment, health and safety. 28 29 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Stakeholder engagement Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report To ensure all employees are completely familiar with the Model, they receive reports when it is updated. Employees working in the areas at risk of these crimes being committed, along with the company’s managers and CUSTOMERS junior managers participate in e-learning training when the organisational, management and control model and • Technological leadership in terms of safety and the environment legislation are updated pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/2011. These people also sign periodic statements • Continuous innovation of production and solutions of compliance with the Model and, where applicable, statements describing the most significant relationships with • Flexibility in the offer of integrated solutions including O&M activities representatives of the public administration. • Financial support • Delivery on time and on budget Global Compact Network Italy Foundation • Life cycle management and risk assessment Global Compact Network Italy (GCNI) was founded in 2002 to contribute to the development of the “Global Pact”6 in Italy. In June 2013, the GCNI created the Global Compact Network Italy Foundation, with Ansaldo STS as a WORKERS founding member and sponsor, along with 17 other organisations, private companies, universities and research • Respect for and valuing of people institutes, non-profit foundations and civil society organisations. Ansaldo STS participates in the work groups • Training and professional growth • Push for internationalisation and multi-culturalism organised as part of the Italian network. • Developed company welfare • Focus on health and safety The GCNI Foundation’s mission is to spread awareness of the UNGC7, encouraging an increase in membership • Listening to needs throughout Italy and promoting, with increasing seriousness and credibility, a corporate sustainability commitment by the participating Italian companies and organisations and their partners. In addition to its domestic INVESTORS commitments, the Foundation plans to play an active role in the definition and implementation of growth strategies • Excellent governance and the consolidation of the UNGC on a regional and international scale. • Maximisation of company value • Sustainable development • Careful risk assessment and management • Transparent communications • Intense investor relations activities Stakeholder engagement • Partnerships with banks Ansaldo STS’ social responsibility translates into the focus that the company has on upholding the quality of SUPPLIERS relationships with its stakeholders, defining specific policies in this respect in order to make the company capable • Clear, objective and veriﬁable selection criteria of understanding their needs and expectations. • Relations based on partnerships • Control over supply chain In 2013, the main engagement activities with stakeholders were: • The materiality analysis through which Ansaldo STS was able to understand the priorities that its stakeholders THE PUBLIC give to the aspects reported upon and through which it has better defined the content of the Sustainability • Research projects with public institutions • Partnerships with universities Report. • Quality and transparency in communications with the media •  Customer satisfaction surveys. • Support for humanitarian, social and cultural activities • The Global Employee Survey, which gives a reliable picture of the perceptions and needs of the company’s entire population, enabling it to identify potential areas for improvement. • Personnel involvement initiatives carried out through different projects: – Global Talent, a specific training and development project for Ansaldo STS talent; – the 360° Assessment for executives, entailing the assessment of each manager by a group of peers, which Customer Satisfaction A specific team handles Customer Satisfaction (“CS”) activities. This team is made up of the managers of the contributed to the acceptance of a feedback culture; various functions: Strategy, Quality & Improvement, Railways & Mass Transit and Freight, RAMS (Reliability, Availability, – Future Leaders, a programme aimed at recruiting and training 20 talented professionals already involved in Maintainability and Safety) and Operations. Customer Satisfaction activities consist of the various stages and are strategic projects for the company; carried out using different tools to monitor customer satisfaction and the progress of projects until their completion. – internationalisation activities, including a specific survey of all employees who, in recent years, have had These tools include: significant international relocation experiences. This survey highlighted how positive these experiences were • Customer Satisfaction Monthly Meetings: monthly meetings via videoconferencing, to discuss CS activities and considering the skills acquired and increased focus on multi-culturalism. reach decisions on the steps to be taken. • Investor relations activities. • Customer Satisfaction Monthly Reports: monthly reports prepared with the support of the managers on critical • Research projects with Italian and EU institutions. projects. To date, 22 critical projects have been mapped. The Project Manager is responsible for reporting on • Agreements and partnerships with universities. critical points (in terms of planning, quality and costs) and the related mitigation action. A statistical analysis on the development of these critical points is attached to the report. • Customer Satisfaction Survey: a series of one-on-one interviews with top representatives of a sample of customers. This survey begins with a letter signed by the CEO of Ansaldo STS sent to the customer’s CEO. It is conducted using a specific questionnaire. Since the end of 2012, six interviews have been conducted (Spain railways, Swedish railways, Italian railways, Hyundai-Rotem, British railways and a customer in Taipei). Customer feedback is sent after any corrective action has been defined and performed following an evaluation of the 6. The United Nations Global Compact vision is to promote the creation of a more inclusive and sustainable global economy. questionnaires. 7. United Nations Global Compact. 30 31 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Stakeholder engagement Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report • Post Commissioning Reports: reports included in the methodology defined by the Customer Satisfaction Team for Each of these performance aspects is directly assessed by passengers and then compared with specific, the RAMS analysis of certain large projects. predefined targets. The summarised results of the 2013 survey are given below. • Complaints Management: the Project Managers are responsible for recording customer complaints, which are sent each quarter to the Customer Satisfaction Coordinator, until the complaint is resolved. The Customer Satisfaction Satisfied/Very satisfied Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied Dissatisfied/Very dissatisfied Team checks and records all information and, twice a year, prepares a global analysis. This analysis is used as the basis to calculate the “customer complaint” KPI. 96% 97% 100% 94% 90% • Customer Satisfaction of Project Teams: customer satisfaction is evaluated for each key project considering the 90% 81% 79% following main aspects: contract value, project duration/delay, service quality and product quality. The Regional BU 80% managers gather the results of these surveys from the Project Managers. Finally, the Customer Satisfaction Team checks the global results and their consistency with expectations. 60% • Customer Satisfaction Reports: reports prepared half-yearly by the Customer Satisfaction Leader. These reports 40% summarise Customer Satisfaction activities in the period (customer satisfaction of the Project Teams, complaints analysis and focus on various projects) and are sent to the company’s senior management. They are included in the 20% 10% 11% 2% 6% 10% 9% Organisational and Process Management Review. 2% 4% 3% 3% 6% 4% 2% 1% 0% Satisfied this trip Cleaning stations Cleaning trains Timetable Personnel service Updated Feeling secure Based on the Customer Satisfaction Survey and direct interviews with customers in 2013, the average scores comparing Ansaldo STS products with competitors (the range of scores goes from 1, extremely unsatisfied, to 10, extremely satisfied) are given below. Global Employee Survey In 2013, another climate survey was launched to gain an understanding of how satisfied and motivated people Ansaldo STS products from a technical point of view 7.6 are and to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of managers. These activities are part of Ansaldo STS’ periodic Best competitor products technically 7.0 internal communication action plan, which sets the following objectives: Ansaldo STS products cost/value 7.1 • continue to involve the organisation because every employee’s viewpoint is important; Best competitor cost/value 6.0 • evaluate the progress made in terms of cultural and organisational change; • gather information on HR processes and services. Copenhagen Metro Customer Satisfaction Ansaldo STS was awarded the contract to operate and maintain the Copenhagen metro until the end of 2018. The questionnaire was distributed to all Ansaldo STS employees in four languages (English, Italian, French and The current contract was agreed in January 2010 following a European tender. The contract remuneration is indexed Spanish), guaranteed that they would remain anonymous, and was supported by communications campaigns to service availability, punctuality and the results of customer satisfaction surveys. Customer satisfaction is of vital including posters, online banners, e-mails from the CEO and local promotional activities in different office sites. importance to the metro, both in terms of maintaining existing customers and attracting new ones. Accordingly, Metroselskabet, Ansaldo STS and Metro Service devote considerable attention to customer feedback. The high rate of participation (66% of respondents, up 10% on the previous survey) provided a reliable view of the perceptions and needs of everyone within the company, and identified improvement areas for certain aspects. Various tools are used to understand Danish metro passengers’ needs and expectations, including quarterly customer satisfaction surveys. STRENGTHS Over 75% of the company population agrees with the following aspects: In 2012, for the third year in a row, the Copenhagen metro was named the world’s best automated metro. This •E mployees have a common vision and sense of the mission that inspires them gives them a clear idea of their award was given at the “Metrorail” conference of leading experts in metro systems around the world. A key element objectives, fosters loyalty and pride in being part of the company; in the selection of the awardees is the high level of control and customer satisfaction. •E mployees interact well with the Group as a whole and with the local group companies; •E mployees are aware that their cooperation is necessary in order to do their work, they trust their peers and do Since the metro was launched (in 2002), customer satisfaction with Metroselskabet has been carefully monitored their best for the company, working as a team; through surveys conducted by an independent entity. However, only after the M1 and M2 lines were completed, were •E mployees appreciate company communications received on the Intranet and via global e-mails. customer satisfaction results included in contractual agreements. Metroselskabet and Ansaldo STS continue to analyse and report on the survey results, which are published quarterly. IMPROVEMENT OPPORTUNITIES Aspects for improvement included: In 2013, passengers numbered around 60 million. Investigations were performed on a sample of approximately • Relationship between performance, rewards and recognition to be emphasised; 4,500 users whose satisfaction is regularly monitored in accordance with the following aspects: Satisfaction • Efficiency of cooperation between the departments and business to be improved; with the journey, Cleanliness of the stations, Cleanliness of the trains, Timeliness, Service quality, Updating of • Implementation of tools and processes that can increase the clarity and efficiency of communications to be boosted. information and Safety. The company has defined an improvement action plan with clear objectives, deadlines and development methods, and has implemented the plan using in house communication tools. Certain areas of improvement have been included in work projects commissioned to young company talent with the aim of involving them in company change and promoting innovative ideas that are more in line with the sensibilities of new generations. 32 33 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Product innovation, safety and liability Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report ACTION UNDERWAY metro’s Circular Line, the Milan metro’s Line 4, the Copenhagen metro’s CityRingen and the Riyadh metro (the last •S  ALARY REVIEW TOOL: to give a complete, global vision of all resources in the job family to best balance two will be driverless), along with another six metro lines in China, in the cities of Shenyang, X’ian, HangZhou and remuneration between the functions; Dalian. • Ansaldo STS 360° ASSESSMENT: to create opportunities for employees to rate executives and managers according to their respect for company values and skills; Wayside platform • PROJECT TEAM PDP INPUT: to require the Project Managers and Functional Managers to collaborate to include Since the late nineties, Ansaldo STS has implemented requirements for a platform open to standard protocols, project objectives as an integral part of the overall PDP assessment of their resources; including on the following lines: TVM Lyon-Marseilles (1999), ERTMS Rome-Naples (2005), Turin-Milan (2006), • HR PRACTICE DAY: an in house communication initiative to familiarise employees with the processes and tools Milan-Bologna (2008), Zheng-Xi (2010), Madrid-Lleida (2011), Cambrian (2011), Poříčany-Kolin (2011), available to them. Haparandabanan (2013), the CBTC lines in Chengdu (2011), Shenyang (2012), the Ankara metro (2014) and the conventional Turin-Padu lines (2014). Ansaldo STS has implemented the interlocking system known as WSP (Wayside Standard Platform), which is capable of managing a greater number of terminal operations and train connections using a smaller number of Product innovation, safety and liability basic parts and integrating safety, diagnostics and traffic management functions in one central control station, poised to become the best response to the increasingly sophisticated demands of the railway and metro market. Ansaldo STS has always devoted ongoing attention to research and development, in order to identify and create innovative technical solutions and develop products of the very highest quality to operate internationally on markets TRAMWAVE® that are undergoing rapid technological evolution. This is a power system for trams that run on ground lines, powered only in a specific segment under the vehicle. The system promotes the protection of historic city centres, as it eliminates conventional overhead electric lines. Ansaldo STS’ innovation governance model involves all its companies and combines strategies, technologies, The concept behind this innovative tram system and the excellent results achieved in the wake of testing have products, resources and markets so that research and development arises out of the excellent, distinctive expertise generated enormous interest among urban planners in countries looking for safe, ecological and low-environmental found within the company and the needs of its customers. impact public transit solutions. In November 2013, a contract was signed with the Chinese company CNR Z for the supply of 17 km of TramWave®lines to build a new tram system in the city of Zhuhai in southeast China. The contract also provides for the installation of the related systems for the reception, diagnostics and power. This contract has Main products conceived and undergoing development made it possible for Ansaldo STS to build the first catenary free tramway and begin the technology transfer process. Over the years, Ansaldo STS has conceived and developed products that have pushed it to a leadership position in the Signalling Systems and Railway and Urban Rail Transportation Sectors. Satellite signalling For the first time in railway history, Ansaldo STS has used satellites to manage safe train travel. In March 2012, Ansaldo OTP Optimizing Traffic Planner™ STS signed the 3InSat contract with ESA (European Space Agency) to develop and validate new safe geo-localisation OTP is an innovative traffic management and railway handling system that redirects traffic in real time to increase and satellite telecommunications platforms to be used for ERTMS-ETCS railway signalling systems. Ansaldo STS is the speed and optimise vehicle movement, identifying the shortest and most efficient paths for trains. The OTP system head of an industrial consortium that includes the participation of, inter alia, RFI and DLR (Germany’s space agency), can substantially increase network capacity, reducing operating costs at the same time. which, together with ASI (Italy’s space agency) are the greatest contributors to the European satellite localisation system, GALILEO. ATC (Automatic Train Control) and ATP (Automatic Train Protection) systems Ansaldo STS’ solution constitutes a technological innovation of global importance. It will use geo-localisation satellite These are automatic train speed control systems in line with ERTMS (European Rail Traffic Management System) technology instead of conventional train localisation systems, which require electronic devices installed along the standards. They enable operators to control the safe movement of trains on railway lines, while continuously railway line, thereby reducing costs and environmental impact. monitoring their position, maintaining safe distances and compliance with speed limits. The ATC system also includes a driverless function with various degrees of automation. Products and solutions safety and environmental friendliness CBTC – Communication-Based Train Control Ansaldo STS’ unwavering commitment to providing its customers and end users (passengers and freight) with the CBTC is a two-directional, radio-based train distancing communications system between land and train. It is in line best products and system solutions, the use of the best design methodologies and procedures and the best existing with international standards (IEEE 1474.1.2.3) and offers the utmost operating flexibility, complete interoperability construction methods and processes contributes to increasing safety and reducing direct and indirect impact on the on metro lines managed by different systems/technology operators. environment. The control systems installed on board find the vehicle’s position and adjust vehicle movement within the Reducing energy consumption authorised limits (MAL = Movement Authority Limit). Each vehicle’s position is updated and reported continuously Two important innovations introduced by Ansaldo STS in signalling systems for train control relate to the use of to the Area Controller on land. The Area Controller can update each vehicle’s MAL, knowing the position of the public telecommunications networks and GPS Global Positioning Satellite technology. The use of these new previous vehicle going in the same direction. This tool makes it possible to set a “mobile block”, which safely and control systems replaces track equipment, which required greater energy consumption. These systems will be significantly shortens the amount of time between two consecutive trains on the same platform, increasing the especially used on low-traffic lines in Europe, which make up about 50% of the total network length. The use of transportation system’s overall capacity. Communications between the control systems located in an adjacent area public telecommunications networks will reduce energy consumption by roughly 72 KW per day per km, while the where the vehicles are sorted and on board the vehicles, makes it possible to safely manage time between vehicles introduction of GPS technologies will entail savings of 5 KW per day per km. Based on these estimates, total CO2 and line capacity. savings will be approximately 60 kg per day per km on the line. Ansaldo STS has already installed and fully rolled out this technology on the Paris metro line 3 and, in China, on lines 1 and 2 of the Chengdu metro and on line 1 on the Zhengzhou metro. It is currently designing and, in some cases, installing this technology on projects including the Ankara metro, the Stockholm metro’s Red Line, the Taipei 34 35 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Product innovation, safety and liability Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Reducing raw materials consumption Product liability The use of powerful technological platforms integrating several functions in the same subsystem enable Ansaldo Ansaldo STS has implemented RAMS activities to ensure that the products, applications and systems that it STS to reduce the size of equipment and their connectors, using simple and effective systems for scheduling, develops and delivers are: testing and roll-out. •s  afe, in accordance with domestic and international standards applicable to railway systems; • reliable, in accordance with customers’ requirements and its own internal quality standards. In addition, the search for increasingly standardised design associates innovation with reduced use of parts. These activities are performed on all Ansaldo STS projects in which safety and reliability are relevant, which constitute over 90% of total company activities. Ecodesign Partly in response to certain new contracts (the MPM-10 train control system project in Montreal), Ansaldo STS is Safety and reliability are achieved through hazard analysis, a structured process in line with sector standards. It paying greater attention to studying ecodesign aspects, including to meet customers’ environmental standards, begins with the identification of hazards based on previous experience, the assessment of specifications for the such as: process stages and hazard workshops during which experts from Ansaldo STS and customers discuss the various • Analysis of conformity with REACH – Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (an integrated issues. Potential hazards are then included in a hazard log, which is constantly updated during the life cycle of the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction system for chemicals established in the EU); project. For each hazard mapped, the log also includes the mitigation measures, activities to check that they were • Analysis of the re-usability and recyclability of materials; effectively implemented and an assessment of the residual hazard. The residual hazard level is assessed and • Life cycle assessment (LCA)8. accepted only if it is below the limits established by standards and customer requirements. The methodological approach entails a comparison of processes, materials and products in order to evaluate The main safety standards are those issued by CENELEC European Committee for Electrotechnical whether choices are ecologically compatible. The design stage, along with an analysis of costs and quality level, Standardisation. Specifically, relevant standards are: makes it possible to identify critical points in the life cycle. The analysis process is carried out using software and •C  EI 50126 on RAMS applicable to rail transportation; considering the applicable legislative requirements and UNI ISO 14040 standards. •C  EI 50128 on software security; •C  EI 50129 on electronic device safety; LED technology •C  EI 50159 on railway communications security. For the past few years, Ansaldo STS has been producing LED-based traffic lights at the Tito Scalo and Batesburg sites. This innovation has a positive impact on energy consumption, the management of maintenance and the Recording and assessment of non-conformances and accidents to improve safety disposal of maintenance material. Any non-conformances with safety specifications during the development, testing and roll-out, is carefully analysed and recorded. In general, no conduct of this type is tolerated and requires a review and change (hardware or Reliable and efficient hourly traffic software) in the element that does not meet the technical specifications provided for. The tools that Ansaldo STS has designed and produced enable operators to create more efficient timetables for trains running on railway infrastructures, establishing, in particular, which places are the best for stops, junctions In general, Ansaldo STS gathers two types of data to assess the reliability of its products: data on parts (fault and passing, and determining travel times to minimise waiting times and fuel consumption. These tools make charts), beginning with the assistance requests sent to the Service unit and data on systems affecting the key it possible to prevent and supply pro-active measures to combat traffic caused by train delays, scheduled and service parameters (frequency of trains, skipped runs, delays, etc.). Data on parts are analysed to identify the most non-scheduled maintenance, natural disasters and personnel shifts. This support technology is also used to defective parts and alternative solutions are sought to improve performance, while for data on systems, the delay significantly cut down on fuel by increasing the average speed of trains, concurrently reducing the waste of fuel for logs are analysed to determine the causes. acceleration closely followed by braking due to temporary slowdowns or signals to stop. Investments in research and development and intellectual property rights In 2013, total expenditure for research and development by the Signalling and Transportation Solutions business Reliability of solutions units was Euro 34.8 million (31 December 2012: Euro 35.3 million), with income generated from grants and The reliability of solutions is also due to the use of redundant platforms that provide fault tolerant configurations, services of approximately Euro 2.8 million (2012: Euro 3.0 million). i.e., those that can continue to function even when certain sections present faults. This type of approach was successfully applied in Italian high speed railways, where specific systems have been developed for the diagnostics Ansaldo STS carefully safeguards its intellectual property, requiring, inter alia, the filing of patents and the and control of electrical substations. These tools make it possible to plan “preventive maintenance” on lines, registration of trademarks. At year end, it held 76 patents and 43 registered trademarks. It has filed applications i.e., to monitor all substations and report when one of them is at risk of faults. In this way, greater environmental for an additional 19 patents which are currently under evaluation. sustainability is assured, with the resulting reduced consumption of spare parts and lower risk of service interruptions on the line due to faults. Safer spaces for customers and end users Ansaldo STS offers passengers safe and controlled areas by equipping network vehicles with sensors that constantly monitor railway areas, and operate around the clock. 8. L ife Cycle Assessment (“LCA”) is a methodology that evaluates a series of interactions that a product or service has with the environment, considering its entire life cycle, which includes pre-production (including the extraction and production of materials), production, distribution, use (including reuse and maintenance), recycling and final disposal. The LCA procedure is standardised at international level by ISO 14040 and 14044 (International Organization for Standardization). 36 37 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Corporate governance Corporate governance9 With respect to the composition of the board of directors, during the board meeting held on 11 December 2013, Sergio De Luca informed the board of directors and Chairman of the board of statutory auditors that he would resign from the offices of CEO and Director Ansaldo STS adopts a corporate governance system that is based on the highest business management responsible for the internal control and risk management system, as well as company transparency and fair practice standards. This corporate governance system is compliant with the provisions of law manager, with effect from 1 January 2014 for all the positions. His resignation was and with the regulatory provisions of CONSOB and Borsa Italiana. It is also in line with the contents of the code given due to his appointment as General Manager of Operations from 1 January 2014 of conduct for listed companies adopted by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. which Ansaldo STS has implemented and the at the parent Finmeccanica S.p.A.. international best practices. The corporate governance system is aimed at maximising value for shareholders, monitoring business risks, transparency with the market and reconciling the interests of all shareholders, with Also on 11 December 2013, Luigi Calabria announced he would resign from the particular attention to smaller shareholders. office of Chairman of the company’s board of directors with effect from 1 January Ansaldo STS’ corporate governance system is based on a traditional model, and includes: 2014. Furthermore, Deputy Chairman Grasso resigned from the offices of Deputy • shareholders’ meetings; Chairman and Director, also with effect from 1 January 2014. • the board of directors, which includes the following committees: – the risk and control committee; In the light of the above, after having consulted with the board of statutory – the appointments and remuneration committee; auditors, the board of directors co-opted, pursuant to article 2386.1 of the • the board of statutory auditors; Italian Civil Code, Stefano Siragusa as new member of the board of directors • the independent auditors. and appointed him CEO and General Manager with effect from 1 January 2014. The company’s main corporate governance tools at present are listed below: • by laws; During the same meeting, Mr. Siragusa was also appointed Director • code of ethics; responsible for the internal control and risk management system. • organisational, management and control model pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/01; • shareholders’ meeting regulations; Stefano Siragusa’s term of office will end along with that of the other • board of directors’ regulations; directors, i.e., with the shareholders’ meeting called to approve the • risk and control committee regulations; financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December • appointments and remuneration committee regulations; 2013. • related party transactions procedure adopted pursuant to article 4 of Consob regulation no. 17221 of 12 March 2010; Finally, on 11 December 2013, the board of directors • procedure for the handling of privileged information; appointed (i) Mr. De Luca Chairman of the company’s • internal dealing code of conduct. board of directors, replacing Luigi Calabria, and (ii) Luigi Calabria Deputy Chairman of the company’s board BOARD OF DIRECTORS of directors, replacing Giancarlo Grasso. These Ansaldo STS’ board of directors has the widest powers for the management of the company, with the power to take appointments took effect from 1 January 2014. any and all suitable action to achieve the company purpose, except for those reserved for the shareholders. The current board of directors was appointed by the shareholders during the ordinary meeting held on 5 April 2011, and the term of office will expire on the date of the shareholders’ meeting called to approve the financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2013. On 5 March 2013, Alessandro Pansa informed the board of directors and the Chairman of the board of statutory auditors that he would be resigning from the offices of Chairman and member of the board of directors of Ansaldo STS S.p.A., with effect from the end of the shareholders’ meeting called to approve the financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2012. To replace Mr. Pansa, during the ordinary meeting on 6 May 2013, the shareholders of Ansaldo STS appointed Luigi Calabria as the new Chairman and member of the board of directors. His term of office as director will end along with that of the other directors, i.e., with the shareholders’ meeting called to approve the financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2013. 9. F or additional details, reference should be made to the “Directors’ report on the corporate governance system and the implementation of the code of conduct for listed companies” for 2013. 38 39 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Corporate Governance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The following table illustrates the composition of the board of directors in 2013. Appointment of the board of directors The company is managed by a board of directors consisting of at least seven and not more than 13 members. Appointments Before electing the board each time, the shareholders decide what the number of members will be within this Risk And And Control Remuneration range. The directors are appointed for a period of time not exceeding three years and can be re-elected pursuant to BOARD OF DIRECTORS Committee Committee article 2383 of the Italian Civil Code. Indep. under In line with the amendments to the Consolidated finance act introduced by Law no. 120 of 12 July 2011, the Indep. the Number current by laws – following the most recent changes made by the shareholders at the extraordinary meeting of List under Cons. of other (M/m) Nonthe fin. (%) offices 6 May 2013 – provide for mechanisms to ensure a balance of men and women on the boards of directors and Office Members In office since In office until * Exec. exec. Code act ** *** **** ** **** ** statutory auditors, which will be applied upon the first three renewals of the board of statutory auditors after one Chairman ALESSANDRO year following the date when the aforementioned law takes effect (i.e. after 12 August 2012). PANSA 5 April 2011(1) 6 May 2013(6) M X(11) 100 3 Chairman LUIGI Shareholders’ meeting The directors are appointed by the shareholders during an ordinary meeting by voting for lists. CALABRIA approving the 2013 financial 6 May 2013 statements(7) -(9) x 100 4 Each list must include two candidates who meet the independence requirements provided for by law, indicating Deputy GIANCARLO them separately and placing one at the top of the list. Chairman GRASSO 5 April 2011 31 December 2013(8) M X 91.66 1 CEO SERGIO Furthermore, lists with a number of candidates equal to or more than three must include candidates of different DE LUCA 5 April 2011(2) 31 December 2013(8) M X 100 genders, in accordance with the notice of call of the shareholders’ meeting, so that the new board of directors Director GIOVANNI Shareholders’ meeting is comprised of members of the least represented gender, in accordance with current legislation. In the event of CAVALLINI approving the 2013 financial 5 April 2011 statements m X X X 100 3 X 100 fractions, the number is rounded up. If these obligations are not met, the list is considered as not having been submitted. Director MAURIZIO Shareholders’ meeting CEREDA approving the 2013 financial Chair5 April 2011(3) statements m X X X 91.66 2 X 100 man 100 In order to ensure the effective participation of non-controlling owners in corporate management and the Director PAOLA Shareholders’ meeting transparency of the selection and appointment process for directors, the by laws explicitly enable each shareholder GIRDINIO approving the 2013 financial to submit or participate in the submission of one list only, that each candidate can be presented in one list only or 5 April 2011 statements M X X X 100 X 100 will be considered ineligible and that each rightful voter can vote for one list only. Director BRUNO Shareholders’ meeting PAVESI approving the 2013 financial 7 May 2012(4) statements (10) X X X 91.66 X 100 The shareholders elect the Chairman of the board of directors, selecting the Chairman from among the members of the board. If the shareholders do not elect the Chairman, the Chairman is elected by the board itself. The board can Director TATIANA Shareholders’ meeting RIZZANTE approving the 2013 financial also elect a Deputy Chairman, replacing the Chairman when the Chairman is absent or unable to chair the board. 5 April 2011 statements m X X X 83.33 2 Director ATTILIO Shareholders’ meeting For additional information on the appointment of the board of directors during the ordinary shareholders’ meeting of SALVETTI approving the 2013 financial Chair5 April 2011, reference should be made to the following page on the company’s website10. 5 April 2011(5) statements M X X X 100 man 100 (1) Appointed for his first term of office on 21 November 2005 and subsequently confirmed by the shareholders on 1 April 2008. Directors’ requirements and duties (2) Co-opted by the board of directors pursuant to article 2386 of the Italian Civil Code on 14 June 2007 and subsequently confirmed by the shareholders Under the by laws, in order to take office as director, one must not only meet the requirements of honourableness on 1 April 2008. On 11 December 2013, Mr. De Luca resigned from the office of CEO and was appointed Chairman of the board of directors with effect from 1 January 2014. provided for by current legislative and regulatory provisions (or any similar requirements established by equivalent (3) Appointed for his first term of office on 14 June 2006 and subsequently confirmed by the shareholders on 1 April 2008. provisions), but must also meet the specific requirements of professionalism indicated in the by laws. (4) Co-opted by the board of directors on 30 March 2012, replacing Director Filippo Milone, and subsequently confirmed by the shareholders on 7 May 2012. (5) Appointed for his first term of office on 24 March 2006 and subsequently confirmed by the shareholders on 1 April 2008. (6) Mr. Pansa was member and Chairman of the board of directors until 6 May 2013. In particular, candidates may not be appointed director of the company, and if they have been appointed, their term (7) Mr. Calabria was appointed by the shareholders on 6 May 2013 as member and Chairman of the board of directors, replacing Mr. Pansa. On 11 December 2013, Mr. Calabria stepped down from the office of Chairman with effect from 1 January 2014. of office is considered immediately terminated, if they do not have at least three years of overall experience in the (8) On 11 December 2013, Mr. Grasso resigned from the office of member and Deputy Chairman of the board of directors with effect from 1 January 2014. following: (9) Mr. Calabria is not on any of the lists presented for the shareholders’ appointment of the board of directors on 5 April 2011. (10) Mr. Pavesi is not on any of the lists presented for the shareholders’ appointment of the board of directors on 5 April 2011. •a  dministration or supervision activities or managerial duties with companies with a share capital of at least €2 million; NOTE * This column indicates M/m, showing whether the member was elected from a majority (M) or minority (m) list. •p  rofessional activities or university teaching as a full professor of legal, economic, financial or technical/scientific ** This column indicates the percentage of director participation in board and committee meetings respectively during the period considered (no. of subjects closely related to the company’s business activity; or meetings attended/no. of meetings held during the term of office). *** This column indicates the number of offices of director or statutory auditor that the person holds in other companies listed on regulated markets, •s  enior management functions with public bodies or administrations active in the credit, financial and insurance including those abroad, in financial, banking, insurance or significantly large companies. These companies are listed for each director in paragraph sectors or, in any case, in industries which are closely related to the company’s business activity. 4.1.7 of this report (“Other offices of director or statutory auditor held by Ansaldo STS directors”). **** This column shows an “X” if the board member is on the committee. This experience can be assessed on the basis of the candidates’ curriculum vitae, which should contain exhaustive BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY AGE AND GENDER MEN WOMEN information on the personal and professional characteristics of each candidate and be available to the public, along < 40 40-50 1 1 51-60 2 1 > 60 3 10. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/it/governance/consiglio-amministrazione/nomina 40 41 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Corporate Governance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report with each list pursuant to article 144-octies.1 for the Issuers Regulation. The board of directors verifies that these The evaluation was carried out through a series of personal interviews with each board member, the Chairman of requirements are met by each of its members. the board of statutory auditors and the Secretary of the board of directors, as well as by participating in several meetings of the board of directors and those of its internal committees. In addition, the minutes of the meetings Non executive directors of the board and its committees in 2013 and early 2014 were analysed. Furthermore, the evaluation entailed The board of directors is mainly comprised of non executive members (who have not been assigned any operating comparison with Italian and foreign companies with similar ownership structures to Ansaldo STS. powers and/or management functions within the company) to guarantee, given the number of such directors and their degree of authority, that their judgment significantly influences board decisions. The advisory company shared the directors’ positive opinion of the functioning of the board and its committees, in accordance high standards of professionalism, and confirmed the high level of compliance with the guidelines of Non executive directors bring their specific expertise to the table in board discussions, to support the examination the Code of Conduct, in application of international corporate governance best practices. of the matters considered from a different perspective and to encourage the adoption of well-pondered resolutions, in line with the company’s interests. At present all members, except for the CEO and Chairman, are non executive. COMMITTEES In order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of the board of directors, the risk and control Independence of directors committee and the appointments and remuneration committee have been established within the board and in In the implementation of the provisions of the Code, following the appointment of the directors, i.e. after 5 April accordance with the criteria of the code of conduct that the company has implemented. 2011, and on the basis of the statements made by each and available to the company, the board of directors has evaluated whether the independent directors are party to any relationships that could, or that could appear In this respect, following the approval of the new Code of Conduct in December 2011, the company approved the to, jeopardise their independent judgment. The findings of this evaluation were disclosed to the market in a press adoption of the principles in the updated Code, thereby updating its corporate governance system to meet the new release on 5 April 2011. provisions. Subsequently, on 13 December 2011, 18 December 2012 and 16 December 2013, on the basis of the documentation submitted by each independent director, the board reviewed whether they still met the independence Specifically, on 18 December 2012, the company decided, inter alia: (i) to set up an appointments committee, requirements provided for by the current legislative and regulatory provisions and pursuant to article 3 of the Code. grouping it together with the previously established remuneration committee and naming the new committee In their review, the board applied all Code criteria. vested with the dual function the “appointments and remuneration committee”, approving its regulation; and (ii) At the same time, on the basis of the statements made by the directors and considering the board’s findings, the modifying and redefining the duties and functions of the different parties involved in the company’s internal control board of statutory auditors certified the board’s evaluation of the independence of its members in accordance with and risk management system, also aligning their names with the new code of conduct. In this context, in particular, the criteria. the board named the internal control committee the “risk and control committee” and approved its regulation. The independent directors met on 4 November 2013. The main purpose of the meeting was to examine the relationship between the Transportation Sector strategies of Finmeccanica, which manages and coordinates Risk and control committee Ansaldo STS, and the company’s strategic plan. The risk and control committee currently in office is comprised of three directors, who are all executive and independent. They are the directors Attilio Salvetti (Chairman), Maurizio Cereda and Paola Girdinio. The committee, Board of directors activities and assessment of its functioning initially appointed by the board of directors on 5 April 2011, was confirmed by the board on 18 December 2012 In 2013, the board held 12 meetings. Any absences were duly justified. Twelve meetings are already scheduled for when the committee adopted the new Code of Conduct. Pursuant to the Code, at the time of the appointment, the 2014. Since the start of 2014, the board met on 29 January 2014, 20 February 2014 and 7 March 2014. board of directors examined the accounting and financial experience of the committee’s Chairman, Attilio Salvetti, and the members Maurizio Cereda and Paola Girdinio, and deemed adequate Maurizio Cereda’s experience. The average length of the board’s meetings in 2013 was approximately three hours. The committee meetings are managed by an internal regulation which was last modified by the board on 18 The meetings of the board of directors saw the participation, depending on the items on the agenda, of the Chief December 2012, in accordance with the new Code of Conduct dated December 2011. The regulation, in its updated Financial Officer, the Internal Audit Manager, the company’s Risk Manager, the Corporate Affairs & Group Insurance version, is available on the company’s website11. Manager and, upon the Chairman’s recommendation, other company managers, in order to provide suitable details on the items on the agenda. The risk and control committee has advisory, proposal and preliminary preparation functions on behalf of the board of directors, mainly in relation to the definition of guidelines for the internal control and risk management In 2013, the secretary of the company’s board of directors participated in board meetings and the Corporate Affairs system and the periodic evaluation of the adequacy and effective functioning of the organisational structure of such & Group Insurance function manager, the lawyer Grazia Guazzi, participated in all board meetings in that role. system. In accordance with the by laws, the board of directors meets whenever the Chairman, or another member in his Specifically, the committee is responsible for verifying the functioning and adequacy of the internal control and place, deems it necessary, or upon the written request of the majority of board members. risk management system, as well as the effective compliance with procedures and internal directives adopted to both ensure sound and efficient management and identify, prevent and manage, insofar as possible, financial, In 2013, Ansaldo STS’ board of directors conducted the third evaluation of the board and committees of its operational and fraud risks to the detriment of the company. mandate, which was the eighth time the board’s evaluation process was carried out. Appointments and remuneration committee The evaluation process was carried out in accordance with the recommendations of article 1.C.1.g) of the Borsa In accordance with the provisions of article 37 of the market regulation, all members of the appointments and Italiana’s Code of Conduct for listed companies, and in line with international best practices. For 2013, the board remuneration committee are non executive and independent. decided to draw on the professional assistance of an advisory company that has not had any current or recent professional or business relationships with Ansaldo STS, based on the belief that the assistance of an external, The members of the committee initially appointed by the board of directors on 5 April 2011 (which at the time was independent and specialised advisory company can encourage better discussion with directors and offer other best required to act as the remuneration committee only) were the non executive and independent directors Maurizio practice perspectives. Cereda (Chairman), Giovanni Cavallini and Filippo Giuseppe Maria Milone. 11. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts.message-asp.com/files/downloadspage/7_regolamento_comitato_controllo_e_rischi_clean.pdf 42 43 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Corporate Governance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report In accordance with article 6.P.3 of the Code of Conduct, when the committee members were appointed, the Furthermore, on 20 February 2014, considering the opinion of the appointments and remuneration committee, the company’s board of directors verified and certified that the directors Maurizio Cereda and Giovanni Cavallini had board of directors also provided for a new identification of key managers, determining that they are the company’s accounting and financial expertise and experience. Chief Operating Officer and the managers of the “mass transit and railway” and “freight” activities. Accordingly, they are also included in the remuneration policy approved by the board. Following the resignation of Filippo Milone, who was replaced by the independent director Bruno Pavesi, the latter was also appointed to the committee when he was first co-opted on 30 March 2012 and later, being confirmed by Finally, on 7 March 2014, the board of directors approved, with the prior approval of the appointments and the shareholders on 7 May 2012, he was appointed by the board of directors on 23 May 2012. remuneration committee, the remuneration report pursuant to article 123-ter of the Consolidated finance act. In accordance with the aforementioned article 123-ter.6 of the Consolidated finance act, at the ordinary shareholders’ After Bruno Pavesi’s appointment, the committee’s members are Maurizio Cereda (Chairman), Giovanni Cavallini meeting to be called to approve the draft financial statements at 31 December 2013, the shareholders will be and Bruno Pavesi. This composition was last confirmed by the board of directors on 18 December 2012, when the asked to express their favourable or unfavourable opinion on the first section of the remuneration report, provided appointments committee was set up and integrated with the pre-existing remuneration committee. for by article 123-ter.3, illustrating the remuneration policy for members of the board of directors and key managers for 2014 and the procedures followed to adopt and implement the policy. At present, the appointments and remuneration committee is therefore composed of the independent directors Maurizio Cereda (Chairman), Giovanni Cavallini and Bruno Pavesi. With respect to the remuneration of Ansaldo STS’ directors for 2013, reference should be made to the second section of the remuneration report approved by the board of directors on 7 March 2014, available on the company’s The committee’s activities are managed by a regulation in line with the code of conduct. The board approved the web site15. regulation on 29 January 2007 and it was later modified on 12 May 2008, 5 March 2012 and 16 December 2012. The incentive systems for the Internal Audit Manager and the manager responsible for financial reporting are The regulation is available on the company’s website12. consistent with the duties assigned to them. With respect to the code of conduct committee’s functions for both its role in the appointment of directors and BOARD OF STATUTORY AUDITORS remuneration, reference should be made respectively to articles 5 and 6 of the code, which can be found on the The statutory auditors are appointed by the shareholders during an ordinary meeting by voting for lists. Borsa Italiana S.p.A. website13. In line with the amendments to the Consolidated finance act introduced by Law no. 120 of 12 July 2011, the Directors’ remuneration current by laws – following the most recent changes made by the shareholders at the extraordinary meeting of Information on the remuneration of key managers is given in the remuneration report, which is prepared pursuant 6 May 2013 – provide for mechanisms to ensure a balance of men and women on the boards of directors and to articles 123-14 ter of the Consolidated finance act and 84-quater of the Issuers’ regulation, published on the statutory auditors, which will be applied upon the first three renewals of the board of statutory auditors after one company’s web site and made available to the public in the other ways provided for by current legislation. On 5 year following the date when the aforementioned law takes effect (i.e. after 12 August 2012). March 2013, the company’s board of directors, with the prior approval of the appointments and remuneration committee, approved the company’s remuneration policy for 2013 and Ansaldo STS’ remuneration report, prepared As with the presentation of lists of candidates for the appointment of members of the board of directors, if a list of pursuant to article 123-ter of the Consolidated finance act. The first section of the report illustrates the company’s candidates for the office of statutory auditor is not submitted within the above term, the lists will be considered as remuneration policy and the procedures followed to adopt and implement this policy and it was therefore put to not having been submitted. a non-binding vote by the shareholders on 6 May 2013, in accordance with article 123-ter.6. The shareholders approved the report. The lists include the names of one or more candidates, and their number may not exceed the number of members to be elected. Each candidate can be presented in one list only or will be considered ineligible. Furthermore, on 20 February 2014, upon the proposal of the appointments and remuneration committee, the board of directors approved the remuneration policy for 2014. Lists are divided into two sections: one for candidates for the office of standing statutory auditor and one for candidates for the office of substitute statutory auditor. The first candidate in each section must be registered The 2014 remuneration policy is substantially the same as the 2013 remuneration policy, with only the following with the roll of certified auditors and have at least three years of experience in the performance of legally-required changes: audits. • it now considers the creation of the position of General Manager in the company’s organisational chart and the assignment of this office to the CEO; Furthermore, the lists that, considering both sections, include a number of candidates equal to or greater than • in line with the proposed resolution to be submitted for the shareholders’ approval during the meeting scheduled three must also include, for both the first two candidates on the list for standing statutory auditors and the first two for 15 April 2014, there is a provision for the CEO’s remuneration pursuant to article 2389.3 of the Italian candidates on the list for the replacement statutory auditors, candidates of different genders. Civil Code to be determined in accordance with the provisions of article 23-bis of Law no. 201/2011 on the reduction in the fees of directors with duties in listed companies controlled by public administrations. Moreover, The Chairman of the board of statutory auditors appointed is the standing statutory auditor elected by the minority, the company had already implemented this adjustment when the CEO and General Manager, Mr. Siragusa, was unless only one list is voted for or no list is submitted. In these cases, the shareholders appoint the Chairman of appointed with effect from 1 January 2014; the board of statutory auditors according to the legal majorities. • except in cases of dismissal for just cause or voluntary resignation, an end-of-office indemnity and/or non-renewal indemnity equal to not more than 24 months of total remuneration, considering the various circumstances, is The agenda for the ordinary shareholders’ meeting called to approve the financial statements as at and for the provided for the offices of CEO and General Manager. year ended 31 December 2013 will include, inter alia, the appointment of the board of statutory auditors for the 2014-2016 three-year period. 12. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts.message-asp.com/files/downloadspage/5_regolamento_comitato_nomine_e_remunerazione_clean.pdf 13. http://www.borsaitaliana.it/borsaitaliana/regolamenti/corporategovernance/codicecorpgov2011clean_pdf.htm. 14. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/it/governance/assemblea-azionisti/assemblea-azionisti-2014 15. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/it/governance/assemblea-azionisti/assemblea-azionisti-2014 44 45 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Corporate Governance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report To date, the company’s board of statutory auditors consists of three standing statutory auditors and two substitute Internal control and risk management system statutory auditors. It was appointed by the shareholders on 5 April 2011, in accordance with the by laws in effect at Ansaldo STS’ internal control and risk management system provide for the involvement of the following officers: that time. • Board of directors; • Director responsible for the internal control and risk management system; The statutory auditors currently in office are Giacinto Sarubbi, Renato Righetti and Massimo Scotton. • Risk and control committee; • Internal Audit Manager; During the year, the board held 15 meetings. It held three meetings between the start of 2014 to the date of this • Manager in charge of financial reporting pursuant to Law no. 262/2005; report. • Supervisory body set up in implementation of Legislative decree no. 231 of 8 June 2001; • Board of statutory auditors. The following table provides information on the attendance of each statutory auditor at the meetings of the board of statutory auditors and the board of directors in 2013: With the assistance of the risk and control committee and also on the basis of the activities of the director responsible for the internal control and risk management system, the board of directors defines guidelines for this Board of statutory Board of directors Members auditors attendance attendance system, so that the main risks to which the company is exposed are correctly identified and adequately measured, managed and monitored. It also determines the degree of compatibility of such risks with business management in Giacinto Sarubbi 15/15 12/12 line with the strategic objectives identified. In addition, within the scope of the definition of strategic business and Renato Righetti 14/15 11/12 financial plans, the board of directors defines the nature and level of risks, in accordance with the issuer’s strategic Massimo Scotton 13/15 11/12 objectives. The methodological approach taken to evaluate and manage the internal control and risk management system refers to the internationally recognised Enterprise Risk Management framework of the Committee of The board of statutory auditors is responsible for monitoring: Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO report). • compliance with the law and by laws; • compliance with the policies of correct administration; In order to ensure that the conduct of all those operating on the company’s behalf or in its interests is always • the adequacy of the company’s organisational structure in the areas for which it is responsible, the adequacy consistent with the principles of correctness and transparency in business dealings and company activities, of the internal control system and the administrative/accounting system, and the latter’s reliability in correctly Ansaldo STS has adopted an organisational, management and control model (the “Model”) in line with the reflecting operations; requirements of Legislative decree no. 231/01 and the guidelines issued by Confindustria, Italy’s main organisation • the actual implementation method of the corporate governance rules established by the codes of conduct representing Italian manufacturing and service companies. The code of ethics is an integral part of this Model. prepared by the companies that manage regulated markets or trade associations, with which the company is The company has also set up a supervisory body to monitor application of the Model. required to comply through public disclosure; • the adequacy of the company’s instructions to its subsidiaries pursuant to article 114.2 of the Consolidated The model was last updated by resolution of the board of directors on 26 June 2013 to reflect the changes finance act; introduced by Law no. 190 of 6 November 2012 (also known as the anti-corruption law), which, in particular, adds • the financial disclosure process; corruption among people, the illicit inducement to give or promise gifts to the list of crimes covered and the hiring • the efficiency of internal control, internal audit and risk management systems; of non-citizens illegally in the country to the list of crimes covered by Legislative decree no. 109 of 16 July 2012. • the legally-required audit of the annual separate and consolidated financial statements; The Model is available on the company’s web site. • the independence of the independent auditors or independent audit company, particularly with respect to the provision of non-audit services to the company; Ansaldo STS S.p.A.’s supervisory body has several members, including two external members, one of whom • the compliance of the company’s related party-transaction procedures with the policies of the related-party serves as Chairman, and both of whom were selected among academics and professionals with demonstrated regulation and their compliance, reporting to the shareholders in this respect pursuant to article 153 of the expertise and experience in legal, economic and financial issues, as well as one internal member who is the interim Consolidated finance act. Corporate Affairs Managers. The board of directors approved the current composition of the supervisory body on 6 May 2013, providing for the presence of two external members to further accentuate the board’s independence and autonomy. Any conduct contrasting with the ethical principles described in the code of ethics or the indications in the organisational, management and control model pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/01 can be anonymously reported to the supervisory body, which evaluates the reports in accordance with the relevant company procedure currently in place. In this respect, in 2013, no reports were made and no sanctions were imposed following violations pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/01. 46 47 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Organisational structure Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Organisational structure Organisation Over the past few years, the market has become increasingly dynamic and competitive, seeing a progressive Ansaldo STS boasts an integrated, global organisation capable of providing an adequate response to demand for consolidation of market leaders of ever larger sizes through mergers and acquisitions involving companies in standardised solutions in the railway transportation market and, in particular, the signalling technology market. the sector. This trend, along with the need to update to competitive pressure on prices and the standardisation of products and technical solutions, has led Ansaldo STS to decide to revise its organisation to further improve It has four key pillars: efficiency and effectiveness. The following are the main elements underpinning the organisational review in September 2013: • c lear organisational identification of a strategic unit directly reporting to the CEO with responsibility for defining Business Organisation focused on business strategic guidelines relating to business development and management of the product/technical solution portfolio Driven on Ansaldo STS’ markets; • identification and organisational segregation of business/project management from the technical performance of projects; • identification and clear segregation of the businesses that currently characterise Ansaldo STS’ offer: Railway/ Strategic Mass Transit and freight transportation; Strategic management model founded on a strong, centralised guide centre • c lear organisational identification of a unit directly reporting to the CEO with direct responsibility for safety/RAMS (“Reliability, Availability, Maintainability & Safety”); •H  uman Resources (HR & Organisation Unit), Administration, Finance and Control (CFO Unit) and Staff Functions increasingly focused on generating value by acting as business partners to facilitate and support the achievement Industrialisation of the executive methods and globalisation of of the company’s short, medium and long-term objectives. Efficient R&D activities to develop a standard product portfolio Accordingly, the main structure consists of the following organisational units directly reporting to the CEO: Global Global management of the procurement process CEO and is based on the coexistence of: •o  rganisation: organisational units with specific professional areas of expertise; Strategy, HR & • t eam-based organisation: functional teams that aim to achieve an objective Quality in order to ensure the effective and efficient functioning of the main business Organization & Improvement processes: offer, execution, development and innovation. CFO RAMS Staff Functions Innovation Railways & Operations Freight Mass Transit Unit 48 49 Ansaldo STS Corporate Social Responsibility | Organisational structure Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Railways & Mass Transit and Freight • T hey are responsible for managing the performance of both projects and sales activities at global level, in line with the centrally-defined strategic guidelines. • They are organised by market areas referred to as regions. Each region covers a geographical area in which Ansaldo STS currently has projects underway. • They have a central organisational unit responsible for performing or coordinating the bidding activities in the individual regions. • They perform sales activities for business expansion/development on markets not yet covered (new geographies) by implementing the strategic guidelines defined by the central Strategy, Quality & Improvement unit. The Operations unit is responsible for: • developing and managing the product/platform/application portfolio by implementing the strategic guidelines defined by the central Strategy, Quality & Improvement unit; • identifying and implementing efficiency-improvement activities and programmes, which, in line with the Group’s strategic guidelines, ensure continuous improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of the implementation and development of technical products/solutions; • providing the business management with all parts, systems and services to optimise procurement and production times and costs; • managing technical resources; • ensuring the implementation of shared processes, procedures and tools; • ensuring the capitalisation and exchange of knowledge. Team-based organisation Collaboration, management of work groups and a process-based approach are key factors in the successful implementation of the business strategy, as no single organisational unit has all the necessary levers to achieve business targets. The organisational structure defines structured, formalised teams that operate in key processes: the Bidding Team, the Project Team, the Development Team and the Innovation Team. The teams are created with the assignment of people from the relevant operating units who have the necessary skills for the projects. The teams work as levers in the management of interdependencies, interfaces and conflict, and ensure coordination between units. The aim is to ensure a deep focus on customers, efficiency and standardisation of processes and flexibility. Each team is led by a Team Manager with ultimate responsibility for the team’s output and coordinates the team’s resources. Depending on the scope of the work and the requirements, the hierarchical function or centre managers select team members. Each team member is assigned a specific job and responsibility for identifying the required resources. Once they have joined a team, the members answer to the team manager with respect to deadlines, costs and the quality of the output. 50 51 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The environment, health and safety Environmental policy Integrated management system Environmental training Climate change The Carbon Management System Carbon disclosure project (CDP) Environmental performance Health and safety 52 53 The environment, health and safety | Environmental policy Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The environment, health and safety Integrated management system Ansaldo STS is aware of the fact that carrying out its business in social, environmental and Ansaldo STS has implemented an integrated management system (IMS) for the environment, safety and quality, establishing corporate policies and global procedures to ensure the controlled management of processes and activities cultural contexts that often differ widely requires a commitment to pursue the common goal relating to safety in the workplace and environmental protection. Each company subsequently established, on the basis of sustainable economic development in terms of the direct consequences that its business of legislative requirements and corporate policies and procedures, local environmental and safety policies, undertaking to could have and its spheres of influence. achieve the following objectives: • ensure compliance with legal requirements applicable to their processes in the various countries in which the subsidiaries are required to operate, by formalising procedures that facilitate awareness of the relevant legislative framework; Environmental policy • identify direct and indirect environmental aspects to reduce and control not only their impact on the environment but that of their suppliers and partners as well; •d  efine key indicators to facilitate performance monitoring. Ansaldo STS’ environmental policy is based on the application of UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 requirements and those of other relevant international standards, total compliance with applicable domestic and international legislation, With Ansaldo STS’ adoption of the organisational model pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/01, the Model’s developing a programme focused on the continuous improvement of environmental standards. The policy is shared principles have been integrated in the environmental management system, for the purpose of identifying the actual with all Ansaldo STS personnel and all concerned parties online and via the company intranet. operating solutions that could be applied. The convergence elements for the organisational model’s application to the management system are: Internally, in line with its mission, Ansaldo STS involves all personnel in the reduction and control of the • the definition of roles, duties and responsibilities within the scope of activities for office and work sites; environmental impact of its business, by clearly defining objectives and accountability. In this way, Ansaldo STS • the definition of methods to identify environmental aspects and risks for the health and safety in relation to activities, aims to be recognised as one of the best companies for the safeguarding and protection of the environment. products and services; • the definition of procedures and instructions for environmental and/or safety aspects that fall within the scope of Ansaldo STS undertakes to: application of Legislative decree no. 231/01. • sustainably manage natural resources and energy, enhancing their use and devoting specific attention to reducing waste; At 31 December 2013, all 22 production and office sites have received quality certification, 17 of which for health • improve its activities to reduce its overall environmental impact in terms of greenhouse gas emissions; and safety and 20 for the environment, and one production site (Tito) is EMAS registered (Eco Management and Audit • comply with the legal requirements applicable to its processes by formalising procedures that foster awareness Scheme). By 2014-15, Ansaldo STS plans to expand ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification to all the main legal of the relevant legislative framework; entities that have not yet been certified. • prevent environmental pollution; • identify significant direct and indirect environmental aspects for its office and work sites to control and monitor COUNTRY NON-PRODUCTION SITES ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 their impact on the environment; UNITED Bravington House yes yes yes • involve and update personnel, suppliers and subcontractors on environmental issues; KINGDOM • improve environmental performance by achieving benchmarks and objectives that are increasingly ambitious, in FRANCE Les Ulis yes yes yes line with technological developments in the sector and the budget; SPAIN Madrid yes yes yes • define indicators to facilitate performance monitoring; SWEDEN Solna yes yes yes • begin open dialogue with the public authorities, communities and the public to understand real environmental ITALY Genoa yes yes yes impact and collaborate on updating environmental regulations; Naples yes yes yes • prepare the annual Sustainability Report, as the essential tool for informing and communicating steps taken and planned to protect ecosystems and minimise environmental impact in both qualitative and quantitative terms. Piossasco yes yes yes US Pittsburgh yes yes 2014 Brisbane yes yes yes Kolkata yes yes yes Noida yes yes yes Bangalore yes yes yes Karratha yes yes yes Kuala Lumpur Office yes 2015 2015 Kuala Lumpur Factory yes 2015 2015 Newcastle yes yes yes Perth yes yes yes Sydney yes yes yes Ontario – Canada yes yes 2014 COUNTRY PRODUCTION SITES ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 US Batesburg yes yes 2014 FRANCE Riom yes yes yes ITALY Tito yes yes+EMAS yes 54 55 The environment, health and safety | Environmental training Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Scope of application of the environmental management system In 2013, Ansaldo STS carried out training and information sessions to draw attention to: The environmental management system that the Ansaldo STS companies have adopted is applied to the following: • the procedures and requirements of the environmental management system; • PRODUCTION SITES for the manufacturing of products to be used in safety, control and monitoring systems • the significant, real or potential environmental impact of activities and the environmental benefits of improving supplied by Ansaldo STS. individual performance; • OFFICES (non-production sites) mainly for signalling plant design; the analysis of safety, reliability and availability; • the roles and responsibilities needed to achieve compliance with the environmental policy and the procedures laboratory testing; contract management and control; research and development; procurement; and prevention and requirements of the environmental management system, including preparing for emergency situations and and protection; response capacity; • WORK SITES. Ansaldo STS’ direct activities at work sites relate to management and coordination, surveillance • the potential consequences of not complying with the operating procedures specified. and control of production, commissioning and roll-out of plant and delivery to the customer. With respect to environmental issues as a result of such activities, Ansaldo STS operates in accordance with an environmental The training sessions are held by personnel competent in the relevant field. The specialised technical focus of the site management procedure, based on an initial environmental analysis of the work to be performed at the training demonstrates Ansaldo STS’ aim of targeting, in particular, operating positions involving duties and activities site, prepared and agreed with the subcontractors. Following initial analyses, a monitoring plan is prepared to that are potentially critical in terms of the environment. In 2013, 1,494 hours of training were provided, up 44% continuously ensure legal compliance and that all opportunities are taken to limit the environmental impact that from 2012. the opening of any site inevitably entails. ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING 2013 2012 CHANGE The environmental management system takes into account both direct impact, i.e., the impact of Ansaldo STS Total hours of environmental training 1,494 1,041 + 44% companies’ operations, and indirect impact, i.e., impact associated with purchasing, design and product supply processes. DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT HSE WEB COMMUNITY The following areas have been defined on which to take action: Ansaldo STS participates in HSE WEB Community, Finmeccanica’s website for all HSE contacts within the • building and company structure management: this management is increasingly performed in order to combine group companies. The “Environment Library” and “Health And Safety Library” sections of the website include ongoing improvement in workers’ operating comfort with the efficient use of natural resources. To minimise the documentation, guidelines, best practices, case studies, technical and regulatory presentations on the environment negative environmental impact, the company seeks to reduce electricity and water consumption and more and health and safety. Each quarter, Ansaldo STS participates in the periodic operating meetings organised by efficiency management of waste, with an increase in the separation of waste. Finmeccanica. These meetings constitute an essential element in the sharing of group guidelines, best practices, • company travel management. Ansaldo STS’ travel policy provides for the containment of trips by increasing the for the development of synergies between Ansaldo STS’ companies and to introduce technologically innovative, use of videoconferencing and teleconferencing, e-learning courses and privileging the use of public or collective process and contractual elements, with specific regard to: transportation (company shuttles and car pooling). • the management of environmental aspects: In 2013 Ansaldo STS published and distributed the following guidelines: waste management, atmospheric emission management on the FNM group’s websites, water INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT management, management of fluorinated greenhouse gases on the FNM group’s websites, CO2 and climate The following areas have been defined on which to take action: change, environmental disaster management, hazardous material management, asbestos risk management, • procurement economy: to ensure the integrity of supply chains, Ansaldo STS provides for operational mechanism assessment of the condition of asbestos roofs and, for risk assessment, AEE guidelines and underground tank (such as penalties applied to violations that, as a maximum, can entail the cancellation of contracts) to ensure guidelines; compliance with applicable regulations concerning safety and health in the workplace and the protection of the • L egislative updates on the environment and court of cassation judgments. environment, as well as Ansaldo STS’ ethical principles, by its suppliers and their procurement chains. • product ecology: to encourage its customers’ adoption of ecologically sustainable practices, Ansaldo STS is constantly committed to providing the best and safest products and the best system solutions, using the best design methodologies and procedures and the best possible manufacturing methods and processes, in line with its aim of reducing energy consumption and environmental impact. INTRANET ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY How We Work is the Intranet section that includes HSE disclosures, broken down into three parts: International Standards And Requirements, Global HSE Documentation and Local HSE Documentation. Environmental training The first part relates to international standards and requirements, while the second contains all the documentation (procedures, instructions, manuals, formats and templates) applicable around the world with an impact on the Ansaldo STS’ environmental training path has been implemented with the cooperation of training needs managers environment, health and safety. The third part, Local HSE Documentation, is in turn broken further down by (TNMs). This initiative is aimed at identifying resources who can serve as contacts for Human Resources in company, as it gathers legislation and documentation (relating to the system and other aspects) applicable at the definition of specific training/development plans for their operational structures, in order to facilitate the local level only. understanding of the specific needs of each operational unit and make it possible to define projects that more accurately target their actual needs. TNM is distinguished by its concept of “Community”, which translates into The HSE Coordinator guarantees that content is consistent and compliant with Ansaldo STS requirements and encouraging the creation of a network to reduce geographical distances. constantly interfaces with the HSE Manager of each individual company. At present, certain countries have implemented certified management systems. The aim for 2013 is to implement information on all Ansaldo STS legal entities. 56 57 The environment, health and safety | Climate change Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Climate change The Carbon Management System Ansaldo STS sees climate change mainly as an opportunity. As part of this approach, Ansaldo STS analyses the potential Since 2011, Ansaldo STS has implemented and renewed its commitment to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions impact of its strategic climate change decisions in the short, medium and long-term, in order to find opportunities produced directly and indirectly in the performance of its activities by applying the carbon management system for developing the business and improving its efficiency and identify risks in respect of which it must take adequate (CMS), a system that enables it to monitor the carbon emission improvement process. This entails a planning, mitigation measures. implementation and measurement process for emission reduction goals. An efficient carbon management policy will enable the company to reduce emissions, decrease consumption and reduce energy costs, thereby improving its To this end, it has identified certain situations of particular focus and stimulus in relation to climate change: budget, with the possibility of investing the savings in other areas. 1. Climate change – The increased frequency and seriousness of catastrophes entail a careful search for efficient and safe solutions to a potential increase in operating costs. The CMS has been developed in line with the relevant international standards. This system enables the company to 2. Changes in legislation and/or standards – This is a strategic lever in the long-term, and it relates to both the perform: business model and revenue flows. Over the next few years, we expect changes in local or domestic energy efficiency • analyses of actual emissions produced; requirements to push for new solutions throughout this sector. • monitoring and reporting on emissions by type (Scope I, Scope II and Scope III); 3. Greater awareness of climate change issues – This increases the impact on customers' and consumers' behaviour, • comparisons between historical data and forward-looking analyses; driving up demand for the design and implementation of eco-friendly transportation solutions, with an impact on • an assessment of the impact of products, in terms of emissions over their entire life cycle; reputation as well, given the ability of players in this field to take measures that limit the effects of climate change or •e  conomic/environmental analyses in relation to current regulations on emission reduction to determine assets’ efficiently respond to widespread public concerns. potential value at risk; • the measurement of the effectiveness of emission reduction projects; In short, opportunities are created by the necessary abilities to react, plan and implement for: • c ommunications on Ansaldo STS’ emission reduction performance with the concerned parties, media, investors, • Greater market competitiveness: new behaviour, due to greater focus on environmental issues, could require Ansaldo rating agencies and other organisations. STS to develop new products, processes or innovative approaches, which could create growth opportunities and boost business efficiency Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) • Greater sensitivity in the management of climate change Ansaldo STS has decided to report direct and indirect emissions in accordance with the GHG protocol. • Better financial returns The protocol provides for the breakdown of emissions into three separate scopes: Commitment to fighting climate change Scope 1 – Emissions from the direct combustion of fossil fuels acquired for heating, the production of electrical Ansaldo STS is committed to progressively reducing CO2 emissions in all of its processes. Its activities and and thermal energy and to fuel transportation vehicles. The sources of Scope 1 emissions are generally owned and initiatives to combat climate change are part of the environmental management system that Ansaldo STS has controlled directly by the organisation. established at global level, developing a carbon management strategy based on the following principles: • global approach: developing mechanisms that encompass the commitment of all Ansaldo STS sites; Scope 2 – Emissions from the production of electrical energy imported and consumed by the organisation for • reasonable and feasible long-term objectives: it is crucial to establish a clear and realistic vision of the steps to electrical devices, heating and lighting inside buildings. The importers are directly responsible for the emissions be taken; generated by the supplier to produce the electrical energy required. • support to the development of technologies: developing advanced technological solutions. Scope 3 – Emissions other than indirect GHG emissions arising from energy consumption, which are due to the This strategy focuses mainly on three spheres of influence: activities of an organisation but derive from GHG sources that are owned or controlled by other organisations. They • in house activities and direct emissions from its sites (Scope 1 emissions); include emissions from business travel, goods used, employee transit, etc. The limits of this Scope are agreed by the • electricity suppliers and their operating emissions due to Ansaldo STS’ activities (Scope 2 emissions); organisation, and Scope 3 generally only requires the inclusion of emissions that the organisation can quantify and • Ansaldo STS’ supply chain and the emissions resulting from the production and delivery of goods and services influence. (Scope 3 emissions). 58 59 The environment, health and safety | The Carbon Management System Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Activities carried out to reduce the direct and indirect production of GHG In particular, Scope 2 emissions decreased by 1,112 tonnes of CO2e and Scope 3 emissions by 5,369 tonnes. Within its team, Ansaldo STS has appointed a Carbon Manager, an Energy Manager and a Water Manager responsible for providing information and carrying out activities and projects with respect to energy savings at all The following table details the emissions recorded. the company’s operating sites. Greenhouse Gas 2012 2013 Change Travel Policy SCOPE 1 CO2 (t) CH4 (t) NO2 (t) CO2e (t) CO2 (t) CH4 (t) NO2 (t) CO2e (t) CO2e (t) Ansaldo STS’ initiatives to improve employee travel include optimising travel paths, using carpooling and car sharing Natural gas 1,406.6 0.025 0.003 1,408 1,584.7 0.141 0.003 1,589 181 and promoting the use of public transportation and more sustainable means through its travel policy. Fuel oil for cars, lorries and forklifts 749.7 0.030 0.006 752 1,017.0 0.137 0.008 1,022 270 One of the effects of the travel policy can be measured by the considerable reduction in air travel, for both short, Fuel oil for the production but especially long hauls, in 2013. of energy and/or heat 86.2 0.003 0.001 87 82.5 0.011 0.001 83 -4 Petrol for cars, lorries and forklifts 124.1 0.005 0.001 125 50.4 0.007 0.000 51 -74 EMPLOYEES’ FLIGHTS 2013 2012 2011 GPL to produce energy 7.7 0.000 0.000 8 6.6 0.001 7 -1 SHORT HAUL FLIGHTS (km) 20,426,543 22,018,810 40,198,773 Fuel oil 0.153 3 -3 LONG HAUL FLIGHTS (km) 26,776,605 44,099,355 25,378,957 TOTAL 2,374.3 0.064 0.010 2,382 2,741.3 0.297 0.012 2,751 369 Change TOTAL 47,203,148 66,118,165 65,577,730 SCOPE 2 CO2 (t) CH4 (t) NO2 (t) CO2e (t) CO2 (t) CH4 (t) NO2 (t) CO2e (t) CO2e (t) Electrical energy consumption 12,280.7 0.212 0.095 12,315 11,176.1 0.146 0.076 11,203 -1,112 Over the years, Ansaldo has implemented energy efficiency projects that have contributed to reducing energy TOTAL 12,280.7 0.212 0.095 12,315 11,176.1 0.146 0.076 11,203 -1,112 consumption by nearly 20% in the period considered. Below are examples of steps taken by Ansaldo to reduce Change energy consumption: SCOPE 3 CO2 (t) CH4 (t) NO2 (t) CO2e (t) CO2 (t) CH4 (t) NO2 (t) CO2e (t) CO2e (t) • installation of energy-efficient lightning systems and the related electrical systems; Emissions from employee • increase in the energy efficiency of air conditioning and air treatment systems; flights 7,675.6 7,676 5,012.2 5,012 -2,663 • elimination of or reduction in the use of transformers and air compressors; Emissions from the • revision of the automated building management system to delay when the lighting system and air conditioning transport of freight by roads 2,372.5 0.019 0.014 2,377 1,166.7 0.014 0.011 1,170 -1,207 turns on in the morning and anticipate it in the evening; Emissions from company • improvement in the data center’s energy efficiency; cars under long term • affixing of signs to remind personnel to turn off lights, laptop computers and devices that consume energy; lease 1,201.4 0.002 0.004 1,203 987.7 0.004 0.004 989 -214 • reduction in the number of vehicles used by the company; Emissions from the transport of cargo by sea 117.0 0.900 4.503 1,532 295.9 0.025 0.009 299 -1,233 • reduction in the total volume of waste sent to landfills by encouraging the use of low impact substances Non-hazardous waste promoting the reduction, recovery and recycling of waste. disposed of 15.376 323 11.803 248 -75 Emissions from company Results cars under short-term lease 230.5 0.000 0.001 231 242.9 0.000 0.001 243 12 The policies and initiatives described in 2013 have produced a reduction in the production of greenhouse gases Total iron and steel mainly indirect (Scope 3). Overall, the production has increased from 28,817 tonnes to 22,705 tonnes of CO2e consumption 191.8 0.286 198 193.4 0.289 199 2 which corresponds to a reduction of 6,112 tonnes of CO2e. Natural gas 52.7 5.097 160 59.4 5.743 180 20 Fuel oil for cars, lorries and forklifts 51.6 2.178 97 69.9 2.951 132 35 Total paper consumption 142.6 143 109.8 110 -33 SCOPE I (tons of CO /e) 2 Emissions from the 16,000 14,120 transport of cargo by air 105.9 0.000 0.001 106 85.0 0.000 0.000 85 -21 14,000 11,668 12,315 14,000 11,203 Total paper/cardboard 12,000 12,000 10,674 10,000 10,000 8,682 packaging consumption 18.5 0.976 39 24.7 1.302 52 13 8,000 8,000 Fuel oil for the production 6,000 6,000 of energy and/or heat 5.9 0.251 11 5.7 0.240 11 0 2,382 2,751 4,000 4,000 Hazardous waste 4,000 2,012 2,000 2,000 2,000 disposed of 0.196 4 0.333 7 3 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Petrol for cars, lorries and forklifts 9.1 0.383 17 3.7 0.156 7 -10 SCOPE I SCOPE II SCOPE III Incinerated waste 0.0 0 3.4 0.000 3 3 Total petrochemical 2012 2013 consumption 1.7 0.008 2 1.7 0.008 2 0 CO2 CH4 NO2 CO2e CO2 CH4 NO2 CO2e Change Metallic recycled waste 1.4 1 0.9 1 -1 GHG (t) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (t) (t) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (t) tCO2e TOTAL 12,178.2 25.674 4.523 14,120 8,262.9 22.867 0.024 8,751 -5,369 SCOPE 1 2,374.3 4.6 3.2 2,382.1 2,741.3 6.2 3.8 2,751.3 369.2 SCOPE 2 12,281.1 4.4 29.5 12,315.0 11,176.0 3.1 23.7 11,202.8 -1,112.2 In Scope 3, there was a 2,663 tonnes decrease in CO2e (-35%) resulting from emissions from employee flights, a SCOPE 3 12,178.2 539.1 1,402.3 14,119.6 8,262.9 480.2 7.6 8,750.7 -5,368.9 1,207 tonnes decrease in CO2e (-51%) in relation to the transport of freight by roads, a 214 tonnes reduction in TOTAL 26,833.6 548.1 1,435.0 28,816.7 22,180.2 489.5 35.1 22,704.8 -6,111.9 CO2e (-18%) due to the decreased use of company cars and a 1,232 tonnes reduction in CO2e (-80%) due to the decrease in emissions arising from the transport of cargo by sea. 60 61 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Carbon disclosure project (CDP) •e  ight in Asia Pacific: Brisbane, Perth, Karratha (specific site to support the local customer’s site) and Newcastle (Australia); Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia); Bangalore, Noida and Kolkata (India). Climate change is one of the most important sustainable development issues that countries face. This is why the United Non-production sites cover a total surface area of 161,121 square metres, with 3,505 workers (+9.4%), for a total Nations Climate Change Framework Convention and Kyoto Protocols were signed, defining international guidelines to number of hours worked in 2013 of 6,716,634 -3.9%). contrast this global phenomenon. None of the 17 Ansaldo STS sites is subject to the IPPC (Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control) directive. To publicly disclose its commitment to environmental sustainability, and with respect to the reduction of GHG emissions The Batesburg and the Tito sites are located in an area that is included in the list of contaminated sites of national in particular, in 2011, Ansaldo STS signed the Carbon Disclosure Project, an international initiative supported by 655 interest. institutional investors to gather information from leading companies worldwide on their emissions. Energy consumption In 2011, the first year in which it participated in the CDP, Ansaldo STS scored 79/100, placing it among the top Energy consumption is an environmental aspect that is assessed and measured at all Ansaldo STS sites and when 10 companies for its commitment to environmental protection and the reduction of its impact on climate change, the environmental aspects of sites and the construction of civil and technological works are analysed. as demonstrated by the Accenture report for the CDP. This report specifically analysed answers on the basis of two To meet its production and operating requirements, in 2013, Ansaldo STS consumed a total of 137,427.28 GJ parameters: the quality of information used to transparently disclose their policies on emissions (disclosures) and the of energy (+3% compared to 2012). This consumption may be broken down as follows: electricity from the grid: quality of initiatives aimed at managing climate change (performance). 67%, natural gas: 21%, fuel oil to produce energy and for fuel vehicle traction: 11%, petrol and other fuels: 0.61%. In 2012, the second year in which it participated in the CDP, Ansaldo STS scored 73/100. PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES In 2013, the third year in which it participated, Ansaldo STS scored 76/100 for disclosures, with a performance grade of B (the highest being an A), improving its ranking on 2012 (73/100 disclosure score and D performance), ranking 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 among the high scorers. Electricity (kWh) 7,913,398.0 7,640,153.0 7,912,208.0 17,726,216.7 17,995,517.5 17,252,010.4 These scores were disclosed at the meeting held for the presentation of the Italy 100 Report 2013 in Milan, which Electricity (GJ) 28,488.2 27,504.6 28,483.9 63,814.4 64,783.9 62,107.2 discloses trends and developments in the monitoring and measurement of greenhouse gas emissions. Natural gas (Nm3) 126,594.8 136,625.4 162,053.8 714,114.9 609,573.6 571,545.6 Natural gas (GJ) 4,434.6 4,786.0 5,676.7 25,015.4 21,353.4 20,021.2 Environmental performance Petrol and other fuels (t) Petrol and other fuels (GJ) 8.4 368.9 8.9 386.8 6.9 302.9 10.6 465.4 64.0 2,797.9 79.8 3,486.3 The scope of the report considered to process environmental, health and safety performance comprises the 17 Fuel oil (t) 1.0 1.0 1.4 347.2 102.8 286.4 production and office sites of Ansaldo STS’ subsidiaries (Pittsburgh, Genoa, Brisbane, Les Ulis, Bangalore, Solna, Fuel oil (GJ) 42.6 43.5 60.5 14,797.6 4,380.6 12,205.8 Batesburg, Naples, Karratha, Riom, Kolkata, Kuala Lumpur, Piossasco, Newcastle, Noida, Tito Scalo and Perth)16: they are production and office sites with ten or more employees. TOTAL (GJ) 33,335.0 32,720.8 34,524.0 104,092.8 93,315.8 97,820.6 PRODUCTION SITES There are sites in Tito Scalo, Italy, Riom, France and Batesburg, US, where electro-mechanical parts and electronic Total energy consumption (GJ) In absolute terms, 79% of total energy consumption is due to the devices are produced to be used in railway safety, control and monitoring systems. Site activities include mechanical 200,000.0 14 office sites and 21% to the three production sites. At the latter processing, the treatment of metallic and non-metallic materials, thermal treatments, superficial treatments and 160,000.0 sites, energy consumption has increased by 1.9% on 2012 due to applying glue and resins. 120,000.0 greater electricity consumption (+3.6%) and despite the reduction GJ 80,000.0 in the consumption of natural gas (-7.3%), diesel (-3.6%) and They cover a total surface area of 203,330 square metres (Tito Scalo: 40,000 sqm, 21% of which covered; Riom: 40,000.0 petrol and other fuels (-4.7%). The office sites have seen a greater 17,000 sqm, 30% of which covered; Batesburg: 146,329 sqm, 13% of which covered). Employees total 381 (-15.7%) 0.0 increase in energy consumption (+12%), despite the reduction in (126 in Batesburg, 133 in Tito Scalo and 122 in Riom). In 2013, they worked a total of approximately 658,610 hours 2011 2012 2013 the consumption of electricity (1.5%), due to the increase in the Natural gas 25,698.0 26,139.4 29,450.1 (-29.7%) (262,000 hours in Batesburg, 238,552 hours in Tito Scalo and 158,058 hours in Riom). Petrols and other consumption of natural gas, diesel, petrol and other fuels. 3,789.2 3,184.7 834.31 fuels OFFICE SITES Fuel oil Electrical energy 12,266.3 90,591.2 11,297.1 92,288.4 14,840.28 92,302.6 There are 14 non-production sites where activities mainly consist of signalling plant design; the analysis of safety, reliability and availability; laboratory testing; contract management and control; research and development; procurement; and prevention and protection. KPI total energy consumption per hour worked KPI Electrical energy consumption (GJ/no. of hours) per hour worked (kWh/no. of hours) In geographical terms, the non-production sites are located in the following places: 0.0600 14.00 12.02 • three in Italy: Genoa, Piossasco (Turin) and Naples; 0.0506 12.00 10.00 • two in Europe: Les Ulis (France) and Solna Stockholm (Sweden); 0.0400 0.0383 Production sites 8.00 7.93 8.94 Production sites 0.0346 • one in the US: Pittsburgh; Offices sites 6.00 Offices sites 0.0200 0.0164 0.0143 0.0155 4.00 2.90 2.57 2.64 2.00 0.0000 16. S  ince 2012, the non-production site in Sydney was eliminated from the scope of the report as it did not have more than 10 employees in 2013, 10 being 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 the threshold above which sites are considered material for environmental purposes and are therefore considered in the measurement of impact. 62 63 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The trend in the performance indicator total energy consumption per hour worked shows an increase at both the Renewable energies production sites (+32%) and the office sites (+8%). At the production sites this is due to the slight increase in energy Ansaldo STS has acquired electrical energy consumption certificates for its Italian sites under the Renewable consumption (+4%), combined with a substantial decrease in hours worked (-23%), while at the office sites there was Energy Certificate System (RECS) for 2013. RECS certificates represent 1 MWh, and attest to the use of energy a slight increase in energy consumption (+4%) and a decrease in hours worked (-4%) from renewable sources, which include, as defined by EU directive no. 2009/28: wind, solar, aerothermal, geothermal, ocean, hydraulic, waste-to-energy, landfill gas, residual gas from purification processes and biogas. Electricity consumption per hour worked is nearly constant at office sites (+3%), where the slight decrease in hours The quantity acquired for 2013 amounts to 6,787 MWh. worked is offset by the slight decrease in the consumption of electricity (-1.5%). However, it is up at the production sites (+34%), since the consumption of electricity rose slightly (+3.6%) but, as noted above, the number of hours By acquiring and subsequently cancelling the certificates (the latter entails the withdrawal of the certificate from the worked decreased considerably. market), Ansaldo STS demonstrates its commitment to environmental sustainability through its willingness to pay the positive difference with the price of electricity from conventional sources. Energy efficiency Ansaldo STS is currently implementing a project to reduce its energy use at its Italian sites in Genoa, Piossasco The Solna and Les Ulis sites acquire energy on the grid from renewable or nuclear sources. (Turin), Naples and Tito Scalo (Potenza) by 20% by 2015. The project was launched in 2010 with an analysis of energy consumption (electrical energy and gas for heating) in recent years and a future projection that showed an ELECTRICAL ENERGY FROM RENEWABLE RESOURCES 2011 2012 2013 increase. As a result, the need arose to contain and reduce consumption and, consequently, reduce GHG emissions (CO2 in particular). Italian sites – Electricity from renewable sources (kWh) 5,809,662 6,195,980 6,787,000 Electricity acquired on the grid from renewable and/or nuclear sources (kWh) 3,497,332 3,044,437 2,984,782 The types of steps to be taken as part of this project provide, for the Turin site, the replacement of much of the energy infrastructure which is obsolete (pipes, valves, lighting, etc.), while for the Genoa, Tito and Naples sites, Total electrical energy consumed (kWh) 25,164,218 25,637,682 25,639,615 the approach will focus more on rationalising consumption (less lighting in offices, including when personnel is not % of electrical energy from renewable resources out of the total 37% 36% 38% present, turning off PCs and displays when they are not being used, etc.) on the basis of actual needs, with the replacement of certain plant with energy-saving oriented systems only where the former are obsolete. Consumption of materials Estimated costs range from €200 thousand to €300 thousand per year for five consecutive years, considering Ansaldo STS is aware of the contribution that each company can give to safeguarding the world’s resources by investments making up roughly 70% to build plant that is equivalent to that which will need to be replaced, while adopting policies to reduce the intensive use of raw materials, an objective promulgated by the OECD Council and in the remaining 30% relates to the actual cost of the energy saving project. This expenditure is expected to generate the sustainability strategies of many nations. economic and environmental benefits, the former including the possibility of obtaining financing for the renewal of plant under EU directives to reduce GHG. In addition, these investments will generate average energy savings MATERIALS 2011 2012 2013 prudently estimated to be 4% per year, making it possible to achieve the 20% target in five years. Iron and steel [t] 102.51 104.33 105.23 As part of this ambitious project, significant projects have been carried out at the Piossasco site to improve energy Copper [t] 21.32 20.87 22.68 consumption. Lubricant oil [t] 0.05 0.05 0.05 Paper / cardboard packaging used [t] 47.954 44.354 59.19 Paper [t] 192.681 109.66 84.46 IMPROVEMENTS AT THE PIOSSASCO SITE Analysing the impact of thermal/system improvements in 2013 in terms of energy requirements and effectiveness in RECYCLED MATERIALS 2011 2012 2013 reducing consumption, we see that they relate to the insulation of the building, the installation of transparent film and the airdraulic distribution rehaul. Paper [t] 236.35 2.28 129.27 Plastic [t] 0.42 0.02 0.03 Roof insulation – The office building roof was re-insulated. This project will generate energy savings of 6.8% in 2014, Wood [t] 24.56 36.29 entailing a decrease of roughly 21,300 m3 of natural gas per year (based on 2013 volumes). Metal [t] 98.97 88.09 Window insulation – The transparent surfaces in the office building at the Piossasco site were covered with transparent film to generate electricity savings in the refrigeration unit of 4.8%, entailing a decrease in consumption of roughly To explore the issue of raw material consumption, in 2013, Ansaldo STS began analysing its supplies, and, 8,100 kWh per year. specifically, “Direct materials”, which it divided into two different types: “Racks and Cabinets” and “Cables”. These make up 4% and 3% of Ansaldo STS’ expenditure, respectively. The company acquires finished products in Aidraulic distribution rehaul on the first flour (offices) – Significantly decreasing dispersion, the project to replace these categories from third party suppliers only. Accordingly, to calculate the quantity of raw materials contained in the air conditioning ducts, along with the installation of adjustment shutters for better airdraulic distribution and a the products, they must be broken down and subject to rather complicated estimates. For example, to estimate the consequent improvement in ambient comfort, will reduce energy consumption by 6.8%. amount of copper in the total cables purchased, first, all optical fibre and aluminium cables must be excluded. Next, low voltage cables must be separated from medium and high voltage cables (as the latter have many more non-copper parts). Other variables to consider are sections – just to give one example of many of these instances, two medium voltage cables, for 35 sqmm and 240 sqmm sections, respectively, present significantly different quantities of copper, but nearly equal non-copper parts – and the type of screening and reinforcement. Beyond issues arising from estimates, Ansaldo STS is pushing for standardised design, which will reduce the use of these types of parts. 64 65 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Air emissions KPI Water withdrawal per employee Water is mainly for civil use. Water consumption at the Atmospheric emissions mainly relate to the production sites and only some of the sites (Les Ulis – France, (cubic metres) sites in Tito Scalo (Italy), Riom (France) and Batesburg Pittsburgh – US, Naples and Piossasco – Italy). 160.0 (US) is very low. 140.0 138.7 120.0 PRODUCTION SITES 100.0 Production sites 80.0 AIR EMISSIONS 2011 2012 2013 60.0 62.0 64.9 Offices sites 41.7 50.7 44.2 NOx (Kg) 192.73 239.30 221.73 40.0 20.0 CO (Kg) 96.37 119.65 110.87 0.0 2011 2012 2013 VOC Volatile organic compounds (Kg) 737.50 789.15 1,021.53 Volatile inorganic compounds (Kg) 0.10 0.51 0.10 Heavy metals (Pb, Hg, Cd, Cr, As, Co, Ni)(Kg) 0.10 0.10 0.10 PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES Particulates (Kg) 0.90 1.80 1.70 WASTEWATER 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Volume of domestic or similar waste The Tito Scalo and Batesburg sites must monitor emissions of volatile organic compounds, volatile inorganic water (m3/year) 64,360 14,405 12,198 60,645 113,819 109,181 compounds and heavy metals deriving from their production processes. CO and NOx emissions mainly derive from Volume of industrial waste water (m /year) 3 11,830 10,764 12,517 0 thermal energy plant equipped with effective filters to reduce pollutants. The emissions are measured directly in the chimneys. TOTAL 76,190 25,169 24,715 60,645 113,819 109,181 Data on particulates relate to the Tito Scalo site and concern emissions from the production and handling of goods. The decrease in the welding of circuit boards which are now bought already completed have led to a decrease over The waste water produced at the sites can be classified, on the basis of its use upstream from disposal, as domestic (or time. similar) and industrial. All Ansaldo STS sites produce waste water that can be exclusively classified as domestic or similar, except for the Tito site. The Naples site uses an organic waste water treatment system. The sites use authorised disposal OFFICE SITES points. AIR EMISSIONS 2011 2012 2013 2013 WATER REPORT PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES SO2 (Kg) 180,60 164,51 157,28 NOx (Kg) 1,282.51 1,324.03 1,495.86 Total incoming water [m³] 28,769 154,979 CO (Kg) 519,72 551,31 642,10 Total water used [m³] 24,714 109,174 DIFFERENCE [m³] 4,055 45,753 Water management The sustainable management of site water where it is withdrawn, used and disposed of encourages the maintenance and improvement of water use efficiency, ensuring less waste and reduced environmental impact. The difference in the office sites is mainly due to the use of water for gardens and cleaning and because of evaporation. Ansaldo STS manages water resources with particular attention and over the years it has carried out initiatives to save water, including the installation of photocell faucets in Italy, projects to recover rainwater at the Riom site Waste production and management (France) and projects to replace the cooling towers with “dry” systems. The production of waste is an environmental aspect that is assessed and measured at all Ansaldo STS sites and work sites and when the environmental aspects of work sites and the construction of civil and technological works Ansaldo STS applies the “Water management guidelines” that Finmeccanica has formalised and applied to all are analysed. companies with the aim of defining the methods to be followed by the group’s Italian companies for the sustainable All Ansaldo STS sites have waste collection areas depending on the type of waste and site layout. management of water at their office and production sites. PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES Ansaldo STS’ water procurement sources include aqueducts and water tables where water is drawn through wells. WASTE 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Hazardous (t) 11.00 5.88 7.65 11.14 10.38 12.41 PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES % recovered 17% 47% 24% 66% 91% 97% WITHDRAWAL OF WATER 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 % disposed of 83% 53% 76% 34% 9% 3% Water drawn from aqueducts (m3/year) 77,388 27,344 24,715 96,528 122,070 113,125 Non-hazardous (t) 62.18 63.44 73.84 591.88 535.75 396.50 Water drawn from wells (m3/year) 40,393 40,220 41,854 % recovered 93% 83% 76% 51% 43% 57% Other sources of procurement (m3/year) 78 74 83 % disposed of 7% 17% 24% 49% 57% 43% TOTAL WASTE (t) 73.18 69.32 81.48 603.02 546.13 408.91 TOTAL 77,388 27,344 136,999 162,364 155,062 % recovered 75% 80% 71% 51% 44% 58% % disposed of 25% 20% 29% 49% 56% 42% 66 67 The environment, health and safety | Environmental performance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report OFFICES Total waste (t) PRODUCTION SITES Total waste (t) There were no environmental complaints from outside the company. There were no violations of environmental 800.00 800.00 standards detected by external control bodies and there were no environmentally critical system faults. 603.02 Offices Production sites 546.13 600.00 600.00 In 2013, Ansaldo STS performed 20 in house environmental audits (four at the three production sites and 16 at 400.00 355.25 400.00 office sites), 16 external environmental audits (six at the three production sites and 10 at office sites). 200.00 200.00 73.18 69.32 80.59 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Health and safety KPI Kg. of waste produced per hour worked In terms of safety management, Ansaldo STS has defined a management system integrating all its processes in one complete structure enabling the organisation to operate as a single unit with shared objectives and the global 0.140 application of safety standards. 0.120 0.122 0.100 0.101 Production sites 0.080 0.081 Ansaldo STS’ health and safety management system enables it to define the process operating methods used 0.073 0.078 Offices 0.060 to achieve compliance with the legislation framework and verify adequacy and compliance. These methods also 0.059 0.040 require Ansaldo STS to use local advisors with the necessary expertise on the legislative and regulatory framework 0.020 in the relevant country. 0.000 2011 2012 2013 By participating in the HSE WEB Community, Finmeccanica’s website for all HSE contacts within the group companies, Ansaldo STS takes part in scheduled meetings to share group guidelines and best practices, develop In 2013, there was a sharp decrease in the total kg of waste produced by office sites and the kg produced per hour synergies between the companies, applying these policies to company procedures, which it shares with all worked. personnel on the company intranet. Hazardous materials The health and safety policy There are no hazardous materials pursuant to Legislative decree no. 344/99 and subsequent modifications and Ansaldo STS’ health and safety in the workplace policy is based on the application of the requirements of relevant integrations at Ansaldo STS’ sites. Substances harmful to the ozone layer are present at the Piossasco site (0.13 standards, namely OHSAS 18001:2007, and other international standards, in total compliance with national tonnes) and the Batesburg site (0.09 tonnes).The Riom production site also has hazardous materials (0.15 tonnes) and international regulations. Ansaldo STS develops a plan focused on continuously improving health and safety and raw materials (0.05t) classified as R50 (highly toxic for water organisms), substances (0.01t) and raw materials standards. (0.05t) classified as R51 (toxic for water organisms) and substances (0.16t) and raw materials (0.05t) classified as R53 (can provoke long-term negative effects on water habitats). For health and safety, Ansaldo STS undertakes to: •e  nsure and maintain a safe and healthy workplace environment and prevent injuries, illnesses or damage to the Reclamation health of employees, suppliers, customers and visitors; In May 2012, the DHEC (Department of Health and Environmental Control) sent Ansaldo STS, at the Batesburg site, •e  xtend OHSAS 18001 certification to all Ansaldo STS sites, continuously improving the effectiveness of the its approval for the work plan proposed by ERM, an advisory company it had contacted for this purpose, and which health and safety in the workplace management system; had presented a proposal for the treatment of the soil and underground water near the site area. The approved • c ontinuously improve the aforementioned management systems’ performance, not only with respect to the work plan provides for: prevention of injuries and work-related illnesses, but also in terms of more general employees’ wellbeing; • the installation of eight permanent wells for the drawing of samples; •a  dopt risk assessment criteria for all dangers relating to work activities which, in compliance with national and • a soil and underground sampling campaign in the area surrounding the Ansaldo STS site; international legislation, also consider best practices; • surveying with gas in the underground water to check the concentration of VOC in the site’s production area. • increase the training and updating of all employees in order to make them increasingly aware of the risks related to their activities; The plan began being implemented in 2013. • c ontinue developing activities to spread a culture of safety with all suppliers and concerned parties. Noise The policy is shared with all Ansaldo STS personnel and all concerned parties online and via the company intranet. Noise levels at all Ansaldo STS sites are always low and exterior and interior noise is monitored at the frequencies provided for by current legislation to monitor compliance with the applicable thresholds. When Ansaldo STS is Training the main contractor, during coordination and security activities, it can ask subcontractors for updates on the The company promotes, shares and consolidates a culture of health and safety throughout its organisation through performance of measurements to monitor that the thresholds are not violated. training to increase everyone’s awareness of risks and encourage responsible conduct. Non-conformances and environmental complaints As such Ansaldo STS promotes training and refresher activities to develop employees' expertise. In 2013, there were 16 environmental incidents at Ansaldo STS, without any damage or injuries and there was no involvement of hazardous materials, one at the Les Ulis site (water leak repaired the same day), two at the Riom In 2013, for Italy, an ambitious training project was developed in collaboration with Fondimpresa, significantly production site (loss of 340 cubic metres of water and loss of 2 Kg of air conditioning gas) and 13 at the Karratha increasing the hours of training per employee. (Fondimpresa is a public organisation that funds corporate training). site (mainly small plumbing issues and small leaks of oil or diesel). There were two near misses at Karratha as well. 68 69 The environment, health and safety | Health and safety Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Overall, at the sites specified in this analysis, 26.586 training hours were provided in 2013 (+56% on 2012), The data therefore show low injury frequency and seriousness rates. In order to acquire information that is helpful accounting for 32% of total training hours. in improving performance, in accordance with the health and safety policy, Ansaldo STS also tracks near misses (incidents without consequences that arise out of undesired or unexpected situations that could have put people at PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES risk), in order to gather and analyse data and information and identify potential solutions in advance. HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Main initiatives: Total hours of health and safety training 1,243 1,299 2,492 12,038 15,778 24,094 • Implementation of the procedure to manage accidents and near misses at global level: Ansaldo STS has created a procedure to provide information on how to correctly manage events entailing injuries, accidents and near Total hours of training 6,106 7,531 6,148 64,157 62,875 76,129 misses. This procedure is a valid prevention and information management tool for statistical purposes, to identify Safety training as % of the total 20.4% 17.2% 41% 18.8% 25.1% 32% the causes of an accident and meet legal requirements relating to health, safety and hygiene in the workplace. • Implementation of quarterly HSE reporting to monitor and gather main information on the performance of the activities performed in relation to the application of SGS/SGA. These reports are prepared by all HSE officers at Health and safety performance the work sites; As stated in its policy, Ansaldo STS considers safeguarding health and preventing any kind of work-related accident, •S  afety meetings for all the main sites. injury or illness as key values. Heath and safety performance indicators are analysed with respect to their historical trends, in order to set new COSILAVOROSICURO objectives to be achieved, breaking them down by risk factor and location. Ansaldo STS confirmed its participation in COSILAVOROSICURO (a consortium for workers’ health and safety in the workplace) again in 2013 as part of the steering committee. This project also awards members for virtuous conduct Safety is therefore a strategic must for Ansaldo STS in terms of its mission, and also as a value that must be through CoSiLa certification issued at the end of each year (Ansaldo STS received the award for two consecutive guaranteed to all employees who contribute daily to ensuring it for end users as well. years, 2010 and 2011). Overall, in 2013, there were seven injuries (compared to 17 in 2012), including three at office sites and four at Furthermore, the main aim of this project is to provide Ansaldo STS with a series of operating tools and simplified production sites (excluding injuries during travel). Four of these led the employee concerned to miss more than procedures to ensure total compliance with legal obligations. three days of work (two at office sites and two at production sites). The days of missed work due to injuries totalled 45 at office sites and 172 at production sites. Data on the frequency and seriousness of injuries show that these values are extremely low when compared to the construction sector (for example, Italy has a frequency rate of approximately 50 and a seriousness rate of 8.5). Injury frequency and seriousness indicators are reported below: Injury seriousness rate PRODUCTION SITES Injury frequency rate PRODUCTION SITES 4.00 3.41 80.00 72.76 3.00 60.00 52.23 2.00 40.00 36.81 20.00 1.00 1.21 1.17 0.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Injury seriousness rate OFFICE SITES Injury frequency rate OFFICE SITES 4.00 4.00 3.61 3.00 3.00 1.75 2.00 2.00 1.34 0.57 1.00 1.00 0.34 0.09 0.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 70 71 The environment, health and safety | Health and safety Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Costs and investments for the environment, health and safety In 2013, Ansaldo STS incurred environmental costs to treat and dispose of waste water and recover and dispose of waste. Environmental investments mainly entailed the rehaul of the air conditioning system and the updating of the sewage grid in Piossasco and repairing the roof insulation at the Riom site. Safety investments mainly related to the rehaul of the fire detection system and the installation of the sound system at the Piossasco site, as well as the fire prevention system and equipment at the Les Ulis site. ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS (E units) 2013 2012 Total cost for the treatment and disposal of domestic and similar water 21,239 19,501 Total cost for the treatment and disposal of industrial water 5,758 7,176 TOTAL WASTE WATER COSTS 26,997 26,677 Costs to produce, treat, recovery and dispose of toxic and non-toxic waste 74,537 105,783 Waste production taxes 266,977 329,518 TOTAL WASTE COSTS 341,514 435,301 Environmental reclamation costs 248,168 149,866 TOTAL RECLAMATION COSTS 248,168 149,866 TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS 616,679 611,844 SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT INVESTMENTS (E units) 2013 2012 Safety investments 338,841 235,937 Environment investments 586,729 217,730 TOTAL INVESTMENTS 925,570 453,667 72 73 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Our people Human resource management policy Recruitment and hiring Training and development Remuneration and incentive systems People care Trade unions In house communications 74 75 Our people | Human resource management policy Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Our people The percentage of women remains steady at around 20%, peaking at 37% in China and 25% in America. 2013 2012 CONTRACT TYPES MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total Human resources are crucial to the company’s existence and a critical factor if it is to compete successfully in the market. Honesty, loyalty, aptitude, professionalism and technical Employees with openended contracts 3,210 789 3,999 96.9% 3,107 788 3,895 97.6% preparation are therefore determining factors in achieving Ansaldo STS’ objectives and are required of its employees, directors, statutory auditors and workers of all kinds. Employees with fixed-term contracts 109 20 129 3.1% 70 26 96 2.4% TOTAL 3,319 809 4,128 100.0% 3,177 814 3,991 100.0% OTHER CONTRACT TYPES 18 Human resource management policy Temporary staff 53 32 85 62.5% 69 37 106 27.2% Contract workers 14 1 15 11.0% 29 1 30 7.7% Ansaldo STS offers equal opportunities beginning with managers and function heads must devote utmost the recruitment process, ensuring equal treatment attention to enhancing and growing the professionalism Work experience 9 11 20 14.7% 8 13 21 5.4% considering individual skills and abilities. Over the course of their workers. Other types 13 3 16 11.8% 188 45 233 59.7% of employment, Ansaldo STS undertakes to create and maintain the necessary conditions to further expand upon In the pursuit of company objectives, workers must TOTAL 89 47 136 100.0% 294 96 390 100.0% employees’ abilities and expertise on an equal opportunity be aware that ethics are of crucial interest to the basis, through a policy based on the recognition of merits company and that, accordingly, no conduct is tolerated The importance that Ansaldo STS gives to the stability of employment contracts is demonstrated by the fact that and equal opportunities and providing for specific refresher that, although it may appear in the abstract to it has hired 96.9% of its employees under openended contracts. Furthermore, as the number of employees has and specialisation courses. benefit Ansaldo STS, is in violation of the law, current increased (+137), the use of other contract types has fallen (-254). regulations, the organisational, management and control This is why employees are required to cultivate and model or the code of ethics. The breakdown of the group’s workers by professional level is as follows: draw on new expertise, abilities and knowledge, while 2013 2012 CATEGORIES MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total Headcount At year end, Ansaldo STS’ headcount is 4,128, as follows : 17 Executives (Managers) 92 8 100 2.4% 94 7 101 2.5% Junior managers 395 65 460 11.2% 405 60 465 11.7% 2013 2012 White collars 2,399 681 3,080 74.6% 2,338 672 3,010 75.4% REGION MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total Blue collars 433 55 488 11.8% 340 75 415 10.4% Central and Eastern Europe and the TOTAL 3,319 809 4,128 100.0% 3,177 814 3,991 100.0% Middle East 1,268 277 1,545 37.4% 1,257 275 1,532 38.4% Western Europe 580 154 734 17.8% 471 151 622 15.6% The breakdown of the various categories is nearly unchanged with respect to 2012. There was a slight decrease in America 553 189 742 18.0% 561 208 769 19.3% the percentage of white collars (from 75.4% to 74.6%) and a slight increase in blue collars (from 10.4% to 11.8%). Asia Pacific 876 164 1,040 25.2% 845 158 1,003 25.1% In absolute terms, compared to 2012, there was an increase in the number of blue collars (+73) and white collars (+70), with a slight decrease in junior managers (-5) and one fewer manager. China 42 25 67 1.6% 43 22 65 1.6% TOTAL 3,319 809 4,128 100.0% 3,177 814 3,991 100.0% An analysis by gender shows a percentage increase in women managers (from 6.9% to 8.0%) and junior managers (from 12.9% to 14.1%), with a slight decrease in women white collars (from 22.3% to 22.1%) and a further reduction in women blue collars (from 18.1% to 11.3%). The headcount increased by 137 on 2012 (+142 men and -5 women), corresponding to a 3.4% increase since the start of the year. This increase was mainly seen in Western Europe (+112 employees), Asia Pacific (+37 employees), Central and Eastern and the Middle East (+13 employees) and China (+2 employees). In America, on the other hand, there was a decrease of 27 employees. 17. The regions are defined as follows: • Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East: Italy, Denmark, Finland, Germany, the Netherlands, Romania, Czech Republic, Tu-nisia, Turkey and Greece. • Western Europe: France, UK, Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Sweden. • America: US and Canada. • Asia Pacific: Australia, Malaysia, Taiwan, South Africa, India and Botswana. 18. T his information is given in accordance with an approach that more closely corresponds with Italian and European legislation. Information on non• China: China, Hong Kong and South Korea. European countries has been adjusted for classification in the same types considering contractual similarities. 76 77 Our people | Human resource management policy Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The breakdown of the group’s workers by education level is as follows: Average company seniority is 11.5 years (with an average of 11.5 years for men and 11.4 years for women), slightly longer than in 2012 (11.2 years). There was a slight percentage decrease in the number of employees with the 2013 2012 company for fewer than five years (-1.8%) and a quiet increase in those with the company from 11 to 15 years (+2.4%). DEGREE/DIPLOMA19 MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total Technical High school 970 42 1,012 24.5% 811 42 853 21.4% Ansaldo STS grants – provided that it is compatible with technical and organisational requirements part-time Other High School 262 222 484 11.7% 283 247 530 13.3% positions. In this respect, in 2013, there were 91 part-time workers, showing an increase on the previous year. This number includes 80 women, with the percentage of part-time women out of all workers rising from 9.6% in Technical graduated 1,634 275 1,909 46.3% 1,642 257 1,899 47.6% 2012 to 9.9% in 2013. Other graduated 290 211 501 12.1% 319 206 525 13.2% PART TIME 2013 2012 Other education 163 59 222 5.4% 122 62 184 4.6% out of total employees by geographical area MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total TOTAL 3,319 809 4,128 100.0% 3,177 814 3,991 100.0% Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 0 28 28 1.8% 0 25 25 1.6% In general, the average age of employees is 41, both for men and women, which is in line with the previous year. Western Europe 5 37 42 5.7% 5 36 41 6.7% A comparison with 2012 shows that the increase in the number of workers most related to employees under 40 years of age 40 years (+123 employees), while for those over 41 years of age, the increase was less substantial America 4 4 8 1.1% 4 4 0.5% (+14 employees). In relative and percentage terms, employees under 30 remain steady, whereas the 30 to 35 age Asia Pacific 2 11 13 1.2% 2 13 15 1.5% bracket rose (+0.6%), along with the 36 to 40 age bracket (+0.7%), while the number of employees aged 46 to 50 fell (-0.6%) and over 50 years (-0.4%). China 0 0 0 0.0% 0 0 0 0.0% TOTAL 11 80 91 2.2% 7 78 85 2.1% 2013 2012 AGE MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total Of the total 4,128 employees, 65.0% work within the Signalling and Transportation Solutions business units, < 30 485 113 598 14.5% 457 119 576 14.4% while 24.1% are part of the Standard Platforms & Products (SPP) unit and the remaining 10.9% are staff members. In addition, they are distributed as follows by function: 30-35 662 164 826 20.0% 610 165 775 19.4% 36-40 517 144 661 16.0% 483 128 611 15.3% 2013 2012 41-45 379 90 469 11.4% 377 90 467 11.7% FUNCTION MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total Sales & Business Development 89 29 118 2.9% 93 31 124 3.1% 46-50 389 102 491 11.9% 393 101 494 12.4% PM 180 61 241 5.8% 185 63 248 6.2% >50 887 196 1,083 26.2% 857 211 1.068 26.8% Business Unit: Engineering 967 157 1,124 27.2% 1,013 164 1,177 29.5% Signalling TOTAL 3,319 809 4,128 100.0% 3,177 814 3,991 100.0% Construct. & Commiss. 420 18 438 10.6% 386 18 404 10.1% Transportation Solutions Operat.& Mainten. 285 11 296 7.2% 196 9 205 5.1% RAMS 103 22 125 3.0% 84 16 100 2.5% An analysis by gender specifically shows an increase in the absolute number of women aged 36 to 40 (+16 employees) and a decrease in those over 50 (-15). The breakdown of the group’s workers by seniority is as follows: Other 268 72 340 8.2% 181 47 228 5.7% TOTAL 2,312 370 2,682 65.0% 2,138 348 2,486 62.2% 2013 2012 Supply Chain 328 152 480 11.6% 347 172 519 13.0% Standard Platforms Development 348 66 414 10.0% 358 77 435 10.9% COMPANY SENIORITY MEN WOMEN Total % of total MEN WOMEN Total % of total & Products (SPP) RAMS 60 20 80 1.9% 59 17 76 1.9% < 5 years 1,217 281 1,498 36.3% 1,217 303 1,520 38.1% Other 14 9 23 0.6% 15 10 25 0.6% 5-10 years 939 247 1,186 28.7% 924 231 1,155 28.9% TOTAL 750 247 997 24.1% 779 276 1,055 26.5% 11-15 years 381 93 474 11.5% 284 79 363 9.1% Administration, Finance and Control 69 82 151 3.7% 67 79 146 3.7% 16-20 years 116 28 144 3.5% 107 44 151 3.8% General reception 19 17 36 0.9% 17 21 38 0.9% 20-25 years 171 44 215 5.2% 198 45 243 6.1% Human Resources & Org. 30 29 59 1.4% 24 39 63 1.6% Staff Risk manag. & Project Contr. 3 1 4 0.1% 3 0 3 0.1% > 25 years 495 116 611 14.8% 447 112 559 14.0% Processes, Quality and Systems 66 21 87 2.1% 73 16 89 2.2% TOTAL 3,319 809 4,128 100.00% 3,177 814 3,991 100.0% HSE & Facility 33 25 58 1.4% 45 22 67 1.7% Other 36 18 54 1.3% 31 13 44 1.1% TOTAL 256 193 449 10.9% 260 466 450 11.3% TOTAL 3,318 810 4,128 100.0% 3,177 814 3,991 100.0% 19. T he relevant framework, compared with Italy’s, is: Technical Graduates – university graduates with technical degrees (mainly engineering,); Other Graduates – university graduates with non-technical degrees (humanities, for example); Technical High School – high school graduates with technical studies (electrical studies, for example); Other High School – high school graduates with non-technical studies (classical studies, for example); Other education – not finished high school (middle school degrees, for example). 78 79 Our people | Human resource management policy Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The following tables illustrate the employee turnover rate within the Group: Recruitment and hiring BALANCE BALANCE 2012 Increases Decreases 2013 Ansaldo STS is equipped with a global recruiting procedure enabling it to supervise the vetting process and keep TOTAL TOTAL TURNOVER 2012 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 2013 one single worldwide database. This means that it only needs to use employment and head hunting agencies on a residual basis. Universities, with which it has forged many partnerships, are a preferential channel for Ansaldo STS Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 1,532 1,257 275 41 9 30 7 1,268 277 1,545 in the recruitment and hiring of personnel. Western Europe 622 471 151 145 12 36 9 580 154 734 Ansaldo STS prefers to hire workers who are local residents when filling local jobs. For example, when projects will America 769 561 208 57 14 65 33 553 189 742 provide for many years of maintenance activities after roll-out (Operation & Maintenance), nearly 100% of personnel Asia Pacific 1,003 845 158 274 64 243 58 876 164 1,040 are local. China 65 43 22 2 3 3 0 42 25 67 TOTAL 3,991 3,177 814 519 102 377 107 3,319 809 4,128 On the other hand, given the internationalisation of Ansaldo STS’ activities and business, personnel, including senior management, are hired on the basis of the specific skills required for the role, regardless of where they are from. BALANCE % BALANCE % 2012 Increases20 Decreases21 2013 Throughout Ansaldo STS, during 2013, the following employment contracts were signed (not including the personnel TURNOVER % MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN of Ansaldo STS’ joint venture in the Asia Pacific): five managers, 10 junior managers, 315 white collars and 79 blue Central and Eastern Europe collars. and the Middle East 82.0% 18.0% 3.3% 3.3% 2.4% 2.5% 82.1% 17.9% Western Europe 75.7% 24.3% 30.8% 7.9% 7.6% 6.0% 79.0% 21.0% 2013 2012 America 73.0% 27.0% 10.2% 6.7% 11.6% 15.9% 74.5% 25.5% HIRING MEN WOMEN Total MEN WOMEN Total Asia Pacific 84.2% 15.8% 32.4% 40.5% 28.8% 36.7% 84.2% 15.8% Executives (Managers) 5 0 5 3 0 3 China 66.2% 33.8% 4.7% 13.6% 7.0% 0.0% 62.7% 37.3% TOTAL 79.6% 20.4% 16.3% 12.5% 11.9% 13.1% 80.4% 19.6% Junior managers 8 2 10 12 3 15 White collars 262 53 315 284 73 357 BALANCE BALANCE 2012 Increases Decreases 2013 Blue collars 75 4 79 18 1 19 TURNOVER BY AGE TOTAL TOTAL BRACKET 2012 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 2013 TOTAL 350 59 409 317 77 394 < 30 576 457 119 106 25 62 19 501 125 626 30-50 2,347 1,863 484 368 73 225 53 2,006 504 2,510 The following table illustrates the number of new hires broken down by gender, area of geographical origin and age: >50 1,068 857 211 45 4 90 35 812 180 992 Central and TOTAL 3,991 3,177 814 519 102 377 107 3,319 809 4,128 Eastern Europe and the Western HIRING Middle East Europe America Asia Pacific China Total Break2013 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN downs < 30 14 2 35 4 16 6 33 10 1 2 99 24 30% 30 – 39 18 5 63 4 19 4 40 8 0 1 140 22 39% 40 – 49 8 2 31 1 8 4 23 2 1 0 71 9 20% > 50 1 6 0 14 0 19 4 0 0 40 4 11% TOTAL 41 9 135 9 57 14 115 24 2 3 350 59 100% 20. (Incoming in 2013/opening headcount) x 100 21. (Outgoing in 2013/closing headcount) x 100. 80 81 Our people | Training and development Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Training and development Average annual hours of training by employee category are shown below: Market scenarios, which have significantly changed in the past two years, see Ansaldo STS facing commercial, AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR 2013 2102 technological and managerial challenges that require organisational and management measures capable of Executives (Managers) 12.5 7.7 refocusing the company culture, adjusting its professional system and updating distinctive expertise. Junior managers 25.3 13.3 In this context, professional, managerial and specialised training is, and will continue to be, an increasingly crucial White collars 20.3 19.3 lever now and in the years to come in the development of human resources to update their skills to these market Blue collars 13.9 23.1 scenarios. These objectives have been met by pursuing the continuous improvement of training quality standards. Average hours per year per employee 19.9 18.7 The underlying approach is the translation of the company’s strategic targets into consistent operating methodologies, through the development of core skills on one hand (which are necessary to monitor work activities) Average hours by region and gender in 2013 are illustrated below: and, on the other hand, by emphasising the development of compliance with distinctive ethics from a managerial standpoint. AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR BY GENDER AND REGION Central and Training, carried out in line with Finmeccanica initiatives, is developed through projects in four main areas: Eastern Europe • regulatory training; and the Western • language training; Middle East Europe America Asia Pacific China Total • managerial training; MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN • technical-specialised training. 2013 25.5 18.5 25.1 21.5 6.5 5.4 20.5 17.4 24.3 20.5 20.9 15.8 These types of training are transversal, which is to say that they include different targets, especially in the areas of regulatory compliance and specific updates for both the general company and individual functions, in order to In 2013, nearly Euro 2.4 million was invested in training. Demonstrating Ansaldo STS’ commitment to training, develop specialised expertise. the table below shows the constant growth in these investments: +15.6% on 2012, following growth of +16.3% in 2012 compared to 2011. Ansaldo STS also offers specific training courses to certain groups of employees, such as senior managers, growing junior managers or young people with talent, ensuring paths that will help them develop in their career or expand 2013 upon the skills needed to meet the responsibilities of their job. Central and INVESTMENT IN Eastern Europe Overall, in 2013, a total of 82,277 hours of training was provided, compared to 74,737 in 2012 (+10.8%), broken and the Western down as follows by type of training. TRAINING (E units) Middle East Europe America Asia Pacific China TOTAL Managerial training 616,122 145,396 255,437 284,336 43,812 1,345,103 % HOURS OF TRAINING BY TYPE 2013 2012 Technical-specialist training 226,694 202,929 243,286 92,912 5,673 771,494 Technical-specialised training 28% 46% Language training 47,355 79,658 3,550 1,860 1,667 134,090 Managerial training 27% 10% HSE, Quality, Ethical aspect 17,128 49,662 2,223 13,369 82,382 HSE, Quality, Ethical aspects 24% 10% Mandatory/institutional training 38,717 8,784 47,501 Language training 9% 20% Refresher training 6,220 6,220 Mandatory/institutional training 9% 5% Other 5,308 5,308 Refresher training 1% 7% TOTAL 907,299 521,670 504,496 407,481 51,152 2,392,098 Other 2% 2% Performance assessment is a key tool in managing the development of human resources. Ansaldo STS has Ansaldo STS prioritises technical/specialised training, in line with its mission, although this type of training is down implemented a global, structured and consistent process at international level called PDP (Performance in 2012 as a percentage. Managerial training has increased, along with training on the environment, health, safety, Development Project), which it launched for the first time in 2010, and which provides for the assignment of quality and ethics. performance and development targets and their assessment for all Ansaldo STS personnel. The process consists of three phases: •p  hase 1 planning: this relates to the formalised assignment of targets linked to business and/or individual performance indicators and professional development indicators; •p  hase 2 coaching: this phase involves the continuous monitoring of performance by the employee’s direct supervisor; •p  hase 3 review: this is the final assessment phase in which all the employee’s assessments are combined (selfassessment, direct supervisor’s assessment and those of other people selected from within the organisation for a more comprehensive vision of individual performance). 82 83 Our people | Training and development Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Over the past three years, this process has been extended to all group companies and has been consolidated in 2013 terms of management and development practices. The process now covers over 95% of the company’s headcount, a significant result, as it lays a sound foundation for a more objective and structured definition of the development Total non-local paths and ways in which to reward employees. In particular, after the integration of the global job system, REGION Local personnel Non-local personnel personnel implemented in 2012, PDP became an even more complete development tool, as the assessment of abilities and skills performed concurrently with the performance assessment, makes it possible to define individual targets and Central, Eastern Europe & Middle East 1,516 1 (Albania), 1 (US), 1 (Bosnia), 1 (Great Britain), 29 1 (Ecuador), 1 (Egypt), 2 (Germany), 1 (Jordan), growth paths that are effectively in line with expectations for the position. 2 (India), 1 (Israel), 5 (Italy), 1 (Malaysia), 2 (Morocco), 1 (Mexico), 1 (Moldavia), Career progress, the identification of talent and compensation are harmonised in the integrated performance/ability 1 (Pakistan), 2 (Romania), 1 (Spain), 2 (Tunisia), 1 (Hungary) assessment system, in which merit is the true factor for the qualification of professional development. In 2012, PDP was introduced in the executive assessment process as well. There are some 100 executives around the world Western Europe & North Africa 691 2 (Algeria), 1 (Germany), 1 (Belgium), 5 (China), 43 and they have been assigned not only challenging performance targets in connection with business priorities for the 1 (Congo), 1 (Korea), 1 (Denmark), 1 (Spain), 7 (France), 1 (Guinea), 4 (Italy), 1 (Lebanon), current year, managed through the MBO incentive process, but position-holding targets as well, taken from the roles 3 (Morocco), 1 (Mexico), 5 (Portugal), 3 (Russia), and mandates outlined for each managerial position. 3 (Tunisia), 2 (Cameroon) America 742 0 Furthermore, the 360° assessment process was introduced and completed in 2013 for executives with respect to certain abilities considered crucial for the leadership style of Ansaldo STS’ managers. This innovation was Asia Pacific 933 37 (UK), 3 (Thailand), 8 (Australia), 20 (India), 107 3 (France), 2 (Iran), 23 (Italy), 3 (Malaysia), launched and completed in April 2013. All executives participating in the programme was able to receive feedback 1 (Brazil), 2 (Netherlands), 1 (Fiji), from managers, peers and direct colleagues and to identify in a structured way their strengths and areas for 1 (Philippines), 2 (Ireland), 1 (Sri Lanka) improvement. The use of this more structured, challenging approach in the assessment of managers is considered China 66 1 (Italy) 1 one of the tools to strengthen a managerial culture more focused on putting into practice the soft skills that the company values, such as team spirit, people management skills, change management skills and international TOTAL 3,948 180 cooperation. By encompassing managers in the PDP-based assessment and development process, the system is consistent throughout all levels of the organisation. Important new aspects of the personnel internationalisation process include: • focus on governing the integration process in the various countries, beginning with the management of job Internationalisation and multiculturalism opportunities on a global scale; 2013 was an important year for the consolidation of international mobility for people and relationships, not only • the launch of a system that monitors connections between personnel development and international experiences, in terms of knowledge and skills, but considering the composition of personnel at the various Ansaldo STS sites particularly recurring or long-term mobility experiences; around the world. People involved in training sessions on internationalisation and multiculturalism nearly doubled in •a  survey conducted with the involvement of people who have had significant international mobility experiences, 2013 from 307 to 578. which showed how positive these experiences were considering the skills acquired and the development of Both change management and the need to efficiently monitor the management and implementation of projects multiculturalism; continued to support the international internal mobility processes, which reached out to all company functions. • the preparation of a management system for repatriation at the end of experiences abroad which, in addition For example, in Arab countries, they are taking on great importance for new projects and new opportunities, to contributing to the effective resolution of personal logistics needs, provides the company, managers and which means that preparing and organising the organisation to ensure the presence of qualified personnel has relocated people with adequate, preventive tools for the fruitful reintegration of repatriating employees in their increasingly become a priority. home country jobs. In any case, this system will require management action before the people are relocated abroad, along with general satisfaction monitoring during the time spend abroad, in order to make the 2013 international experience successful. REGION Workforce abroad Countries Central, Eastern Europe & Middle East 68 China (1), Denmark (6), Russia (1), Australia (14), Turkey (14), To govern the thorny internationalisation process, Ansaldo STS has continued taking steps to support it, in the wake Saudi Arabia (3), Taiwan (5), US (8), India (3), Greece (4), of those commented in previous years: UAE (5) and France (4) • the redefinition of a global international mobility policy in order to gather information on new needs and focus on Western Europe & North Africa 6 Italy (1), UAE (1), S. Korea (2), Sweden (1), Turkey (1) repatriation; • the development of constructive relationships between HR specialists to support the internationalisation process, America 7 Italy (3), S. Korea (1), France (1), Denmark (1), India (1) thereby transversally strengthening the establishment of an HR International Mobility Team; Asia Pacific 7 Italy (2), Malaysia (4), Botswana (1) • the maintenance of operating tools to support both the use of company intranet, to spread information and company practices, and the disclosure of internal communications using advanced, widespread computer and China 3 Italy (1) video-telephone technologies; TOTAL 91 91 • the maintenance of integrated activities with H&S and Security to ensure that working conditions abroad are suitable; ongoing collaboration with Administration for accounting and tax issues. The new and permanent presence of non-local personnel in certain group companies constitutes tangible evidence Future leaders project of the internationalisation process that Ansaldo STS is pursuing and is an ongoing challenge to maintaining and The future leaders project launched in 2012 is the result of Ansaldo STS’ aim to create a new generation of developing a global, multi-cultural work environment. managers who will go on to fill senior management positions. Twenty top talents were recruited for the project after a rigorous, structured internal assessment process involving 500 resources who applied of their own initiative. 84 85 Our people | Remuneration and incentive systems Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The main challenge for these 20 future leaders was to tackle highly strategic projects for the company. Indeed, they were given specific management and coordination responsibilities for these projects, which were defined with clear, challenging objectives on which a rigorous monitoring and feedback process was based. The 20 future leaders were assessed through mentorship, which involved quarterly check-ups on the progress of the assigned projects and the degree of involvement and motivation achieved. Each future leader was assigned a mentor from among the company’s global senior executive team and this enabled them to work on the development of managerial skills as well (leadership, communication, strategic vision, etc.), thereby creating constructive dialogue between different generations of leaders. The future leaders project is undoubtedly a successful driver in the creation of an integrated and global team of future managers: the fact that they are from different places (future leaders are from all the main sites where Ansaldo STS operates around the world) and their diverse professional experience lay the foundation for a stronger community of leaders with a deeply international mindset , and their commitment and participation will be increasingly required to manage the challenges of change and organisational complexities both in house and outside the Group. The future leaders project will continue in 2014 with a new slant: certain candidates have already been given even greater responsibilities, in line with the signs of change and the new direction being taken through the development of a new managerial culture within Ansaldo STS. Again in the project’s second year, business school training, mentorships and ongoing performance monitoring will continue to be used to strengthen and solidify the development of a new generation of Ansaldo STS leaders. may be more favourable to employees but not less favourable than those defined under general labour legislation. Managerial training has also been strengthened in the MBA programme with two leading international business In addition, French law requires annual negotiations with the trade unions on remuneration, contractual term, equal schools (Bocconi and Wharton), entailing participation in three different modules for each year of the programme opportunities with respect to gender, the disabled, training and development. French law also enforces respect for (2013-2014). human rights, equal opportunities, child labour restrictions, freedom of association and the protection of privacy. SPAIN Spain also has national labour agreements with trade unions that are applicable to all workers at national level Remuneration and incentive systems and at regional level as well. The employment terms set forth in individual contracts may be more favourable to employees but not less favourable than those defined under general labour legislation. Spanish law is particularly Ansaldo STS manages labour relations with its employees in compliance with legislation in the various countries in specific with respect to that already established by constitution in terms of equal opportunities and nonwhich it operates. Below is a brief summary of the main legislation/regulations. discrimination in the workplace, freedom of association, trade union representation, the protection against child labour and maternity benefits, with specific benefits for working mothers. ITALY Employment is regulated by the Constitution, Italian Civil Code and special laws, as well as by the national labour AUSTRALIA agreements and EU laws. Ansaldo STS applies the national labour agreement for the metal-mechanic industry Remuneration and incentives are regulated in Australia by national employment standards (NES) relating to and the national labour agreement for managers of companies that produce goods and services, which establish minimum wages, work hours and general terms of employment. Employees whose work is assessed using the minimum standard remunerative/regulatory terms for all contractual categories. In addition, Ansaldo STS global job system and who receive Hay grades of under 12 are remunerated in line with the national labour applies supplementary company agreements (except for managers), which it agrees with the trade unions. These agreement. This agreement, which was ratified by the Italian labour court, provides for annual wage adjustments agreements provide for more favourable terms for employees. when they are negotiated (currently 4%). In the second half of 2012, a new company agreement (2013-2015) was negotiated with the trade unions. This agreement will introduce a new remuneration and classification system UNITED STATES based on abilities and in line with the master agreement for national industry. In addition to that provided for by the There are no national labour agreements governing employment. Each employee individually negotiates the terms of agreement, remuneration will be increased on the basis of individual performance defined in the annual revision employment. However, there are supervisory and protection bodies: process. • EEOC Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. This federal commission ensures equal opportunities in labour (no discrimination on the basis of religion, sex, age, disability, etc.); INDIA, MALAYSIA, BOTSWANA • FLSA Fair Labor Standard Act. This is a federal act that sets the standard for child labour, overtime and minimum All employment agreements are individual. However, the above procedures provide for the application of minimum wages. These aspects are also regulated by each individual state, in accordance with the specific requirements of standards at group level in these countries as well. Accordingly, tools such as market benchmarks and salary each. All labour regulations are reported to employees by posters hung in visible areas. reviews are also applied in these countries, using the same criteria as that for Australia. Ansaldo STS therefore ensures its employees receive remuneration and benefits that are comparable with those offered by the best FRANCE companies in these countries. There are national labour agreements with trade unions (“Convention Collective”) and agreements at company level. The “Convention Collective” establishes minimum wages for each category and the main terms of employment (responsibility levels, trial periods, required notice, etc.). The employment terms set forth in individual contracts 86 87 Our people | Remuneration and incentive systems Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report CHINA The following table illustrates the ratio of women’s gross average remuneration compared to men’s, broken down by There are no national labour agreements. Each employee individually negotiates the terms of employment. In China, category and region: there is the Labour Law of the People’s Republic of China and the Constitution of the PR of China, which ensure the freedom of association, equal opportunities, etc.. In October 2011, the Chinese government published new labour Central and Eastern Europe and Western market regulations which will also apply to foreigners working in China (including, for example, the introduction of the Middle East Europe America Asia Pacific China social security contributions). 2013 WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN WOMEN/MEN Executives (Managers) 69% 97% 91% Fair remuneration Junior managers 96% 96% 92% 86% 100% Ansaldo STS manages employment relationships with its employees in accordance with the laws in place in the various countries where it operates. It also periodically weights the most significant positions in the organisation with White collars 95% 87% 79% 76% 56% the support of a company specialised in this field and compares the remuneration of the employees holding such Blue collars 100% 91% 78% 48% positions on a weighted basis, against the market benchmarks. If the remuneration is not in line with the market (and, obviously, if the employees have received positive performance assessments), their remuneration is adjusted. The following table illustrates the ratio of the highest paid employees’ remuneration to the median remuneration of all other employees in the different regions: Ansaldo STS can establish higher levels of remuneration than general market brackets for positions that are particularly critical and important or to limit the risk of employees leaving the company, with a resulting loss of HIGHEST REMUNERATION AS A RATIO TO MEDIAN REMUNERATION 2013 2012 expertise. Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 6.3 6.5 Western Europe 4.0 4.2 In 2011, roughly 200 positions around the world were weighted, also considering the results of the GJS (Global Job America 3.1 3.4 System)22 project. This evaluation continued in 2012, with some fine-tuning to take into account the organisational Asia Pacific 2.6 2.4 developments of the year. In 2012, considering that described above and the financial and economic situation, remuneration was adjusted less than in the past. Performance based incentive systems In 2013, in addition to the periodic assessments of positions, Ansaldo STS extended the weighting to lower levels of Performance based incentive systems are mainly linked to the management by objectives (MBO) process or specific its organisation as well, using the results of the GJS project, which involved approximately 3,000 of the company’s performance indicators (KPI) for strategic projects entailing bonuses upon their successful conclusion. Managers, junior human resources. This made it possible to create a tool useful in the global assessment of the consistency managers in key positions for the business and strategic project team personnel are included in these programmes. The between the responsibilities an remuneration, without distinguishing by country, sex, culture, etc., in accordance bonuses, which are calculated as a percentage of gross annual remuneration, vary depending on the responsibilities with the company’s values, which protect and promote the equal treatment of people with all their differences. In held. 2012, the GJS was updated slightly to meet business requirements and in line with the continuous development of competencies. The rest of personnel, when included in structured performance management systems (see page 100), receive more limited bonuses if their performance is rated high. In accordance with regulations for listed companies, Ansaldo STS has The following table illustrates gross average remuneration of Ansaldo STS Group broken down by category and gender: a remuneration committee set up by resolution of the board of directors of Ansaldo STS (see page 32), which meets periodically with the participation of the head of Human Resources. The committee is responsible for: Central and Eastern • proposing the financial/regulatory package for the CEO and key managers. To this end, the committee relies on market Europe and the Western America Asia Pacific China studies performed by specialised companies which provide appropriate benchmarking; Middle East (K€) Europe (K€) (K$ USA) (K$ AUS) (K Renmimbi) • evaluating the CEO’s proposals on general remuneration and incentive criteria for company management. 2013 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Executives (Managers) 121 83 114 111 190 209 190 The committee has also analysed and approved a document, which is usually updated each year, prepared by Human Junior managers 52 50 77 80 131 120 129 111 1,786 1,786 Resources, positioning all company management in a performance/potential matrix in order to consider, for the purposes of determining remuneration, whether the person can be replaced, used in other positions, etc. White collars 37 35 47 41 87 69 86 65 12,598 7,086 Blue collars 27 27 23 21 46 36 64 31 Fixed and variable incentive systems are therefore defined in line with the position held, considering the specific position and the individual manager’s positioning in this matrix. Similar assessments are performed for people who are eligible for the stock grant plan (medium/long-term plan). The following table compares the number of managers included in the incentive system at the end of the two years considered: Central and Eastern Europe and the Western Middle East Europe America Asia Pacific China 2013 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN STOCK GRANTS 38 5 7 1 5 0 2 0 0 0 STOCK OPTION PLAN 8 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 22. T he global job system is the backbone of Ansaldo STS’ system of roles and expertise. This project is the result of the need to map the entire system of roles, expertise and skills in the group’s new organisation, in a structured, consistent and global manner. It is helping support the transition from a CASH (long-term) 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 constellation of companies to a single, integrated and global business. The project output for each professional family will be: a map of the jobs in place (Family Backbone); a detail of responsibilities, mission, expertise and skills for each job (Work Levels); a model of organisational conduct that applies to all professional families (Competency Model); a dictionary of specific technical skills for each professional family (Skill Dictionary); the identification of structured career paths within each professional family; and the assignment of a work level to all Ansaldo STS employees. 88 89 Our people | People Care Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report People Care Company health insurance Ansaldo STS Italy offers its employees supplementary health insurance in addition to that provided for by the healthcare systems in the various countries where its employees live. These policies cover myriad medical needs The “People Care” concept is very extensive for Ansaldo STS and applies to workers’ well-being as both (e.g. specialist examinations, hospitalisation, medical services, etc.) and vary according to each employee’s professionals and individuals. The basic concept is linked to the “Total Reward” strategy, based on tangibles professional position (senior and junior managers, white and blue collars have different limits of indemnity). and intangibles, to improve personal satisfaction. It is no coincidence that “People” is one of the company’s five Employees may decide whether to take out these additional policies, and, should they decide to do so, a monthly emblematic values in its identity: people are at the very heart of the organisation, and this demonstrates the contribution is withheld from their payslips to cover part of the cost, while the company bears the residual amount. company’s focus on making the work place an environment where they can gain experience, develop competencies, forge relationships and find motivation continuously. Medical check-ups Ansaldo STS’ focus on people can be first seen in the way it guarantees a comfortable and motivational work Ansaldo STS Italy offers managers the chance to have an annual medical check-up with the full cost covered by environment by actively supporting, through the corporate processes in place, relationships between managers and the company. In China, these check-ups are offered to all employees, while there is no such benefit for employees employees and relationships between colleagues. Furthermore, there are various services available in different in Australia, France or the US. In Spain, the annual medical check-up is legally required for all employees. Spanish countries for employees and, sometimes, their families as well. employees may refuse to have the check-up only when their position does not entail health risks. Flexible schedules, agreements with shopping and sports centres, benefits like health insurance (for certain Company accident insurance categories of employees) and mobile phones, as well as family days and employee scholarships are some of the Ansaldo STS Italy offers its employees insurance for work and non-work related accidents under an accident advantages that Ansaldo STS already offers its employees. Other initiatives for employees will be developed in the insurance policy covering accidents both in the work place and outside the work place, for all employees, seven years to come to foster a sense of belonging to the company and motivate employees. Beginning in 2013 a health days a week, 24 hours a day. The cost of this policy, which covers all employees, is fully covered by the company. care policy will be extended to all employees on a gradual basis. The same policy is offered in France, Australia and China, where it is offered to all white collars. It is not offered in the US, as this kind of coverage is included in the company life insurance policy. Employee initiatives Ansaldo STS follows an extensive policy to manage initiatives that support employees. This policy includes a series Travel abroad insurance (e.g. Europe Assistance) of benefits that are allocated and used on the basis of employees’ professional position and the social and cultural In Italy, France, Australia and the US, Ansaldo STS offers an accident insurance policy covering any accidents or customs in their respective countries. Below are a list and brief description of the main benefits and initiatives first aid medical care (as well as luggage and personal item coverage) to employees working abroad (either on a supporting employees under the company’s policy: business trip or under secondment). The costs of this policy are fully covered by the company. Ansaldo STS China has also begun offering this policy. 90 91 Our people | People Care Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Salary continuance insurance Recreation centres Ansaldo STS Australia offers employees who work more than 15 hours per week salary continuance insurance. Ansaldo STS Italy employees have set up recreation centres, referred to as “CRAL”. These are a form of free The policy provides for the assignment of 75% of their income for a maximum of two years if the employee is association of workers and are structured as separate entities from the company. Employees who join the CRALs pay unable to work due to illness or injury. a fee deducted from their payslip. CRAL members may participate in a number of activities (sports or other) and take advantage of discounts at partnering shops (bookshops, opticians, etc.). No such agreements are in place in France, Company life insurance the US or Australia. Ansaldo STS offers its employees a life insurance policy and fully covers the costs of this policy. In France, the policy includes insurance covering staff during times of illness, along with a life insurance policy for all employees. Sports initiatives This policy is offered to Ansaldo STS managers in Italy and Spain, managers and all full-time employees in the US Ansaldo STS Italy offers employees the chance to participate in Finmeccanica group initiatives, such as the football (company life insurance, accidental death & dismemberment & LTD insurance). It is also offered in France, but not tournament and skiing competitions organised by the employees of the different group companies on an annual in China or Australia. basis. Ansaldo STS also provides its Italian employees with the opportunity to participate in motorcycle gatherings. Similar initiatives are in place in the US and France, but not in China or Australia. Moreover, in the US, a gym was Company cars created within the company building, fully equipped and free of charge for all employees. In China, an agreement Ansaldo STS offers employees company cars (with a policy that is similar to a lease). The car may be used for was entered into for employees to play in a badminton tournament. personal reasons as well, i.e. it may be used by employees, as well as by their family members or close friends, after notifying the company. Employees pay a monthly contribution and the company pays the remaining amount. Transportation agreements Company cars may be assigned to managers and junior managers with high profiles in Italy and Spain, and to Ansaldo STS has signed a number of agreements with transport operators (e.g. the “consorzio unico Campania”, managers in the US. They are also offered in France, Australia and China. In Italy, the company has signed an the French railways, etc.). Employees may purchase travel passes at the special rates negotiated by Ansaldo STS. agreement so that all employees can purchase the company cars when they are replaced at advantageous prices. In China, there are special discount travel agreements agreed with American Express or for specific international airfare. Fuel allowance Ansaldo STS offers employees a fuel allowance up to an annual limit, which may be used for car refuelling. Travel Tracker: safe travel The company covers the cost of this benefit, which may be assigned to managers in Italy. It is also offered in France Ansaldo STS’ expansion on markets and its current organisational model require the presence of its resources and Australia but not in Spain, the US or China. in many different countries, which often present challenging safety conditions and weak healthcare and welfare systems. In order to mitigate critical issues arising from travel and relocation abroad, at all sites, Ansaldo STS is Company housing implementing a system to ensure adequate protection from outside events. In this context, in order to prevent and Ansaldo STS offers housing to employees seconded in the medium to long-term. The cost of the housing is fully remedy any issues, the company is equipped with a tool called the “TravelTracker (TT)”, provided by International covered by the company. SOS, which makes it possible to track planned travel in real time. As soon as an employee confirms his or her travel booking through the Ansaldo STS travel agency, International SOS gathers the information and enables company Professional membership allowance personnel responsible for this activity to quickly identify those in areas presenting high risk of critical situations for Ansaldo STS offers its employees the possibility to join professional associations (e.g. the register of engineers) the health and safety of people. International SOS, interfacing directly with Ansaldo STS, manages this database. and fully covers registration costs. This benefit is offered to Ansaldo STS Italy managers, all US and Australian Additional TravelTracker (TT) services include: employees, but not Ansaldo STS France (where the benefits are granted on a case-by-case basis). In China, the •P ersonal Travel Locator (PTL): personnel travelling can input travel that they have not booked through the travel company refunds engineers and managers for the registration costs if they have been approved by HR. agency or their long-term secondments, loading their bookings and those of their family members: the travel details will be automatically uploaded from the TravelTracker (TT) database which ensures that the service functions. Corporate credit cards and bank agreements •A utomated Travel Advisory (ATA): when tickets are booked for the selected destinations, in accordance with Ansaldo STS Italy offers employees the possibility to obtain corporate credit cards linked to the employee’s bank parameters established by Ansaldo STS, travellers receive an automated travel advisory on the destination account but at special terms agreed by Ansaldo STS and the bank. The credit cards available to Ansaldo STS country via e-mail, containing information on public and personal safety, health conditions, car driving, employees are Visa and American Express. The costs of Visa cards are fully covered by the company, whereas vaccinations and illnesses, food and water recommendations, local culture and conduct in the work place, employees contribute to a small portion of the costs charged by American Express. Ansaldo STS also offers its holidays and demographics. Italian employees the possibility to open current accounts under special terms with selected banks. Furthermore, bank branches and ATMs are located at some of the main offices of Ansaldo STS, making it easier and more Furthermore, employees may register with International SOS (www.internationalsos.com), a service that provides efficient for employees to make use of main banking services. These arrangements are also in place in the US, but alerts on countries of interest selected at the time of registration. The International SOS Alarm Center Paris, a call not China. In Spain, France and Australia, credit cards are linked to the employees’ bank accounts and only offered centre, is available for any reason. to people who travel frequently for work to cover expense notes only. Canteen and break area service Ansaldo STS Italy, France and US provide a canteen service at all the main offices (e.g.: Genoa, Pittsburgh, Les Ulis, Tito, etc.). In Italy, employees contribute to the canteen costs through deductions in payslips, whereas in the other countries, they pay directly when using the canteen services. This service is provided under special terms which are regulated by agreements between Ansaldo STS and the companies that run the canteens. 92 93 Our people | People Care Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Pension plan FRANCE Ansaldo STS manages pension plans for its employees in accordance with the laws in place in the various countries France has various pension systems depending on the classification of workers in the national labour agreement. where it operates. There is nothing specific for Ansaldo STS France. In the French system, pension benefits are funded directly with the contributions of the employees and employers through basic systems (CNAVTS) and complementary combinations ITALY (AGIRC ARCCO). In Italy, Ansaldo STS offers its employees a pension fund through the “Cometa” Fund, the National Supplementary Pension Fund for workers in the “Metal-mechanical and plant installation industry”, set up to provide workers in US this industry with greater pension coverage than that offered by the mandatory social security plan. When they Ansaldo STS USA offers a retirement benefit plan for which workers are directly responsible for managing their join the Cometa fund, workers sign the application form and create an individual position, transferring employees’ investments in the plan. Ansaldo STS does not have a segregated account to guarantee the related funds. For leaving entitlement, an individual entitlement required by Legislative decree no. 252/2005, to which the employer each employee, 2% is deducted from remuneration regardless of whether they contribute to any of the pension is required to add a contribution under the aforementioned decree. When they retire, employees may choose how to funds. Furthermore, if the employees defer any payments, Ansaldo STS pays 100% of the first $250 and 50% of the receive the Cometa annuity: subsequent 6% of the deferral. This type of pension plan is very different from traditional plans. • immediate life annuity: i.e., immediate payment of a life annuity for the policyholder’s entire life; • immediate certain annuity and life annuity: i.e., immediate payment of certain annuity for five or ten years, Disabled employees followed a life annuity until death; The policies for the inclusion of disabled people in the headcount fall within the framework of a programme defined • immediate reversible annuity: i.e., immediate payment of a life annuity until death, subsequently reversible (60% at European level with respect to social inclusion policies. In Italy, the integration of disabled citizens or citizens or 100%) to another person until death. belonging to protected categories is subject to Law no. 68 of 12 March 1999, which first recognised the dignity and social value of the disabled by effectively including them in the labour market. Having abandoned the concept AUSTRALIA of the “mandatory” hiring practices that were provided for by the previous law (Law no. 482/1968), Law no. 68/99 introduced the key concept of “targeted” employment, defined in article 2 as “a set of technical and support tools In Australia, the pension fund is referred to as superannuation, a sum of money set aside during the life of an which make it possible to adequately assess disabled people in their work abilities and to recruit them for the employee, starting from the beginning of employment, to cover the future pension. Ansaldo STS pays contributions most suitable position, by analysing positions, forms of support, positive actions and solutions to issues related to to the pension funds on behalf of its employees, and such contributions are calculated as a percentage of the environments, tools and interpersonal relations in the daily place of work and contact”. annual fixed remuneration (the percentage defined by the Australian tax authorities is currently 9%). The company makes pension fund payments directly to the providers selected by employees. Employees are encouraged to In order to comply with the provisions of Law no. 68/99, companies are required to hire a certain percentage defined increase the contributions to their pension funds, including with incentives in the form of government grants. by the same law of employees categorised as “protected”. Specifically, in Italy the legally-required percentage of Temporary residents who have left Australia may request payment of their superannuation. disabled people for Ansaldo STS’ size, is 7%. In 2013, following agreements implemented in 2012, Ansaldo STS hired three protected-category resources. INDIA Pension fund: contributions to the pension fund are equal to 12% of the base remuneration of the employee to Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe which a further 12% must be added, paid by Ansaldo STS. These contributions are deposited in the employees’ account with the relevant pension fund and returned to the employee upon retirement, through monthly pension 201323 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN payments, plus accrued interest. People with disabilities 41 16 3 5 15% of employees’ base remuneration is deposited with the Life Insurance Corporation of India through the Superannuation Trust Fund. This amount accrues interest and, upon retirement, employees may elect to receive a Parental leave pension, the amount of which varies on the basis of the different terms of payment. In total, 60 people used parental leave in 2013, and 63 returned to work in 2013 after their period of leave. The following table illustrates these figures broken down by region and separating men and women. MALAYSIA In Malaysia, pension plans are offered through an employee pension fund (EPF) set up with employees’ Central and Eastern Europe and the Western contributions by deducting them from their monthly remuneration (at least 11%) and the employer’s contributions Middle East Europe America Asia Pacific TOTAL (at least 12%). Both portions are accrued over the term of service of each employee. This system was not affected PARENTAL LEAVE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN by the introduction of the minimum retirement age, because workers can contribute until the maximum age of 70. Number of employees who took Even foreigners working in Malaysia may contribute to the fund on a voluntary basis, but the employer’s minimum parental leave 2 13 10 12 0 6 6 11 18 42 obligation is for only 5 Renminbi per month, unless it decides otherwise. In this respect, foreigners may revoke their Number of employees who entire contribution upon termination of employment and their return to their home country. This fund has paid 4% to returned to work after their 5% in the past few years. period of leave 1 20 9 10 0 6 6 11 16 47 Number of employees who SPAIN returned to work after parental leave and who were still In Spain, all employees have a supplementary pension fund called “Plan de Previsión Social Empresarial” (PPSE), employed 12 months after which is the same as normal pension funds and is subject to Spanish law. This is an important social benefit and returning to work 2 18 16 6 0 6 0 1 18 31 reflects a company decision to take care of its employees. Contributions to the PPSE are paid by the company only and not by the employees. The amount of the contributions is established in a way that ensures a minimum contribution for all the employees, also considering each employee’s base remuneration. For example, in 2012, the In addition, 49 people (18 men and 31 women) who, in 2013, twelve months after returning to work after their annual contribution paid by Ansaldo STS Spain to the PPSE was equal to Euro 44,362. parental leave, were still employed by the company. 23. T his figure is not available for Asia Pacific, and the company has not hired any disabled people in China. Information on the disabiled cannot be gathered in the United States. 94 95 Our people | Trade unions Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Trade unions In Italy, data on trade unions may be gathered from the trade union dues deducted from payslips. There is no such deduction abroad and therefore Ansaldo STS is not able to record any specific data. Ansaldo STS employees have joined the following trade unions: FIOM-CGIL (with nine union delegates), FIM-CISL (with eight union delegates), The type of relationship that Ansaldo STS maintains with its employees presents an extremely low rate of trade union UILM-UIL (with four union delegates), CIISA and UGL Metalmeccanici (no delegates). Again in 9, the percentage of disputes. This context allows for the resolution of any issues with employees through a direct employee-company workers who had joined a trade union was slightly under 33% of the total headcount, while 100% of the trade union relationship, with scarce use of intervention by trade unions. The only strikes declared have been due to general members can be broken down as follows: political/trade union issues, which have nothing to do with the company. Ansaldo STS’ system for trade unions is based on levels of participation, given the fact that the company has various operating sites scattered throughout Italy FIOM: 43.50%, FIM: 29.48%, UILM: 26.60%, UGL: 0.21% and CIISA: 0.21% and abroad: 1. Strategic observation; 2. National coordination. SPAIN Trade unions relationships at Ansaldo STS Spain are calm and friendly. To express their opinions, workers may contact, either directly or through the personnel delegates, Human Resources, thereby enriching the direct STRATEGIC OBSERVATION relationship between the company and its employees. The system of trade union relationships at Ansaldo STS In order to analyse the market scenario and the competitive positioning of the business areas of Ansaldo STS, a Spain is based on the following: strategic observatory has been established, made up of six members selected by the trade unions (three national •S  TRATEGIC LINES information on corporate trends, organisational changes and, in short, company procedures secretaries and three national coordination members), along with the company’s top management. The observatory and policies are provided by Ansaldo STS and consequently adopted and applied also in Spain; meets annually (usually within the first quarter), and within the context of its activities, company management •N  ATIONAL COORDINATION the structure of Ansaldo STS Spain includes personnel delegates who represent the provides appropriate information on: CC.OO and UGT trade unions (which are the largest trade unions in Spain). In Spain, the trade union meetings are • company strategies; held very often with all personnel representatives to reach general agreements. • main organisational changes; • trend in employment. FRANCE The observatory may also meet at the request of one of the members if, during the year, any significant changes Each month, in France, personnel delegates may present individual or collective issues to their employers, in occur with respect to the issues discussed in the annual meetings. relation to the application of the law, regulations and collective agreements. Employees may also, either individually or with the assistance of delegates, submit their requests directly to Human Resources. NATIONAL COORDINATION The French trade union system is defined by specific and extensive regulations, the key points of which are the The national coordination for the FIM, FIOM and UILM trade unions at the local representation units was established following: for the purpose of ensuring the trade unions are adequately informed of issues relating to technological, •p  ersonnel delegates are elected every three years by employees. Their role is to manage individual or collective organisational and production changes, horizontal mobility, investment and employment programmes, professional complaints related to remuneration, work conditions, the application of the labour law, health and safety; training projects and production decentralisation policies. The national coordination, which entails the participation •m  onthly meetings with employers who are required to respond to all requests; of a maximum of 15 trade union representatives in the local representation units of the different company offices, •a  factory board is elected every three years by employees. It is informed and consulted on issues related to the is a party at national level for the negotiation of integrative level 2 contracts and any restructuring or reorganisation organisation (new organisations, new technologies, etc.), employment (staff, temporary workers, subcontracts, processes. Finally, a trade union relationship system is in place with the individual local trade union representation work-loads, etc.), company strategies, business and related results, training, health and safety; units at the production sites, for specific issues pertaining to the individual sites. •m  onthly meetings with the legal representative of the company; • c ommittees on training, welfare benefits, etc.; • trade union delegates are appointed by the trade unions. Their job is to represent the trade unions, organising within the company and negotiating company agreements. The main trade unions in France are: CGT, CFDT, CFE-CGC, all members of which may be broken down as follows: CGT 55.76%, CFDT 16.58%, CFE-CGC 18.73% and Other 8.93%. AUSTRALIA Relationships with trade unions in Australia were extremely positive in the last year, with substantial discussion in preparation of the new three-year Enterprise Bargaining Agreement. A key result of this process has been greater communication with employees, generating more feedback and participation in improvements, with a positive environment in which expectations are heard. There were no disputes with trade unions, strikes or complaints to the labour court during the year. Ansaldo STS’ ongoing commitment to involving its employees through active communication and discussion mechanisms is expected to prevent these issues from arising in the future. 96 97 Our people | Trade unions Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Personnel covered by national labour agreements The total number of employees covered by national labour agreements, where this type of trade union negotiation is In house communications applicable, is shown below: In house communications continue to play a strategic role at Ansaldo STS. All main communications tools are now well consolidated (the Intranet, company screens, continuous message flows and videos), to involve employees in regular reporting on business development and company strategy. Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe Asia Pacific In particular, in 2013, in house communications campaigns were launched for two specific events: 2013 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN •a nnouncement of the strategic plan: meetings involved all Ansaldo STS managers at all sites around the world, Executives (Managers) 14 1 who then forwarded the information received to their operating teams. •a nnouncement of the new organisation: downstream from the launch of the new organisation, several Junior managers 272 43 70 9 international communications sessions have been held to explore the new structure’s content, involving not only White collars 881 222 390 124 all managers, but also young talent and future leaders. Blue collars 51 6 93 20 37 2 Climate survey TOTAL 1,204 271 567 154 37 2 In 2013, another climate survey was also launched as part of Ansaldo STS’ periodic action plan for in house communications. The high rate of participation (over 60% of respondents) painted a reliable picture of the entire company population’s perceptions and needs, making it possible to identify improvement areas in various directions In Asia-Pacific, the total number of employees covered by national labour agreements is minimal, due to the (see the section on Stakeholder engagement). company’s continued efforts to invest in a fair work environment with respect to the market. America and China are not included in the table because the data are not meaningful, as there are no national labour agreements. Types of agreements At group level, Ansaldo STS has reached formal agreements with the trade unions in the various countries concerned, as shown in the table. In Central Europe and Western Europe, the agreements relate to, inter alia, work hours, remuneration and health and safety conditions in the workplace. In Australia, the types of agreements are negotiated with the unions, while in Malaysia, there are no formal agreements and employees must only comply with the Employment Act of 1955 (which establishes that the number of hours worked may not exceed 48) and specific Acts enacted by the government with respect to health and safety. Prior notice in the event of organisational changes The adjustment of the organisational structure, along with the operating procedures that support it, is an ongoing and continuously evolving process that meets the similarly ongoing and continuously evolving scenario on markets where Ansaldo STS operates. In the event of particularly significant organisational changes, specific communications initiatives target broad categories of employees to explain the reasons for the changes. Furthermore, in Italy, the currently applicable national labour agreement provides for a specific meeting to inform the trade unions of decisions that have a material impact on labour organisation. A similar procedure is provided for in France, requiring a mandatory document to be sent to the work council explaining the reasons for the organisational change, followed by a meeting with work council representatives no later than 15 days after the document is sent. 98 99 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Supply Chain Types of purchases Supply chain sustainability policy Vetting and eligibility of suppliers Contractual tools Monitoring 100 101 Supply Chain | Types of purchases Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Supply Chain Commodities Expense category 2013 TOTAL (€ units) % 2012 TOTAL (€ units) % Packages&Subcontracts Ansaldo STS considers the entire supply chain management process a critical factor for Systems Installation* 74,640,206 13.0% 75,494,195 11.3% the success of its business. Strategic procurement management requires a broad vision of Telecommunication system 27,862,173 4.9% 58,928,364 8.8% the process along the entire value chain, from the definition of product specifications and Station Auxiliary system 21,676,214 3.8% 23,696,937 3.6% service to delivery. Ansaldo STS’ management method is inter-functional and provides for Power Supply and PS Equipment 18,763,910 3.3% 22,645,923 3.4% the involvement and approval of all bodies concerned by the overall logistics, each for as far Supervision and Control system 10,762,140 1.9% 10,206,835 1.5% as it is concerned. Depot equipment and tool 5,367,853 0.9% 7,437,770 1.1% Signalling system 3,985,352 0.7% 3,136,000 0.5% Types of purchases Civil works 2,036,505 0.3% 5,324,099 0.8% Permanent Way 2,325,119 0.4% 2013 ORDERS BY GEOGRAPHICAL ORIGIN (€) Other packages and apparatus 1,609,510 0.3% 3,648,200 0.5% Asia South North Non-EU/ Other on-site subcontract ** 653,167 0.1% 4,216,691 0.6% Italy/EU Pacific America America Middle East Other TOTAL System Commissioning 5,320,351 0.8% Materials 109,991,796 32,589,238 45,202,381 222,884 628,331 188,634,630 Onsite maintenance activities 2,316,145 0.3% Services 59,282,465 32,707,548 587,323 12,410,041 249,853 1751025 106,988,255 169,682,159 29.6% 222,371,510 33.2% Business services 71,273,494 16,058,797 1,817,581 16,868,623 756,566 160,001 106,935,062 Direct materials PCBA 48,547,221 8.5% 49,686,823 7.4% Turnkey projects and Mechanical and Plastic Part 23,773,185 4.2% 31,556,282 4.7% subcontracts 96,629,319 68,900,809 4,095,419 56,601 169,682,148 Wayside equipment 21,722,172 3.8% 30,077,803 4.5% TOTAL 337,177,074 150,256,392 2,404,904 78,576,464 1,285,904 2,539,357 572,240,095 Cables 20,184,832 3.5% 19,592,622 2.9% Racks and Cabinets 19,081,762 3.3% 19,100,106 2.9% In terms of volume and composition, 2013 purchases are in line with forecasts. Most of the differences compared to 2012 are mainly due to trends in North America for the following reasons: Industrial PC and tool 19,759,732 3.5% 18,341,684 2.7% • the peak in the 2012 portfolio in North America was mainly due to purchase orders issued for systems and Onboard equipment 16,717,327 2.9% 8,439,305 1.3% installations for the Honolulu, SEPTA and Toronto metro projects. On the other hand, 2013 order volumes fully Electromechanic components 9,603,393 1.7% 9,371,563 1.4% reflect the normal parts market trend, which is the core of Ansaldo STS’ business in North America. Other materials 9,245,006 1.6% 15,417,153 2.3% Infragroup orders and orders issued exclusively for internal administrative use were not considered (e.g. recharging 188,634,630 33.0% 201,583,341 30.1% of consortium costs, etc.). Indirect service Facility management & HSE services 34,664,810 6.1% 29,060,375 4.3% Temporary Work & Other personnel services 24,033,757 4.2% 43,251,611 6.5% Professional Service 14,305,882 2.5% 23,037,986 3.4% ICT service 17,273,303 3.0% 18,853,618 2.8% Logistics services 8,237,680 1.4% 8,689,781 1.3% Other indirect services 4,084,837 0.7% 9,212,924 1.4% Travel 4,387,986 0.8% 3,808,744 0.6% 106,988,255 18.7% 135,915,039 20.3% Business service Engineering 47,424,250 8.3% 30,452,269 4.6% Development 36,075,382 6.3% 29,133,838 4.4% Rams & Certification 23,435,430 4.1% 49,854,405 7.4% 106,935,062 18.7% 109,440,512 16.4% Total 572,240,096 100.0% 669,310,402 100.0% * Systems Installation (hereinafter “Installation”) includes the following expenses: On-site maintenance activities; Other on-site activities support; Other subcontract; Systems commissioning; Systems installation; Test activities support; V&V support activities and On-site maintenance activities. ** Other on-site subcontract in 2013 includes: Security services, Building maintenance. 102 103 Supply Chain | Vetting and eligibility of suppliers Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Supply chain sustainability policy Suppliers and service providers Relationships are based on the correct management of supplies in terms of quality, cost-effectiveness, ability to Ansaldo STS has conducted an initial mapping of its supply chain with respect to compliance with ESG meet delivery times and compliance with the requirements for goods purchased. (Environmental, Social and Governance) criteria. Indeed, the standard purchase order model includes general supply conditions, compliance with the code of ethics and, when vetting new suppliers, Ansaldo STS gathers information The discussion of information and/or critical issues in relation to the construction of plant and, more in general, on their compliance with quality, hygiene, health and safety in the workplace standards and their environmental the performance of the project as a whole, is limited with suppliers of materials and providers of services. Rather, policies, by requiring ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification (see Vetting and eligibility of suppliers). the aim with these parties is to sign medium to long-term agreements with suppliers of business-critical materials, Ansaldo STS applies these characteristics as preferential requisites and they are considered in the supplier’s such as circuit boards and racks and cabinets, so that they can act as genuine partners in the supply chain. eligibility score. Packages/subcontracts The mapping showed: Purchasing a package refers to the assignment of a turnkey plant that will correctly integrate with all the other technology comprising the entire project. In this case, the assignee is not considered a mere supplier, but a bona Number of suppliers in the register by direct and indirect product types (2010-2013) 6,600 fide partner, and must inevitably form an integral part of all stages in the performance of the entire project, from the preliminary design to the final commissioning stages. Therefore, these contractors work alongside all Ansaldo STS’ Total active suppliers (with orders issued in 2013) 3,391 bodies (PM, Engineering, Quality, Logistics and Construction) throughout the entire process and, in view of achieving Number of suppliers covering 80% of the value of 2012 orders 308 the fairness and transparency described above, they are updated on the progress of the other technologies, any critical issues with respect to the project, and are invited to the meetings held with other contractors and the end Qualified suppliers in 2013 (Classes A and B) 198 customer. of which: The vetting process ISO 14001 certified suppliers 38 The supplier vetting and assessment process entails the following stages, in accordance with the procedures OHSAS18001 certified suppliers 19 established for the management of this process. Mapping is the first step in the definition of the specific sustainability policy for the supply chain. The main Market search Direct/Indirect Traditional/ Ansaldo STS Vendor rating Direct/Indirect and analysis qualification on-line negotiations purchase order requalification guidelines of this policy for 2013 are: • inclusion of a contact person to specifically handle issues relating to sustainability in the supply chain; • audit activities on site suppliers, including a review of sustainability performance, with technical controls on products for suppliers of materials; Identification Qualification Selection Activation Monitoring Requalification • collaboration between Ansaldo STS and suppliers in product design; • activities to inform suppliers on sustainability issues; • the extension of annual monitoring activities to suppliers classified in the A category (until 2012, this was limited to the management of non-conformities). Qualified Selected Ansaldo STS Confirmation/ Benchmark Corrective Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Warning attribution/ and short list actions Register Register Register Cancellation The geographical breakdown proposed to represent orders also meets a classification criterion based on how critical and risky the area of origin of the supplies is, in terms of violation of human rights, level of criminality and attention to ecologically sustainable practices. Ansaldo STS’ Procurement function vets potential suppliers of materials, service providers and, in particular, suppliers of packages/subcontractors, with the support of other company functions (Engineering, Administration and Finance, Legal Affairs, Quality, HSE and Construction). Throughout the entire assessment process, Ansaldo STS verifies that suppliers meet requirements in order to approve them and include them in the list of eligible suppliers that may be used for the Vetting and eligibility of suppliers issue of purchase orders. Depending on the importance of the product types, the assessment methods used range from a simple analysis of the documents requested of and received from the supplier to the preparation of assessment Supplier vetting and the process for the purchase of assets, goods and services are carried out in accordance reports following an inspection of the supplier’s site. The following functions may request the inspection: with the principles of the code of ethics and internal quality procedures, as well as in accordance with current • the Procurement function, for a more reliable assessment of strategic suppliers; environmental, health and safety regulations. In the management of relationships with suppliers and sub• other functions when they do not have enough information; contractors, as for all business and financial dealings of any kind, Ansaldo STS requires its counterparties to • the Quality function when the assessment of the supplier’s organisational system, quality management system or conduct themselves in accordance with the principles of loyalty, fairness, transparency, efficiency and legal overall capabilities is not sufficient considering the type and importance of supply. The assessment team examines the compliance. various business areas depending on the type of purchase (materials, services, packages, etc.), on the basis of the required processes (design, supply, assembly, etc.) and, finally, on the basis of their importance. To this end, supplier and sub-contractors are vetted on the basis of objective, transparent and documentable evaluation criteria, in accordance with the principles of the code of ethics and all procedures provided for by specific Eligibility criteria protocols, in writing and in line with the current hierarchical structure. They are vetted exclusively on the basis of Drawing on the technical and specialised expertise of the concerned company bodies, the Procurement function objective criteria, such as quality, suitability, price, professionalism, expertise, efficiency and adequate guarantees assesses potential suppliers according to highly detailed requirements that fall under the following categories: in terms of the fairness of the supplier, service provider or advisor. • financial situation and results; • management, sales and logistics organisation; • production potential; 104 105 Supply Chain | Contractual tools Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report • whether it has quality management systems certified by accredited bodies; • the supplier’s obligations and charges; • whether it has environmental management systems and health and safety management systems certified by • legal requirements; accredited bodies; • terms of payment; • its willingness to be inspected; • how variations will be managed; • whether it has been endorsed by the RFI (Italian Railway Network) or other bodies; • penalties for non-performance; • the identification and traceability of production lots. • guarantees (sureties) and insurance required; • how disputes will be managed. Since 2012, the part of the eligibility process entailing the gathering of the above subset of information has been extended to the bidding procedure as well, with the consequent advantage of shorting the time needed to complete Furthermore, all contractual documentation is attached to the contract. This documentation normally consists of the process once the supplier has been selected. the main contract (that agreed by Ansaldo STS with the customer), the technical documents defining the scope of the work in detail, detailed project plans, Ansaldo STS’ code of ethics, legally-required documents (safety and In view of continuous improvement, the eligibility process also includes two new key aspects. The first relates to the coordination plan and facsimile of workers’ protection statements), etc. fine-tuning of the process, while the second is organisational in nature. In 2013, the “A-B-C classification” of suppliers was updated the aim (which was achieved) of streamlining the eligibility process and making it more efficient. Supplier vetting activities, including inspections, are indeed concentrated and Monitoring intensified only for suppliers considered “strategic”, i.e., classified as A and, only in particular cases and/or upon specific request, are inspections conducted on class B suppliers. Class C suppliers are subject to shorter and more Suppliers are constantly monitored through contact between them and the Ansaldo STS functions with which they streamlined eligibility, based mainly on the verification of documents. The objectivity of this classification is ensured by operate (Procurement, PM, Engineering, Quality and Supply Chain Quality, Logistics and Construction). At least once a the association of the product group in relation to which the supplier’s eligibility is being assessed. year, personnel working with suppliers participates in a vendor rating process that takes into account the suppliers’ conduct and performance in the supplies ordered, in order to update the suppliers’ assessment and establish whether The second improvement is tied to the organisation of the Supply Chain unit. In order to strengthen its structure they will remain in the list of Ansaldo STS suppliers. Scores are given in four main areas: Quality, Timeliness, Flexibility with respect to the qualification, management and monitoring of suppliers, in 2012, the Supply Chain created the and Charges. Each partial score is considered in the calculation of the weighted average of the various company TQVO (Total Quality Vendor Office) , which was fully rolled out in 2013 and has led to significant improvements in the bodies. On the basis of these scores, a report is prepared on the quality of suppliers and, using the right weighted qualification and monitoring of suppliers. average formulas, each supplier is rated. This monitoring system is ongoing and the results are assessed quarterly. The parameters considered are: Indeed, roughly 85 audits were performed on the most important and qualified suppliers, in addition to the 200 new • Price (calculated as the variation in the cost of the product); suppliers of 2013. • Quality (calculated as the percentage of faults); • On-time delivery. In particular, in 2013, vendor rating played a central role in the TQVO’s activities. Contractual tools In January, assessments began to be carried out using a specific management tool (SUDA) for all suppliers. In May, Ansaldo STS uses various supporting contracts, depending on the goods and services purchased from a given supplier. assessments began on individual purchase orders. For the product categories relating to basic services, such as ICT (Information & Communication Technology), the In this way, requests were sent to internal stakeholders asking them to rate 1,236 suppliers. The rate of valid responses supply of energy, global services and logistics (outsourcing of warehouses and transport contracts), Ansaldo STS received was satisfactory, but not yet excellent. This will require greater steps in 2014 to sensitise management. uses framework agreements defined at Finmeccanica group level (Finmeccanica Group Services). Nevertheless, there were only six cases with unsatisfactory ratings and action plans have been prepared to improve the performance of those within the scope of the TQVO team’s activities. For standard materials and services, all initiatives favouring long-term arrangements are preferred (framework agreements, partnerships, memoranda of understanding, etc.) with vetted suppliers, and periodic controls on the suppliers’ processes are performed, in addition to scrupulous checks of supplies to monitor suppliers’ ethical “External Cost Efficiency (ECE)” Project conduct, adequacy, reliability and timeliness. As a natural development and extension of the RT150 project, in 2013, Ansaldo STS kicked off the ECE project to optimise overall supply costs. This project has entailed the selection of certain macro expense categories For specific materials and services for projects, Ansaldo STS uses purchase orders. The standard order includes a considered strategic to cut back. For each macro category, specific efficiency opportunities have been identified summary of the general supply terms, legal requirements – with specific reference to the protection of workers and in a detailed manner, and their implementation should enable Ansaldo STS to achieve medium and long-term the protection of personal data – and a notice of compliance with the code of ethics. results. Already in 2013, greater efficiency of €26.2 million was created. The order includes a description of the characteristics and requirements, quantities and delivery times for the This project, led by the procurement office and supported by Ansaldo STS management, has required the materials and services, and may also refer to specific documents clarifying the technical specifications for more cooperation of various functions around the world, making it possible to promote and consolidate these best complex devices. practices in external cost management throughout the entire organisation. For turnkey packages and contracts, Ansaldo STS agrees ad hoc contracts whereby the contractors undertake, through their organisation, using the necessary means and with management at their own risk, the construction of the relevant plant or service. The most important articles in these contracts unambiguously define: • the scope of the work; • a list of all contractual documentation; • the consideration; 106 107 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Community Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions Trade associations Partnerships with universities: technological and managerial training Media relations Ansaldo STS and the community 108 109 Community Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Community Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions Ansaldo STS participates in research projects funded by the Ministry of Education, Universities and Research, the Ansaldo STS encourages social progress in the communities where it operates, Ministry for Economic Development, the Ministry of the Environment and the European Commission. promoting technological and managerial training through partnerships with universities, It also participates in the Ligury Region’s “Technologically Integrated Intelligent Systems” district with other particularly with respect to information communication technology, the health and safety Finmeccanica companies in the region and with the Campania Region as president of DATTILO (High-Tech Transport of transportation systems and sustainability. It actively participates in research projects and Logistics District) and the TOPIN laboratory (Innovative Optical-electronic Technologies). co-financed by Italian and EU institutions on how to improve safety, energy efficiency, environmental impact, sustainable mobility and the interoperability of transportation Ansaldo STS received grants of €2.1 million (2012: €2.5 million) for signalling research projects, with total actual systems. costs of €33.3 million (2012: €33.1 million). It is involved in the following projects in relation to PON (national operating programme) tenders: In addition, Ansaldo STS funds humanitarian initiatives for people affected by natural • SICURFER – to develop and test technologies for railway infrastructure monitoring to improve safety and security disasters and by supporting non-profit associations and medical centres specialised in levels. services and care for people suffering from serious illnesses. •D  IGITAL PATTERN DEVELOPMENT to develop simulation systems to support the design and production of systems and parts for road and rail transportation. Activities began in the first few months of 2012, were carried Ansaldo STS is equipped with a procedure for Sponsorships, advertising initiatives and on throughout 2013 and are slated for completion in 2014. contributions to associations and bodies. The purpose of the procedure is to establish the •V  ERO (Virtual Engineering for Railways and Automotive) to support the construction of simulators for the optimal dimensioning of signalling systems. The project was launched in the last few months of 2013 and will be general policies, scope of application, roles and responsibilities in connection with decisions carried out in 2014 and the first half of 2015. and expenses incurred to this end. Particular attention must be paid to the party receiving the consideration for the sponsorship or publicity or the association or body receiving the Projects receiving European funding concern infrastructure monitoring (ALARP, RESTRAIL and MAXBE), safety (CESAR contribution, which: and EXCROSS) and security (PROTECTRAIL, SECUR-ED and EXCETERA). •m  ust have the necessary ability to perform • must not be a resident or be based in In 2013, development activities continued on the satellite positioning system, also in accordance with the contract the initiative; countries with privileged tax systems, as with the European Space Agency. The Critical Design Review and Design Qualification Review (the GSM/GPS lab • must not present conditions of defined by the tax legislation applicable test, Vodafone M2M tests &EURORADIO over IP and DQR LDS) milestones were passed. incompatibility or conflict of interests, in to the company, unless it is a resident Ansaldo STS received grants of €0.7 million (2012: €0.5 million) for transportation solution research projects, with terms of family relationships or personal or or based in a country with a privileged total actual costs of €1.5 million (2012: €2.2 million). professional relationships; tax system that is the same in which the • must not have been found guilty of crimes initiative is to be carried out, in any case in The following are funded research projects underway: or been fined by national or international accordance with application regulations. •S  ITRAM: the project funded by the Ministry for Economic Development (“MISE”) for the 2015 industrial tender authorities; was completed. It provided for the study and testing of advanced technological solutions for the catenary free capture of energy (TramWave®), to increase the efficiency of the energy cycle and to improve safety. In this context, a modular solution to power tramways without catenaries, called TramWave®, was developed and industrialised. A 600-metre section of the Naples-Poggioreale tramway line was equipped with the system and pre-roll-out tests were conducted to verify the system’s functioning and safety, with success. These tests are preliminary to obtaining authorisation from the Ministry of Transport to roll the system out. At the end of 2013, the Ministry gave its technical approval. • T he main aspects of energy efficiency in railway transportation systems constitute a topic that has been dealt with through various projects: SFERE, funded by the Ministry of Research, with the aim of studying the benefits of using supercapacitors installed on the ground for tramway systems, OSIRIS, funded by the European Commission, to study solutions using low enthalpy sources to reduce the consumption of auxiliary metro systems, and MERLIN, to design powering architectures and software systems to optimise main line energy flows. • T he MBAT project, funded by JU Artemis (a public-private body that provides European Commission funding for embedded system innovation) and the Ministry of Research. The aim of this project is to develop tools for the development and testing of embedded systems with an impact on railway system safety and availability. In 2013, the project saw the completion of most specification activities, in view of the construction and testing of technological demonstrators, which will lead to the project’s conclusion in 2014. 110 111 Community | Trade associations Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Trade associations Partnerships with universities: technological and Ansaldo STS actively participates in UNIFE projects (association of European railway builders), UNISIG (association managerial training of European railway signalling companies) and UITP (international public transportation association), ANIE (National Federation of Electrotechnical and Electronic Companies), AICQ (Italian Association for a Quality Culture), the Italian In the 2012-2013 academic year, along with the Ferrovie dello Stato group (Italian railways), AnsaldoBreda, Roma partner of EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management), Cosila (consortium for safety in the workplace) Metropolitane and Bombardier Transportation Italy S.p.A., Ansaldo STS participated in the Level II University Master and Unione degli Industriali/Confindustria (Industrialists’ Union/Italy’s main organisation representing Italian programme in Infrastructural and Railway System Engineering with the La Sapienza University of Rome. The aim of manufacturing and service companies), in Naples and Genoa, specifically. the master programme was to train top level engineers in the railway transportation sector. In the scope of UNIFE, Ansaldo STS collaborates to promote the extension of the use of railway transportation through Another significant initiative has been ITS “special technology schools”, which are post-secondary school technical the implementation of technological standards (ERTMS and TSI) and by proposing European research projects to training programmes that last two years. They are managed by private foundations specifically set up in Italy for improve safety, energy efficiency and environmental protection in the field of railway transportation. Specifically, with this purpose. Finmeccanica took part in the ITS project approved by the Ministry of Education and Universities, this project, proposed by the railway JTI SHIFT2RAIL, Ansaldo STS aims to reduce emissions, for a modal shift in participating in seven foundations with the involvement of another eight Finmeccanica group companies, including transportation, in line with that indicated in the transportation white book published by the EU Commission. Ansaldo STS. Specifically, the ITS in which Ansaldo STS took part relates to the railway sector. The training course began in mid-October 2011 and will end in the first few months of 2013 (after work experience at Ansaldo STS and Furthermore, also as part of UNIFE, Ansaldo STS is on the Sustainable Transport Committee, which aims to define companies in its chain). There are 24 classroom participants. The course is based at “Il Villaggio dei ragazzi” in a common, consistent and effective consensus in the railway industry with respect to environmental issues and, Maddaloni (CE). particularly, energy efficiency (reliable standards to measure energy consumption), the evaluation of the life cycle as one of the main criteria in the decision-making process, eco-procurement and noiseand emission-reduction. Ansaldo STS is also a partner in the Genoa-based ISICT, an institute of higher learning for studies in Information and Communication Technologies in the form of a consortium set up by the University of Genoa and companies, institutions and bodies throughout the Ligury region. The aim is to promote excellent training in the field of Information and Communication Technology. Ansaldo STS participates in the institute’s projects as part of the decision-making bodies and by collaborating in student training by providing teachers. Furthermore, Ansaldo STS organises annual conferences on cyber security, in collaboration with the Engineering department of the University of Genoa, particularly for students and businesses in the area. Ansaldo STS also participates in workshops with students who have completed high school or who are graduating from university, held by the university in concert with leading companies in the region. During these workshops, the company listens to young university students’ needs and aspirations and then presents, together with the various participating companies, specific details on their companies and provides more general information on university choices and potential employment opportunities. AGREEMENTS WITH UNIVERSITIES Ansaldo STS has framework agreements in place with Italian universities in Genoa, Turin, Rome and the Basilicata region, relating to a number of three year PhD partnership programmes, annual or bi-annual research agreements and many graduate theses and work experience programmes. In 2012, these agreements enabled the company to organise ad hoc seminars at the University of Genoa. The seminars saw the direct participation of various company managers, who discussed various engineering issues that are of vital importance to Ansaldo STS, including electric traction. The company increasingly promotes the use of tools such as these types of seminars, with the shared aim of offering training to young resources working specifically in areas that are directly applicable to the company’s projects. Ansaldo STS also has a framework agreement in place with the German university in Dresden, an institution with particular expertise in railway signalling. Furthermore, it has partnerships with the Universities of Rome and Milan. Finally, Ansaldo STS continues to intensify the forging of fruitful and long-term relationships with international universities in countries that are strategic for the company’s future. An example of this commitment is the US, where Ansaldo STS has pursued important training initiatives, including: • participating in several academic career fairs; • participating in the Computer Science Day at the University of Pittsburgh; • promoting meetings and interviews with students at local university campuses; • promoting job offers and internships through universities; • hiring interns and apprentices. 112 113 Community | Media relations Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Media relations In its communication activities, Ansaldo STS mainly targets sector leaders: RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT • national press agencies that handle general news (e.g., ANSA, ADN-Kronos and AGI) and press agencies Ansaldo STS develops its relationships with the media by focusing utmost attention on the quality of specialised in business news (e.g., Radiocor, Mf Dow Jones and Reuters), as well as the international press information, which must always meet requirements of transparency, timeliness, absolute truthfulness, specialised in business news (Reuters International, Dow Jones and Bloomberg); complete ease of use and widespread distribution. These characteristics enable Ansaldo STS to base its • dailies (e.g., Il Sole 24 Ore, MF and Italia Oggi); communications on the constant symmetry of information to all media outlets, also considering the fact that • periodicals (e.g., Milan Finanza, Corriere Economia, Repubblica Affari&Finanza and Il Mondo); the company is listed on the stock market. Relationships with journalists are managed at several levels: from • the radio (Radio 24); the highest, with directors and deputy directors of publications, to middle range, with head editors and senior • television (Class CNBC); editors, to writers. Indeed, relationships must be forged across the board for constant support with respect to • online media; issues relating to Ansaldo STS’ business. • blogs, such as letters to investors and similar posts. QUALITY OF EXTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS It has also extensively developed relationships with online eco-business news outlets (e.g., IlSole24Ore.com, All Ansaldo STS information that is shared with the market and that can be defined as price sensitive (i.e., Soldionline.it and Finanza.com). that could materially affect the share’s price on the stock market and that is disclosed via Borsa Italiana’s NIS Network Information System) is subject to a standard procedure that puts Ansaldo STS’ Investor Relations It enjoys ongoing and fruitful relationships with local business and general media outlets in which it has sites and internal communication functions in close contact with an external communication agency. All disclosures (particularly Genoa and Naples) or where it carries out projects, such as Rome, Milan and Brescia. to the media are therefore discussed, checked and approved before being sent out, through an ongoing, scrupulous control process that involves, each for as far as it is concerned, the functions mentioned above. Finally, in 2013, Ansaldo STS conducted an analysis and evaluation to learn what the main trade publications are Ansaldo STS’ external communication function and the external communication agency discuss all contact in each geographical area. It revised and forged relationships with leading international publications in the railway with the press, from pro-active contact to follow-ups on market reports, so that the necessary consistency of transportation/railway signalling sector, such as the Railway Gazette International, International Railway Journal and information is ensured with respect to all Ansaldo STS’ media relationships. Ultimate authorisation is always Eurailmag. This analysis led to a more accurate and efficient definition of the 2014 advertising plan, in coordination with the Managing Director and CEO. with business expo activities and advertising via digital channels. 114 115 Community | Media relations Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Digital communication Ansaldo STS and the community The company website In 2011, Ansaldo STS extensively revised its website, updating the graphics and adding new sections and Each year sees Ansaldo STS committed in various charitable events to fund cultural and humanitarian initiatives. In functions. This project led the company to win the “KVD Webranking Best Improver 2011” award, ranking 26th 2013, total donations and sponsorships to cultural bodies, organisations and industry expos, amounted to roughly among the 101 leading companies listed on the stock exchange (it ranked 40th in 2010). €370 thousand, as shown below by geographical segment: In 2012, continuing with the care and attention that it had already devoted in 2011, but with new objectives and identifying other improvement areas, such as digital communication and social media, Ansaldo STS achieved the same kind of success, winning the prestigious KVD Webranking Best Improver award for 2012 (ranking 14th), with DONATIONS BY GEOGRAPHICAL SPONSORSHIPS BY GEOGRAPHICAL the awards ceremony in 2013. SEGMENT (%) SEGMENT (%) In 2013, as part of the KVD Webranking Best Improver award, on the basis of the 20 super-sectors to which the 4 4 2 ICB (industry classification benchmark) standard applies, Ansaldo STS won first place for the industrial sector 11 Malaysia Germany Malaysia and Italy. Out of the most transparent Italian industrial companies, Ansaldo STS received a score of 56.5 points, Germany compared to the Italian average of 37.3 points and the European average of 47.8 points. During the second half of 2013, many aspects were further revised and improved as part of an ongoing change approach, in line with the language speed typical of the web. In particular, Ansaldo STS developed the website’s 15 30 functional and editorial side by adopting a corporate message platform. New elements include a general USA USA online archive containing all available company documentation, a new search engine supported with automatic suggestions, all financial schedules available directly in HTML (in addition to Excel schedules), the interactive KPI 70 64 tool, email alerts, events reminders and interactive animation. Italy Italy 2012 Integrated Review A navigable version of the report was published on the website for the first time, named the 2012 Integrated Review. It is the first step towards an integrated view of financial, social and environmental management. This is a new tool for the public demonstrating how much sustainability is a part of Ansaldo STS’ day-to-day work, and an increasingly key element for pursuing dialogue with stakeholders, so they have adequate tools to read about and understand the company. Other digital communication channels In the second half of 2013 new initiatives were kicked off to develop currently existing digital communication channels, improve their content and format and communication functions, as well as facilitate dialogue outside the company. The company application for Ipads is now available to the public and another application is being developed for commercial use to spread and promote brochures and documents on Ansaldo STS’ business activities. In the same period, the English language version of the website and Wikipedia pages were fully revised. Communications channels were developed and updated via social media, in line with the sector approach and creating more ongoing interactive communications with the general public. For every industry expo or conference in which Ansaldo STS participates, articles describing or commenting on the events are written and published, including via social media, and the documentation presented is also included, inviting people to follow Ansaldo STS. 116 117 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainability of the Australian business Materiality Ansaldo STS in Australia Corporate governance Our people Health and safety The Environment Community 118 119 Sustainability of the Australian business | Materiality Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainability of the Australian business Ansaldo STS in Australia Ansaldo STS (formerly Union Switch & Signal) has been active in Australia since 1995, and currently employs a Ansaldo STS Australia is active in sustainable, low environmental impact transportation, and total of 537 people at the Brisbane, Sydney, Newcastle, Perth and Karratha sites. sustainability is an integral part of its business plans and decision-making processes. The company’s core business is to develop and deliver solutions that improve the safety, efficiency, reliability and environmental performance of Australia’s passenger and freight rail transportation. The company’s core business is to develop and deliver solutions that improve the safety, efficiency, reliability and environmental performance of Australia’s passenger and freight rail Demand from the resources sector has reached unprecedented levels, boosted by improvements in terms of transportation. efficiency and ambitious expansion objectives. In response to this demand, Ansaldo STS Australia has developed and currently delivers advanced technologies, such as train management systems that encourage the automation of railways for heavy transport and signalling and telecommunication systems that use satellite positioning The sustainable products, systems and solutions that the company develops and delivers to technologies to reduce reliance on infrastructures and maintenance. These technologies will generate direct its customers – the owners and operators of Australia's rail networks – play a crucial role in improvements in terms of safety and efficiency. enabling them to meet their sustainability targets. Addictionally, the rapid and sustained population growth in Australia’s capital cities and surrounding areas, as The way in which Ansaldo STS Australia conducts its business and the related financial, well as in its major regional centres, has led to an ongoing rise in the number of projects to increase capacity and economic, social and environmental impact are strategic priorities in ensuring the company’s expand passenger railway transportation. Ansaldo STS has continued to contribute to these significant passenger railway transportation projects. sustainability and competitiveness. Materiality Corporate Governance In accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, Ansaldo STS Australia has performed a Ansaldo STS Australia is committed to operating and conducting its activities in line with ethical, sustainable materiality analysis to identify the aspects of sustainability that are more important to stakeholders and to the and transparent practices. The company’s employees work in accordance with its code of ethics and core values company’s business. It considered the following aspects in this analysis: and use the global integrated management system (IMS)24 in their operations. The IMS ensures the appropriate execution of all operations. • Internal points of view • External points of view To gain a better understanding of which It also performed a media analysis, reviewed the Our values the Country Representative for Australia, the Deputy environmental, social and governance issues are Ansaldo STS (Group) sustainability reports and those Standards of conduct are based on values like customer Chairman of the Internal Control Body and the Legal relevant to the business in Australia, the company published by other leaders in the same sector, along focus, innovation and excellence, focus on people, team Affairs Officers for Australia. conducted a series of interviews with management. with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. spirit and integrity. Policies and the code of conduct reinforce the upholding of these values, which is With respect to the requirements set forth by the fundamental for the achievement of company objectives, business rules in the code of ethics, during the board The result of this process enabled it to define the content of the first chapter in this report on the Group’s the attainment of market success and the management meeting held on 23 October 2012, Ansaldo STS sustainability in Australia. of relationships with stakeholders. Australia’s supervisory body provided the board of directors with an annual report on the issues dealt with Towards greater transparency Code of ethics in 2013. To increase the transparency of sustainability reporting in the future, Ansaldo STS Australia plans to conduct Ansaldo STS’ code of ethics serves as the foundation a detailed materiality analysis, which will include in depth interviews with its external stakeholders, such as for employees’ conduct and is aligned with the All employees can consult the code of ethics on the non-government organisations, suppliers, customers, shareholders and the media. company’s values. A supervisory body monitors the company’s website, and a copy of the code is provided management and application of the code of ethics to all newly hired employees as part of Ansaldo STS This will enable it to more accurately evaluate the impact that sustainable development issues have on the within the company. The body’s members include Australia’s initial training programme25. company and on the environment, encouraging compliance with related policies and commitments. 24. Integrated Management System. 25. Induction Program. 120 121 Sustainability of the Australian business | Corporate Governance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Board of directors Ansaldo STS Australia Pty Ltd is the Ansaldo STS Group’s sub-holding company in Australia. It is managed by Our people a national board of directors whose powers and responsibilities are those envisaged by article 248A of the Corporations Act of 2001 (Australia). Our employees’ abilities, commitment and innovative way of thinking are crucial to our company’s success. We support, encourage and motivate our personnel to improve their The Country Representative for Australia, Lyle K. Jackson, is one of the seven members of the board of directors abilities and skills through a global performance development programme. The forging of and, among his other functions, is responsible for representing the company at the shareholders’ meetings of the fruitful in house relationships and an environment of mutual respect are key aspects of the companies in which Ansaldo STS Australia holds an interest, professional association meetings and in all legal, way we work at Ansaldo STS Australia. administrative and tax matters. Ansaldo STS Australia’s 537 employees bring various levels of expertise and diverse experience to their work. The Country Representative for Australia also has overall responsibility for Ansaldo STS Australia’s compliance with To retain employees and increase its ability to attract new talent, the company has developed a global HR policy the company’s social responsibility policies and their implementation, with the Environment, Health and Safety, HR that encourages continuous learning, strengthens leadership skills and promotes cooperation between colleagues, and External Communications divisions responsible for the day-to-day execution of these policies under guidance. customers and the community. Ansaldo STS Australia’s board of directors meets at least four times a year, and the meetings are scheduled Recruitment and development considering the meeting schedule of Ansaldo STS S.p.A.’s board of directors. In 2013, the Australian board held In a job market like Australia’s, where demand is extremely competitive, especially in the fields of engineering, four meetings. which make up 41% of the Australian workforce, Ansaldo STS Australia has demonstrated its ability to attract and retain highly skilled and competent people. Ansaldo STS Australia’s board of directors (2013) The social media is also used for recruitment, making it possible to expand the national ‘Ansaldo STS Takes you Directors places’ recruitment campaign. Lyle K Jackson Global Employee Survey Michele Fracchiolla Australia’s participation in Ansaldo STS’ annual global employee satisfaction survey is steady, with 325 employees, Emmanuel Viollet equal to 60% of all workers (compared to 61% in 2012). Giuseppe Gaudiello The results show that the company has progressed in a number of areas – particularly communication with Christian Andi employees – and indicates other possible areas for improvement, in which the company will focus systematically Filippo Corsi until the next Global Survey. Ajith Perera Building our workplace culture The ability to create an environment in which competent, highly productive personnel are happy, motivated and fulfilled is an essential factor in the HR strategy. The company has continued to promote the widespread application of the company’s values of focusing on customers, innovation and excellence, team spirit and integrity, ensuring that they remain highly visible in the workplace. By implementing managers’ and employees’ observations, Ansaldo STS Australia has developed a new initial training programme, which aims to help new employees understand the organisation and the way in which it works. The training programme consists of a series of modules and an employee handbook, a complete guide to support employees by facilitating them in filling their new role, while also giving them a general idea of Ansaldo STS Australia’s business model. To support the ongoing commitment to provide training on workplace culture in Australia, certain videos on this subject have been included on the e-learning site. The videos are aimed at helping people who have just arrived in Australia, gain a better understanding of the local culture and customs. Celebrating diversity Ansaldo STS believes that diversity of employees strengthens the quality of decision-making processes and is part of the accountability system. The company recognises that local communities constitute an invaluable source of skills and aspiring workers and, where appropriate, it seeks to recruit local candidates to develop abilities within the local communities in the areas in which it operates. 122 123 Sustainability of the Australian business | Our people Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report This commitment is not only important in terms of social justice, but it is also a significant strategy for attracting Learning and development and retaining personnel. To this end, Ansaldo STS Australia plans to continue to develop social networks and To support a training-oriented approach, each year, managers are asked to analyse the learning needs of each partnerships and intends to eliminate obstacles to career advancement for women, aiming to encourage diversity employee. These needs, are then checked, analysed and met by the internal training function, the Ansaldo STS within the workforce. Academy. Remuneration and incentives It offers a series of personalised online learning and company training opportunities and classroom courses and People, their performance and the quality of their work are a crucial part of the company’s success. Remuneration has continued to support employees’ learning and development needs throughout 2013. and incentives for Ansaldo STS Australia employees are regulated both by national labour standards, which include work hours and general labour conditions, and by the market, in order to maintain its competitive edge. To ensure that all Ansaldo STS Australia employees were aware of the legislative changes regarding bullying and harrassment that took effect on 1 January 2014, all staff took an updated course. Employee awards and recognition Ansaldo STS Australia aims to celebrate the success and recognise its employees’ commitment. Indeed, each Integrated human resource development model year, personnel are invited to participate in the “Finmeccanica Innovation Award”, which consists of a general The company uses an integrated human resource development model that focuses on managing and developing competition open to all Finmeccanica group companies, for the presentation of innovative ideas relating to process employees to create value for employees and the company. improvement, product value enchancement and service opportunities. As part of the People Development Process (PDP), managers and their employees meet at least once a year to In Australia, the company rewards employees for their ongoing efforts and loyalty and during the year, a new loyalty clarify performance targets, review performance and results and form an opinion on required development, personal award programme was launched to recognise employees who have worked with Ansaldo STS for five or more years. aspirations and career plans. To date, a total of 179 employees have received recognition for their contribution to the company. Additionally, each year, Ansaldo STS Australia employees receive two extra paid holidays – called Ansaldo Days. One Ansaldo Day is an additional holiday during the Christmas season and the other is determined by local administration on the basis of production requirements. Strengthening communications PLAN To make it easier for employees to access the policies, guidelines and modules they need, an HR bulletin board for Performance and COACH Development Plan Internal Feedback & Coaching Australia has been added to the global Intranet. The website also gives employees direct access to the Ansaldo Throughout the Year January-March STS Australia Human Resources Hotline – an email system created to ensure that personnel receive responses to their questions on HR management issues within one business day. Health and wellbeing Ansaldo STS Australia encourages everyone to contribute to protecting their health in the workplace. In 2013, flu vaccines were offered again at no charge to employees. The Employee Assistance plan gives all employees and their closest family members free access to counselling services. Financial security To assist emplyees a free insurance policy is available to all employees who work over 15 hours a week, guaranteeing REVIEW Performance Review that they will receive their salary if they are unable to work (because of illness or injury). In addition, a salary package and Moderation is available for employees hired on an open-ended basis. January-March Pension In accordance with legal regulations, in Australia, employers pay contributions to the pension funds where their employees are registered. If employees opt to participate in Ansaldo STS Australia’s pension fund, Asgard, they may also receive free information and advice from an external provider. There are three levels of responsibility for learning and development within Ansaldo STS Australia: TRADE UNIONS •E  xecutives are responsible for establishing employee competency and checking training needs for each member of In 2013, a new Enterprise Bargaining Agreement was successfully signed. In all, 7.26% of Ansaldo STS Australia their work group. Training needs are identified during employee performance reviews; personnel is employed under this agreement. •E  mployees are encouraged to actively seek formal and informal training opportunities; • the Ansaldo STS Academy offers advice on training courses and information on aspects in connection with development and learning. It also coordinates, monitors and assesses training offers. 124 125 Sustainability of the Australian business | Our people Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The global learning site (available on the Intranet) strengthens this process and provides employees and managers Employees by professional level with access to available training courses, while also giving them the chance to request specific courses, if required 2013 2012 under the agreed development plan. Categories Men Women Total Men Women Total Senior Executives 4 1 5 3 1 4 Ansaldo STS Australia employees Junior managers 13 2 15 18 2 20 Ansaldo STS Australia employees White collars 378 90 468 406 104 510 2013 2012 Blue collars 47 2 49 54 2 56 SITE Men Women Total Men Women Total TOTAL 442 95 537 481 109 590 Brisbane 90 35 125 104 39 143 Sydney 7 3 10 32 3 35 Newcastle 27 2 29 55 17 72 2013 2012 Perth 250 45 295 241 43 284 Hired employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Karratha 68 10 78 49 7 56 Under open-ended contracts 436 91 527 474 107 581 TOTAL 442 95 537 481 109 590 Under fixed-term contracts 6 4 10 7 2 9 TOTAL 537 590 Employee turnover 2013 2012 Employees by education level 2013 2012 26% 27% University/Secondary school graduates Men Women Total Men Women Total Technical institute graduates 49 3 52 61 6 67 Women Other secondary school graduates 13 17 30 23 26 49 2013 2012 University graduates in technical fields 240 31 271 251 31 282 SITE Women Women Other graduates 67 23 90 75 22 97 Brisbane 28% 27% Other types of education 73 21 94 71 24 95 Sydney 30% 9% TOTAL 442 95 537 481 109 590 Newcastle 7% 24% Perth 15% 15% Karratha 13% 13% TOTAL 18% 19% Commitments for the future Deadline •E  mployee satisfaction Employees by age Gaining a more accurate vision and clearer understanding of Age Men 2013 Women Total Men 2012 Women Total Ansaldo STS Australia employees’ level of satisfaction by gathering and analysing their specific responses to the global employee 2014 satisfaction survey. < 30 45 20 65 61 26 87 30-35 128 23 151 128 28 156 •W  orkplace culture An online version of the initial training programme is being 36-40 56 14 70 59 11 70 developed for new employees to include the workplace culture in 2014 41-45 58 8 66 75 11 86 Australia. 46-50 59 14 73 60 11 71 >50 96 16 112 98 22 120 TOTAL 442 95 537 481 109 590 126 127 Sustainability of the Australian business | Health and safety Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Health and safety The health and safety of our employees is integral part of our sustainable business practices, as we are working to develop and deliver solutions to improve the safety, efficiency, reliability and environmental performance of Australia’s passenger and freight railway transportation networks. In 2013, a safety record was set, considering that out of the 1,159,016 hours worked by Ansaldo STS employees, no days of work were missed due to injury. This demonstrates the effectiveness of the company’s rigorous approach to risk management, the strength of the environment, health and safety management systems of and an internal culture that values safety. To enable the Board of Directors to fulfill their obligations health safety and environmental legislation, each quarter, the board of directors is provided with a report on Ansaldo STS Australia’s health, safety and environmental (HSE) performance. This report details all significant HSE incidents/hazards and risks/aspects and impacts which have occurred during the three-month reporting period, along with HSE performance against lead and lag indicators, risource status and legal updates. Workplace safety Ansaldo STS Australia’s philosophy is “Safety First”. We believe that health and safety is a shared responsibility and that all employees play a role in creating and maintaining a safe work environment. In 2013, no work hours were lost due to injuries, out of the 1,159,016 hours worked by Ansaldo STS employees. The average recordable injury frequency rate for 2013 was 15.53, compared to 11.66 in 2012. Health and safety management In Australia, occupational health and safety (OHS)26 and environmental management are regulated by the laws of each state and territory, and all states, excluding Victoria and Western Australia, operate under the national Work Health and Safety Act of 2011. Accordingly, Ansaldo STS Australia is subject to particularly strict obligations to ensure that the company and those involved in its operations are not exposed to risk and that no harm is caused to the environment as a result of its activities. The company’s environmental, health, safety and environmental management system (HSEMS)27 is crucial for the correct management of environmental obligations and OHS and integrates the requirements of: • ISO 9001quality management systems; • ISO 14001environmental management systems; • OHSAS 18001OHS management systems; • AS/NZS 4801OHS management systems (for Australia only). To evaluate the HSEMS effectiveness and ensure that it is implemented at all sites, an annual HSE audit schedule In November and December 2013, Ansaldo STS Australia’s HSEMS was audited by our customer Rio Tinto. The is established. In 2013, it was 87.5% completed, with 21 audits completed out of 24 planned. implementation of the HSEMS was audited at our project site, without any non-conformities being noted. Furthermore, in the year, a series of external audits was carried out. In January 2013, an audit conducted by Building a sound safety culture Workplace Health and Safety Queensland did not note any non-conformities. Following audits by Lloyd’s Register While safety and environmental performance is a shared responsibility, the company places high expectations in its Quality Assurance, the company successfully received the renewal and three-year registration with OHSAS 18001 managers to model safe behaviour, which is fundamental for creating an effective HSEMS culture. OHS management systems – and AS/NZS 4801 OHS management systems. 26. Occupational Health and Safety. 27. Health, Safety and Environmental Management System. 128 129 Sustainability of the Australian business | Health and safety Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS Australia: Risk management • requires everyone to “walk the talk”; Ansaldo STS Australia aims to eliminate and minimise risk, as far as reasonably practicable to prevent injuries and • believes that safety is an integral part of day-to-day activities; illnesses for employees and those who may be impacted by our activities and operations. • requires no one to ignore a safety issue which they have identified. Our Customers and contractors are committed to promoting the health and safety of personnel and workplaces, During the year, the HSE bulletin continued to be produced and distributed. It is a key tool in sharing HSE principles and and closely cooperate to ensure that risks are identified and mitigate before work begins. announcing new initiatives. During the year, the company focused on training employees to identify, assess and control the risks related to The HSE Share and First Move Forward initiatives were introduced in the year to make personnel aware of the ongoing permanent sites and projects and to ensure that everyone understands that they play an active role in maintaining importance of always focusing on safety first. a safe workplace. HSE Share is a simple but important initiative whereby managers and employees are asked, at the start of every To ensure the health and safety of our people, every site and project is evaluated prior to the commencement meeting, to share an observation, suggestion, anecdote or idea about how to improve performance in terms of health, of work, so that foreseeable hazards can be identified and appropriate operational controls that will lower their safety or the environment. residual risk to an acceptable level can be implemented. The First Movement Forward initiative aims to eliminate incidents which occur as a result of reversing vehicles, The company reviews the contractual documentation and its contractors’ management plan to ensure that it encouraging personnel to reverse park their vehicles and, accordingly, ensuring that the first movement of their vehicle complys with Ansaldo STS Australia’s HSE procedures and policies and that these, in turn, meet the requirements when they leave the workplace is going forward. First Movement Forward has been widely adopted and is currently a of the client, principal or contractors who manage the site. regular practice at the offices and work sites of Ansaldo STS Australia. Ansaldo STS Australia’s Project Management Team organises a risk management workshop to analyse and evaluate To build on the health and safety awarness and knowledge of our employees, all were required to complete our new any risks that may impact to the project site and its activities, in order to ensure that adequate control measures Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Induction program during the year28. are established and implemented before the work begins. Adverse weather conditions, such as high temperatures, cyclones and flooding, along with the dangers of long distance road travel, affect many sites throughout Australia. The five-module program covers: Ansaldo STS has strict controls in place to manage these hazards and risks. 1. Global HSE system and local HSEM system; 2. Risk management (Hazard/Aspect Identification, Risk/Impact Assessment and the implementation of controls); After work begins, risks are monitored and assessed for the entire duration of the project to ensure that the control 3. Emergency Response; measures remain effective. The results of inspections and audits undertaken by internal or external bodies are 4. HSE Forms; reviewed and used to further improve HSE performance. 5. Site Induction (specific Hazards and Controls which apply to the relevant site/project). If, at any stage of the work, the safety of Ansaldo STS personnel is believed to be at risk, work is suspended and By December 2013, the HSE induction programme has been succesfully integrated into the new employee induction the issue is taken to the appropriate team of managers to ensure that the appropriate controls are implemented program and more than 70% of employees have successfully completed the programme. before work resumes. Health and wellbeing The HSE Check-Safe Activity Planner is one of the HSE tools that make up Ansaldo STS’ HSEMS. Check-Safe is a Ansaldo STS Australia is committed to the health, wellbeing and safety of its personnel, as it is aware that the plan of activities based on scheduled checklists or specific HSE activities for a given workplace or defined work ability to create a healthy and safe workplace that motivates healthy, happy people is fundamental for employee group. It is a mandatory requirement for all sites and a very effective way of evaluating the safe conditions and productivity. recording evidence of HSE actions and activities that have been carried out. It deeply strengthens the conviction that each Ansaldo STS workplace must be checked regularly and that inspections must be recorded in order to Legislative health standards apply to the following HSEMS areas: maintain the safety of all the places in which we work. • Railway workers health requirements • Health surveillance/monitoring Investigations performed following a series of musculoskeletal injuries affecting employees in permanent • Hygiene workplaces demonstrate that one of the contributing factors was the presence of office chairs that were not up to • Drug and alcohol abuse safety standards. Accordingly, steps were taken to replace them with new office chairs that meet safety standards. • Fatigue This replacement process began at the Brisbane site and will be completed in 2014 when all necessary office • Workplace stress factors chairs at the Perth offices are replaced. In October, a mental health week promotional campaign was launched. Using posters, pamphlets, toolbox talks and briefings, the aim was to raise employee awareness of the importance of caring for one’s mental health and letting them know where to seek help should the need arise. To support employees in this and many other issues, consultancy and support are available through our employee assistance program (EAP). 28. Health, Safety and Environment 130 131 Sustainability of the Australian business | Health and safety Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Risk safeguarding During the year, the Safe Guard Pocket Risk Manager was introduced. It is a useful, pocket size handbook for The Environment immediate risk assessments, in accordance with Ansaldo STS risk management procedures. ISO 14001 certification Following the successful integration of environmental change in the Health, Safety and Environmental Management Employees can use the handbook: System in the year, Ansaldo STS Australia obtained ISO 14001 certification from Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance. • as a reference tool in the event of doubts as to the presence of risks related to a work activity; • to rapidly and simply assess risks in connection with external hazards (that may vary) at The new Health, Safety and Environmental Management System (HSEMS)30 has improved Ansaldo STS Australia’s the various sites, when similar work is performed that is already covered by a generic risk compliance with legislative requirements and also strengthened the measures to improve monitoring and management process; environmental performance. • to plan tasks in places where job safety and environmental analyses (JSEAs)29 are used, as every situation is different and Safe Guard focuses on task planning; Environmental management system • to ensure the identification of new and different hazards, and appropriate control In the HSEMS, environmental management is integrated with health and safety management. The approach to measures are taken before work begins; managing environmental aspects and impacts is risk based, which simplifies it and ensures that environmental • to obtain information on HSE to update, when necessary, JSEA and other risk management management is part of day-to-day activities. The HSEMS incorporates aspect and impact management into an processes. integrated Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Risk Register which identifies, assesses and controls health and safety risks and environmental impacts for every site (permanent and project) and operations conducted there. Ansaldo STS Australia operations and activities are aligned with the regulated environmental requirements of the state in which they are performed. They also comply with the requirements of our clients and main contractors, Commitments for the future Deadline many of whom operate in the mining sector. Ansaldo STS Australia recognises that environmental compliance on its part and by its contractors is essential in •P erformance reporting allowing customers to achieve their social responsibility objectives and targets. Increase the HSEMS’ alignment with the company’s strategies, policies, objectives and targets to strengthen the transparency and 2014 Ansaldo STS Australia always adopts the highest environmental management standards and is required to report accuracy of HSE reporting. and consult with other parties (including clients and contractors) to identify the environmental aspects and impacts of a site and the related activities, and to manage them through the appropriate controls. For each project, HSE •R isk management personnel evaluate the contractual documentation and related management plan to ensure that the procedures and Traffic management plans will be introduced at all sites to more effectively manage interaction between plant and pedestrians, and 2014 related documentation meet the requirements of the client and the main contractor managing the site. contractor and supplier assessments will be simplified. Forming an integral part of effective environmental management is Ansaldo STS Australia’s specific commitment to meeting the contractual obligations and protocols provided, including with regard to customers’ relationships with •C ontinuous improvement Develop and introduce Safe Operational Controls for our activities 2014 indigenous people. The physical and spiritual connection of indigenous Australians to the land is recognised, and the importance of their culture, heritage and traditional rights is upheld. •M anagement training and expertise Our procedures/plans and controls are aimed at eliminating or minimising environmental risk, including any Train all managers and supervisors to an adequate level to ensure impact on fauna and flora, discharges into water, atmospheric emissions, land pollution, waste disposal, vibration that they fully understand their accountability and responsibilities with regard to HSE. In 2014, 100% of managers and supervisors 2014 reduction, acoustic and visual pollution and interference with architecture and other cultural sensibilities. to will have completed their HSE training. In order to increase employees’ environmental awareness, environmental management has been integrated in the new HSE induction programme. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Ansaldo STS Australia is committed to accurately measuring and reporting data on greenhouse gas (GHG)31 emissions. The policies, objectives and targets have been designed to reduce GHG emissions in all Australian operations and activities and to enable customers to accurately refer to the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Scheme (NGERS). Where provided for by contract, Ansaldo STS provides its customers with NGERS reports as part of the monitoring project. 30. Environment, Health and Safety Management System. 29. Job Safety and Environmental Analyses. 31. Greenhouse Gas 132 133 Sustainability of the Australian business | The Environment Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report In order to increase the transparency of data on GHG emissions in the year to come, Ansaldo STS Australia will 2013 GHG32 CO2(t) CH4 (tCO2e) NO2 (tCO2e) tCO2e expand its policy to include specific emission reduction targets. The measures to be taken will include: • alignment of the HSEMS with the NGERS scheme and ISO 14064.1 requirements for greenhouse gases SCOPE 1: Natural gas, Fuel oil for heating and vehicle traction, petro and other fuels 905.8 2.6 2.3 910.9 Specifications and guidance, organisational level, for the quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and their removal; SCOPE 2: Electricity acquired and consumed 1,399.9 1,399.9 • the addition of policies, objectives and targets to reduce GHG emissions arising from Ansaldo STS Australia’s SCOPE 3: Passenger transportation (air, vehicle), operations and activities to the HSE policy; freight transportation (lorry, air, ship), packaging (paper • training of key personnel responsible for monitoring and measuring performance data in relation to direct and and cardboard), paper consumption, iron and steel, indirect GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) with a material impact on the environment; recycled waste, incinerated waste, waste disposed of (toxic and otherwise) 812.4 55.2 0.4 867.9 • development of GHG instructions governing the requirements for data management and gathering and the keeping of a GHG log for Australian operations relating to greenhouse gas emissions; TOTAL 3,118.0 57.8 2.7 3,178.7 • analyses of Ansaldo STS Australia operations to identify activities that generate GHG emissions and compare them with the indications in the HSE risk register, for the purpose of identifying the environmental impact of Although we tend to report environmental performance at certain sites, this is not yet standard practice. It will be activities and aspects related to GHG emissions. extended to all Ansaldo STS Australia sites by 2015. Possibility of reducing energy consumption The company recognises that using lower fuel consumption vehicles in its fleet reduces carbon emissions. In 2013, the Fleet Management Team had, where possible, 6-cylinder vehicles leased to Ansaldo STS Australia replaced with Commitments for the future Deadline 4-cylinder vehicles. Furthermore, recycling containers were positioned at all permanent Ansaldo STS Australia sites to reduce and reuse generic waste otherwise destined for landfill. •G  reenhouse Gas Emissions The company has identified the following areas as opportunities to improve energy efficiency: • direct GHG emissions (Scope 1): GHG emissions generated directly from sources that the company owns or Increase the transparency of data relating to GHG emissions by including specific emission reduction targets in the HSE policy; 2014 controls, such as petrolor diesel-fuelled systems and vehicles; • indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2): emissions generated by electricity; •M  easurement of environmental performance; • indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3): GHG emissions resulting from the company’s activities but arising from sources that it does not own or control. The inclusion of Scope 3 emission sources entails the requirement of Introduce performance monitoring and reporting at all Ansaldo STS Australia sites. 2015 measuring their material and ongoing environmental impact, including as a result of business travel (airplanes, cars and taxis) and the disposal of waste (recycling and landfills); •E  nergy consumption reduction • water consumption at the permanent sites where Ansaldo STS Australia operates. Introduce recycling policies for technological tools that are obsolete or idle, such as mobile phones, desktop phones and the related accessories; Carry out a recycling programme for batteries at all Ansaldo STS 2014 Australia permanent workplaces; Convert lighting systems in all permanent offices to compact fluorescent solutions that entail energy savings. 32. Reporting scope: Brisbane, Newcastle, Karratha and Perth sites. 134 135 Sustainability of the Australian business | Community Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Community Our people live and work in the cities and towns where we operate, and we are aware of the responsibility we have – as employees, customers, suppliers and corporate citizen – within these communities. Working in synergy Ansaldo STS Australia is currently managing the development and application of a series of railway solutions for customers in the mineral extraction sector, in the remote northwest region of Western Australia. Its aim is to understand, respect and adhere to the social responsibility, governance and relationships with the stakeholders of these customers, and to work in synergy with them to ensure the achievement of their social responsibility objectives. Trade associations Ansaldo STS Australia actively participates in a series of trade and industrial associations. In 2013, it was pleased to support the technical meetings of the Institute of Railway Signalling Engineers (IRSE)33 held in Adelaide, Perth and Launceston, New Zealand. It is also still a member of the Australasian Railway Association (ARA) and continues to participate in the Rail Contractors Group (RCG) to improve regulations applicable to railway contractors operating in Australia. Community support During the year, the company supported a series of fundraising activities undertaken by its customers and sponsored several employees in their individual fundraising for organisations such as the Queensland Institute of Medical Research and Kidney Health Australia. Ansaldo STS Australia was pleased to be a Silver Partner in the activities planned for the 2013 cultural partnership promoted by the Italian Ambassador an annual schedule of events to promote Italian art and culture. It also sponsored the Italian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Queensland Inc.). In its activities aimed at strenghtening business relationships and trade between Italy and Australia. Commitments for the future Timeline •C  ommunity Affairs Increase opportunities for staff involvement/participation in company’s support of social initiatives. 2014 33. Institution of Railway Signalling Engineers. 136 137 Ansaldo STS in breve | XXXXXXXXXXXXXXX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Economic performance The business model Strategy Value directly generated and distributed Customers and the market Shareholders 138 139 Economic performance Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Economic performance The business model Ansaldo STS’ abilities and organisation fully meet the need to innovate to boost transportation efficiency and safety Ansaldo STS’ economic sustainability is its strategic answer to the macroeconomic context and and reduce environmental impact. transportation market trends, based on a business model that develops distinctive abilities and Ansaldo STS is, indeed, a company that operates on a global market. It boasts great flexibility in meeting the necessary skills to boost the company’s competitiveness on markets growth in human and international demand and is open to new markets. It carries out research and development for transportation organisational capital. solutions that focus in particular on the environment and safety. It facilitates the standardisation of solutions, while also developing the ability to create customised products for different customer needs. It has the necessary Ansaldo STS also recognises the importance of a balanced distribution of value generated by its financial soundness to meet future challenges, lead innovation and make the most of growth opportunities by activities with stakeholders, a value that they have directly or indirectly contributed to generating. promoting new projects. Ansaldo STS’ business model is customer based, and enables it to forge fruitful, longlasting relationships at global level. By analysing the value distributed, Ansaldo STS highlights the flow of resources to its employees and suppliers of goods services and capital, to the public administration and the communities in which it is present. ANSALDO STS’ BUSINESS MODEL Economic sustainability is therefore increasingly tied to social and environmental aspects, both at company level and in terms of market scenarios. Ansaldo STS has evaluated the repercussions Technological leadership No dependent rolling on transportation systems that macrotrends involving variables related to the environment, in terms of safety and the environment stock supplies health and safety, demographic growth and economic development in emerging countries and Ansaldo STS offers integrated solutions based on technological only privileged partnerships leadership in terms of safety and the environment and holds Ansaldo STS is capable of aligning the result is that the global transportation market will shift ever more towards railways that are a predominant technical leadership position in certain market its solutions to any rolling stock supplier safe, efficient and capable of meeting growing environmental concerns. segments (ERTMS, driverless, mass transit, HSL, etc.). and is flexible in the design and creation of the selected solution. General Contractor Technological THE MARKET CHARACTERISTICS AND ANSALDO STS’ POSITION Solid roots and growth Integrator A partner throughout the wherever the demand is e customer’s entire value chain Historical technological leader in the western tur Ansaldo STS is leader in the supply of The market and its evolution ruc world, growth in emerging market economies, Signall cutting-edge integrated transportation er s Vehicle Othstem ast non restrictions to investments in R&D, solutions by combining traditional and Ansaldo STS’ market remains sound and shows global growth rates of around 2% to 3% per annum. The key market drivers remain Infr s sy Sub continuous monitoring of deadlines ing non-traditional technologies and operation positive: growth in global trade and growing traffic, urbanisation, environmental concerns, expanding emerging markets, infrastructures and budget. and maintenance services. and intermodal transport. In part due to urbanisation trends, emerging markets are growing faster than highly industrialised nations, increasing their relative weight. However, there are also sound growth opportunities to be found in the United States and Australia as Operation and well in the signalling segment. The result of these trends is a reduction in Western Europe’s weight. Maintenance Ansaldo STS’ position Serving the customer’s Financial support to customers Ansaldo STS boasts solid roots in industrialised countries’ markets and is well positioned in emerging markets. It can meet global future needs Global organisation Ansaldo STS can leverage demand thanks to its demonstrated skills and expertise in delivering on time and according to budget. Ansaldo STS can meet the new 3,991 professionals offer its sound net financial position requirements of markets, such as driverless global research, expertise, and innovate its profitability model by freight transportation, the introduction and experience, know-how and introducing pay/per use formulas on Traditional and emerging technologies integration of extremely safe technology best practices wherever the long-term contracts and optimising the total that guarantees operating efficiency. market needs them. cost of ownership for its key customers. ERTMS, CBTC and driverless technologies are becoming global standards. Focus is now shifting to the technological innovations destined to dominate the market in the next few years, GNSSS (Global Navigation Satellite System), used in remote areas that are difficult to reach and where traffic volumes are low. Ansaldo STS’ position Ansaldo STS’ product portfolio includes traditional technologies and innovative, high-tech transportation solutions. Price pressure Competition pressure continues to intensify between the world’s leading players, triggering a significant reduction in unit prices, mainly in the signalling sector, where Ansaldo STS responds with both innovation and product differentiation, continuously striving to improve its efficiency and effectiveness by creating specific plans. Ansaldo STS’ position Ansaldo STS has built its business model around customers, ensuring product flexibility and maintaining competitive prices by standardising products and implementing efficiency-boosting projects. 140 141 Economic performance | Strategy Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Strategy The competitive advantages Ansaldo STS is committed to maintaining and developing a series of distinctive abilities and expertise that create RAILWAYS AND MASS TRANSIT value and guarantee long-lasting company growth over time. This commitment can be seen in the company’s three Leveraging its success to gain global leadership – Focusing on a sound relationship with customers, to ramp up strategic trajectories: the adoption of standards and consolidate its presence in key countries; selecting global opportunities to sustain profitable growth, how to get the best relaunch plans and the best of emerging markets. 1. Selectivity: focus on markets where it has a strong competitive position. Ansaldo STS’ growth is the result of a continuous process beginning with its awareness of its positioning Leveraging portfolio standardisation – Developing a portfolio of standard platforms that are flexible to meet the and competitive edge, the identification of market opportunities in relation to its competitive levers and their specific needs of local customers; leveraging its leadership in R&D to standardise the product portfolio; continuing translation into action plans. This process has led to the definition of strategic markets – the domestic market to focus on investments in R&D; adopting a make or buy policy for components; optimising hardware and platform and the areas in which the company has a significant, recognised presence, as well as markets presenting costs. growth opportunities, by focussing on large projects with low overheads. Industrialising delivery – Expanding its expertise in deliveries to all customers in accordance with standard criteria; improving the punctuality of deliveries and containment of costs, leveraging the implementation of the best 2. Innovation: focus on innovation as a lever to gain competitive edge for long-term growth. practices developed by the group. Ansaldo STS’ innovation strategy to increase turnover is based on improving the products it currently offers customers and differentiating its product portfolio to expand the offer, extending its business model by offering Taking advantage of the sector’s sound performance – Strengthening its technological leadership through other complementary services that meet its customers’ specific needs (management and maintenance activities) and maintenance services both in mature and emerging markets and supporting, where possible, the allocation of meeting the specific needs of customers given their particular geographical situations (complex areas with low work by introducing the formula pay/per use for the larger contracts in order to optimise the management of the traffic volumes), offering cutting-edge satellite technology solutions. customer’s total cost. Important projects and technological references – Winning major high-tech projects, including CBTC 3. Flexibility and efficiency: maintain its competitive edge by optimising the business model with a focus on the (Communications Based Train Control), driverless solutions and the punctual delivery of projects in progress in line flexibility of the offer and operating efficiency. with budget. Efficiency is one of the strategic levers in which Ansaldo STS invests to bolster its competitive position and ensure excellence in the performance of activities. To pursue these aims, it has launched an improvement Local activities and global knowledge – Professionalism in the local management of activities is the key to programme that covers all company areas and exploits the opportunities arising from its global organisation. projects that meet commitments assumed, along with having processes and tools to efficiently share the know-how acquired at global level. Agreements and local arrangements with civil partners and key suppliers are also crucial in In order to ensure the implementation of all efficiency initiatives, and, in general, all strategic initiatives, Ansaldo negotiations and success on various markets. STS has developed an Action Implementation Monitoring (AIM) system. Through AIM, the following have been defined: Financing to exploit sector opportunities – Certain projects require financial packaging (PFI/PPP) with the • the definition process for action and monitoring plans; commitment to assume an equity interest; leveraging the company’s financial soundness to support concession • the governance rules to ensure the frequency of review meetings focused on initiatives and the identification projects, which could also give rise to operation and maintenance opportunities. of any corrective action in the event of critical areas; • tools to support management of the initiatives. Multi-disciplinary and interdisciplinary expertise – With its experience in a variety of roles within different projects, Ansaldo STS has expanded its expertise in complementary and transversal areas as well, developing a complete, The contribution that Ansaldo STS expects of AIM is: unique vision of transportation systems over their entire life cycle. • completeness: having a consistent, updated picture of all initiatives underway; • consistency: doing what has been proposed and following up on it until implementation; Maximising local content – In its projects, Ansaldo STS tends to maximise the local procurement of materials, • initiatives explicitly linked to company plans. services and labour, in order to be increasingly competitive and contribute to the development of local economies, including in emerging countries. Data on the Taipei and Honolulu projects are given below as an example of this approach: • Taipei local content: roughly 80% of total design and construction costs; •H onolulu local content: roughly 93% of total design, construction, operating and maintenance costs. This is very high because the project also includes several years of O&M in which local personnel used reaches nearly 100%. FREIGHT A specific organisational division – Created with the aim of capturing a global business, by leveraging on the experience that has already been tested considerably at local level in projects like Rio Tinto and Roy Hill. 142 143 Economic performance | Value directly generated and distributed Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report A dedicated team based in two key geographical segments – Through its solid presence in Australia and the US, •a  pproximately €42.6 million to the tax authorities and other local bodies for direct and indirect taxes; traditionally the two most important markets for the freight segment, Ansaldo STS plans to lay the foundation for • €40.6 million to lenders for interest and commissions, financial expense and operating exchange rate global expansion of its freight opportunities. differences; • €28.8 million to shareholders in the form of dividends34; Innovative technological solutions – Given the significance of the solutions developed for Rio Tinto and Roy • €1.3 million to the community in the form of gifts, external donations and sponsorships (with or without Hill, two of its most important freight customers, Ansaldo STS is poised to become a leader in this sector and a publicity). benchmark for competitors. 2013 VALUE DISTRIBUTED (%) Value directly generated and distributed 3.5 3.3 0.1 Operating costs (purchases, services and investments) Ansaldo STS recognises the importance of balancing the distribution of value generated by its activities to stakeholders, the value that they have directly or indirectly contributed to generating. 2.3 Employees Shareholders Lenders By analysing distributed value, Ansaldo STS studies the flow of resources directed towards its employees, suppliers, Public administration service providers, lenders, the public administration and the communities in which it is present. External donations and sponsorships VALUE DIRECTLY GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (K€) 2013 2012 2011 25.2 65.6 Value generated 1,293,935 1,289,800 1,258,279 Revenue 1,256,419 1,247,849 1,211,944 Other revenue 15,766 21,314 19,578 Customers and the market Financial income 21,658 20,637 26,757 Customer satisfaction is central to Ansaldo STS’ strategy: the ability to understand customers’ needs and Profit from non-current assets held for sale 92 expectations and meet them is the top value on which it bases its company culture. In general, each customer has a contact at Ansaldo STS, a specific Project Manager overseeing its contract and responsible for ensuring the Value distributed 1,229,102 1,219,453 1,198,803 customer is satisfied, responding to any issues that might arise over the course of the contract. Operating costs (procurement, services and investments) 806,302 802,121 784,495 The organisation of proposal activities and project management are fundamental to carrying out a project that Employee remuneration 309,454 311,988 296,560 meets the quality requirements of the products and services offered and in order to provide them according to Shareholder remuneration 28,800 28,000 33,592 deadline and budget restrictions. To this end, project management is a vital tool in protecting the interests of Ansaldo STS’ stakeholders, including shareholders, who are mainly focused on the results of the business, and Lender remuneration 40,644 34,128 37,827 its customers, who want to receive top quality responses according to established schedules in line with the Public administration remuneration 42,577 41,756 44,818 transportation needs of a city or the community at large. Donations and sponsorships 1,325 1,460 1,511 In this area, the most significant development in market dynamics in recent years has entailed the progressive shift Value withheld 64,833 70,347 59,476 from the provision of products and technologies to customers’ demand for transportation solutions that efficiently Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses and adjustments 18,818 22,651 20,012 meet the needs of local and national institutions. This new type of offer requires an ability to work alongside customers, who are increasingly less frequently considered buyers and ever more partners, in the management Self-financing 46,015 47,696 39,464 of a project throughout its entire life cycle, taking action, if necessary, in project financing initiatives as well, and thereby with private sources of funding, and consequent involvement in not only the design and construction, but The value generated by the Group reached approximately €1.294 billion, up roughly 0.3% on 2012. The increase is the subsequent management and maintenance of solutions as well. due to the slight growth in revenue from sales and services. Ansaldo STS operates with customers mainly consisting of public institutions on long-term projects. It is therefore The value withheld by the company amounts to €64.8 million, and mainly consists of amortisation, depreciation, affected by myriad external factors such as the macroeconomic scenario and the consequent availability of sources impairment losses and accruals to provisions for risks, along with the self-financing that was generated. of financing and the need to operate, especially in terms of urban public transportation projects in city centres with many interferences that could impact the steady performance completion of a project. €1.229 billion was distributed among the following stakeholders: • most value, or roughly €806.3 million, relates to costs incurred to purchase materials (suppliers), services Clearly, in a context such as this, project management skills and processes are essential for the achievement (contractors and sub-contractors) and other goods; of the pre-determined objectives and to ensure sustainability with stakeholders. To this end, it is necessary to • approximately €309.4 million to employees, mainly for wages, salaries, social security and pension contributions identify and monitor any uncertainties typical of the business and, more in general, to manage risks. In accordance and defined contribution plans; 34. The most indicative data for the distribution of value would have been dividends on the profit for 2013. However, this figure was not available before the shareholders’ approval of the sustainability report. Indeed, at the same meeting the shareholders are to approve the dividend to be distributed on the profit for 2013. Accordingly, we deem it appropriate to publish equity distributions in the year. 144 145 Economic performance | Customers and the market Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report with the policies of Finmeccanica, Ansaldo STS has implemented appropriate life cycle management and risk assessment procedures to monitor project performance by regularly comparing physical and accounting progress TRADE FAIRS and consequently identifying any discrepancies using earned value techniques, with the resulting identification of The most important trade fairs in which Ansaldo STS participated in 2013: appropriate action plans aimed at maintaining the objectives of the project. 1. Eurasia Rail (07 – 09 March) Istanbul 2. Metro Rail 2013 (09 – 11 April) Madrid The risk assessment process provides for the identification of all significant risks already at the bidding stage and 3. UITP 2013 2013 (27 – 29 May) Geneva their monitoring throughout the entire life cycle of the project, in order to immediately identify potential mitigation 4. Rail Log Korea (12 – 15 June) Pusan (Korea) actions to be taken. Furthermore, in accordance with international best practices, Ansaldo STS directly collaborates, 5. Railway Interchange (29 Sept. – 02 Oct.) Indianapolis (US) when required, with customers to manage risks together, thereby minimising their impact, not only in terms of risks 6. Elmia Nordic Rail (08 – 10 Oct.) Jonkoping (Sweden) for Ansaldo STS, but for the end customer as well, and, accordingly, for all stakeholders. In this respect, Ansaldo 7. CPEXPO (27-29 Oct.) Genoa (Italy) STS has created standard procedures that it uses for integrated risk management with end customers. 8. CBTC Word Congress (05 – 07 Nov.) London 9. AusRail 2013 (27 – 29 Nov.) Sydney Control of project operational risks To mitigate risks relating to the quality, deadlines and costs of a project, Ansaldo STS: For Ansaldo STS, trade fairs, like all conferences and sponsorships not listed here, are one of the most important • adopts risk management processes, both during the bidding and project performance stages, and life cycle occasions for company communications and specific sector communications, as they constitute a privileged place management based on the constant comparison of physical progress with accounting progress, in addition to for exhibitioners and stakeholders (customers) to meet. For the purposes of careful preliminary planning, 12 to nine stage review processes; months before the trade fair, the External Communication and Strategy and Marketing offices establish objectives • clearly assigns responsibilities to the project manager and project controller; and, accordingly, the relevant markets. This is one of the many situations demonstrating Ansaldo STS’ dedication to • provides for managerial review of project performance (periodic reviews at the various levels of managerial external communications with respect to the market and products. It also provides the opportunity to clarify targets, responsibility) and review processes of estimates during bidding; a key step in establishing the communication strategy and method to be implemented throughout the entire year. • provides for an independent review by the risk management function; • constant control, including through suitable performance indicators that measure efficiency and effectiveness and assess the company’s maturity in the risk management process; Responsible litigation management • in accordance with the risk management process, identifies, for each project, specific risk mitigation actions and Disputes between Ansaldo STS and its customers are mainly “physiological” in nature, i.e., they mainly relate the suitable contingency plans in the contract quotation. to financial claims made by Ansaldo STS in the form of retentions for extra costs incurred within the context of works carried out in the performance of projects. If not included in subsequent amendments or riders or defined Additional action is planned to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of control processes and to harmonise on amicable terms, the claims submitted from time to time can lead to cases brought before courts or arbitration these processes, in line with existing best practices, considering the group’s various companies and different levels panels specified in the contract. The number of such cases is always below a physiological average of contracts of expertise among such companies. underway. Communications with customers Nevertheless, Ansaldo STS often tends to reach settlement agreements, considering: The main purpose of external communications is customer communications and, more generally, market communications, • settlement is a normal instrument to resolve disputes arising for retentions; in order to contribute to the creation of value, improving the way in which the Ansaldo STS brand is perceived by the many •s  ettlements represent an excellent way to improve relations with the customers involved in the relevant disputes, professionals who participate in decision-making that affects investments and main operating activities. and provide value added, where, as in the case of Ansaldo STS, the customer is usually perceived as a privileged partner with which significant long-term relationships must be established. Customer communications take many shapes and cover many channels. Ansaldo STS Communications aim to always be on time and take advantage of opportunities: to arrive in time and in the right way, when and where To this end, litigation management, as illustrated above, cannot be separated from the principle of considering the strategy requires, to meet the target customer’s informational needs, in addition to those of other potential customers’ economic and business interests in the current political and economic situation. Therefore, the stakeholders, such as partners or suppliers. approach adopted by Ansaldo STS is aimed at ensuring success not only in court, but also credit recovery in the short term, which may include conventional debt restructuring agreements with its customers. Currently, Ansaldo Digital communications are being increasingly developed, with the management of the websites and initiatives STS S.p.A. is involved in 18 civil, administrative court and arbitration cases (as either claimant or respondent), five involving social media and institutional sites (such as Wikipedia or industry sites). of which are arbitration proceedings, six of which are legal actions taken against Ansaldo STS, while the remaining 11 relate to actions taken by Ansaldo STS. Specifically, the most significant cases brought against Ansaldo STS Institutional communications target the top management of major national railway companies and the public S.p.A. are as follows: administrations of urban areas interested in transportation solutions, the operating units of customers responsible • three civil cases and one arbitration case with a total value of over €48 million, for the refund of excess amounts for performing contracts, the technical/contractual supervisory bodies appointed by customers or required by local or compensation for damage; legislation, professional associations in the sector and opinion makers. • three administrative cases for the cancellation of approval deeds for work. The objective of technical/business communication is to inform the various professionals that are most involved In terms of pending cases, Ansaldo STS S.p.A. is involved in: in qualification with customers, design, implementation, commissioning, approval, after-sales service, staff training •e  ight civil cases with a total value of roughly €300 million relating to claims for greater charges and sundry and workers’ safety at the sites. damages; • three arbitration cases with a total value of over €24 million for the recognition of receivables, greater fees, It pursues these objectives by creating a work community that, by leveraging a sense of belonging, can adjust greater charges and sundry damages. its response to the market in terms of timing and procedures, by participating in trade fairs, by appearing in specialised publications with institutional and product advertisements, along with articles detailing certain aspects, Litigation involving significant amounts is monitored quarterly in accordance with current procedures, and the flow of company publicity on the website, the publication of leaflets and broadcasting of videos for sales and marketing, communications in place ensures that new updates are immediately known and the related information is reported training of customers’ staff and workers’ safety at the sites. in order to meet company requirements. With respect to the subsidiaries, in both the Transportation Solutions and Signalling business units, there is no litigation or risks so material that they merit specific note. 146 147 Economic performance | Shareholders Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report The company is involved in one criminal case arising from a claim dated 4 March 2013 following the partial Earnings per share and dividend collapse of a building at Via Riviera di Chiaia 72 – Naples, which, allegedly could have been caused by work in The company distributed dividends for the first time in 2007 after its stock market listing on 29 March 2006. progress to build the Arco Mirelli station of the Naples metro line 6. The company holds the work concession for The distribution policy provides for pay-out of roughly 38% in proportion to the consolidated profit for the year. this project, assigned to it by the Naples municipal authorities. The company has always met this dividend distribution commitment and in 2013 proposed a dividend of roughly €28.8 million to the shareholders meeting in 2014, corresponding to €0.16 to each of the approximately Preliminary investigations are currently underway by the public prosecutor’s office. The reasons for the collapse and 180,000,000 dividend-bearing shares. liability cannot yet be established. Moreover, Ansaldo STS, has contracted civil works to third parties specialised therein. The 2012 dividend per share, adjusted to consider the fourth bonus issue on 15 July 2013, is €0.16, aligned in the two periods compared. According to the legal and insurance experts assisting the company, liability should not be attributed to Ansaldo STS, if not solely for compensation to third parties for damage. However, this risk is covered by a specific third party (€ units) 2013 2012** liability insurance policy. Basic and diluted EPS 0.44 0.45 The quantification of damage is unknown and it will be valued, on an interim basis, when the preliminary Dividend per share 0.16* 0.16 investigations are complete. * As proposed by the shareholders. ** Recalculated following the bonus issue of 15 July 2013. Reference should be made to the “Litigation” paragraph (pages 53-63) in Ansaldo STS’ 2013 annual report for additional details and information on litigation. Investor Relations Ansaldo STS’ main objective is to maintain ongoing dialogue with the Italian and international financial community, Shareholders providing sensitive information to the market in a timely and transparent manner and ensuring the correct valuation of the company, in line with its business model, strategies and targets. Ansaldo STS is the only company listed on both the Italian Stock Exchange’s main index, the FTSE MIB, for the largest capitalisation companies, and the Star segment, for top companies tat meet specific, binding requirements This is why the Investor Relations function reporting directly to the Chief Financial Officer constantly meets with the (liquidity, corporate governance and transparent disclosures). Ansaldo STS’ corporate governance system is financial community to gain an understanding of its information needs and to support top management in communication focused on maximising value for shareholders, controlling business risks, ensuring transparency to the market and decisions. The Investor Relations function is responsible for following and monitoring competitors and markets, preparing meeting the interests of all shareholders, with particular attention to smaller investors. and internally distributing the results of its research. Share capital and dividends Furthermore, each week it prepares the IR News, reporting on important news of the week. Ansaldo STS’ subscribed and paid-in share capital amounts to €90,000,000 at 31 December 2013, consisting of 180,000,000 ordinary shares with a unit value of €0.50. No other categories of shares or financial instruments A crucial part of the investors relations activities is that the brokers at leading investment banks cover the share, giving a convertible into or exchangeable with shares have been issued. clear indication of the market’s perception of the company. During their extraordinary meeting on 23 April 2010, the shareholders approved a share capital increase through a Periodically, Ansaldo STS’ Investor Relations function asks brokers covering the Ansaldo STS share to update their bonus issue of €50,000,000, to be carried out using the entire reserve for capital injections of €47,679,000 and forecasts on the financial and performance highlights. It calculates the average figures and sends them to the individual the reserve for goodwill arising on merger for the residual €2,321,000, issuing 100 million new ordinary shares with brokers who can compare them with their forecasts. In exchange for this service, Ansaldo STS gains an accurate update a nominal amount of €0.50 each. The share capital increase will be carried out by 31 December 2014 in five annual of analysts’ perception, which management can reflect upon. instalments of €10,000,000 each, consisting of 20,000,000 newly issued ordinary shares. On 15 July 2013, the fourth instalment was issued. The shares issued in each instalment are distributed with an allotment ratio for newly This underscores the attention that Ansaldo STS devotes to considering financial communications a two-way street, in issued shares calculated on the basis of outstanding share capital at the date of the increase. which it is important to gather the market’s perception and suggestions. A correct interpretation of the type of transaction has been given in each announcement, in addition to meeting In 2013, 13 merchant banks maintained coverage activities. the relevant legal requirements, with considerable emphasis on the methods of the share capital increase and explanations to shareholders/investors, also verifying that the media and other entities can report on the share. Dialogue between the company and investors also takes place through participation in meetings organised for brokers, in Ansaldo STS is managed and coordinated by Finmeccanica S.p.A., pursuant to article 2497 of the Italian Civil Code. In addition to conferences and roadshows. In 2013, three events were organised in Milan and one was held in Stockholm. December 2013, based on the records in the shareholders’ register and considering the reports received pursuant to During these events, market analyses, policies and the strategies implemented by Ansaldo STS were presented. article 120 of the consolidated finance act and other information received, the following investors directly or indirectly hold 2% or more of the company’s shares: In order to reduce costs in 2013, travel days were decreased, opting to use video/teleconferencing and visits to the company offices instead. Investor No. of shares % held Each year, Ansaldo STS organises an Investor Day. This has become an occasion to update the financial community with Finmeccanica S.p.A. 72,117,972 40.066 the aim of facilitating a better valuation and knowledge of Ansaldo STS’ share and sector. For this important event, the Altrinsic Global Advisors LLc 3,765 ,600 2.092 most important points of the mediumand long-term strategic plan are presented which, along with actual quarterly data, are the basis for periodic evaluations by analysts and investors. The 2013 Investor Day was held in Milan on 26 March at the Italian Stock Exchange, concurrently with the Star Conference, an important annual event for the financial community. 148 149 Economic performance | Shareholders Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Transparency and accuracy of information The Investor Relations function also pursues its mission by ensuring total transparency of communications and offering the market all the necessary information for investors to base their decisions on complete, correct and timely information. Accordingly, all the company’s communications entail absolute compliance with legislative and regulatory provisions, but are comprehensible, thorough and offer consistent disclosure to all investors. Communications about Ansaldo STS outside the company are made exclusively by functions appointed for this purpose and in accordance with the company procedures aimed at ensuring the truthfulness and correct disclosure of such information. Share performance and analysts’ rating The official share price in the period from 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2013 went from €6.27 (adjusted for comparative purposes following the fourth instalment of the bonus issue on 15 July 2013) to €7.85, representing a year-on-year increase of around 25.2%. The fourth instalment of the bonus issue was carried out on 15 July 2013 with the issue of a further 20,000,000 new shares, distributed to eligible shareholders in the ratio of one share to every eight held. The share’s high for the year of €8.17 was recorded on 15 November 2013 and its low of €5.93 on 13 March 2013. An average 1,122,868 shares were traded daily in the year. # of Brokers 10 10 10 10 8 9 9 9 9 8 8 8 9 100 90 8.5 80 €8.20 8 70 €7.87 60 7.5 50 7 40 6.5 30 20 6 10 5.5 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Buy + Overweight (Right) Hold (Right) Sell + Underweight (Right) Price (Left) Target Price (Left) Source: FactSet Estimates The share’s performance did not follow the reference indices, with the FTSE Italia All-Share up 17.6% in 2013, while the FTSE Italia STAR rose 55.7%. The average of analysts’ guide prices at the end of 2013 was €8.20; those of the latter part of the year in particular are similar to the year-end market price. The market continues to perceive the Ansaldo STS share as defensive and anti-cyclical, and its sector is seen to be undergoing growth in the business; this also reflects management’s ability to seize new and important opportunities at international level. Ansaldo STS S.p.A. FTSE Italia All-Share FTSE Italia Star 180 160 +55.7% 140 +25.2% 120 +17.6% 100 80 60 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 Oct-13 Nov-13 Dec-13 150 151 Sustainability commitments Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainability commitments STRATEGY QUALITY AND IMPROVEMENT SUPPLY CHAIN •E  xtend IRIS (manufacturing and maintenance) certification to the Riom and Batesburg production sites and to April the Genoa site (design) 2014 • Define, discuss and implement the medium/long-term supply chain sustainability policy and roadmap 2014 • Define a new architecture for processes and the related system KPIs 2014 • Make assessment tools and tools for sharing rating results more accessible to suppliers and launch a virtuous improvement cycle 2014 • Identify and implement new initiatives for the company’s end-to-end transformation, in line with the strategic plan 2014 COMPLIANCE & ETHICS • Support stakeholders’ focus on the SUDA (Supplier Database) as a generator of internal and external value 2014 June • Complete the integration of the general supply terms with sanctions clauses for code of ethics violations and July •P  rovide training on the organisational, management and control model, updated by the 26 June 2013 resolution of the board of directors 2014 align the terms with regulations and international best practices 2014 THE MEDIA AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS HUMAN RESOURCES • Present and expand the vision of sustainability throughout Ansaldo: organise an event to present the •K  nowledge management and knowledge owners: kick off a knowledge management project to recruit Sustainability Report 2014 Ansaldo STS’ technical talent and knowledge owners to entrust with the task of developing practices and 2014 methodologies for spreading a culture of sharing and transferring knowledge • Complete the work begun for the digital media and improve the website 2014 •P  roject Team Effectiveness: deep empowerment action for project teams on the main drivers: • Consolidate and develop relationships with the domestic and foreign media 2014 organisational visibility of project groups team building to boost cohesion and team spirit 2014 COMMUNITY identification and monitoring of specific KPI to measure team efficiency development of expertise and conduct of team members • ITALIAN AND EUROPEAN INSTITUTIONS: continue with the Italian and European research projects that are • Target and reward system in line with team success expectations underway to increase safety, security and environmental compatibility and apply for funding by coordinating 2014 new project proposals THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY • UNIVERSITIES: continue contributing to specialised training in the sector by collaborating with leading Italian and foreign universities and contributing scientifically to post-graduate master programmes 2014 •A  chieve the objectives of the environmental, health and safety plans of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified sites 2014 • TRADE ASSOCIATIONS: continue to play an active role in trade associations and, in particular, take initiative as part of the UNIFE sustainability committee 2014 •A  chieve the objectives of the environmental, health and safety plans of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified sites 2015 • COMMUNITY: continue to support social and cultural initiatives promoted by non-profit associations and institutions 2014 • Define eco-design activities to reduce C02 emissions 2014 • Print portable mini-handbooks on the application of company procedures (published on the intranet) 2014 • Reschedule the training and internal information campaign on environmental issues for 2014 2014 • Evaluate the application tools for environmental reporting on offices and sites 2014 •C  hoose and apply the following initiatives proposed within the scope of the sustainability committee • Creation of an environmental site with news on climate change, energy, water, land, food and waste • Inclusion of a carbon footprint calculator on the Ansaldo STS website • Ad hoc agreements for visits to natural parks, naturalist museums and to purchase green and energy 2014 efficient products • Voluntary reforestation projects 152 153 Sustainability commitments Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Reporting on commitments IN 2012 WE SAID… IN 2013 WE DID… IN 2012 WE SAID… IN 2013 WE DID… STRATEGY QUALITY AND IMPROVEMENT THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY • Maintain the UNI EN ISO quality system and certification. • Maintain the UNI EN ISO quality system and certification. ✔ • Define an audit plan to control significant environmental • A targeted audit plan was created to control environmental Obtain IRIS certification for the Tito production site Obtain IRIS certification for the Tito production site aspects for the SGA and the organisational model, providing aspects for sites. for key roles ✔ •C  omplete the implementation of the improvement plan, • We completed the implementation of the action plans arising – • Implementation of a database to analyse the causes of •S  till in progress. We are deciding whether to implement a tool as defined within the scope of the KORU, RT150 and Lean Manufacturing modules under the efficiency programme, as planned from the efficiency projects, with direct monitoring on the basis of the action implementation monitoring (AIM) system. ✔ environmental and safety non-conformities and define the steps to be taken to analyse non-conformities at global level. • Reduce CO2 emissions by 32% following the decrease in air • The decrease in air travel reduced CO2 emissions by 35%, as • Extend the AIM system to the defined strategic initiatives • Extend AIM to one hundred strategic initiatives defined in line with the company’s strategic plan ✔ travel they are down from 7.676 t to 5.012 t. ✔ – • Define eco-design activities to reduce C02 emissions • Still in progress •C  omplete the implementation of the improvement plan • The improvement plan was fully implemented based on the 3rd maturity level of the capability maturity model integration model ✔ • Define an audit plan to control significant environmental • A targeted audit plan was created to control environmental COMPLIANCE & ETHICS •U  pdate of the organisational, management and control • The Model was updated upon the resolution of the board aspects for the SGA and the organisational model, providing aspects for sites. for key roles ✔ model of directors on 26 June 2013 following the amendments to Legislative decree no. 231/2001 made by Law no. 190 of 6 November 2012 (also known as the anti-corruption law) ✔ SUPPLY CHAIN • Implement and maintain a governance and risk management • T he supply chain’s focus on sustainability issues was • Identify specific types of training on the Group’s code of ethics and begin implementing them • This action needs to be reconsidered. Priority was given to defining training on the aforementioned update of the – system in the supply chain that is in line with international best practices raised, as we sought to trigger a virtuous sustainability selfassessment cycle with suppliers. ✔ – • The international comparison and alignment process of organisational, management and control model. general contractual terms is presently in progress. – HUMAN RESOURCES • Define, share and implement the sustainability road map in • Ansaldo STS’ position with respect to super competitors in the the supply chain in 2013-2014 management of sustainability activities has been identified in • T ALENT – Develop specific training paths for employees • In 2013, the company kicked off a specific training and order to achieve the minimum market requirements. identified as part of the company’s talent management development project for Ansaldo STS talent. Talented trainees process were selected on the basis of a structured nomination and assessment process. These global talents were assigned two different paths in line with professional seniority requisites ✔ • Strengthen the Supply Chain body’s structure by including a • A sustainability officer has been identified and assigned a role person specifically responsible for sustainability issues in Supply Chain Support & Development ✔ and company expectations. • Roll out the SUDA (Supplier Database), which suppliers can • T he supplier database (SUDA) with a rating system was • F UTURE LEADERS – The top 20 talents were assigned 20 • 2013 was the first year of future leader training and access and which makes it possible to: gather and share implemented and training and awareness campaigns were of the company’s strategic projects. The future leaders’ growth is supported with high-level managerial training and a structured mentoring process. development, with their involvement in a high-level managerial training programme at the Bocconi (Milan) and Wharton (Philadelphia) business schools. A structured mentoring data on suppliers’ status in the eligibility and rating process; gauge the performance of suppliers and share results to create a virtuous cycle of continuous improvement carried out in the year to explain to the main stakeholders how to use the tool. ✔ process also supported each future leader in the development of his or her managerial expertise as a senior executive in ✔ • Integrate the general supply terms – which currently only • The revision is currently underway and also provides for the require signing and complying with the code of ethics based integration of the general supply and contract terms with – the company, and a structured, monitored action plan was discussed during the year. The project was widely appreciated on the organisational model pursuant to Legislative decree sanction clauses for code of ethics violations. throughout the company and enjoyed a deep commitment by no. 231 – to include clauses establishing the required the CEO, who personally followed and guided future leaders in compliance with environmental protection regulations the mentoring process. (Legislative decree no. 121/11) •C  OMPANY CONDUCT IMPROVEMENT PROCESS. Fine-tune the • In 2013, a 360° assessment process was introduced for • Extend an assessment of ethical aspects to all operating •E  thical aspects were assessed, especially with respect audits, with specific regard to human rights, ethical business to suppliers in the highest risk areas of the world. The – conduct assessment systems to measure the gaps between all Ansaldo STS executives. In particular, the assessment ✔ actual and target levels and identify improvement steps considered the following areas: team spirit, human capital dealings, conflicts of interest, corruption and discrimination systematic nature of the control process will be reconsidered development, change management and integration and following the definition, discussion and implementation of international cooperation, with scores given by peer groups the medium/long-term supply chain sustainability policy and selected for each executive, the managed team and supervisor. roadmap. • Ensure Ansaldo STS’ participation in external sustainable • In 2013, Ansaldo STS actively participated in the supply chain supply chain work groups in 2013 work group of Global Compact Network Italy (GCNI) ✔ 154 155 Sustainability commitments Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report IN 2012 WE SAID… IN 2013 WE DID… IN 2012 WE SAID… IN 2013 WE DID… CUSTOMERS AND THE MARKET COMMUNITY • F urther developing the Transportation Solutions business • The foundation was laid in South America and other emerging • MEDIA AND COMMUNICATIONS. Continue the project to •N  ew contacts were developed and an increasingly effective way unit in new emerging markets markets in Asia for upcoming participation in mass transit tenders. ✔ make the most of the company’s historical archive with the public, through other communication initiatives to present the company was identified. MEDIA: relationships already in place were managed, even when function heads changed. • Maintaining global leadership in the driverless metro sector • Leadership in this sector was further consolidated though the EVENTS: a communications process was created for each event acquisition of the Riyadh metro contract worth a total of €505 million. ✔ in which Ansaldo STS participated DIGITAL MEDIA: development activities were planned and •A  cquire a contract for a tram system without overhead lines • The first catenary free contract based on TramWave® in the international market. technology was acquired in China and additional opportunities ✔ commenced and new communications systems were implemented, including through the use of storytelling videos, institutional product presentation videos and company ✔ are expected to follow in this area. presentations in schools and universities. New channels and contacts were created. •C  onsolidate the Signalling business unit’s domestic market • The year saw a sharp increase in competition, due to both the TEAM WORK: the role of teams was consolidated in position and expand its position on emerging markets. arrival of new market players and the significant reduction in communications by coordinating the various resources by prices in the sector, which partially limited the company from – geographical segment and the different internal functions to achieving its targets. Therefore, in house programmes were increasingly support the product and business kicked off to boost efficiency, targeting a greater degree of solution and product standardisation and the streamlining of • UNIVERSITIES: continue contributing to specialised training • The following activities were carried out: 2nd level Master’s general costs, with the aim of regaining adequate competitive in the sector by collaborating with leading Italian and foreign degree in Engineering in Infrastructures and Railway Systems edge. universities and contributing scientifically to post-graduate sponsored by the La Sapienza University of Rome. ITS • In the railway sector, strengthen global leadership in ERTMS • Ansaldo STS enjoys world leadership in ERTMS technology, technology and boost its competitive position in satellite which is the benchmark technology even in non-European master programmes. “special technology schools”, post-secondary school technical training programmes. Master agreements with the Universities of Genoa, Turin, Rome, the Basilicata region and Dresden. ✔ positioning applications countries developing or updating their internal lines. The development of satellite positioning technologies is underway for contracts in place and future opportunities as well, mainly ✔ • TRADE ASSOCIATIONS: continue to play an active role in Close cooperation with the University di Pittsburgh. • In 2013, Ansaldo STS continued to pay an active role in trade for freight/mining lines and low traffic lines in general. • In the urban rail sector, strengthen global leadership in CBTC • The main successes of 2013 using CBTC technology for metro trade associations. associations. In particular, it joined UNIFE’s Sustainable Transport Committee. ✔ technology and expand its competitive position in driverless lines were celebrated in China, where work continues to expand • ITALIAN AND EUROPEAN INSTITUTIONS: continue with the • In 2013, Ansaldo STS participated in the following financed applications the transportation networks in the country’s most populous cities and scouting is being carried out worldwide for other ✔ Italian and European research projects that are underway to increase safety, security and environmental compatibility and projects: SICUFER, DIGITAL PATTERN DEVELOPMENT, VERO, SFERE, OSIRIS, MELIN, MBAT and SITRAM. In Europe, it opportunities. apply for funding by coordinating new project proposals. participated in a number of infrastructure monitoring projects (ALARP, RESTRAIL and MAXBE), safety projects (CESAR and EXCROSS) and security projects (PROTECTRAIL, SECUR-ED and ✔ EXCETERA). • COMMUNITY: continue to support social and cultural •A  gain in 2013, Ansaldo STS was involved in various charitable initiatives promoted by non-profit associations and institutions. campaigns, funding cultural and humanitarian initiatives. It donated €46,000 in 2013. ✔ 156 157 Methodological notes Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report Methodological notes The sustainability report of the Ansaldo STS Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 describes, for the fifth consecutive year, the economic, social and environmental impact of operations. It has been prepared in accordance Comparability – To enable stakeholders to analyse changes in the company’s performance, the sustainability with the updated Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued in 2011 (version 3.1) by the GRI (Global Reporting report includes comparative data for 2012 and 2013. Where meaningful, the comparative data covers the 2011Initiative). 2013 three-year period. Income statement figures, expressed in Euro, have been translated at the exchange rates indicated in the 2013 consolidated financial statements. The scope of the data is always indicated (in the text or in The application of these guidelines in the 2013 sustainability report is level A+, as evidenced by the information a note), along with changes compared to previous years. The structure of the report has undergone certain changes given in the GRI Content Index. to make it more legible and more in line with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. The most significant change in the 2013 edition is the specific chapter dedicated to Ansaldo STS Australia, as specific reporting began and will Materiality – To ensure the balanced and correct reporting of its performance, Ansaldo STS’ Internal Sustainability continue in forthcoming years. Committee has conducted a thorough materiality analysis in accordance with the provisions of the G4 version of the GRI guidelines (this is also in view of their application in the forthcoming year). The analysis methodology applied is Accuracy – Results and qualitative and quantitative data refer directly to the 2013 consolidated financial described in the sustainability report and involved not only the committee members but a panel of stakeholders as statements, while the accuracy of environmental, health and safety data derives from the certified management well, including customers, suppliers, banks, financial analysts and the community (opinion leaders, advisory firms systems (ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001) and the use of the Enablon data collection platform which the and universities), considering the countries where the company is present. It was conducted in three stages: 1. Finmeccanica group implemented in 2010. Social sustainability data have been mainly extracted from Ansaldo Identification of relevant aspects; 2. Analysis of the impact of aspects on the company’s performance; 3. Analysis STS’ operating systems. Estimates are explicitly indicated. The conversion rates used for the calculation of GHG of the impact on stakeholders’ opinions and choices. emissions are those defined by the Finmeccanica group. Stakeholder engagement – The application of this principle has led the company to carry out various involvement Timeliness – The sustainability report is prepared annually and always published for the shareholders’ meeting. activities described in the section on Stakeholder engagement, in order to define the needs and expectations of To best meet the informational needs of stakeholders, where material, events that occurred after the year end are each stakeholder category and fine-tune Ansaldo STS’ ability to respond to them. In order to better understand what also reported. sustainability aspects are important to stakeholders and how they affect stakeholders’ choices and opinions, the materiality analysis will be repeated in the years to come, with the broadening of the panel of stakeholders involved, Clarity – The report has been structured to make the information easily identifiable by stakeholders (more chapters so they are increasingly involved in the reporting process. and fewer sub-chapters). The 2013 sustainability report opens with the KPI chart and sustainability pillars and includes eight sections: Company profile; Corporate social responsibility; Environment, health and safety; Sustainability context – In the section on Ansaldo STS corporate and social responsibility, we have sought to Our people; The supply chain; The community; Sustainability of the Australian business; Economic performance. clearly define how the company interprets its sustainability in terms of the business sector in which it operates. Without losing an overall view, we have tried to describe local initiatives, reporting the peculiarities of the different This document ends with the G3.1 Content Index and the Statement of compliance. The level of detail of markets (e.g., by describing the labour market where the company is present in the section Our people). The information has been chosen in order to make the report comprehensible, accessible and usable by the various detailed update on sustainability at Ansaldo STS Australia constitutes another step in the contextualisation of this stakeholders. The document refers to the company’s website for details on certain matters, with an indication of analysis and the definition of initiatives more closely connected to local needs. This will become an increasingly exactly where the relevant documentation can be found. concrete objective given the commitment to the specific materiality analysis of this area. Sustainability communications are also particularly well managed and up-to-date on the website. Completeness – The report has been designed to give stakeholders a complete picture of Ansaldo STS’ activities. The scope of the report refers to the group, as indicated in the 2013 annual report. The issues relating to the Reliability – The 2013 sustainability report was prepared to reflect the various categories, considering the countries environment, health and safety refer to the subsidiaries’ sites that are considered material, i.e., those with more in which the company operates and has been approved by the board of directors and reviewed by independent than 10 employees. Changes in the scope of the report in 2013 are specified in the section scope of the report experts (KPMG) in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagement (ISAE 3000) of the under Environment, health and safety. In Asia Pacific, where Ansaldo STS is present through a joint venture, its International Auditing and Assurance Standard Board (IAASB). KPMG was involved in the various stages of the employees make up 40% of personnel: the figures relating to this region are estimated (calculated considering 40% reporting process in order to facilitate its review, in a constructive climate of collaboration. of total personnel in the region). Balance – In describing the results of Ansaldo STS’ activities, we have sought to reflect both the positive and negative aspects (e.g., reporting on objectives that were not achieved or that were only partially achieved in 2013, with respect to the commitments made) to give a balanced view of overall performance. 158 159 GRI CONTENT INDEX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI code Indicator Cross-reference Reported Direct answer 3.9 Techniques used to measure data and the bases for Fully Methodological notes (pages 158-159); footnotes and table notes calculations, including the assumptions and techniques underlying estimates applied to calculate indicators and GRI Cross-reference prepare other information in the report code Indicator Reported Direct answer 3.10 Changes with respect to the previous sustainability report Fully There was no change to the information included in previous STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures reports. 1 Strategy and analysis 3.11 Significant changes since the previous reporting period Fully Methodological notes (page 158); Environmental performance (pages 62-63); there were no material changes in the objectives, 1.1 Statement of the highest authority on the importance of Fully Letter from the Chairman and CEO (pages 4-5) scope or measurement methods used in the report since the previous sustainability for the organisation and its strategy reporting period. 1.2 Main impact, risks and opportunities Fully Climate change (page 58) Consolidated financial statements 3.12 Table indicating the content of the sustainability report Fully Methodological notes (page 158); GRI Content Index (page 160) (pages 23-26) The Internal Sustainability Committee has analysed the risks and opportunities of material sustainability aspects (qualitative 3.13 Policies and practices to obtain external assurance on the Fully Independent auditors' report (page 171); Methodological notes description, stakeholders concerned, risk management methods by the report (page 158) company and the opportunities created by sound management). 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 2 Organisation Profile 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Fully Corporate Governance (pages 38-40, 43-46) 2.1 Name of the organisation Fully Ansaldo STS in brief (page 1) 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman also holds an executive Fully Table (page 40); Non executive directors (page 42) 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services Fully Business lines (page 11); The main products conceived and position undergoing development (pages 34-35) 4.3 Independent and/or Non executive directors Fully Table (page 40); Non executive directors (page 42); Independent of 2.3 Operating structure of the organisation Fully Ansaldo STS around the world (pages 12-13); Organisational directors (page 42) structure (pages 48-50); Methodological notes – completeness 4.4 Mechanisms available to the shareholders and employees Fully Internal Sustainability Committee (page 21); Materiality analysis (page 139). Ansaldo STS is present in Asia Pacific with a joint to provide recommendations or directives to the highest (pages 22-24); Appointment of the BoD (page 41); Internal control venture; 40% of the joint venture’s personnel is hired as employees. corporate governance bodies and risk management system (supervisory body) (page 47); Trade 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Fully Ansaldo STS around the world (page 12) unions – Strategic observation (page 96); Reports to the supervisory body; Reports to the supervisory bodies for the code of ethics at the 2.5 Countries of operation Fully Ansaldo STS around the world (pages 12-13); Main projects (page 14) legal entities; Reports to the Secretary of the BoD (who presents the claims sent to managers from employees during BoD meetings) 2.6 Ownership structure and legal status Fully Share capital (page 148). Ansaldo STS is a company limited by shares. 4.5 Relationship between remuneration for members of the Fully Directors' fees (pages 44-45); Performance based incentive board of directors, managers and junior managers with the systems (page 83). At present, there is no system in place linking 2.7 Markets served Fully Company profile (pages 10-14) performance of the organisation (including environmental and remuneration to the company's environmental performance. social performance) 2.8 Size of the organisation Fully Ansaldo STS around the world (page 12-13); Main projects (page 14); Our people (page 76); Share capital and dividends (page 148); 4.6 Activities in place with the board of directors to ensure that no Fully Independent of directors (page 42). Report of the board of directors Consolidated financial statements (pages 40-41) conflicts of interest arise on the Corporate Governance system and the implementation of the code of conduct for listed companies (2013). 2.9 Significant changes in the reporting period Fully There were no material changes in 2013. Environmental performance (page 58); Share capital (pages 147-148) 4.7 Procedure to determine the qualifications and experience Fully Directors' requirements and duties (pages 41-42) required of members of the board of directors 2.10 Recognition/awards received in the reporting period Fully Carbon Disclosure Project (page 62); Digital communication: KV Webranking Best Improver award first place for industrial sector 4.8 Definition of the mission, values, code of conduct and Fully Mission, Core Values (page 25); Code of ethics (page 26); Internal and the country of Italy (page 116) principles prepared within the organisation and relevant for Sustainability Committee (page 22); IMS – Integrated Management economic, environmental and social performance and the System for the Environment, Safety and Quality (pages 29 and 553 Report parameters status of their implementation 56); Internal control and risk management system (page 47) 3.1 Reporting period Fully Methodological notes (page 158); 4.9 Board of directors control procedures, the methods of Fully The Internal Sustainability Committee is responsible for these activities identifying and managing economic, environmental and social and reports to the Chairman and CEO. In turn, the Chairman and CEO 3.2 Date of publication of the previous sustainability report Fully Methodological notes (page 158); The 2012 sustainability report was performance, including significant risks and opportunities and report to the BoD, which approves the Sustainability Report published in May 2013 compliance with international standards, codes of conduct and stated principles 3.3 Frequency of reports Fully Methodological notes (page 158); annual 4.10 Procedures for assessing the performance of the board of Fully Board of directors activities and assessment of its functioning 3.4 Useful contacts and address for requesting information on the Fully (page 175) directors, specifically in terms of economic, environmental and (pages 37-38). The assessment system for the performance of the sustainability report social performance BoD does not currently include environmental and social performance aspects. 3.5 Process for the definition of the content of the sustainability Fully Materiality analysis (pages 22-24); Methodological notes (pages report 158-159) 4.11 Explanation of the organisation’s potential application of the Fully Product liability (pages 31-32). Ansaldo STS takes a prudent principle (or approach) of prudence approach to managing environmental, health and safety issues 3.6 Scope of the sustainability report Fully Methodological notes (page 158); Environmental performance (environmental policy, page 48 – commitment to fighting climate (pages 62-63) change, page 58 – the health and safety policy, page 66 3.7 Specific limitation of the objective or scope Fully Methodological notes (page 158); Environmental performance 4.12 Signing or adoption of codes of conduct, principles and forms Fully Global Compact (page 27); Fondazione Global Compact Network of the sustainability report (pages 62-63); Recruitment and hiring (page 81) developed by external bodies/associations in relation to Italy (page 30); Carbon Disclosure Project (page 62) 3.8 Information on associates Fully Ansaldo STS around the world (pages 12-13); Methodological notes economic, social and environmental performance (page 158); Environmental performance (pages 62-63); there were no changes that would affect comparability 160 161 GRI CONTENT INDEX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report GRI Cross-reference GRI Cross-reference code Indicator Reported Direct answer code Indicator Reported Direct answer 4.13 Participation in national and international trade associations Fully Trade associations (page 112); Ansaldo STS participates in the EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Fully Climate change (page 58). Ansaldo STS is not subject to particular UNIFEìs Sustainable Transport Committee organisation’s activities due to climate change financial risks resulting from climate change, but instead derives opportunities: 4.14 List of stakeholders with which the organisation is involved Fully Stakeholder engagement (pages 30-31) 1. in terms of business development, as it operates in the railway transportation sector and is committed to seeking solutions and 4.15 Principles for the identification and selection of main Fully Stakeholder engagement (pages 30-31); Materiality analysis (pages products capable of reducing energy consumption (pages 29-31); stakeholders with which to undertake involvement activities 21-24). Ansaldo STS is open to involving stakeholders through analyses 2. in terms of management, thanks to its commitment to reduce its and projects defined by the various functions and discussed by Internal energy consumption, to incentivise ecologically compatible forms of Sustainability Committee. transportation (car pooling and car sharing) and to reduce air travel and waste production. 4.16 Approach to the involvement of stakeholders, specifying the Fully Stakeholder engagement (pages 30-31); Customer satisfaction Estimate (point 1): tied to forecasts of business growth frequency by the type of activities developed and stakeholder (pages 31-33); Global Employee Survey (pages 33-34); 360° http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/en/investor-relations/strategy/2013group assessment (page 30); Future Leaders project (pages 85-86); 2015-targets Packages/subcontracts (page 105); Research projects (page 111); Estimate (point 2): Energy efficiency (page 64) Partnerships with universities (page 113); Investor Relations (page 149) EC3 Coverage of obligations assumed when the pension plan was Fully Pension plan (pages 93-95); Reference should be made to the defined (benefit plan obligations) consolidated financial statements for information on post-employment 4.17 Key issues and critical points that arose in the involvement of Fully Materiality analysis (pages 22-24); Customer satisfaction (pages benefits (page 71) stakeholders and organisation’s response 31-33); Global Employee Survey (pages 33-34); 360° assessment (page 84) EC4 Significant financing received from the public administration Fully Investments in research and development and intellectual property rights (page 37) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) EC5 Ratio of standard remuneration of newly-hired employees to Fully Fair remuneration (pages 88-89). Ansaldo STS assesses the DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC local minimum remuneration at the most significant sites worldwide consistency of responsibilities and remuneration, without Aspetti Economic performance (page 140); Market presence (pages distinguishing between countries, sex, culture, etc., in accordance 12-14); Indirect economic impacts (Direct answer EC 6-7-8-9). with the company's values, which protect and promote the equality of all people in all ways. This is why salaries cannot be lower than local DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Environmental, health and safety sustainability With respect to minimums, even for the newly hired. By “local” Ansaldo STS means environmental issues related to site activities, Ansaldo STS operates the geographical area where it is based in which the cost of living is in accordance with an environmental management procedure that consistent. begins with an initial environmental analysis at the start of the scheduled work to elaborate and discuss with subcontractors the EC6 Policies, practices and spending percentage concentrated on Fully Types of purchases (page 102); Supply chain sustainability policy activities, followed by an environmental monitoring plan to continuously local suppliers for the most important operating sites (page 104). Ansaldo STS always tends to procure materials, services ensure legal compliance and take advantage of all opportunities to and labour mostly on local markets, also with the aim to contribute to limit the environmental impact that a site inevitably entails. An ad hoc the development of local economies (e.g.: Taipei project: local content: environmental reporting system has been implemented for the Rio roughly 80% of design and construction costs; Honolulu project: Tinto site, which will constitute the basis for future applications of this local content: roughly 93% of design, construction and O&M costs). methodology to be used on the next sites as well. When the project provides for several years of O&M, nearly 100% of personnel is local. Aspetti Materials (page 65); Energy (pages 55, 58, 60-61); Water (pages 64-65); Biodiversity (Direct answer EN 12-14-15); Emissions (page 66), effluents and waste (pages 67-68); Products and services (pages 35-37); Compliance (Direct answer EN28); Transport (page 60); Overall (page 73) EC7 Hiring procedures for local personnel where activities are Fully Recruitment and hiring (page 81); Internationalisation and multimainly carried out and percentage of top managers hired in culturalism (pages 84-85). Ansaldo STS prioritises the hiring of local DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA the local community residents in the communities where it operates (when the project provides for many years of O&M, the use of local personnel reaches Aspetti Employment (pages 28, 81, 90); Labor/management relations (pages 96-98); Occupational health and safety (pages 69, 128-131); Training and nearly 100%). However, considering the internationalisation of its education (pages 82-84, 125); Diversity and equal opportunity (pages 28, 76, 95); Equal remuneration for women and men (pages 88-89) activities and business, personnel, including top management, is hired with a view of the entire world, and on the basis of the specific DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR expertise required Aspetti Investment and procurement practices (Direct answer HR1 e HR2); Non-discrimination (page 28) Freedom of association and collective EC8 Development and impact of investments in infrastructures Fully Community (page 117). In addition to the donations and sponsorships bargaining (page 28) Child labor (page 28); Prevention of forced and compulsory labor (page 28); Security practices (Direct answer HR8); and services provided mainly for “public utility”, through specified in the paragraph mentioned above, in 2012, Ansaldo Indigenous rights (pages 28, 133; Code of ethics page 9); Assessment (Code of ethics page 9, Direct answer HR 11); Remediation (Code of commercial commitments, donations of products and services STS donated 150 personal computers (out of use) to schools and ethics page 13) and pro bono work institutions in Australia and the United States. Ansaldo STS' focus on communities also entails small infrastructural and landscape DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO beautification projects beyond mere reclamation after sites are closed. Aspetti Local communities (Direct answer SO1; EC6); Corruption (pages 29-30); Public policy (Direct answer SO6; Code of ethics p10); Anti-competitive EC9 Analysis and description of the main indirect economic impact, Partially Ansaldo STS' business generates a positive economic impact outside behavior (Code of ethics p.6); Compliance (Code of ethics p.11) considering external influences the company given its use of local employees in construction and O&M and its use of local suppliers. Local labour and local suppliers are often DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR provided for (in specified percentages) by the contractual specifications: in this case, Ansaldo STS contributes to the development of the Aspetti Customer health and safety (pages 36-36); Product and service labeling (page 37); Marketing communications (non applicabile); Customer necessary skills. privacy (Code of ethics page 11); Compliance (Code of ethics page 11) STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators EC ECONOMIC EC1 Value directly generated and distributed, including revenue, Fully Value directly generated and distributed (pages 144-145) operating expense, employee remuneration, donations and other investments in the community, undistributed earnings, payments to lenders and the following administration 162 163 GRI CONTENT INDEX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report GRI Cross-reference GRI Cross-reference code Indicator Reported Direct answer code Indicator Reported Direct answer EN ENVIRONMENT EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased or managed in Fully The two sites are near protected areas: Core protected areas or areas with high levels of biodiversity • Les Ulis (France) – total area of 20,000 square metres – 40% EN1 Raw materials used by weight or volume Partially Consumption of materials (page 65). This figure is limited to certain outside protected areas offices – 30% roads and car parks – 30% grassy areas – activities: CORE components only and will be complete in the next administration, sales, electronic system testing (ISO 14,001). the protected area covers 3,000 m3 in the Parc naturel régional de la EN2 Percentage of materials used that derive from recycled Fully Consumption of materials (page 65); Ecodesign (page 36). The type Haute Vallée de Chervreuse (http://www.parc-naturel-chevreuse.fr) CORE material of acquired supplies, given the specific techniques and technologies, • Tito Scalo (Pz) – total area of 40,000 square metres – 21% plant, cannot be recycled (unless they are available on the market). Ansaldo warehouses and offices – 19% roads and car parks – 60% grassy STS is conducting an ecodesign study on pilot products in line with area – activities: manual and automated welding of circuit boards environmental requirements involving the analysis of the re-use and and occasional painting of the same (ISO 14001 and EMAS). It is 4 recyclability of materials and a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA). The km ) in Pignola (Piacenza) and the RAMSAR area (https://www.wwf. methodological approach provides for a comparison of processes, it/pignola.nt) materials and products to evaluate ecologically compatible choices. The immateriality of the site's activity with respect to biodiversity is The analysis process is performed using software and considering the due to the fact that the only biodiversity indicator in the site EMAS is: applicable legislative requirements and UNI ISO 14040 standards. number of employees abased on surface area The pilot projects could constitute the basis for future assessments and systematic applications, including with respect to the use of recycled EN12 Description of the greatest impact of activities, products and Not Not material. Materiality analysis (page 24). See also EN11. Ansaldo materials. CORE services on the biodiversity of protected areas or areas with STS’s activities do not materially impact biodiversity. high levels of biodiversity outside protected areas EN3 Direct consumption of energy broken down by primary energy Fully Energy consumption (page 63); Renewable energies (page 65) CORE source EN13 Protected or reclaimed habitats Fully Reclamation (page 68). To complete the information provided in the ADD report, the surface area affected by the reclamation of the Batesburg EN4 Indirect consumption of energy broken down by primary energy Fully Energy consumption (page 63) site is roughly 6,700 square metres. CORE source EN14 Strategies, steps taken and future plans to manage the impact Not Not material. See EN12 EN5 Energy savings due to energy conservation and improvements Not Energy efficiency (page 64). Steps taken to reduce energy ADD on biodiversity ADD in efficiency reported consumption at the Italian sites in 2013 will generate effects in 2014. EN15 Number of species listed in the IUCN red list Not Not material. See EN12. Ansaldo STS’s activities do not impact EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient products and services or Partially Product and solution safety and environmental friendliness (pages ADD protected species. ADD those based on renewable energies, and consequent reduction 35-36); Community – Research projects with Italian and EU public in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives institutions (page 111). EN16 Total direct and indirect emissions of GHG emissions by weight Fully Direct and indirect GHG emissions (pages 60-61). Ansaldo STS CORE reports direct and indirecto emissions in accordance with the EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and results Fully Reporting on Scope III GHG emissions (pages 60-61); Travel Policy provisions of the GHG protocol. ADD achieved (page 60). Ansaldo STS' policies with respect to this indicator mainly relate to mobility. The cuts in GHG production in terms of tCO2e (due EN17 Other significant indirect emissions of GHG by weight Fully Direct and indirect GHG emissions (pages 60-61). Ansaldo STS to the reduction in energy consumption) are appreciable: Employee CORE reports direct and indirecto emissions in accordance with the air travel (-2,663 t), Transportation of goods on roads (-1,207 t), provisions of the GHG protocol. Transportation of cargo by sea (-1,233 t) Car travel (-266 t).The next report will include the assumptions underlying these estimates. EN18 Initiatives to reduce the emission of GHG and results achieved Fully Activities carried out to reduce the direct and indirect production The following sites have implemented the following initiatives: Genoa ADD of GHG (page 60); Reporting on commitments made: Environment, – Company shuttle to the airport; Les Ulis, Riom and Kolkata – car health and safety (third bullet point) (page 155). See also EN5 – EN7. sharing and car pooling; Piossasco – ASTS site Turin North and South Initiatives mainly related to: reduction in consumption and increase in shuttle. energy efficiency, people mobility and waste management. To reduce energy needs downstream in relation to Ansaldo STS products, see EN6. EN19 Emissions of substances that are harmful to ozone by weight Fully Hazardous materials (page 68). Ansaldo STS does not emit CORE substances that are harmful to ozone EN8 Total water drawn by source Fully Water resource management (pages 66-67) CORE EN20 NO, SO, and other significant atmospheric emissions by type Fully Air emissions (page 66) CORE and weight EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the drawing of water Not Not material. Water is nearly exclusively drawn from aqueducts. The ADD reported two sites where it is also drawn from wells are Bangalore (India) with EN21 Total water drained by quality and destination Fully Water resource management (page 67) 1,851 m3 and Piossasco (Italy) with 40,000 m3 of presumed water CORE drawn solely for irrigation purposes in the grassy areas of the site EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Fully Waste production and management (pages 67.68). The next report EN10 Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water Fully In general, Ansaldo STS does not have processes or production cycles CORE will provide data on the types and methods of information disposals not ADD that reuse water. managed directly by the company. EN23 Total number and volume of significant dumping Fully Environmental non-conformities and complaints (pages 68-69). CORE Nothing material to report. EN24 Weight of waste classified as hazardous under the Basel Partially Waste production and management (page 67); Environmental costs ADD Convention (attachments I, II, III and VIII) that is transported, (page 73). Total hazardous waste in 2013 was 20.06 t, equal to imported, exported or treated and percentage transported 4.3% of total waste (470.34 t). Hazardous waste is treated by external abroad specialised agencies that pick it up directly from the company. 164 165 GRI CONTENT INDEX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report GRI Cross-reference GRI Cross-reference code Indicator Reported Direct answer code Indicator Reported Direct answer EN25 Identity, size, protection condition and value of biodiversity Not Not material. Materiality analysis (page 24). Ansaldo STS’ activities LA7 Rate of work place injuries, illnesses, days of work lost, Fully Health and safety performance (pages 70-71). There were no deaths. ADD of marine fauna and flora and related habitats significantly do not impact the biodiversiy of water fauna and flora or water habitats. CORE absenteeism and total number of deaths, broken down by Only Ansaldo STS Australia reports first aid injuries (page 113). The rest affected by water drainage and dispersion caused by the geographical area of the Group reports those with more than three days of work missed. organisation The frequency and seriousness rates of accidents and the occupational illness rate were calculated using the GRI formulas. To complete the EN26 Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact of products Fully Product and solution safety and environmental friendliness (pages data provided in the report, in America and Australia there were no CORE and services and level of impact mitigation 35-36) occupational illnesses and no days lost or absent. The other reasons are illustrated in the table below (data on occupational illnesses were EN27 Percentage of products sold and related recycled or reused Partially Consumption of materials (page 66). The company's uses mixed gathered in 2013 only; this is why a comparison was not possible): CORE packaging material by category packaging consisting of paper/cardboard and wood, which is mostly Central and recycled. It was not possible to calculate the percentage of packaging Eastern Europe material that is recycled as this information is not managed inernaly. and the Western Ansaldo STS undertakes to provide it in the next report. Middle East Europe EN28 Value of material fines and number of non-monetary sanctions Fully In 2013, there were no fines or non-monetary sanctions, no non2013 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN CORE due to non-compliance with environmental regulations and compliance with environmental laws and regulations OCCUPATIONAL laws ILLNESSES Number of cases of EN29 Significant environmental impact of the transportation of Partially Travel policy (page 60); Emissions table (scope 3) (page 61). The occupational illnesses 6 1 ADD products and goods/materials used for the organisation’s energy used to transport goods and people comes from diesel, petro Total hours worked 2,158,715 414,997 585,302 183,970 activities and to move personnel and jet fuel. People are transported using cars and airplanes. Goods are transported mainly by road, ship and air. Occupational illness rate 2.05 1.09 DAYS LOST EN30 Expenditure and investments to protect the environment, Fully Costs and investments for the environment, health and safety (page Number of days lost 4,502 1,397 2,454 1,356 ADD broken down by type 73). Ansaldo STS undertakes to provide investment breakdown by type Total hours worked 2,158,715 414,997 585,302 183,970 in the next report ABSENTEEISM LA,HR,SO,SOCIAL PR Number of days absent 4,798 1,474 2,454 1,356 Total work days 317,000 69,250 150,220 38,500 LA1 Total number of employees, broken down by category, contract Partially Headcount (pages 76-80). Nearly all employees are full-time. The CORE type and location company undertakes to provide in the next report provide a breakdown by Region and gender of full-time employees LA8 Risk education, training, advisory, prevention and control Fully Training (pages 82-83); Travel Tracker: travelling safe at Ansaldo CORE programmes to support workers, their families or the STS (page 93). Safety in the workplace (pages 128-132). Ansaldo LA2 Total workforce and turnover rate, broken down by age, sex and Fully Headcount (pages 76-80) community, with respect to disorders or serious illnesses STS does not have any workers involved in professional activities with a CORE geographical area high incidence or high risk of specific illnesses. There are no education/ training, risk prevention/control and care programmes for workers' LA3 Full-time employee benefits, but not for part-time employees or Fully People Care (pages 90-93). The reported benefits refer to employees families or members of the community. ADD those with closed-ended contracts, broken down by the main working under both open-ended and fixed-term contracts, and not production sites include company credit cards. LA9 Formal agreements with the unions on health and safety Fully In most countries in which Ansaldo STS operates, national labour ADD agreements govern workers' health and safety. In Italy, these aspects LA4 Percentage of employees covered by national labour Fully Employees covered by national labour agreements (page 98). To are included in the national labour agreement. The aspects covered by CORE agreements complete the data provided in the report, the total percentage covered such agreements relate, inter alia, to the following: is 54.1%. • health and safety in the work place risk assessment; • prevention and management of emergencies; LA5 Minimum period of notice for organisational changes, Fully Prior notice in the event of organisational changes (page 98) . The • environmental protection; CORE specifying whether such conditions are included in the national number of weeks of prior notice applied by Ansaldo STS refers to the • monitoring of anti-injury data; labour agreement provisions of the national labour agreement.. • proposing new initiatives to update workers on any specific risks and/or issues relating to site environmental impact. LA6 Percentage of workers represented in the health and Fully In 2008, Finmeccanica created a corporate Health and Safety ADD safety committee, composed of management and worker Committee within the central Human Resources function, in which LA10 Average annual hours of training per employee, broken down Fully Training and development (page 83) representatives, established to control and advise on Ansaldo STS, as a group company, participates. The Committee, which CORE by worker category programmes to protect workers’ health and safety meets regularly, is particularly committed to sharing, upholding and spreading all health and safety expertise and experience throughout LA11 Programmes to manage skills and promote progressive Fully Training and development (pages 82-84) the Group. The Committee represents a total of 10% workers. ADD training/updates to support the continuous employment of Ansaldo STS also holds meetings pursuant to article 35 of Legislative employees and manage the final stage of their careers decree no. 81/08, in which the employer (or a representative), the Prevention and Protection Service Manager, Doctor, Safety Officer and LA12 Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance Fully Training and development (page 84). 95% of employees receive Workers' Safety Representative participate. The meeting is called at ADD and career development assessments performance and career development assessments. least once a year and represents 100% of the employees of the Italian group companies to which Legislative decree no. 81/08 applies. LA13 Breakdown of the company’s corporate governance bodies and Fully Board of directors (page 40). Headcount (pages 76-80); Minority CORE breakdown of employees by sex, age, protected categories and groups, the diversity (page 95). other indicators LA14 Ratio of men’s base remuneration to women’s base Fully Fair remuneration (pages 88-89) CORE remuneration for the same category LA15 Return to work after parental leave by gender Partially Parental leave (page 95). It will be possible to calculate the return rate CORE and retention rate of employees after parental leave, broken down by gender beginning in the next year because the data gathered in 2012 was partial. 166 167 GRI CONTENT INDEX Ansaldo STS | 2013 Sustainability Report GRI Cross-reference GRI Cross-reference code Indicator Reported Direct answer code Indicator Reported Direct answer HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Fully Code of ethics (page 10). The final evaluation of Ansaldo STS partners SO1 Percentage of operations involving local communities, impact Fully Stakeholder engagement (pages 30-31); Copenhagen metro CORE agreement that include human rights clauses or that are considers the code of ethics, in which the company undertakes to CORE assessment and programme development customer satisfaction (pages 32-33); Agreements with universities subject to human rights screening abstain from dealings with entities that violate human rights protection (page 113); Community (page 117); Community (page 136). When and labour regulations and laws. The code of ethics is part of the ASTS holds the concession for the entire rail transportation project, contractual documentation. Ansaldo STS does not currently perform it involves and collaborates with the different types of stakeholders human rights assessments. By 2014, it will complete the integration concerned through each stage of the work, from presentation and of its general terms for supply agreements with clauses providing for approval through roll out and/or O&M. As required by the law, it sanctions in the event of code of ethics violations. performs environmental impact assessments and assessments of the impact on workers’ health. HR2 Percentage of main suppliers and subcontractors subject to Fully Supply chain sustainability (page 104); Vetting and eligibility of CORE human rights inspections and action taken suppliers (pages 104-106). Sustainability commitments– Supply SO2 Percentage and number of internal divisions monitored for Fully Anti-corruption and the prevention of corporate crimes (pages 29chain (pounts 1 and 4 page 153); Code of ethics (page 10) Ansaldo CORE corruption risks 30). Risk control and management system (page 47) Community STS is committed to defining, discussing and implementing a supply – Procedure for Sponsorships, publicity campaigns and contributions chain sustainability roadmap to promote a sustainable business to associations and bodies (page 110). With the extension of the culture with its suppliers; this will progressively improve the economic, application of the code of ethics to all group companies, all internal environmental and social impact (labour and safety practices, divisions at risk are monitored. In the next report, Ansaldo STS will also respect for human rights and development of the local communities) report on the number of internal audits performed. throughout the supply chain. Ansaldo STS does not currently perform human rights assessments. By 2014, it will complete the integration SO3 Percentage of workers who have received training on the antiFully Anti-corruption and the prevention of corporate crimes (pages 29of its general terms for supply agreements with clauses providing for CORE corruption policies and procedures of the organisation 30). Ansaldo STS undertakes to provide data in the next report on the sanctions in the event of code of ethics violations. percentage of managers and other non-manager employees operating in activities considered to be at risk who have received training in this HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Fully Training and development (page 82); Training on the code of ethics respect. CORE that relate to all significant human rights issues for the (page 26) organisation and the percentage of trained workers SO4 Steps taken in response to incidents of corruption Fully Risk control and management system (page 47) There were no CORE incidents of corruption. HR4 Total number of incidents relating to discrimination and Fully In 2013, there were no reports regarding incidents of discriminatory CORE measures taken practices or relating to serious breaches of the code of ethics SO5 Positions on public policy, participation in the development of Fully Trade associations (page 112) Global Compact – Human rights (page 28) – Labour (page 28). CORE public policies and lobbying Internationalisation and multiculturalism (pages 84-85). 2013 was an important year in terms of the consolidation of the personnel SO6 Total financial contributions and benefits to political parties, Fully “The company does not provide any direct or indirect contributions of internationalisation process implemented by the company, which is ADD politicians and related institutions by country any kind to political parties, movements, committees or organisations constantly committed to maintaining and developing a global and or their representatives or candidates, except for those due under multicultural work place. specific provisions of law (Code of ethics, page 10) HR5 Identification of activities in which the freedom to associate Fully Global Compact – Labour (page 27). Trade unions (pages 89-91). SO7 Total number of legal cases relating to unfair competition, antiFully There were no incidents in this respect. CORE and national labour agreements could be exposed to Supply chain sustainability (pages 94-95). Ansaldo STS has not ADD trust and monopolist practices and related judgements significant risks and measures take to protect these rights identified suppliers that violate workers’ association rights. SO8 Monetary value of significant sanctions and total number of Fully There were no monetary or non-monetary sactions due to nonHR6 Identification of operations at high risk of use of child labour Fully Global Compact – Labour (page 28). Supply chain sustainability CORE non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and compliance with laws or erguations in 2013. CORE and measures taken to eliminate it (page 104); Vetting and eligibility of suppliers (page 104-106). regulations Sustainability commitments – Supply chain (points 1 and 4, page SO9 Operations with a significant current or potential negative Fully There are no activities with material negative, potential or effective 153). Ansaldo STS does not have suppliers or activities believed to CORE impact on local communities impact on local communities. present risk of child labour. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented for Not Not applicable since there are no activities with material negative, HR7 Activities at high risk of forced labour and measures taken to Fully Global Compact – Labour (page 28). Supply chain sustainability CORE operations with a significant current or potential negative reported potential or effective impact on local communities. CORE eliminate it (pages 104); Vetting and eligibility of suppliers (pages 104-106). impact on local communities Sustainability commitments – Supply chain (points 1 and 4, page 153). Ansaldo STS does not have suppliers or activities believed to PR1 Stages in the life cycle of products/services whose impact on Fully Product liability (page 37). There is a methodology in place to control present risk of forced labour. CORE health and safety is assessed to promote improvement and safety risks, and it is in line with regulations and standards (which the percentage of the main categories or products/services are “labelled” on the product) applicable to all products and systems. HR8 Percentage of safety personnel who have received training on Partially Human resources – Training and development (page 82); Training subject to such procedures. Reporting on the PR1 indicator is the same as that on the PR3 ADD procedures and policies on human rights that are relevant for on the Code of ethics (page 26). Training on human rights at Ansaldo indicator for Ansaldo STS. the organisation’s activities STS is based on knowledge of the content of the code of ethics, which involves the entire group. When new employees are hired and/or new PR2 Total number of episodes of non-compliance with legislation Fully Product liability (page 37). For the same reason as above, reporting freelancers begin to collaborate, Ansaldo STS immediately provides the ADD and non-mandatory codes relating to the impact of products on the PR2 indicator coincides with that on the PR4 for Ansaldo STS. necessary information to give them sufficient knowledge of the code of and services on the health and safety of products/services There were no accidents, consisting of deaths, injuries or damage to ethics and protocols, with particular regard to those relating to specific during their life cycle infrastructures due to defects in products supplied by Ansaldo STS. skills. None of the minor non-conformities noted internally or by customer complaints entailed sanctions or measures. HR9 Number of violations of local community rights and measures Fully There were no violations of local communities’ rights in 2013. ADD taken PR3 Type of information on products/services required by Fully Product liability (page 37). There is a methodology in place to control CORE procedures relating to information on products and services safety risks, and it is in line with regulations and standards (which HR10 Total number and percentage of operations subject to review Partially Ansaldo STS does not currently perform specific assessments of the and labelling are “labelled” on the product) applicable to all products and systems. CORE or impact assessment on respect for human rights impact on human rights, but it complies with legal provisions and Reporting on the PR1 indicator is the same as that on the PR3 national and international regulations in this respect. Supply chain indicator for Ansaldo STS. sustainability (page 104); Sustainability commitments – Supply chain (points 1 and 4, page 153). PR4 Total number of reports of non-compliance with legislation and Fully Product liability (page 37). For the same reason as above, reporting ADD non-mandatory codes relating to information on products and on the PR2 indicator coincides with that on the PR4 for Ansaldo STS. HR11 Number of complaints relating to respect for human rights Fully There were no complaints relating to a lack of respect for human rights services and labelling There were no accidents, consisting of deaths, injuries or damage to CORE that were addressed and resolved using formal complaint by outside stakeholders or internally through reports to the supervisory infrastructures due to defects in products supplied by Ansaldo STS. mechanisms bodies of the code of ethics in each group company (sent to specific None of the minor non-conformities noted internally or by customer email addresses). complaints entailed sanctions or measures. 168 169 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Cross-reference code Indicator Reported Direct answer PR5 Customer satisfaction practices, including the results of Fully Customer satisfaction (pages 31-32); Copenhagen metro customer ADD surveys for customer satisfaction measurement satisfaction (pages 32-33) PR6 Description of policies, procedures, management systems Not Not applicable Ansaldo STS does not follow advertising and standards CORE and response mechanisms to comply with standards and nonreported and codes due to the type of activity it performs. mandatory codes for advertising and marketing PR7 Total number of infractions of legislation and non-mandatory Not Not applicable. Ansaldo STS does not follow advertising and standards ADD codes concerning advertising and marketing reported and codes due to the type of activity it performs. PR8 Number of documented reports of the violation of personal Not There were no complaints. ADD data protection rights and the loss of consumers’ data reported PR9 Monetary value of significant sanctions and total number of Fully Ansaldo STS has not received any sanction for non-compliance with CORE non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and laws or regulations. regulations 170 Advisors on procedures and reporting: For information on the Sustainability Report, please contact: Studio Badalotti per il Bilancio Sociale S.r.l. Registered Office: Via Paolo Mantovani, 5 16151 Genoa Italy E-mail: andrea.razeto@ansaldo-sts.com Strategic concept, Graphic design and Realisation: External Communications Department: Tel. no. +39 010 655 2068 Fax no. +39 010 655 2055 This Sustainability Report has been prepared www.mercuriogp.eu with the contribution and coordination of © Andrea Razeto April 2014 Vice President External Communications Ansaldo STS External Communications Dept. ANSALDO STS S.p.A. Registered Office: 16151 Genova Via Paolo Mantovani, 3 5 Paid-in Share Capital Euro 90,000,000 R.E.A. n. 421689 Register of Enterprises of Genoa Tax Code 01371160662 www.ansaldo-sts.com A Finmeccanica Company
