Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 2 Our Reporting Approach 4 Chairperson’s Message 6 Chief Executive Officer’s Message 8 Yaşar Holding at a Glance 10 Mission and Corporate Values Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group 12 Pınar Dairy 13 Pınar Meat 14 Pınar Water 15 YBP 16 Çamlı Feed and Fattening Coatings Group 17 Dyo Coating 18 Dyo Printing Inks Tissue Papers Group 19 Viking Tissue Trade and Service Group 20 Altın Yunus 21 Desa Energy Content 21 Astron Governance at Yaşar Group 22 Top Management 24 Corporate Management 26 Corporate Reputation Management 28 Risk Management, Our Risk Management Concept and Anti-Corruption Practices 30 Business Ethics Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding 34 Energy and Combating Climate Change 40 Energy Efficiency 44 Collaboration with Non-Governmental Organizations and Sector Representatives 46 Our People 62 Our Environmental Concerns and Principles 70 Our Relations with Society 78 Our Studies on Management Systems 82 Support to Development of Sectors That We Operate In 86 Our Social Contribution Projects 92 Education and Publications 100 Sponsorships and Recognitions Content 106 GRI Index and UNGC Principles Our Approach in Reporting Sustainability corporate citizens, combines and “Yaşar 2011” and “Yaşar international organizations and 01.01.2013 and 31.12.2013. this new business model with 2012” Sustainability Reports, agencies and operates in all Sustainability is defined as In addition, the content of corporate culture in order to we have taken account of the parts of the world. “meeting the needs of the the report also comprises fulfill its responsibility for future reporting guidelines of the Global current generation without Our Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Yaşar University founded by generations. Reporting Initiative (GRI) and compromising the ability of Report has been drawn up Yaşar Education and Culture the UNGC principles. future generations to meet Yaşar Group, which has with support from all related Foundation and Selçuk Yaşar their own needs.” While it is been contributing to social What is GRI? departments of companies within Sports and Education Foundation considered a part of “social development in addition to Yaşar Group and the process of and Pınar Institute. Data Reporting based on responsibility” efforts and economic development and collecting data and information generally presented in the internationally recognized increased consumer awareness creating common values shared has been handled by the report, however, are not related standards and the principles particularly over the past couple by society since its formation, Corporate Affairs Coordinatorship to those entities. The report of reliability, coherence, and of years, sustainability requires is keeping the sustainability Department. Reporting efforts only highlights their operations comparability provides a creating value in addition to a approach, inherent in its were led by the Chairperson for the purpose of sharing substantial convenience in terms much more visionary perspective tradition, at the focus of its of Board and involved the information. The new business to be shared by all. of implementation and the Sustainability Committee, operations. Following a much assessment of results. The Turkish and English versions model presented by more systematic approach members of the Sustainability With three aspects, namely of our report are accessible Reporting Team, Carbon sustainability, which economic, environmental, and to sustainability under the “Sustainability Reporting electronically in the following United Nations Global Compact Guidelines” presented by GRI Leaders, and Carbon Footprint enables us to take an social, this concept transforms constitutes an important source Teams. websites: (UNGC) signed in November life styles and business models integrated approach 2007, Yaşar Group published for organizations in that context. through increased consumer Determination of Report Content to economic solutions, awareness, demands from its Communication on Progress GRI “Sustainability Reporting www.yasar.com.tr (COP) Reports for 2009 and Guidelines”, which have been Our report comprises the environmental individual and corporate recognized and approved by projects and operations investors, assessment of 2010 shared them with its management, and social stakeholders. various stakeholders, including conducted by 11 domestic sustainability risks in funding www.unglobalcompact.org/ responsibility offers investments, and guidance governments, business companies, which are listed participants/detail/10228The Yaşar Group is conducting community, and investors is under the title “corporate unique opportunities for provided by non-governmental its operations in order to “add the sole sustainability reporting profile”, in Turkey between Yasar-Holding-Coa sustainable future. organizations. Being a part of value to life” as part of its goal framework which have been this transformation and devising under the motto “for a better globally standardized. Corporate Profile a futuristic vision to be owned life” and it shared the results by every social segment seems of its operations through those Offering a framework which Corporate Name: Yaşar Holding A.Ş. possible on the axis of the notion reports based on the principle will be voluntarily developed of sustainability. Business Segments: Food-beverages, coating, of transparency. Yaşar Group by companies and used for reporting their environmental, agricultural production, tissue paper, trade-services The new business model is constantly improving the economic, and social activities Number of Employees: 7.400 presented by sustainability, reporting systematic for its operations in addition to its related to sustainability and Date of Membership in GC: November 12, 2007 which enables us to take sustainability efforts. the results of those activities, an integrated approach Address: Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 35210 İzmir, Turkey the Guidelines is one of the Our Approach in Reporting to economic solutions, Authorized Person and Position: Dilek EMİL, Coordinator, We are delighted to present you components of Yaşar Group’s environmental management, Corporate Affairs our “Yaşar 2013” Sustainability approach to reporting. and social responsibility offers Report following “Yaşar 2011” Contact Details unique opportunities for a GRI, which is a non-profit and “Yaşar 2012” Sustainability Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 sustainable future and the organization and has a large Reports. business community, being number of stakeholders, works E-mail: dilekemil@yasar.com.tr aware of their responsibility as As with our COP Reports in close cooperation with Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 2-3 We Create Value on the Axis of Sustainability As we deal with the different responsible production as part all kinds of initiatives in order aspects of sustainability, we of “Yaşar Group’s Priority Areas to enhance women’s role in realize that sustainability is for Sustainability” which we have employment and endeavor directing us to an area far identified and made public in the to make them a part of our beyond the struggle against past. operations. climate change and minimization We are aware that we should Our excellence and sustainability and recycling of waste. be more productive in order to in terms of production is directly Our journey, which started with subsist on the limited resources connected to our suppliers. We, the signing of UNGC in 2007 of our world and to leave future therefore, expect our suppliers and crowned by our first report generations a habitable world. to meet sustainability standards published in 2009, continues. Increasing our efficiency is the and work and continue to work This journey enables the Yaşar only way to minimize/avoid with our suppliers in order to Group to take a different increasing our environmental strengthen our supply chain approach to the world, nature, footprint while growing the value for that purpose. We want to and humanity while changing that we create. continue this journey with our our way of thinking and actions. dealers, one of the outward We attach importance to the oriented faces of the Yaşar Our report for 2013 comprises development of knowledge Group, in a more efficient and actions and steps that we and skills of our employees so stronger fashion. have taken in the interest of that they perform at a perfect sustainability. We are focusing on level consistent with the “Yaşar Sincerely sustainable agriculture, animal Vision” and “Yaşar Values.” İdil Yiğitbaşı husbandry, contract farming, We are actively taking part in Chairperson of Board of Directors dialogue with stakeholders, and We are aware that we should be more productive in order to subsist on the limited resources of our world and to leave future generations a habitable world. Chairperson’s Message Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 4-5 Sustainability in Risk Management The strength and reliability of food security and food safety are are continued by our carbon our business model is one of another dimension of the risk. footprint group leaders. the cornerstones of our success. To be able to cope with global We know that our country For this reason, predicting the risks and to turn risks into does not have an infinite risks we will face in the future opportunities, we nurture and wealth in water resources. and being able to take measures further strengthen our corporate Our Sustainability Committee or contributing to measures has made the current picture culture. being taken against them is of concrete by implementing a critical importance for being Gender equality remains a water survey at our companies. able to maintain our business current issue. Considering that Areas for improvement have successfully. the human element is essential been determined and training for economic development, needs identified. Just as in Although climate change it is not possible to ensure our carbon footprint work, we appears to be a major risk, sustainable development without will through our own teams the real point is to be aware women. That’s why our Group make our calculations at the of how closely interconnected has become a member of the international standard and the physical, social and “Platform for Equality at Work”. reduce our water use. intellectual worlds are. That’s why demographic changes, the To this end, we continue to I am greatly happy to share ageing of population in Europe work closely with the Ministry of with you our activities serve and Japan, and the impacts of Family and Social Policies. sustainability that I highlighted displacements that will occur We maintain our fine work some of them herewith through due to climate change are very through the high capacity of our this report. important for us. The possible employees. Our contributions Dr. Mehmet Aktaş impacts of climate change on to the low-carbon economy Chief Executive Officer The most important step for sustainability is to be aware of how closely interconnected the physical, social and intellectual worlds are. Chief Executive Officer’s Message Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 6-7 Yaşar Holding at a Glance With a total of 20 companies, among the leading companies position and competitiveness different packaging, and 6,000 and systematic one step ahead including six publicly-traded in their respective business among Turkey’s global brands different colors under “Dyo” and and drew up “Yaşar 2011,” companies, 19 factories segments. through its overseas companies. “Dewilux” brands supported by “Yaşar 2012”, and “Yaşar and production facilities, Operating in Germany through the Turquality Program. Dyo 2013” Sustainability Reports The Yaşar Group is operating two foundations, and 7,400 Pınar Foods GmbH, Pınar’s Coating has a plant producing in accordance with the UNGC with a wide range of products employees and operating in the mission is to become a reliable auto repair coatings in Egypt (in and GRI and demonstrated from milk and dairy products fields of food and beverages, regional brand of high quality in partnership with Sipes), a plant value ascribed to corporate to meat and water in the foreign trade, agricultural the Middle East, particularly the producting construction coatings responsibility and sustainability “Food and Beverages” segment production, tissue papers, Gulf countries, through Dubaiin Romania, and Kemipex Sale, within its organization. Yaşar Holding’s under its flagship trademark tourism, and energy industries, based HDF FZCO. Marketing, and Production Plant “Pınar,” which ranks high on The Yaşar Group, which is subsidiaries listed in the Yaşar Holding’s foundations consumer preferences and has Supported under the Turquality® in Russia. one of the signatories to the were laid in 1945. Borsa İstanbul: a high market share. Leading Program, Pınar was the first The Yaşar Group’s gross turnover CEO Statement of Support Making significant contributions the industry in the fields of Turkish milk brand sold in the in 2013 was TL 3.6 billion. for “Women’s Empowerment Pınar Dairy (PNSUT) to the national economy and milk, spreadable cheese, EU. Principles” launched by the UN Conducting each of its social welfare since 1945, the delicatessen, and frozen meat and continues to provide support Pınar Meat (PETUN) The Yaşar Group’s past in the operations based on corporate Yaşar Group offers products products, Pınar also supports in that field, has also decided coatings industry dates back citizenship and responsibility, the Pınar Water (PINSU) increasing the quality of regional development through to 1927 and there are five Yaşar Group signed the UNGC to take part in the “Platform for consumer’s lives while taking its investments. Pınar Süt’s plant Equality at Work”, which has Dyo Coating (DYOBY) steps intended to ensure a in Şanlıurfa, which is scheduled companies, all members of the in 2007 and thus demonstrated been proposed by the World Yaşar Coatings Group, operating its commitment to sustainability, sustainable social development to be put into operation in 2014, Economic Forum and is being Viking Tissue (VKING) through values it creates. in the fields of construction, which is a part of its corporate led by the Ministry of Family and will contribute to the economic industry, furniture, auto coatings, tradition. In that context, the Altın Yunus (AYCES) The subsidiaries of the Yaşar and social development of the and printing ink in Turkey and Yaşar Group published the COP Social Policies. region. Group, one of the leading abroad. Consumers are offered Reports for 2009 and 2010, conglomerates in Turkey, are Pınar also maintains its leading 1,100 different products, 3,200 it took its reporting approach Food & Beverage Group Coatings Group Tissue Paper Group Trade & Service Group Foundations the most beloved flavors technological leadership environment-friendly superior service approach highly responsible the most wholesome products strong brands and production, corporate citizen the most advanced technology distrubition network innovative products Pınar Dairy Dyo Coating Viking Tissue Altın Yunus Yaşar Education and Culture Pınar Meat Dyo Printing Inks Bintur Foundation Pınar Water Kemipex Joint-stock Co. Yaşar Foreign Trade Selçuk Yaşar Sports and Yaşar Holding at a Glance (Russia) Education Foundation Çamlı Feed and Fattening YADEX International GmbH YBP S.C. Dyo Balkan SRL (Romania) (Germany) Pınar Foods GmbH (Germany) Mediterranean Trade for Paints Desa Energy Co. (MTP Co.) (Egypt) Astron HDF FZCO (Dubai) Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 8-9 Mission and Our Consumers and Customers Come First Corporate Values Our all units rapidly and precisely identify the needs of our consumers and domestic and foreign customers and take a swift, proactive, and innovative approach to meeting their varying expectations of a better life. Our Mission Offering products and services of high quality under our trustworthy Our Operational Excellence brands, which add value to the lives of our consumers. The efficient use of technology in all fields, simple business processes, a systematic intended to carry out well-defined works, and our rapid decision-making systems based on data are at the root of our operational excellence. Agility is one of our main competences. Human Resources In light of our leading motto “Science, Unity, Success,” we believe that our well-trained, experienced, and highly dedicated and committed employees who are open to all scientific advances, attach importance to exchange of information and team spirit, and have adapted themselves to success-oriented work, is one of our primary assets. Our Ethical Stand We respect social, political, and cultural values and comply with laws and business ethics and act transparently in every country where we operate. We attach great importance to integrity, open communication, and fair management. Our Environmental and Social Responsibility We manufacture our products based on an approach showing respect for the environment and the nature and contribute to creation of a Mission and Corporate Values better future. We are maintaining our tradition to support contemporary education, sports, culture, and fine arts with a view to increasing the quality of social life, being aware of our social responsibility. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 10 11 Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pınar Süt Mamulleri Sanayii A.Ş. (Pınar Dairy) Pınar Entegre Et ve Un Sanayii A.Ş. (Pınar Meat) A member of the Yaşar Group area of 100,000 square meters Pınar Meat preserves longMeat regards food safety and listed in the Borsa Istanbul, Pınar in Şanlıurfa under a decision standing customer confidence traceability as indispensable Dairy was formed in Izmir in made in 2012. The company’s thanks to its healthy and principles while renewing its 1973 and launched its operations milk processing capacity will trustworthy products of high product portfolio and it is guided as the modern milk and dairy increase 180 million liters per quality and it is the first by these principles in all value products plant in Turkey. Pınar year when Pınar Dairy’s Şanlıurfa privately-owned integrated meat chains and business processes. Dairy carries out its production in plant is put into operation in plant in Turkey, which adheres to Pınar Meat is subjected to İzmir and Eskişehir plants which 2014. The investment will make global and EU standards. internal inspections conducted have 110,075 and 150,000 m2 a significant contribution to Pınar Meat has been leading the annually by Turkish Standards respectively. regional development by creating industry thanks to its products Institute (TSE) for the new jobs and export potential. Pınar Dairy contributes to the of high quality and its innovative certification of the validity of economic development of Offering a contribution to production concept since its its certificates in addition to an geographical areas where it bringing up healthy generations formation. It has also created external audit carried out SAI is conducting its operations. and increasing society’s life brand trust and increased its Global, an independent food Aiming to increase value added quality, Pınar Dairy continues to visibility abroad. In that context, inspection firm. Points allocated created by its plants in Izmir and add value to consumers’ lives by Pınar Meat has been carrying as a result of those inspections Eskişehir, the company started means of more than 300 healthy, out product diversification, R&D, vindicate consumer trust in Pınar preparations in order to build delicious, and reliable products and marketing efforts regarding Meat. a Pınar Dairy plant on a total of high quality. targeted markets. www.pinar.com.tr Meeting consumer expectations Focused on consumer Pınar Dairy Pınar Meat by taking advantage of its expectations and needs, Pınar innovative and dynamic organization, Pınar Dairy keeps abreast of both industry-related and global developments and created trust lasting for generations as a result of its fast and effective steps. Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Supporting the economic and social development of society by means of its products, investments, and corporate principles and values, the company continues to fulfill its commitments related to sustainability. www.pinar.com.tr Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 12 13 Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Pınar Su Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Pınar Water) Yaşar Birleşik Pazarlama Dağıtım Turizm ve Ticaret A.Ş. (YBP) Pınar Water which is the first external air, in Pınar Water plants YBP handles the domestic sale subcategories to 150,000 sales Turkish water brand offered which use Class 100 Isolator and and distribution of products points. in a TSE-certificated packing Clean Room technology. produced by Pınar, the leading YBP is pursuing an extensive and has received a compliance brand of the food industry, Closely watching technological distribution strategy, which certificate from the US National through its customer-oriented advances and innovations comprises more than 100 dealers Sanitation Foundation (NSF), specialized and experienced intended to increase production and is based on efficiency, offers laid the foundation stone of a employees. Offering its quality, Pınar Water subjects customer oriented and rapid plant producing spring water in services in four main offices, water to physical, chemical, and solutions. disposable bottles, the first of its nine regional offices, 1,250 kind in Turkey, in 1984. microbiological tests at each employees, and a large fleet www.ybp.com.tr phase of production. consisting of more than 1,000 Offering water obtained from Focused on increasing the vehicles, YBP delivers more than Madran (Aydın-Bozdoğan), market share of its products, 500 products included in PınarGökçeağaç (Sakarya-Hendek) branded product categories and and Akçaağaç (Isparta) springs enhancing customer satisfaction, to consumers in Turkey and and ensuring sustainable more than 20 countries, Pınar growth, the company is Water produces bottled water constantly growing and in its plants, which adhere to maintains its leadership owed hygiene standards significantly to its competitiveness resulting above the industry standards from its high quality standards, without changing the natural logistical capabilities, and its composition or mineral content ability to transform global and Pınar Water YBP of spring water. country trends into products. Bottles are filled automatically Serving its customers through in a filling chamber, which its sale and distribution network is constantly ventilated and consisting of 499 PC and 168 prevents the infiltration of PET dealers throughout Turkey, Pınar Water also offers different Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group channels through which its customers can place orders through an order line (444 99 00), www.pinarsu.com.tr online order system, and smart phone applications (IOS, Android). Those innovative applications facilitating its customers’ lives have enabled Pınar Water to surpass its competitors. www.pinarsu.com.tr Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 14 15 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Coatings Group Çamlı Yem Besicilik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. (Çamlı Feed and Fattening) Dyo Boya Fabrikaları Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Dyo Coating) Contributing to the development and turkey production, and plant Dyo Coating has been addition to a plant producing of a modern, strong, and a nutrition. contributing to the Turkish building coatings in Romania and highly competitive animal coatings industry through Kemipex sale, marketing, and Following a production policy husbandry industry thanks to its its wide range of products production firm in Russia. sensitive to ethical values, experience gained in the past 30 for 59 years, Dyo Coating is livestock welfare, and the Dyo Boya, the first Turkish years, Çamlı Feed and Fattening active in the fields of building environment, Çamlı Feed and coating company which has has extended its operations and heat insulation systems, Fattening continues to invest been granted the first R&D launched only in order to manufacturing industry, in knowledge, training, and central certificate, also permits produce cattle feed and turned furniture, automotive, and research as part of its social customers to select among into an “Agriculture, Livestock marine coatings. responsibility and commitment thousands of colors by using and Fisheries Group” active to the growth of this industry by Dyo Coating is the only company coloring system entitled “Color through the entire food chain setting up strong cooperation manufacturing products in Spring” which allows the from farms to kitchens. with all of its stakeholders. five sub-sectors of the coating production of any color selected Leading the agriculture and industry at its plant in Çiğli, Izmir by a customer at sales point. Beydere Milk Processing Plant, livestock industry, Çamlı Feed Çiğli, which has a total area of which became fully operational www.dyo.com.tr and Fattening is operating in 67,000 square meters, and its in 2012, has started producing Çamlı Feed and Fattening Dyo Coating a large field ranging from feed plant located in Kocaeli Gebze organic coarse fodder and production, dairy farming, fish Dilovası, which has a total area organic milk in 2013. of 65,000 square meters. www.camli.com.tr Building coatings and emulsifiers are produced at its Dilova plant, which has highly automated systems and upgraded based on technological advances while Çiğli plant produces furniture coatings and varnishes, industrial coatings, auto coatings, marine Corporate Profile Food and Beverage Group Coatings Group coatings, and polyester for special purposes. Dyo Coating has also made major investments abroad and became an international company exporting its goods to many countries in the world. Dyo Coating has a plant producing auto repair coatings and furniture coatings in Egypt (jointly owned with Sipes) in Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 16 17 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile Coatings Group Tissue Papers Group Dyo Matbaa Mürekkepleri San. ve Tic. A.Ş. (Dyo Printing Inks) Viking Kağıt ve Selüloz A.Ş. (Viking Tissue) Offering its services as the With 42 dealers throughout Built in Aliağa, Izmir in 1969 as within the industry while first producer of printing inks Turkey, sale offices in four Turkey’s first privately-owned presenting hygienic and practical in Turkey since 1968, Dyo cities, and a 40% market share, paper mill, Viking Tissue joined products facilitating daily life. Printing Inks targets customers the company employs modern the Yaşar Group in 1982. The company also intends to in printing-publishing and production techniques and Viking Tissue has been operating increase its exports by focusing packaging industries. With follows an environment-friendly in the domestic and international on the sale of final products in a wide range of products production policy. markets in the fields of finished international markets. comprising all kinds of products Dyo Printing Inks produces its and semi-finished cleaning and ancillary materials used www.viking.com.tr products at its plant which is paper tissues for domestic and in the packaging and printing located at the Manisa Technology industrial use since 1996. Its industries, Dyo Printing Inks Park (MOSB) and has a total primary strategies are aimed to offers products in five subindoor space of 12 thousand grow and preserve its position industries, including newspaper square meters, including magazine inks, layer offset inks, nine thousand square meters flexographic and rotogravure allocated to production and 600 printing inks, serigraphy inks, square meters allocated to R&D and metal packaging systems. and quality control laboratories. With a capacity to produce Dyo Printing Inks Viking Tissue 25,000 tons of ink annually, the plant is the largest of its kind in Turkey and its region and one of the five largest production plants in Europe. The company offers training so that companies in the printing industry can meet global standards related to production Corporate Profile Coatings Group Tissue Papers Group and quality and increase their efficiency and customer satisfaction. It also helps its customers develop all quality processes through training programs it designs according to their needs. www.dyoinks.com.tr Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 18 19 Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Desa Enerji Elektrik Altın Yunus Çeşme Turistik Tesisler A.Ş. (Altın Yunus) Üretim A.Ş. (Desa Energy) Yaşar Bilgi İşlem ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Astron) Operating in Çeşme, Izmir spring water, which has healing Desa Energy was formed in Formed in 1983 with a view to since 1974, Altın Yunus has properties, and to health tourism 1996 as a co-generator company performing and managing the an important place in Turkish through Thalasso therapy pool in owned by the Yaşar Group. information system functions of tourism industry with its marina its SPA unit. Providing services for the the Yaşar Group, Yaşar Holding services and Blue Flag beaches. Group as a power generation Bilgi Sistemleri (Yabim)-Astron Hosting conventions, seminars, Altın Yunus is one of the largest company since 2011, Desa was engaged in the field of wedding parties, banquets, and facilities in Turkey with a total of Energy generates electricity business events throughout the hardware and software until 423 rooms in the main building and heat energy at its Pınarbaşı Astron was integrated with the year, the facility has contributed 1996 when it was merged with and marina with a total floor Power Plant which is fired by Group’s information systems to the development of Turkish Astron. area of 140 thousand square natural gas and has an installed in 2001 and it meets all IT tourism industry through many meters and 42 apart hotel rooms capacity of 9.8 mW. Searching Astron organization carried out requirements while conducting international events it hosted. located separately. It serves for investment opportunities the first large-scale SAP project its operations in accordance with winter tourism with its thermal www.altinyunus.com.tr based on renewable resources in Turkey, which was the first laws, the expectations of internal as part of its growth strategy, of its kind in Turkey. Astron and external stakeholders, and the company also offers a cost the regulations, decisions, and uses technologies, processes, advantage to its partners which policies of all companies within and methods in the field of it supplies with electricity and the Yaşar Group. It also offers information systems in order to heat energy. solutions designed to consolidate Altın Yunus Desa Energy Astron strengthen the Yaşar Group’s www.desaenerji.com.tr the business processes of technological capabilities while the Group companies and to helping the Group companies increase their efficiency. gain a competitive advantage and attain their targets. www.astron.ws Corporate Profile Trade and Service Group Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 20 21 Governance at Yaşar Group Top Management Yaşar Holding Board of Directors Yaşar Holding Name & Surname Title Name & Surname Title İDİL YİĞİTBAŞI Chairperson of the Board of Directors MEHMET AKTAŞ Chief Executive Officer FEYHAN YAŞAR Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors HİKMET ALTAN President of Finance MEHMET KAHYA Member of the Board of Directors LEVENT DAĞHAN President of Financial Affairs and Budget Control TURHAN TALU Member of the Board of Directors HASAN GİRENES President of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Group YILMAZ GÖKOĞLU Member of the Board of Directors AHMET YİĞİTBAŞI President of Coatings Group MEHMET AKTAŞ Member of the Board of Directors CÜNEYT BAŞBAKKAL Vice President of Foreign Trade SİNAN GERÇEK Vice President of Information Systems SENEM DEMİRKAN Capital Markets Coordinator KAMİL DEVECİ Audit and Risk Management Coordinator DİLEK EMİL Corporate Affairs Coordinator TURGUT SARIOĞLU Supply Chain and Logistics Coordinator SEÇKİN ŞENOL Budget Control and Analysis Coordinator Companies Name & Surname Title Top Management SERDAR ORAN Vice President of Coatings Group and General Manager of Dyo Coating AHMET ABDULLAH AKÇASIZ General Manager of Viking Tissue Paper (1) ÖZDEMİR BAHAR General Manager of Desa Energy YAKUP BENLİ General Manager of Dyo Printing Inks HASAN GİRENES General Manager of Çamlı Feed and Fattening All directors are members of the Audit Subcommittee, Subcommittee for the Early GÜRKAN HEKİMOĞLU General Manager of Pınar Dairy Detection of Risks, and Subcommittee for Human Resources and Management. HÜSEYİN KARAMEHMETOĞLU General Manager of Pınar Water SUAT ÖZYİĞİT General Manager of YBP ERHAN SAVCIGİL Pınar Dairy R&D and Investment Coordinator TUNÇ TUNCER General Manager of Pınar Meat Governance at Yaşar Group (1) Since 22/01/2014 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 22 23 Corporate Management Yaşar Holding regards corporate Pınar Water, which was included the SPK’s Corporate Management An Audit Subcommittee, management as a factor in the Corporate Management Guidelines. Subcommittee for the Early crucial to the sustainability Index of the Borsa Istanbul in Detection of Risks, and There are investor relations of companies and applies 2013, is 9.17. Subcommittee for Corporate units in all publicly-traded Management have been set up these universal principles to The roles of the Chief Executive companies of the Yaşar in the publicly traded companies its operations as a whole. Its Officer and the Board of Group. An information policy of the Yaşar Group in line with efficient and proactive practices Directors of Yaşar Holding were based on transparency and the SPK’s Corporate Management in that regard constitute the basis of value that it creates for separated from each other in accuracy has been formulated Guidelines and capital market its stakeholders and society in 2000 in accordance with the and made public so that regulations. In addition, a the broader sense. OECD Principles of Corporate shareholders, public at large, Nomination Committee and Governance. All processes and and other stakeholders are a Compensation Committee Its corporate management roles related to management and fully and accurately informed have been set up as part of Yaşar Holding structure, which is based on the organizational structure are in a timely manner and under the Corporate Management accountable, responsible, open, clearly described in “Yaşar Group continues to meet transparent, and fair behavior understandable and equal Committee. Corporate Management Manual.” conditions in accordance the expectations of adopted by the Group, is Yaşar Holding’s Chief Executive Yaşar Holding continues to with applicable regulations. its all stakeholders being constantly reviewed in Officer performs executive meet the expectations of its all Compensation and dividend accordance with the Corporate functions and he reports to the stakeholders by means of its by means of its polices of those companies are deep-rooted values and strong Management Guidelines which Board of Directors regarding all posted on their own websites. deep-rooted values was issued by the Capital Market corporate foundation and to Corporate Management operations of the Yaşar Group. and strong corporate Board (SPK) in 2003 and revised Yaşar Holding’s website features create values for its subsidiaries All employees are expected in 2005 and many provisions of detailed information about the and the public at large and to foundation. to fully comply with the Yaşar conduct its operations intended which became mandatory for Group Business Ethics Guide Group companies and their publicly-traded companies as a respective business segments to achieve long-term sustainable issued in 2009. result of an amendment done in and brands and it provides growth with contributions 2011 as well as the Corporate Yaşar Holding’s Board of made by its all employees and access to “Investment Relations” Management Communique Directors is composed of a total stakeholders. module containing detailed revised by the SPK early in 2014. of six directors, including two information about the Group’s As a result of improvements independent directors. There publicly-traded companies. made in that area, the corporate is an Audit Subcommittee, management ratings of Pınar Subcommittee for the Early Progress made by the Yaşar Dairy and Pınar Meat, both Detection of Risks, and Group’s publicly-traded included in the Istanbul Subcommittee for Human companies in terms of corporate Governance at Yaşar Group Corporate Management Index, Resources and Management management is made public were up from 8.87 to 8.99 and which report to the Board of through reports on compliance from 8.77 to 9.01, respectively, Directors. There are at least with Corporate Management by also taking account of two independent directors Guidelines, which are drawn updates done in 2014 pursuant in the Board of Directors of up for being included in annual to applicable regulations. Yaşar Holding’s publicly-traded operating reports in accordance Corporate management rating of companies in accordance with with capital market regulations. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 24 25 Corporate Reputation Management New dynamics brought about Governance and Ethics, and committees within the Yaşar all titles related to reputation. by the globalization have Corporate Values subcommittees Group companies and attended Pınar managed to secure a place encouraged businesses to reporting to the Corporate by a large number of people among the most reputable 10 create new values related Reputation Committee. aim to ensure the effective brands in Turkey in the past to the environment, society, participation of its employees. three years and reinforced its Those committees, which and individuals for its all commitment to maintaining its raise awareness on reputation The results of sector analyses, stakeholders, going beyond corporate reputation efforts. management within the Group, forming a part of RepMan the quality of products and have carried out benchmark (Reputation Management) services. At the top of those new studies about how reputation Turkey Reputation Index, values is corporate reputation management is handled in done with the support of GfK comprising the evaluations different companies and ensured Turkey are shared with the of all stakeholders about an that projects best suited to the public. “Survey on Reputation organization. Yaşar Group were developed by Management Performance of Reputation is evaluated based analyzing different structures. Industries and Companies in Yaşar Group manages on characteristics related to Turkey”, sponsored by GfK its corporate reputation Yaşar Group manages its recognition, management, Turkey research company corporate reputation in in collaboration and conducted by RepMan Corporate Reputation Management and quality of products and collaboration with its all Reputation Research Center, with its all units and services in addition to employee units and employees. Being characteristics, financial involved one-on-one interviews employees. aware of the fact that its strength, social responsibility, with 12,299 respondents in 15 employees’s opinions are very and emotional attachment. cities in seven geographical valuable, the Group ensures regions in 2013. Fourteen that its employees participate Yaşar Holding launched industries and 161 companies in all phases of corporate the “Corporate Reputation engaged in those industries were management through internal Project” in 2010 with a view evaluated under the survey. A communication. to manage its corporate total of 155 companies were reputation which it regards as Employee ownership and included in the survey conducted one of the key components commitment to endeavors in 2012 and six companies were of its corporate strategy and related to corporate reputation added to the list in 2013. The set up a Corporate Reputation contributes to its efforts in that most interesting aspect in terms Committee and a Corporate field. Thus, meetings organized of company performance was Communication, Sustainability, by the Corporate Governance that there was an increase in Social Responsibility, Corporate and Corporate Values reputation performance under Governance at Yaşar Group Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 26 27 Risk Management, Our Risk Management Concept and Anti-Corruption Practices Risk Management Our Risk Management Concept • To clearly define and maintain increase the efficiency of the Strengthen Fight on Corruption”. roles and responsibilities; risk management and control The employees of the Yaşar New customer and consumer Corporate risk management processes. These audits enable Group are required to work demands, uncertainties, is regarded as a systematic • To assess current controls in us to determine if the processes in compliance with the “Yaşar interacting markets, and process which identifies, order to avoid risks with known function in a fashion conducive Group’s Business Ethics Guide.” increased competition make it analyzes, controls, and monitors causes and results; to the attainment of the Group’s Risk Management Our Risk Management Concept Anti-Corruption Practices necessary for all organizations risks in companies which are • To design new and effective goals and objectives. In addition, to handle risk management members of the Yaşar Group. in the most effective manner. controls and putting a long-term results related to performance This management concept effective risk management and effectiveness and efficiency ! Organizations need to identify ensures that unforeseen risks risks and demonstrate how and negative effects on the monitoring process into practice. provide information about they intend to manage them as companies’ assets can be potential improvements in those This approach provides a one of the main prerequisites controlled. The objectives of areas. competitive advantage to for ensuring sustainable the risk management processes companies while assuring Anti-Corruption Practices development. Limiting risk within the Group companies shareholders that company management only to financial include the following: All companies within the Yaşar assets are well preserved and risks would, however, not Group fight against all forms • To identify existing risks by improved. sufficient in today’s world. of corruption, including bribery Operational and strategic analyzing all operations, business Internal audits are regularly and extortion and fulfill their all risks should be considered units, and profit centers of the conducted within the Group obligations to prevent corruption. a part of risk management companies; companies in order to help the In that context, the Group for organizations operating • To set up a risk management Group companies achieve their supports the “United Nations in multiple industries under structure for ensuring a targets by providing a systemic Convention Against Corruption” different business models. systematic and continuous and disciplined approach and the government’s “Strategy process; intended to evaluate and To Increase Transparency and To Corporate risk management is regarded as a systematic process which identifies, analyzes, controls, and monitors risks in companies which Governance at Yaşar Group are members of the Yaşar Group. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 28 29 Business Ethics Yaşar Group’s Business Ethics Business ethics draws a on business ethics is provided • To work in a safe work • To pay maximum attention to boundary for operating in through Yaşar Academy, the environment ensuring respect ensure that the company’s data, accordance with principles Yaşar Group’s online learning for the rights of others without assets, and records are kept and the values of society. In platform. permitting any discrimination; accurately and to treat them as societies evolving within multiple confidential and not to use them The employees of the Group • To make an efficient use of the social and cultural dynamics for obtaining a personal benefit; companies are encouraged to company’s resources; ethical guidelines ensure that inform the Ethics Committee, • To ensure that all Yaşar universal values such as equality, • To avoid any conflict of made up of a total of five employees protect social benefits transparency, and impartiality interest; The employees of are upheld by the business members, including a and respect the environment • To comply with competition during their all activities; the Group companies community. chairperson who is a director of the Yaşar Holding, three rules set forth in laws and to are encouraged to Respecting social values in the members from the Yaşar compete against rival companies • To adopt a life style that would not create a negative inform the Ethics geographical area in which it Holding’s top management, and without distorting market impression about the company operates, the Yaşar Group acts conditions; Committee about any a secretary-general, about any and not conflict with social rules in accordance with business non-compliance with or breach non-compliance with ethics and ensures transparency • To ascribe importance to both within and outside of the of business ethics by email, customer satisfaction and to workplace. or breach of business within the framework of those letter, or telephone. Any issue be always considerate and ethics by email, letter, principles. “Business Ethics reported to the Ethics Committee honest toward customers and Guide”, which was drawn is resolved within one week in or telephone. up in 2009 and printed as a consumers; accordance with guidelines laid manual and distributed to all down in the guide. employees of the Group in 2010, Business Ethics is a manifestation of the Yaşar Two issues were reported Group’s approach to business to the Ethics Committee in ethics. This manual is used for 2013 and they were resolved orientation training for newly after completing related recruited employees and training investigations. Number of Topics Reported to Ethics Committee 2 2 2011 Governance at Yaşar Group 2012 2013 3 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 30 31 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding The world has been undergoing fulfilling their responsibilities The Yaşar Group joined the and allows them to join this of its 10 companies. The Group a rapid transformation in the arising from their operations, UNGC Network in 2007 in order journey as a result of steps it companies closely monitor past 30 years, which was companies contribute not only to integrate importance that its takes in order to achieve vision their emissions in line with that unprecedented in its history, to the community in which attaches to sustainability with for the future. anticipated reduction, seize and this transformation does not they are operating but also to international standards and reduction opportunities, and The Yaşar Group has identified only bring about development the sustainability of the entire opened a new channel to share continue to make efforts in order five priority areas under the title and progress. While the level planet. information about its operations to achieve that goal. “sustainability” and directed its of welfare and population by means of COP Reports for Being aware of its responsibility efforts to those priority areas: Having included the combating increase, limited resources 2009 and 2010. for designing a sustainable world with climate change among its that the world offers to us are • Energy and Climate Change and creating a better world, the In 2011, the Yaşar Group priorities, the Yaşar Group will diminishing. Changes in the Five priority areas Yaşar Group devises strategies adopted a systematic approach • Water Usage and Wastewater not only fulfill its commitments, environment and the climate focusing on sustainability. Aiming to reporting efforts made in the but will also take its efforts in listed under the title directly affect all spheres of to add new values to those • Used Materials and Waste this field to the next level by life. Conventional economy field of sustainability and started “Sustainability”: existing today and to transfer to publish its “Sustainability • Health and Safety setting new goals, and continue theories are not sufficient to them to future generations, the Report” containing more detailed to manage risks associated with • Energy and Climate understand and evaluate the Yaşar Group has harmonized information about values it • Social Contribution greenhouse gases and reduction new emerging conditions. Change This new process that we are sustainability principles with creates and operations affecting These five priority areas opportunities in a much more business processes and united people’s lives. efficient manner. faced with necessitates an constitute the basis of the • Water Usage and overarching approach extending its all stakeholders around this Yaşar Group’s sustainability Having declared its intention common value. The Yaşar Group considers Wastewater from production to daily habits. human beings as the most strategy and special importance to initiate efforts in the field The concept of sustainability Taking its approach to is ascribed to the reduction of “water usage and waste valuable assets and opens • Used Materials and offers this approach that would sustainability which is inherent of carbon footprint in each water” in 2012, the Yaşar Group channels for social development Waste enable us to understand the in its tradition to one step by establishing contacts plant. Places where energy conducted a water survey and an new conditions and overcome further with every passing day, consumption is at the highest assessment with the involvement with communities in places • Health and Safety challenges facing us. the Yaşar Group integrates its where it is operating. With level and cause carbon emission of all of its companies in 2013 environmental concerns, social have been identified and a and made its analyses public. A new forward-looking future parallel corporate assets • Social Contribution responsibilities, and business carbon reduction strategy has The Group decided to devise that will be built on the and sustainability goals, the processes and considers been devised. Carbon team its strategies pertaining to conditions that we are observing Yaşar Group ensures that its sustainability as its priority in all members and carbon leaders “water usage and waste water” calls for proper business companies exchange information Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding those processes. have been designated in the management and it will complete processes that are being about their operations through a Group companies. its calculations related to the reshaped by sustainability and a The Yaşar Group is making communication network making water footprints of its companies sense of responsibility infusing efforts focusing on energy a more effective involvement Guided by the motto “you in 2014. the entire value chain. In that efficiency, greenhouse emissions, possible for its all employees cannot manage what you cannot context, sustainability presents energy management systems, who are committed to and measure,” the Yaşar Group the model that is needed by water consumption, and internalize those assets and has made a ground-breaking the business community with corporate responsibility in line goals. The Group believes in move in Turkey and declared all economic, environmental, with its motto “for a better life” the transforming power of its carbon reduction goal after and social aspects. While as well as universal principles. cooperation with stakeholders calculating the carbon footprint Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 32 33 Energy and Combating Climate Change Yaşar Group’s Endeavors analyzing risks associated with method employed for generating Efforts will be initiated in 2014 while making it possible to follow climate change in collaboration and consuming energy are in order to create a greenhouse carbon management efforts Climate change, with its with its all companies. sustainable. inventory management system in companies and to extend gradually increasing impacts, and data related to all Group targets. remains to be a priority item Reducing Carbon Emissions The “hot carbon points of Pınar companies will be collected in on the global agenda. With Dairy, Pınar Meat, Pınar Water, The Yaşar Group resolutely The Yaşar Group is aware that a single system by means of its consequences posing a YBP, Viking Tissue, Dyo Coating, continues its efforts to fulfill its adapting ourselves to climate software to be developed by threat to the entire ecosystem, Dyo Printing Inks, Altın Yunus, commitments regarding carbon change is as important as Astron and it will be possible to climate change is also observed Çamlı Feed and Fattening, reduction. A “company carbon waging an effective fight in monitor them on real-time basis. in such fields as productive and Desa Energy have been manager” for each company order to manage risks associated efficiency and food security. identified as a result of efforts to Carbon Teams within the Group and a “plant with climate change. Engaged Studies conducted over the past carbon expert” for each plant in several industries, including reduce carbon emission and the couple of years have shown The Yaşar Group believes that will be designated for that agriculture, food, coatings, outcome of those efforts were that changes witnessed in strong commitment on the purpose. A team made up of tourism, and tissue paper, the reported in accordance with part of its all employees to Yaşar Group is the climate are mostly human Yaşar Group has initiated efforts ISO 14064-1 “Specification with the designated managers and induced. Thus, it seems that this upholding its corporate values experts is expected to be actively assessing and threat facing the world can be to manage greenhouse gases guidance at the organization and principles is of crucial involved in sustainability efforts Energy and Combating Climate Change originating from its operations level for quantification and managing the eliminated by controlling human importance and that their in 2014. In addition, efforts while taking account of their reporting of greenhouse gas involvement in the related components of activities. impact on the entire life cycle emissions and removals.” In are under way to increase the processes will yield meaningful number of employees who are ecological footprints Demand for energy is one of and it is assessing and managing addition, EU ETS (Emissions results in sustainability efforts. capable of calculating carbon in the entire value the primary causes of climate the components of ecological Trading System) was used for It, therefore, permitted an footprint and assessing the change. Thus, actions should be footprints in the entire value the calculations of some of the chain and production taken to ensure energy efficiency chain and production processes organization ensuring the results of analyses within the companies. Data collected at involvement of its employees Group. processes based as a matter of priority in order based on its approach to designated emission points were in every phase of the carbon on its approach to to stop the change that we sustainability. put together at Holding level management process. Carbon are witnessing. Governments, and then consolidated at the sustainability. business community, and the Guided by the motto “you leaders, who will ensure head office. After verifying the active participation in carbon cannot manage what you cannot academia attempt to develop conformity of related data with measure,” the Yaşar Group management, have been common strategies in order to standards and their accuracy, combat climate change and has measured and recorded designated in the Group Yaşar Group resolutely the carbon emissions of its the results were shared with companies. Carbon leaders continues its efforts to Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding actions to be taken and works to the related units in order companies and established a were trained in order to enable be carried out in every field from system that enables it to to create a greenhouse gas them to follow developments fulfill its commitments legislation to implementation. record such measurements inventory management and a in that field and to maintain regarding carbon Conducting its operations and designated actions that quality management system at motivation among Carbon reduction. with special emphasis on should be taken with a view to the Holding and individual firm Footprint Teams which calculate sustainability, the Yaşar Group reducing carbon emissions. The levels. Efforts are monitored carbon footprints in their has identified energy and Group companies continue their through data flow and field respective companies. Training combating climate change as efforts related to actions and visits and improvements made programs, organized periodically, one of its priorities and it gave investments in energy efficiency are shared in the intercompany have enhanced the sense of its efforts a fresh impetus after and aim to ensure that the communication network. belonging among employees Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 34 35 Training Programs do the establishment of an addition to carbon footprint and and take actions intended to one of its priorities. In addition Energy Management System. already completed preliminary increase energy efficiency. While to its endeavors to complete the The members of the Company The training programs aimed work in that field. Employees Turkey is one of the countries installation and certification of Carbon Footprint Teams received to raise awareness on energy will receive training about with increased demand for energy management systems, training in ISO 14064 in order to efficiency and they were used this issue and water footprint energy, it is unable to meet the Group companies have inform them about the general extended the scope of projects for informing employees about measurements will be completed that demand. Our country has structure of standards related to aiming to reduce and improve methods that could be effectively in 2014. an energy industry dependent the calculation and reporting of energy consumption so that they greenhouse gas emissions and used for the formulation of the Improvement Studies Conducted on imports and actions and also comprise the supply chain. methodologies and sources that Group’s energy policies and efforts aiming to ensure energy fulfillment of commitments As the global demand for energy efficiency have become more can be used for the calculation made. The training programs increases, energy resources fall important than ever. of emissions at organization mentioned above will be short of meeting this increased level. demand and governments, Yaşar Group is making intensive repeated in 2014. The employees of the Group organizations, and the business efforts to ensure energy companies also received Yaşar Group has also taken steps community shift their attention efficiency and reduce carbon necessary training with regard to measure water footprint in to alternative sources of energy emissions after designating its as Energy and Combating Climate Change Total Energy Consumption (Gigajoule) Examples of Practice Çamlı Feed and Fattening without being dependent on improvement in terms of the 3.000.000 Projects seasonal conditions. Beydere quantity of electricity and natural gas consumed. They 2.500.000 Organic Milk Plant built a The milling system in the fish solar energy system in order resulted in a total saving of 2.000.000 feed production unit, forming a 721.278 kWh/year (electricity) to obtain hot water used in 1.500.000 part of the feed plant, has been and 599,672 cubic meters of recreational amenities and it modernized and the amount natural gas). 1.000.000 increased the use of renewable of energy used for the milling 500.000 Food and process was decreased. energy sources. A heat pump Altın Yunus Projects was installed instead of water 0 Beverage Group boilers used for heating water Geothermal energy available Raw fertilizer delivered to the 2011 2012 2013 reduce its carbon plant nutrition plant first passes in the marine plant, which in the region was used for Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding emissions by through a separator in order to saved 5,427,192 kWh electricity supplying heat to Altin Yunus Direct energy consumption Indirect energy consumption eliminate excess humidity. This while reducing CO2 emission by in 2013. Thus, the facility’s 1.504,6 tonnes consumption of fossil fuels process decreases the quantity 862,187.9 kg. with completion of diesel consumed and ensures decreased 50%. Lean 6 Sigma Projects of the Lean 6 that fertilizer is fermented in a This project provided Sigma projects. shorter period. In addition, a Aside from financial gains to uninterrupted heating for the VALID compost system ensures be derived from 2013 projects facility and its total carbon that fertilizer can be produced through out the Food Group, footprint was cut by 20%. faster throughout the year these projects aimed to achieve Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 36 37 Our Aim is to reduce the average carbon emissions per production unit by 15% Energy and Combating Climate Change Until Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding 2020 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 38 39 Energy Efficiency Pınar Meat As a result of the improvement Pınar Water The effective use of the machine 2012, rose to 164.1 ton/man of the production processed maintenance module aims to in 2013. Similarly, our power Two separate Lean 6 Sigma Aydın Bozdoğan Madran at our plant following the ensure that failures can be consumption for a unit tonnage projects were carried out with Filling Plant: completion of the projects, reported online via the network, fell from 53.2 kWh/ton in 2012 a view to reducing power and A line automation monitoring power consumption decreased a faster response can be to 44 kWh/ton in 2013 and natural gas consumption in 2013. system was installed on two 3.3% per ton of product and possible, and spare parts can be power consumption per unit Numerous system improvements natural gas consumption fell production lines in 2013 and used for a specific machine. tonnage was down 17.3%. were made as part of these 5.3% per unit ton of product scheduled and unscheduled projects. System improvement Rechargeable forklifts rather Sakarya Hendek Filling in 2013 as compared with the stoppages were monitored. points, which had been than diesel forklifts are used at Plant: preceding year. Some of our It led to improvements in the identified under the projects, areas within the plant in order to New machines installed in projects, which aimed to reduce plant performance indicators as were included in the scope of achieve hygienic production. the plant as part of efforts to the consumption of electric compared with the preceding investments for the following increase energy efficiency led energy, are outlined below: year. Line efficiency went up Isparta Eğirdir Filling Plant: year. Those improvement efforts to a 122% capacity increase from 78.7% to 80% while pre3.25and 1-liter products in the production of 0.5 liter are also being followed as action Emission per unit product, which steps for 14001 Environment was 634.5 in 2012, went down form wastage declined. Prewere manufactured after two bottles. Capacity increase was and 50001 energy management to 599.0 tons of CO2e in 2013 form wastage fell from 2.61% lines, previously operated at 40% for 1.5 liter bottles and systems. and carbon emission was down in 2012 to 2.45%. Although Hendek plant, were transferred 150% for 5 and 10 liter bottles. 11.1% per unit ton of product as production grew on the PET side, to Isparta plant in 2013. The Furthermore, per capita power Our plant’s total natural gas which consumes more energy, total quantity of production was compared with 2012 (base year). consumption, which was 20.17 consumption was 4,224,131 rather than PC, electric energy 40,835.59 tons in 2012 and it kw/ton, was down to 20.1 kw/ cubic meters in 2013. Its power consumed for a unit production went up 45.5% to 59,404.96 in ton in 2013 and the consumption consumption was 30,510,212 remained unchanged at 41.4 2013. Increased production also of excess filling water fell from Energy Efficiency kWh in the same year. Energy kWh/ton. In-house training and led to an increase in efficiency 15% in 2012 to 14 % in 2013. consumption is monitored and equipment were provided in measured according to the Total kw consumption was assessed on a monthly basis. order to allow the use of SAP number of workers. Per capita reduced from 4,889,455 kw to machine maintenance module. production, 124.1 tons/man in 4,347,472 kw in 2013. Pınar Meat Energy Consumption 35.000.000 170,000 kWh electric energy was saved as a 30.000.000 result of 45 projects forming a part of an energy Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding 25.000.000 management system installed in Çamlı Feed and 20.000.000 15.000.000 Fattening plants. 10.000.000 5.000.000 0 2011 2012 2013 Electric Natural Gas Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 40 41 Pınar Dairy Eskişehir Plant Dyo Printing Inks • Efforts were made to achieve Astron savings in energy and raw İzmir Plant • Energy consumption was Consumption of electric energy E-invoice and e-payroll systems materials consumed by modular reduced by using evaporative per kilogram fell from 0.30 were put into operation in 2013 • The quality of boiler feedwater coating production systems. condensers, which have an kWh/kg in 2010 to 0.24 kWh/ with a view to reducing paper was improved and blow-off axial fan and high efficiency and kg in 2011 as a result of • Slurry was used on K-151 consumption used for printing quantity was reduced 10%. consume less electric energy. improvements related to energy line as part of the process documents such as invoices, • LED bulbs were applied to efficiency. Consumption of improvement program. dispatch notes, and payrolls, • Saving of electric energy was existing lighting fixtures in which are required to be printed achieved by means of inverters electric energy per kilogram did • 9.0 ton/batch rather than suitable sections in order to on paper pursuant to laws. In in compressors, pumps, fans not change in 2012, but lowered 4.5 ton/batch production was achieve a 40% decrease in addition, an e-dispatch note and operating in varying loads. to 0.237 kWh/kg in 2013. achieved without changing the power consumption per fixture. an e-book are planned to be process cycle time. initiated in 2014. LED bulbs were mounted in • The efficiency of steam boiler Dyo Coating peripheral lighting, laboratory, was increased an natural gas • 10% improvement was • All electric motors used in the machinery maintenance, consumption was improved after achieved in Tep/ton or kwh/ton planning, and Tetra Pak unit and the replacement of the flame coil coating production plant values. desired saving was achieved. tubes in the steam boiler. were in energy efficiency class. • Air-conditioning was improved • We aimed to decrease power • Surface and bottom blow• Chillers in energy-efficiency in indoor sections of the plant. consumed by pumps in ALCIP off automation systems were class were used in the cooling Automatic doors were installed cleaning unit and 3% power installed in steam boilers in order water system built for the in the same areas within the saving was achieved by installing to achieve water and energy coating production plant and plant and a temperature control devices at ALCIP-5 unit line. savings. automation was provided system was installed for internal Energy Efficiency between cooling water and heating. • A total of 21 projects, which • High efficiency (IE3) electrical machine operation systems. were among proposals received motors were preferred. • Inverter compressors were during the Energy Operational • Crushing machines (3 units) used in order to obtain air • Air-conditioning plants were Cost Improvement Week with a high performance needed by pneumatic systems modernized by installing heat organized for the first time in and energy efficiency were from a variable compressor recovery systems. 2013, were carried out. purchased. so that excess air production • An ISO 50001 Energy and power consumption were reduced. Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Management System certificate was obtained and a 5% reduction in energy consumption was achieved in line with plans through an Energy Management Program. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 42 43 Cooperation with the Representatives of Non-Governmental Organizations and the Industry Economic and social security and it actively takes part Association of Turkish Travel Istanbul Chamber of Industry The European Food Information development is gradually in their activities. Being aware Agencies Council Istanbul Commodity Exchange Cooperation with the Representatives of Non-Governmental Organizations and the Industry becoming an area requiring of the fact that cooperation with Bornova Association of Farmer The Valley of Kağithane Ayazağa Istanbul Exporters Union stakeholders is indispensable, Assets Urban Development Association more participation and a new Izmir Association of Businessmen approach favoring negotiations the Yaşar Group believes in Cattle Breeders’ Association of TOBB Global Standards Center Turkey Izmir Chamber of Agriculture to be shared by all stakeholders. the importance of developing Turkey GULF Business Councils The involvement of all a collaborative work culture Central Anatolian Exporters Union Izmir Chamber of Commerce Foreign Economic Relations Board stakeholders in decision-making which activities undertaken by Coatings Research Institute (CoRI) Izmir Commodity Exchange Turkish Egypt Businessmen processes increase common associations provide for public Association Corporate Governance Association Izmir Union of Aquaculture and benefits to society and creation benefit. of Turkey Fishery Turkish Feed Manufacturers’ Association of value and also allows a Our Memberships Çeşme Tourism Hoteliers Kocaeli Chamber of Industry collaborative working culture to Association Turkish Food and Beverage Adana Commodity Exchange Manisa Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Employers Association take root. Denmark Business Councils Industry Aegean Exporter Unions Foreign Economic Relations Board Turkish Food Safety Association Manisa Organized Industry While various organizations Aegean Industrialists’ and Dubai Chamber of Commerce Association Turkish Industry and Business such as chambers of commerce/ Businessmen’s Association Association Dubai Turkish Business Council Marine Chamber of Commerce industry, stock exchanges, and Aegean Region Chamber of Turkish Marine Environment Industry East Anatolian Exporters Union Mersin Commodity Exchange unions in which membership is Protection Association mandatory, other organizations, Aegean Tourist Business and Environment Education Foundation National Food Technology Platform Turkish Quality Association Accommodation Association of Turkey including associations, business National Milk Board Turkish Spas Thalasso and Health councils, and professional Aliağa Chamber of Commerce Environmental Protection and National Red Meat Council Resorts Association Packaging Waste Recovery And organizations which are based American Business Councils Organic Product Producers and Recycling Trust Turkish African Business Councils Foreign Economic Relations Board on volunteering have become Industrialists Association Foreign Economic Relations Board Eskişehir Chamber of Commerce more visible in decision-making American Turkish Council Outward Investments Business Turkish American Business Eskişehir Chamber of Industry mechanisms and increased their Ankara Commodity Exchange Council Foreign Economic Association efficiency. Ethics and Reputation Society Relations Board Antalya Chamber of Commerce and Turkish Middle Eastern Business Industry Federation of Food and Drink Packaged Water Manufacturers Councils Foreign Economic The Yaşar Group, which is the Industry Associations of Turkey Association Relations Board Antalya Commodity Exchange founding member of numerous Foundation For Environmental Packaging Manufacturers TURKTRADE Association of Advertisers associations, is fully committed Education Association Uludağ Exporters Union to participation and processes Association of Cuisine Amicable Foundation of Economic Researches Paint Research Association Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Union of Dairy, Beef, Food based on negotiations. With Association of Infant Food Fruit Juice Industry Association People Management Association of Industrialists and Producers of active memberships in many Manufacturers Turkey Turkey Gebze Chamber of Commerce associations, the Yaşar Group Association of Packaged Dairy Poultry Meat Producers and World Economic Forum Industry of Turkey General Secretariat of Istanbul contributes to the development Breeders Association Mineral and Metals Exporters’ of industries in which it is Association of Thermal Insulation, Occupational Chamber Pulp and Paper Industry Foundation Waterproofing, Sound Insulation Global Compact Network Turkey Memberships operating while providing The Association of Paint Industry and Fireproofing Material voluntary support for nonInternational Chamber of Chamber Of Electrical Engineers Producers, Suppliers and The Chemicals, Petroleum, Rubber Commerce governmental organizations in Applicators Chamber Of Food Engineers and Plastics Industry Employers’ Investor Relations Association various fields such as public Association of Turkish Construction Association of Turkey Chamber Of Agricultural Engineers health, environment, and food Material Producers Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 44 45 Our People Our Human Resources Policy Labour and Labour Force Recruitment work for companies which are Personnel Regulation. members of the Yaşar Group can Yaşar Group is managing its Yaşar Group creates its human When their recruitment submit their applications directly human resources policy with the resources based on various processes are completed, via the Yaşar Group’s website intention of employing qualified criteria, including knowledge, the employees of the Group or employment websites or workforce, which is innovative skills, and experience required companies are informed through through a consulting company. and has a high motivation and by specific positions, in light Company Personnel Regulations Yaşar Holding posts traineeship performance, and to consolidate of the principle “science, unity, laying down the working and vacancy advertisements on their loyalty by making this success.” Having adopted a conditions, rights, duties and its website and candidates are workforce sustainable. The people-focused management responsibilities of employees as allowed to upload their resumes human resources strategy concept, the Yaşar Group well as current personnel policies in the application pool. centered on the motto “placing brings together individuals who and principles. right people in right positions,” value exchange of information The Yaşar Group companies Newly recruited employees has put the Yaşar Group’s and team spirit and are open received applications from receive “Yaşar Group Orientation companies at the top of the list to all scientific advances and 38,203 female and 53,427 male Training” based on e-learning on of “most attractive companies in have embraced a participatory candidates in 2013. the same day and later attend terms of employment” thanks to management policy and successEvaluations done by the human the “Company Orientation its fair human resources policy oriented work. resources unit continue with Program” specially designed for and practices. Aside from qualifications required reference checks and positions each company. An “Orientation for a specific position, the extent are offered to candidates Procedure” was issued in 2013 to which a candidate is ready to selected after the completion in order to ensure that the accept advances is also taken orientation process is handled of these processes. Candidates into consideration. The Yaşar in the same manner in all whose applications are not companies of the Group. Our People Group’s Basic Competencies accepted are informed via Yaşar Group companies take an approach and Work Family Competencies, a career portal, email, or to the management of human resources, separately defined for each telephone. which is consistent with universal values level, ensures that a candidate is evaluated based on his or her In 2013, the Yaşar Group as is the case with its all other operations. competences. received its third “Respect for People” award presented People are not subjected to Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding by “kariyer.net” as one of the any discrimination on grounds indicators of value attributed of nationality, faith, gender, to human resources because of age, and marital status in the Group’s swift response to all the Yaşar Group. The Group candidates who have submitted companies take an approach their applications. to the management of human resources, which is consistent The Yaşar Group applies its with universal values as is the recruitment procedures in case with its all other operations. accordance with Labour Law Candidates who desire to No. 4857 and Yaşar Holding’s Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 46 47 Our Compensation Management development and education, reported in companies that are Educational Background of Employees Percentage System for limited working hours. members of the Yaşar Group. Although there is no statutory 0,2 3,5 Compensation is determined Employment of Disabled People 18,6 requirement, the Yaşar Group or adjusted based on various companies adheres to the Yaşar Group ascribes importance criteria such as the category of 29,6 principle of not employing people to the social integration of position; employee’s experience, younger than 18 years. the disabled and giving them education, location, and more roles in the public 2011 language skills; evaluation of his Involuntary Servitude and Forced domain. Maintaining its efforts or her position in comparison Labour to employ disabled people as with his or her peers and higher Work days and hours as well as part of its management of 39,1 or lower positions; positions 8,9 public and general holidays and human resources, the Group reported by employees; weekly rest days are defined employs disabled individuals in performance points/premiums Doctorate Graduate Undergraduate Associate High School Secondary percentages envisioned by law. Although there is no for previous years; and and notified to employees in all Degree Graduate School companies that are members of Disabled employees make up statutory requirement, compensation level in the labor the Yaşar Group. 2.35% of the total number of 0,1 3,3 market. In addition, participation 18,1 the Yaşar Group in compensation enquiries is employees within Yaşar Group. If the nature of the work companies adheres encouraged in order to formulate requires or due to increase in Legal Rights of Employees 28,8 to the principle better compensation policies production overtime maybe Employees can exercise their all of not employing and to monitor the market. Employees are not subjected to required. Such work is arranged legal rights, including rest days, 2012 in accordance with the provisions meals, paid annual leave, and people younger than any discrimination on grounds of the Law and compensation is severance pay. 18 years. of nationality, faith, gender, age paid as stipulated in the Law. Our People or marital status. Compensation If an employee is transferred 40,7 9,1 and other rights of in-scope Job descriptions are drawn to another position within a employees are determined under up for the employees of company which is a member Doctorate Graduate Undergraduate Associate High School Secondary collective agreements signed. the Group companies and of the Yaşar Group, related Degree Graduate School they are informed of their formalities are completed within Child Labour 0,1 3,8 job descriptions upon their periods defined in Labour Law 20 Employment of children in our recruitment. Documents related No. 4857 and the Personnel Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding country is subject to Labour to job descriptions are shared Regulation. Periods set forth 26,3 Law No. 4857. Any person within the company through a in the Collective Bargaining younger than 15 years may not common system which is used Agreement are applicable to be employed under applicable in accordance with ISO 9001 employees who are subject 2013 provisions. As an exception, and accessible to all employees. to the Collective Bargaining however, any person who is All newly recruited employees Agreement. 8,4 14-years old and has graduated attend an inter-departmental 41,3 from a primary school may be orientation program. No incident Doctorate Graduate Undergraduate Associate High School Secondary assigned to light work, which involving forced labour or Degree Graduate School will not hinder their physical compulsory work has ever been Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 48 49 Employees’ Right to Development Employee Opinion Poll Social and Cultural Activities Training and Development training programs to each Organized for Our Employees Activities level and function. 21 training Yaşar Group conducts an programs and 99 videos have “Employee Opinion Poll” based Companies which are members Yaşar Group attaches importance been installed in the system and on the motto “people first” in of the Yaşar Group grow hand to the professional development they are accessible to employees order to get their opinions about in hand with their employees of its employees as well as in certain intervals. In addition employee expectations and and regard employee motivation their continued personal to ready-to-use content, training needs and evaluates employee’s as one of the leverages of that development. Thus, we aim programs outlining the policies, loyalty to the company. growth. Employees are entitled to provide training supporting procedures, and business models Employee Opinion Poll permits to all fringe benefits within the individual development areas as Yaşar Group us to formulate policies intended Yaşar Group and they also share of the Yaşar Group companies well as opportunities allowing are prepared and shared with companies have 81 to heighten motivation among their time outside of working them to achieve their goals employees via Yaşar Academy internal instructors employees and to take actions hours by attending events the Group companies and to learning program. for mediumand long-term reinforcing their communication enhance Yaşar Group Basic and who continue to improvements. and motivation. In that context, Business Family competencies. Performance Management provide training celebrations of special days, Orientation training, on-the-job System It has been decided to conduct related to different the Employee Opinion Poll company dinners, soccer, training, personal development In the Yaşar Group, the backgammon, table tennis, and areas of specialization. biannually in order to facilitate bowling tournaments, dinners, training, management skills performance management the implementation of action training, specialization training, system is regulated by picnics, weekend trips, and and workshops and conferences plans and the next Employee premium regulations for fishing trips are organized. Opinion Poll is planned to be are among the training and the employees of the sales Dragon Festival, visits to conducted online in 2014. development opportunities function and by performance Ataturk’s Mausoleum, trips to offered to employees. evaluation regulation in case Canakkale Martyrs Cemetery, Our People and Intercompany Boat Race The Group companies have 81 of other employees. The Group are among events that bring the internal instructors who continue has adapted an integrated Group’s employees together. to provide training related to management system in order to different areas of specialization. attain its fundamental objectives and strategic goals. Launched The number of a training in 2005, the Performance platform developed by using Management System aim to Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding e-learning methodology under achieve corporate objectives and the brand “Yaşar Academy” in personal objectives in tandem. 2012 increased in 2013 and The results of performance all white-collar employees and evaluation are used by blue-collar employees managing individuals in connection with teams were included in the their personal development, system. Comprising a total career planning, and recognition/ of 2,800 people, the learning compensation. Based on program allocates different balanced scorecard technique, Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 50 51 Leadership Development Programs the evaluation system uses Yaşar Group employees take Manager Training Pool Project of training activities, workshops Manager Training Workshop key performance indicators advantage of Yaşar Group Basic (MTPP) are organized in order to enable (MTW) (KIP) which are selected at the Competences and Business members to have information Yaşar Group aims to obtain A program consisting of beginning year and have targets Family Competences for their and ideas about different information about young training in basic management agreed upon. Achievement of personal and professional issues. One-on-one interviews skills, personal development, “The Yaşar Group goals is monitored through development. Employees who prospective managers, to are held between project develop vision among its and specialization is being trains its own counseling and follow-up identify competences that they members and Group managers, members and to educate implemented within the Yaşar interviews in the middle of the can develop in collaboration who are selected by them and managers.” with their supervisors can select them, to monitor their career voluntarily assume this task, in Group since 2011 and “Manager year and necessary adjustments, development, and to ensure that Training Workshops” are if any, are done. Employees who some of those areas by using the mentoring system. Members organized for the development are subjected to the premium Personal Development Forms. they participate in projects and are also expected to draw up a of employees who are hired as regulation are excluded. An employee’s training and activities that would develop project in an area designated by managers or later promoted to development needs are identified their potential through the MTTP the senior management through 687 people were included in become managers. based on those forms and which it has been implementing teamwork under the MTTP the Performance Management training plans are drawn up after since 1996. and to carry out an individual System which is being the completion of analyses. Yearcompletion project aiming implemented in Pınar Meat, end evaluations are reflected in Candidates, who have a high to achieve improvement in Pınar Dairy, Pınar Water, YBP, performance cards subject to potential and found eligible business processes in their own Viking Tissue, Çamlı Feed and pre-defined rates. for investing in the future, are departments. Fattening, Dyo Coating, Dyo selected in the Group companies Employee performance cards and they are included in a A total of 326 people have Printing Inks, Yaşar Foreign were integrated with SAP 18-month development program. attended in the project so far Trade, Altın Yunus, Bintur, Yaşar system in 2012 and Personal and 109 of them continue Holding, and subsidiaries based Development Forms followed suit The project has three legs i.e. to work for the Group. 83% abroad. Our People in 2013. Thus, infrastructure for training, mentoring, and project of MTTP members, who still human resources information efforts. Aside from training in working in the Group, were systems was consolidated. Only management and leadership promoted. 31% of the promoted Percentage of Employees Covered by Performance Management System white-collar employees are skills, personal development, and employees were female and the included in the performance specialization provided as part remaining 69% were male. management system launched in 2005. The system is planned Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding 51 to be extended in the coming White Collar years. 63 Internal promotion is preferred 55 within the Yaşar Group companies. Rate of internal 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 promotion among managers and senior officers was 61 % in 2013 2012 2011 2013. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 52 53 Examples of Practice Dyo Coating to recognize employees who Other Training A total of 75,736 hours of make endeavors and proposals training was provided throughout Work Evaluation System Yaşar Group companies also “creating colors” about works the Yaşar Group in 2013 and (Blue-Collar Workers) organize training programs being performed by himself or the period of training per tailored to their own needs. In Dyo Work Evaluation System, herself or other employees in person was 14 hours. Of this, that context, training in intrawhich comprises blue-collar line with the corporate vision external training and internal family communication, body workers, have been initiated and goals. Ideas and practices training accounted for 42% and language, effective business with a view to attracting, which are believed to facilitate 58%, respectively. Blue-collar management, leadership motivating, and keeping talents life and create color by rendering workers made up for 30% of workshop, guidelines for through a fair human resources existing things more useful are participants in training programs successful sales, leadership and system supporting the corporate at the root of this system. All organized in 2013. Respective motivation, management of strategy and human resources employees may submit proposals percentages for non-key and key customer-focused relationship, plans. The system ensured that to the system irrespective of employees were 56% and 14%, Lean 6 Sigma green belt comparative values of positions their level and scope. Proposals respectively. and yellow belt, and stress are demonstrated based on are assessed by a committee set management, competence-based various criteria such as working up for this purpose and awards interview techniques, non-verbal conditions, responsibility, are presented to those found Training Hours Per Person communication, effective speech, training, skills, efforts, and risk. eligible after getting approval elocution, and persuasion 2011 2012 2013 It also permitted us to evaluate from the General Manager’s techniques are offered within Yaşar Holding 22 18 9 employee performance and Office. the companies in addition to Coatings Group competences, to recognize the Red Seat System technical training about issues targeted level of performance, Dyo Coating 27 19 18 which employees may need and to ensure the continuity Red Seat System permits Dyo Printing Inks 46 29 36 while performing their work is of personal development. The employees to come together Our People also organized. Food and Beverages Group system has been jointly designed in order to communicate their Pınar Dairy 13 10 10 by company managers, trade opinions and suggestions Yaşar Group ascribes importance Pınar Meat 15 10 10 union representatives, and a directly to the General Manager. to its employees and its families. specialized consultant. Opinions expressed by Training programs, which lasted Pınar Water 30 24 13 employees at sessions attended 151 hours, were organized for Çamlı Feed and Fattening 12 9 4 Creators of Colors (Proposal by groups consisting of eight to 60 employees in order to help YBP 9 17 21 System) Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding ten employees are assessed by them overcome problems they Tissue Paper Group A “Proposal System for Creators the General Manager and actions experienced in communication Viking Tissue 17 17 16 of Colors” have been launched taken are also monitored by the with their children and develop Trade and Services Group at Dyo Coating plants in order General Manager. parental attitudes that need to be displayed in response to the Altın Yunus 22 28 16 needs of a generation. Desa Energy 10 10 5 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 54 55 Occupational Health and Safety Training Programs and Health stool culture screening and lung Examples of Practice parked at the milk delivery unit, No. 6331 on Occupational Health Controls X-rays as part of eradication of has been installed. and Safety and their decisions Viking Tissue tuberculosis. are reviewed and implemented Yaşar Group aims employee • Warning signs showing Basic training related to health by Pınar Dairy, the main satisfaction and devises plans Comprehensive examinations are emergency exits, risky situations, and safety at work, including employer. in order to ensure development needed in some areas because and vehicle traffic have been training required under Law No. in their living environment of the nature of work performed. installed throughout the plant • There is a work permission 6331 and training in working at as a whole. Paying attention In that context, Dyo Coating in accordance with the new system related to hazardous high altitudes, techniques for to its employees’ life quality, employees undergo quarterly regulations. works since 2012. In 2013, Work safe operation of forklifts, first the Yaşar Group organizes heavy metal and solvent tests, Permit for Subcontractors, Permit aid, and emergency response • A training program designed training programs focusing lung screening, respiratory for Operating Construction was provided. for the Emergency Response on hypertension and diet, function tests, and annual blood Machinery, and Permit for Pınar Dairy Team set up in our plant was coping with stress, healthy tests. Working at High Altitudes were repeated this year in accordance and balanced diet, breathing İzmir Plant added to the list. Health service including with the Regulation on the exercise, cold and influenza, workplace doctor and nurse Protection of Buildings Against • Drills related to possible All requirements • Occupational Health and protection against breast cancer, is provided in Yaşar Group Fire. emergencies are held two times Safety Board held a total of eight aiming to ensure ergonomy, back, waist and neck companies 2 and/or 5 days a meetings in 2013 and published a year and shortcomings are safety, hazards of smoking and • All cabinets have been occupational health week. its decisions. fastened to walls so that moving eliminated. quitting methods, maternal and and safety are met in child health, misadministration Occupational Safety • Work permission system objects do not cause any • Sub-employee workers set up our companies. of medication, family planning, All requirements aiming to related to hazardous works was injury to employees during an emergency response teams and food poisoning, and infectious maintained and new hazardous earthquake. received training. ensure health and safety at diseases in order to support its works were included. work are met in our companies • A total of 766 employees Altın Yunus employees and their families. It Our People and an Occupational Health • Scenarios were written attended 10 training programs • Risk analysis studies and cooperates with the academia and Safety Internal Regulation organized in 2013 in accordance emergency action plans were and tested during fire drills. and organizes training in is implemented with a view to with new regulations. They completed in 2013. Shortcomings identified during collaboration with interns about preventing work accidents and included training on TS OHSAS • Risk control and prevention drills were eliminated. healthy diet in pregnancy, family occupational diseases that could 18001 Health and Safety at Work forms were drawn up. planning methods, actions to occur. Occupational Health and • A light barrier device that Management System and ISO • Risks identified as a result of be taken after delivery, and Safety Board has been set up in would ensure safety at work 50001:2011 Energy Management the risk analysis were eliminated was used in the Rafomat spare Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding childcare. accordance with the Regulation. System. by subsequent actions. part system. Risks associated • The members of the Workplace health units monitor Necessary notifications are with possible hand injuries were Eskişehir Plant Occupational Health and Safety health checks performed for communicated to the Ministry eliminated by this system. • Occupational Health and Safety Board received training. employees who are subjected of Environment and Urban • A horizontal lifeline, which Board held 12 meetings in 2013 • Basic training in health and to health checks for infectious Planning pursuant to Seveso II could be connected to a and its decisions were published. safety at work was provided for diseases and audiometry Regulation in order to prevent parachute type safety belt In addition, sub-employees also newly recruited personnel. examinations in addition to major industrial accidents in used for ensuring safety when set up a council on health and • Other training in health and taking their throat cultures and the Coatings Group companies. workers are working on a tanker safety at work pursuant to Law safety at work was provided Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 56 57 depending on different tasks Dyo Printing Inks First Aid Training Security Services assigned to departments. No sign of an occupational First aid training is provided in The training is designed to Security services in the Yaşar • Instructors from the Ministry disease was observed during our companies so that first aid enable employees to learn Group companies are provided provided training in health the medical examination of can be provided after accidents information that could save his by people who have received and safety at work for hotel employees in 2013 and there under the First Aid Regulation or other people’s lives in case special training in that field employees under a project was a decrease in the frequency issued by the Ministry of Health. of an emergency and how he or and hold a certificate. Security carried out by ÇASGEM (Training of work accidents and the she can respond calmly. personnel assigned to companies Unit of the Ministry of Labor and number of lost days. periodically attend training Social Security). programs. • Planning of mandatory training Occupational Training for in hygiene, which is required Workers Performing Heavy and Number of First Aid Certified Personnel Number of Security Personnel to be provided for employees Hazardous Works 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 pursuant to the Hygiene Necessary training programs Yaşar Holding 2 4 5 Yaşar Holding 15 15 15 Regulation, has been completed. were delivered in our companies • Fire and floor plans have been Coatings Group Coatings Group under the “Communique on revised. the Occupational Training for Dyo Coating 69 86 93 Dyo Coating 24 24 24 • Periodic inspection of pressure Workers Performing Heavy and Dyo Printing Inks 20 24 23 Dyo Printing Inks 8 8 8 vessels was conducted. Hazardous Works” which has Food and Beverages Group Food and Beverages Group • Chemical risk analyses have been issued under the Labor Law Pınar Dairy 108 94 115 Pınar Dairy 35 35 30 been done. No. 4857. Pınar Meat 85 86 113 Pınar Meat 24 24 24 • A fire drill has been conducted. Other Work-Related Training Pınar Water 20 11 19 Pınar Water 22 22 22 • The existing pipes of LPG lines Provided for Our Employees Çamlı Feed and Fattening 28 16 45 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 22 23 20 were replaced with rolled steel Our People pipes and a gas shut-off system Ensuring the technical YBP 51 42 16 YBP 43 36 45 was installed. development of our employees Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group • Worn-out personal protective is among the priorities of Viking Tissue 37 50 40 Viking Tissue 15 15 15 equipment used by workers have our human resources policy Trade and Services Group Trade and Services Group been replaced with new ones. An and technical, managerial, Altın Yunus 16 16 13 Altın Yunus 10 9 8 expert on health and safety at and personal development is considered as a whole. Training Desa Energy 0 0 0 Desa Energy 4 4 4 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding work briefed workers about how personal protective equipment in health and safety at work, should be used. hygiene personal hygiene, safe utilization of chemicals, 482 215 • The existing electricity cabling fire fighting, pest control, fire 429 215 of Baküs restaurant was replaced fighting and evaluation, and 436 222 with a weak current cabling. HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points) is provided. 400 410 420 430 440 450 460 470 480 490 210 212 214 216 218 220 222 224 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 58 59 Right to Association Union and Collective Bargaining Employer and in addition to the • Access to medical facilities: Occupational Health and Safety paragraph (g) of Article 3 of Agreement Labor law, the Employer: The Employer is required to Board: the regulation in question. The ensure that a vehicle to be employer informs the trade Collective agreements with an • agrees to strictly comply with 1. The provisions of the used for rapidly transforming an union about the names of its unlimited term are concluded the Regulation on Health and regulation about councils on injured worker to a health care principal and alternative member with all employees of the Safety at Work; health and safety at work are unit and its driver are available in the Board within the same Yaşar Group companies under • agrees to employ a nurse or a during work hours irrespective applied at the workplace. period. the Labor Law No. 4857. It is paramedic in order to perform of the number of workers and also mandatory for the Group 2. The trade union should notify 3. As per Article 5 of the dressing and to give injections the distance to the units of companies and their contractors the names of its principal and Regulation, files, books, and for workers in case of an illness the Social Security Agency. and subcontractors to employ alternative representative in other documents comprising all or injury when no physician is Otherwise, the employer will workers with social security. the council within (15) days activities, including the Council’s be held liable for any failure to available at the workplace; monthly meetings, resolutions Employees’ rights are provide medical intervention for from the date of execution of passed, actions, maintenance, guaranteed under workplace and • will ensure that a vehicle is the worker when required. the agreement pursuant to inspection, and training may enterprise collective agreements always available at the workplace be subjected to audits and signed between the Coating in order to transport sick and Percentage of Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreement examination if considered Group companies and Petrol-İş injured people to a hospital in 80 necessary by branch or regional and between Pınar Dairy and case of an emergency. 70 70 71 76 branch managers. Pınar Meat, both members of 60 64 63 65 As per a Workplace and 50 57 the Food Group, and Tek Gıda İş 40 51 50 47 49 53 4. All activities of the trade Enterprise Collective Bargaining Trade Union. 30 union’s representative assigned Agreement signed between the 20 10 to the Council are taken into As per a Workplace Collective employer and Tek Gıda İş Trade 0 consideration as if he or she has Bargaining Agreement concluded Union: Dyo Coating Dyo Printing Inks Pınar Dairy Pınar Meat actually worked. Our People between Petrol-İş and the 2011 2012 2013 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 60 61 Our Environmental Concerns and Principles The environment is no longer a the Group has integrated Society’s expectations of Environmental performance • The quantity of canned and phenomenon protected by laws its corporate strategy with businesses are rapidly changing of processes: Environmental bottled beverages was reduced and regulations and confined its responsibilities toward and businesses constantly impact inventories and impact by 197,938 as part of the project to areas such as recycling and its employees, consumers, enhance their ability to catch up logs have been formed in all designed to improve beverage energy saving. It has become customers, suppliers, and with that pace. The Yaşar Group production-related units in our costs and the number of waste one of the main components society. As a sign of its constantly follows and analyzes plant and risky processes were cans and bottles was reduced. of the policies and strategies environmentalist concern, one such expectations received assessed. Risky processes are Viking Tissue of governments, agencies, and of the key components of this from society, its employees, and regularly measured and those enterprises. corporate strategy, the Yaşar stakeholders and transparently areas are kept under control. Guided by the principle to Group keeps its promises to shares its actions and activities minimize the industry’s impact Development of production Altın Yunus develop products, processes, with interested parties. on the environment and to and consumption models and servicing requiring a • 3,950 kg of waste grease and conserve the environment, requiring less spending of Our Group is committed to lower quantity of resources; 20,100 kg of waste paper was Viking Tissue is working with funds and the creation of a keep its promises about the to measure and minimize their delivered to recycling plants in Yaşar University to carry out a model for the sustainable environmental and social impact impact on the environment; to 2013. project aiming to ensure that of its investment decisions, Our Environmental Concerns and Principles utilization of resources require make an efficient use of energy process waste is used by another the regeneration of information production and planning, • A team made up of hotel and natural resources; and to industry as raw material. about the environment. environmental effects and social employees collected trash on the reduce the use of toxic and projects as it has done in the public land at the entrance of Dyo Coating Yaşar Group supports a cautious hazardous chemicals and waste, past. the hotel and Cape Kalem Island approach to the regeneration wastewater, and emissions. In 2013, the Turkish coating in 2013. of information about the Examples of Practice industry continued investing The Group companies has environment, development • Research is under way in mostly in building coatings adopted production process Pınar Dairy order to provide power from and heat insulation systems. of new business models, and sensitive to the environment, Pınar Dairy takes into alternative sources such as solar Firms focused on developing environment-related challenges use environment-friendly inputs, consideration below parameters energy and wind energy. environment-friendly products with its all resources. All and pays attention to ensure while it is realizing its goals in order to minimize their companies within the Yaşar that environmental impact of • Five photocell doors have been about environmental concerns. impact on the environment Group is guided by the principle all anticipated investments is installed in various sections of and to meet customer demand that “Lack of scientific certainty assessed and the investment Efficient use of natural the hotel in order to prevent loss for environment-friendly cannot be cited as a reason for program is drawn up based on resources: Saving measures are of heat. products. Thus, the number a delay in taking cost-effective that assessment. implemented in order to attain Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding • Bunkers were installed in the of products with high additive actions preventing harm to the the goal of reducing the quantity Yaşar Group believes that Hotel to collect hazardous waste. content, powder coatings, and environment in cases where the of natural resources used. all systems implemented products with low VOC content environment faces the risk of • A blower with a higher capacity in accordance with the Environmental safety of is gradually rising. The market serious or irreparable damage.” was installed in the treatment share of water-based coatings is sustainability concept should be raw materials used in plant due to insufficient capacity. also increasing. Aiming to achieve economic improved and integrated and it the process: All waste raw growth and the improvement supports these activities through materials and ancillary materials • Drip and automatic irrigation of the environment and training and practices aiming to used is treated at the chemical systems were installed on development of society, achieve improvements. and anaerobic treatment plant. gardens. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 62 63 Use of Resources Lean 6 Sigma Practices continue in accordance with the Projects are divided into three time schedule. main categories. A breakdown Some companies within the of projects carried out in 2011Yaşar Group apply Lean 6 Sigma A breakdown of the number of 2013 and scheduled for 2014; in the field of efficiency and human resources trained and resource utilization. Issues such projects carried out by years: Project Groups as energy saving, customer satisfaction, and process Number of Projects design are accorded priority Process Design Black Belt when selecting projects to be 29 Green Belt 2011 28 carried out by those companies 24 Operational 2012 Perfection and projects consistent with 17 2013 corporate strategies are carried 2014* out under supervision of project 8 Cost Improvement 6 leaders. 4 Our Environmental Concerns and Principles 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Training and coaching needed (*) Planned for managing this process are 2011 2012 2013 2014* (*) Planned supported by internal resources • One scheduled Green Belt project was not completed in 2013. A breakdown of project leaders titles and consistency of project and the system was backed up by gender depending on their themes is given below: by 2 new Master Black Belts in 2013. In 2013 and 2014 and Number of Employees Trained Breakdown Percentage of Project Leaders by Gender four Master Black Belts were 70 72 actively involved as a liaison 2008-2013 2014* 62 between project leaders and Master 56 the management during the Black Belt 5 0 44 project. Master Black Belts are Black Belt 26 0 30 38 Female 28 also responsible for ensuring Green Belt 89 16 Male that the methodology is applied Yellow Belt 379 42 by appropriate tools and that (*) Planned • 2013 was completed as scheduled. 2011 2012 2013 2014* efforts are well coordinated and (*) Planned Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Operational Cost Improvement OCI projects, which can be (OCI) Activities implemented once only or continuously depending on The Yaşar Group includes the project headings, seek results sustainability approach, which generating data which can be exists in its tradition and which is used in sustainability efforts and at the heart of its activities, also including all possible quantitative in its OCI efforts. data as well as cost savings. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 64 65 Water Management Due to being a rapidly depleted importance for the sustainability Examples of Practice is periodically analyzed at Water Consumption Per Ton natural resource as well as of resources. independent laboratories and at of Product (m3) Pınar Meat its daily increasing strategic the company’s own laboratory. 23,56 The Yaşar Group takes the goal importance, water comes All waste waters coming out of the efficient use of water Water consumption per ton of first among the priority issues of production processes and into consideration in all its product was brought down from addressed on a wide platform social areas are treated at the business processes, and plans 21.42 ton/m3 in 2012 to 21.32 from governments to NGOs, physical, chemical and biological the steps that can be taken ton/m3 in 2013, achieving a from institutions to the business waste water treatment facility 21,42 in this direction. Exploiting reduction of 0.47%. 21,32 community. An important part located inside the factory, and opportunities for the efficient use of the world population has no the quality of waste water and saving of water, the Yaşar access to clean drinking water Group included “water footprint” and to sources of water from studies in the work programme which they can meet their 2011 2012 2013 of the Sustainability Committee sanitary needs. Projections in 2013 and began to analyze indicate that countries which the risky areas, the opportunities Our Environmental Concerns and Principles can meet their water needs of reduction and the parameters “for the time being” may also needed for water footprint face a shortage of water in the calculation by conducting a future years and that there water use survey with all the may be drought on a global companies. The employees to scale if the necessary measures be determined by the companies are not taken. Therefore, the will be given training on water efficient use and management footprint calculation, and the of water resources is of great water footprint calculations of all the Group companies will be completed in 2014. Water survey which is carried out Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding among Yaşar Group companies indicates that about 6,688.35 tonnes water is consumed annually. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 66 67 Packaging Waste and Waste Management In addition to its sustainability recycling of packaging waste Article 11 of the Packaging the section of red meat, from commitments, the Yaşar follow the packaging waste Waste Control Regulation 1.44 % to 1.29 %. Group extends support to management plan prepared provides: “Those who place a Çamlı Feed and Fattening projects aimed at raising public under contracts and submitted to product on the market must use awareness of waste recovery the Ministry of Environment and packagings that will genetrate The employees were given and recycling in particular. The Urban Planning. In cooperation the least amount of waste after “Waste Management” training for Foundation for Environmental with ÇEVKO, training activities the use of the product and that the separate collection at source Protection and Packaging are implemented concerning are the most economical and of recycled packaging waste and Waste Recovery (ÇEVKO), of the separate collection at easiest to recycle and recover.” the rate of recyclable waste was which Pınar Water, a Group source, recycling and recovery increased. Pınar Meat company, is one of the founders, of packaging waste and is the solution partner of the contributions are sought to be Viking Tissue In the section of advance Yaşar Group, which raises the made to the development of processed products, the rate The quantity of waste paper awareness of its employees informed consumption habits in of plastic waste was reduced recovered at the de-ink facility of through internal training, in its society. from 4.4 % 2012 to 3 % in the enterprise was 20,279 tons, Our Environmental Concerns and Principles packaging waste recovery and 2013; likewise, in the section of making a contribution to the Product packagings are selected recycling efforts. meat product packaging, it was economy. The pulp equivalent of and manufactured with a view reduced from 2.90 % to 2.38 the recovered waste paper was Certain companies of the Yaşar to ensuring recycling so as to %; in the section of white meat, the amount of pure cellulose Group which operate with generate the least amount of from 0.14 % to 0.08 %; and in obtained from 245,000 trees. organizations licensed by the waste from their design to the Ministry for the recovery and end of their consumption. Amounts of Recycling Over the Years (%) Waste Amounts for 2013 Type of Package 2011 2012 2013 2014* kg Hazardous Waste Evaluable Waste Paper-Cardboard 38 40 42 44 Pınar Meat 32,060 3,689,000 Plastic 38 40 42 44 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 8,940 436,580 Glass 38 40 42 44 Viking Tissue 19,340 325,270 Metal 38 40 42 44 Pınar Dairy 11,006 10,200 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding (*) Planned Dyo Coating 3,288,000 320,000 Dyo Printing Inks 125,000 48,000 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 68 69 Our Relations with Society Our Employment Data Regional Percentages of the Total Workforce Personnel Turnover Rate by Age 2013 Region 2011 2012 2013 18 years and blow Aegean Region 69.49 68.22 66.14 18-25 9.4 Marmara Region 17.60 18.52 20.39 26-30 8.8 Central Anatolia Region 9.82 9.84 9.98 31-35 7.6 Mediterranean Region 2.08 2.35 2.51 36-40 5.8 Black Sea Region 0.52 0.54 0.53 41-45 5.8 South Eastern Anatolia Region 0.29 0.31 0.31 46 years and above 15.7 Eastern Anatolia Region 0.20 0.22 0.14 Across the Group 7.9 Percentages of the Total Workforce by Type of Employment Personnel Turnover Rate by Region 2013 Type of Employment 2011 2012 2013 Aegean Region 7.4 Key 6.9 7 6 Marmara Region 10.8 White Collar 45.4 44.5 44.2 Central Anatolia Region 5.9 Our Relations with Society Blue Collar 45.3 45.9 46.8 Mediterranean Region 3.2 Temporary 2.4 2.6 3 Black Sea Region 2.9 South Eastern Anatolia Region 2.1 Personnel Turnover Rate Eastern Anatolia Region 18.2 2011 2012 2013 Across the Group 7.9 Across the Group 7.9 7.6 7.9 Personnel Turnover Rate by Gender 2013 Female 8.0 Male 7.8 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Across the Group 7.9 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 70 71 Gender Distribution of Employees Gender Distribution Percentage of All Employees The Yaşar Group regards the World Economic Forum and employees is observed in the increasing the participation led by the Ministry of Family Group companies –mostly due to 2011 2012 2013 of women in working life as and Social Policies. The Group the qualities required by the job. Female Male Female Male Female Male one of the principles of its believes that these and similar To overcome this situation, the Yaşar Holding 51 49 49 51 50 50 human resources policy and initiatives will bring considerable necessary assessments are being Coatings Group extends support to efforts to gains in terms of both women’s made to increase the number of Dyo Coating 14 86 13 87 14 86 increase women’s employment. employment and gender equality female employees, and human Having signed the “Principles in Turkey. resources practices are being Dyo Printing Inks 19 81 18 82 18 82 of Empowering Women” CEO revised with the management of Food and Beverages Group When the workforce of Yaşar Support Declaration initiated by the companies. Pınar Dairy 18 82 19 81 19 81 Holding is examined, it is noted the United Nations, the Yaşar Pınar Meat 15 85 16 84 21 79 that there is an even distribution Group also participated actively of female and male employees, Pınar Water 14 86 16 84 18 82 in the work of the “Platform for but a picture in favour of male Çamlı Feed and Fattening 13 87 13 87 12 88 Equality at Work” initiated by YBP 15 85 16 84 13 87 Gender Distribution Percentage of White Collar Employees Tissue Paper Group 2011 2012 2013 Viking Tissue 10 90 10 90 8 92 Our Relations with Society Female Male Female Male Female Male Trade and Services Group Yaşar Holding 57 43 59 41 54 46 Altın Yunus 22 78 17 83 19 81 Coatings Group Desa Energy 7 93 13 87 15 85 Dyo Coating 27 73 26 74 27 73 Dyo Printing Inks 35 65 41 59 40 60 Food and Beverages Group Pınar Dairy 34 66 35 65 32 68 Pınar Meat 26 74 27 73 29 71 Pınar Water 19 81 20 80 23 77 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Çamlı Feed and Fattening 27 73 31 69 27 73 YBP 16 84 17 83 13 87 Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 21 79 20 80 18 82 Trade and Services Group Altın Yunus 26 74 21 79 23 77 Desa Energy 7 93 8 92 16 84 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 72 73 Gender Distribution Percentage of Team Leaders and Average Age of Employees Superior Management Staff 2011 2012 2013 Average Age of All Employees Female Male Female Male Female Male 2011 2012 2013 Yaşar Holding 57 43 57 43 57 43 Yaşar Holding 39 41 42 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coating 24 76 23 77 23 77 Dyo Coating 35 35 35 Dyo Printing Inks 32 68 33 67 32 68 Dyo Printing Inks 37 37 37 Food and Beverages Group Food and Beverages Group Pınar Dairy 30 70 32 68 34 66 Pınar Dairy 33 33 33 Pınar Meat 27 73 29 71 34 66 Pınar Meat 36 36 35 Pınar Water 24 76 17 83 18 82 Pınar Water 35 34 35 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 26 74 26 74 21 79 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 35 35 36 YBP 19 81 19 81 22 78 YBP 35 35 35 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 25 75 16 84 15 85 Viking Tissue 35 35 35 Trade and Services Group Our Relations with Society Trade and Services Group Altın Yunus 14 86 5 95 15 85 Altın Yunus 34 34 34 Desa Energy 0 100 17 83 20 80 Desa Energy 37 38 39 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 74 75 Average Age of White Collar and Management Staff Age Distribution Percentage of All Employees for the Year 2013 White Collar Management Staff -18 18-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 +46 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Yaşar Holding 0,0 0 10 20 28 13 29 Yaşar Holding 39 38 42 41 44 45 Coatings Group Coatings Group Dyo Coating 0,0 9 21 23 22 18 8 Dyo Coating 36 35 36 40 40 40 Dyo Printing Inks 0,0 8 17 18 23 21 12 Dyo Printing Inks 37 35 37 40 40 41 Food and Beverages Group Food and Beverages Group Pınar Dairy 0,0 16 28 22 19 11 5 Pınar Dairy 33 32 33 36 36 36 Pınar Meat 0,0 15 20 17 22 17 9 Pınar Meat 36 35 36 39 39 40 Pınar Water 0,0 12 18 26 22 15 6 Pınar Water 35 34 36 37 38 39 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 0,0 7 20 26 22 16 9 Çamlı Feed and Fattening 35 33 35 40 42 41 YBP 0,0 5 21 33 20 15 7 YBP 35 34 35 39 39 40 Tissue Paper Group Tissue Paper Group Viking Tissue 0,0 6 20 26 25 18 5 Viking Tissue 35 34 36 37 39 40 Trade and Services Group Trade and Services Group Altın Yunus 0,0 20 20 16 17 17 10 Our Relations with Society Altın Yunus 36 35 36 44 43 41 Desa Energy 0,0 0 20 15 35 15 15 Desa Energy 37 33 39 55 48 47 Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 76 77 Our Studies on Management Systems While offering quality and of management and to be Management System System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Dyo Altın Viking Çamlı Desa YBP trust for our consumers and able to make the necessary CertificaMeat Dairy Water Coating Printing Yunus Tissue Feed and Energy all our stakeholders through improvements by ensuring the tion Inks Fattening our products and services, traceability of our activities. Automotive Sector ISO 16949 we conduct our activities and Sub-Industry Under our sustainability Quality at internationally accepted Management System approach, we continuously standards. We continuously assess our management systems Organic Farming develop our management Entrepreneur and their effectiveness, thereby systems activities with the Certificate fulfilling our commitments aim of achieving international FSC-CoC ( Forest FSC regarding our impact on the standards to increase efficiency, Stewardship Council40-004 environment as well as the Chain of Custody ) 004 to develop an effective system optimization of operations. Management System FSC 40-007 Management System System Pınar Pınar Pınar Dyo Dyo Altın Viking Çamlı Desa YBP US National NSF CertificaMeat Dairy Water Coating Printing Yunus Tissue Feed and Energy Sanitation tion Inks Fattening Foundation Our Studies on Management Systems Quality ISO 9001 British Retail BRC Management System Consortium Food Safety ISO 22000 International Food IFS Management Standard System Certificate Global Gap CFM/COC Environment ISO 14001 National Britannia NB Management System Occupational Food Safety System Health and Safety OHSAS FSSC Certificate Management 18001 22000 System Certificate ISO 17025 Halal Food Certificate TS OIC/ Test and SMIC 1 Calibration ISO 17025 Laboratory Friend of the Sea FOS Accreditation Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Customer Satisfaction ISO 10002 Management System Certificate Energy ISO 50001 Management System Conformity TS EN Assessment-General ISO/IEC Requirements for 17024 Bodies Operating Certification of Persons Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 78 79 Altın Yunus Projects and Systems to Enhance Dealer Portal Project Autonomous Project Dealer Kanban Project-East Customer Satisfaction Directorship Extension • An interim audit was performed Dealer Portal has been created This is a project open to and successfully completed in YBP in order to establish a systematic continuous development, Kanban Project (System of 2013 in accordance with the ISO structure that enables the implemented for the manual Filling and Drawing on Location E-Invoice Project 9001:2008 Quality Management Yaşar Group to communicate devices with which YBP conducts at Dealer Warehouses) was System. The e-invoice application of the with dealers. Designed to serve the sales operation in the field introduced in 2012 at the West Revenue Administration (RED) dealers through modules such to operate and be developed in pilot dealers and, following • Also in 2013, the hotel was was introduced at YBP in 2012. as announcements, proposals accordance with the company successful results, it was decided awarded by National Britannia With customers also being and complaints, and document principles. Entering into a new to extend it across Turkey. In (NB) with the Golden Certificate included in the e-invoice process management, the Dealer Portal period in 2013 at YBP, the 2013, 14 dealers under the in food safety. that started with Pınar Dairy and is planned to be opened for use autonomous process is also East Directorship were taken • Following audits, it was Pınar Meat, producer companies in 2014. supported by the Turkish Council into the live system. Aimed at certified with the Blue Flag also in the Food Group, integration for Scientific and Technical increasing the order response The aim of the Dealer Portal in 2013. into the invoice sending and Research as the first androidrates of dealers and lowering Project is for wishes, complaints receiving and SAP system based software project with 3G the numbers of stock days, the • Work is under way concerning and proposals made by YBP continued in 2013 together with connection support on manual project has enabled business dealers in particular to be Our Studies on Management Systems the TS ISO EN 50001 Energy efficiency and customer improvements in the reporting devices in Turkey. Thanks to the Management Systems. recorded by specialists and processes. project, the manual device will satisfaction to be increased. communicated to the relevant • The stage of application to the be capable of operating online or In 2013, the number of departments and for a response Ministry of Culture and Tourism offline whenever required, and e-invoices received was 125,487 to be sent to the dealer. for becoming a “Green Star through this flow the sales team and the number of e-invoices Specialist and dealer training on Hotel” has been reached. in the field will be able to have sent 34,718. portal use is continuing. Below instant access to all details and Pınar Water is the distribution of authorized changes regarding the customers groups across Turkey. Work is under way on the TS ISO in the system. EN 50001 Energy Management West Directorship YBP Autonomous Project is a e Systems concerning energy • Specialists 11 visionary project that will cover management. all the flexibilities of tablet • Dealers 10 Pınar Meat technology in the future years, Sustainability Approach of Yaşar Holding Marmara Directorship too. TS ISO EN 50001 Energy Management System certification • Specialists 9 was completed in 2013. • Dealers 7 East Directorship • Specialists 10 • Dealers 38 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 80 81 Support to Development of Sectors That We Operate In Support to the Promotion of the Brand Turkey Pınar Institute Launched and conducted by and Beverage” group to the Located in the Yaşar University Healthy Diets” and carried out Council (EUFIC) through Pınar the Ministry of Economy with Gulf and EU countries and in Campus, Pınar Institute was educational activities to create Meat, cooperation with the the vision of “creating 10 the “coating” group to many established in 2012 to carry awareness in children regarding EUFIC has been formalized. world brands in 10 years”, the countries including especially out research with the aim of food, health and nutrition issues. Activities to be implemented in TURQUALITY® Program is the Asian, European and Gulf contributing to the healthy Under the project, children aged the area of food and nutrition only brand-building programme countries. development of society under 6 to 12 on holiday at Çeşme will be announced through the with state support in the world. corporate social responsibility, to Altun Yunus Resort and Thermal Pınar Institute. Goals of TURQUALITY® Conducted with the aim of support research and education, Hotel in summer were provided Pınar Institute will share increasing the competitiveness • To play an acceleratory role to publish the results, and to with education concerning information over its website to of Turkish brands and enabling in brand-building by providing operate in this direction. healthy nutrition and physical ensure circulation of knowledge Support to the Promotion of the Brand Turkey Pınar Institute them to join global brands on financial resources to firms with activity. Setting out with the mission of and consumer awareness and the international markets, the brand potential on the road to extending support to scientific The study on “Consumer will offer its website as an Programme also aims at creating becoming a global brand; projects in order to inform Perception of Meat and Milk information platform to users in global brands with a strong • To support the development of the public on food, health and Products” was designed jointly 2014. institutional infrastructure and firms and their brands through nutrition issues and to create with the Communication Faculty increasing exports. www.pinarenstitusu.org.tr TURQUALITY® strategy, operation, organization awareness of quality living, of the Yaşar University and Providing an important strength and technology consulting participating in information approved for support by the Programme makes it and dynamism to the national networks and engaging in activities to create global Turkish Turkish Council for Scientific and possible for brands economy, the Programme gives brands; education activities, the Pınar Technical Research. to develop new Turkish brands a global vision • To strengthen total human Institute with the members of its and enables them to generate Managing Board and Scientific Joint work is being conducted management and more value-added and to raise resources by providing training Board started its activities on 13 with the National Food business models. their market shares. support to the management June 2013. Technology Platform (NFTP), units of firms covered by the which carries out activities of TURQUALITY® Programme is not Programme; Aiming to be a reliable point of R&D and innovation to support a limited to financial support and reference in the area of food successful and competitive food makes it possible for brands to • To enable a positive image and nutrition, the Pınar Institute and beverage sector based on develop new management and of Turkish goods to be created also aims to contribute to the economic growth, knowledge Support to Development of Sectors That We Operate In business models. and maintained abroad through formation of a society composed communication and promotion and technology transfer, of individuals who are fed in a sustainable production and While reaching consumers in activities; healthy way. In line with this the global markets through its consumer trust. • To increase the brand potential aim, the Pınar Institute first brands Dyo, Dewilux and Pınar, and awareness of Turkish firms; implemented the project “Let’s By becoming a member of the the Yaşar Group also conducts its Act and Have Fun and Let’s Have European Food Information activity with the support of the • To provide intelligence support TURQUALITY® Programme. The for Turkish firms to be able brand Pınar has been included in to take action with market the TURQUALITY® Programme knowledge; and since 2007 and the brands Dyo and Dewilux have since 2008. • To be an incubator and catalyst Exports are made in the “Food for selected Turkish brands. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 82 83 The Value We Add to the Lives of our Consumers: Customer Satisfaction The Yaşar Group companies offer spaces have been arranged in YBP Customer Satisfaction Percentage specialized in his field and contributions to the economic accordance with international COH* Modern Distributor Traditional from the Quality Association For the criterion of customer and social development of the standards. 82 to implement the model satisfaction, which forms 20% 81 society in which they operate, 2013 82 successfully. Different working • As part of the restructuring of of scoring for the award of while adding value to the lives of 79 groups were created out the scullery, the glass washing the European Foundation for their consumers and customers. 75 of the company employees area has been separated from Quality Management (EFQM), 76 In addition to its rapid and 2012 81 and they were given training the main scullery and established a YBP Customer Satisfaction 75 The Value We Add to the Lives of our Consumers: Customer Satisfaction effective business solutions on the model. In addition, in a different place. Survey was conducted also in 75 and its high-quality and reliable 78 information and awareness2013. Under the project with 2011 82 products, the Yaşar Group 81 raising courses were organized • The working conditions of the a confidence interval of 95%, generates values of common (*) Consumption Outside Home for all factory and regional sales administrative units have been a closed envelope survey was benefit to society. Underlying personnel. With the working improved. The office windows applied to 3,071 YBP customers. the loyalty to the brands of the carefully examines and evaluates a communication has been groups created, the EFQM have been renovated so as to The survey results were shared Yaşar Group are these values the wishes and proposals coming made. According to the results criteria (leadership, strategy, allow the offices to receive more with the regions, proposals were and shared principles. Social from its consumers. of the survey implemented with employees, partnerships and sunlight and directly. identified to improve satisfaction, cohesion, customer satisfaction, consumers who reached the resources, processes, products and they were submitted to Customer requests and and services, results concerning social and cultural values and • In the kitchen and the Petunia Pınar Communication Centre in the senior management for complaints reaching the Pınar customers, results concerning consumer rights are concepts restaurant, the capacity of the 2013, the customer satisfaction implementation. Communication Centre (PCC) employees, results concerning that cannot be thought of ventilation system has been rate is 91%. at 444 76 27, which may be society, business results) were separate from the Group culture. increased. Çamlı Feed and Fattening called from anywhere in Turkey Dyo Printing Inks analyzed on the company basis Altın Yunus • The wall between the thermal The animal health and feeding without dialling the city code, and activities carried out to The customer satisfaction rate pool and the thalasso pool at the training and supports given are answered live by operators prepare and implement action • The second phase of the was 95% according to the Fitness Centre has been removed by the Technical Field R&D between 07:00 and 23:00 plans. renovation of the Marina apart results of the 2013 survey. to ensure integrity between the employees to farmers on location for seven days a week, and rooms, begun in March 2012, are aimed at increasing customer A dynamic evaluation framework two sections. The pools area has consumers are provided with Dyo Coating was completed in 2013. satisfaction. was created for sustainable been visually improved. information in the shortest time The EFQM Excellence Model was corporate excellence. Following • Additional cold rooms have about the issues communicated. Pınar Communication Centre Support to Development of Sectors That We Operate In • A lift suitable for use by introduced in order to assess an application made in June been built in the food and The call response rate of the disabled guests has been where the company stood on 2013 for the National Excellence beverage units. In accordance with the principle PCC is 90%, and 92% of calls constructed for coming down the road to corporate excellence, Award, Dyo Coating was found “Our consumers and customers are answered in 15 seconds. • In the beach aparts, the key from the main building of the to identify its strengths and its worthy of the EFQM 5-Star first”, Pınar acts in a proactive With the PCC Twitter account systems of the rooms have been Hotel to the Marina zone. areas open to improvement in Excellence Award. This award and innovative approach to that went into operation in connection with the company clearly showed the accumulated converted to the card system. perceive rapidly and correctly the 2013, wishes and proposals • The floors of the kitchen and vision and mission, to achieve assets of Dyo Coating in its the cold rooms has been covered needs of its consumers and its coming through the social media • The sports centre of the Hotel the improvements, and to turn quest for excellence and the domestic and foreign customers are examined and consumers and the sports equipment in use with epoxy in accordance with the culture of excellence into the distance it covered as a result of and to meet their expectations responded to. The service level have been renewed. the standards of hygiene. lifestyle of Dyo Coating. the activities conducted for this for a better life. Adopting the of the PCC is regularly measured purpose. • The railings and banisters of The customer satisfaction rate of principle of doing business with through the satisfaction survey Consulting services began to the marina and terrace outer the Hotel in 2013 was 90%. a focus on the consumer, Pınar applied to consumers with whom be received from a consultant Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 84 85 Our Social Contribution Projects Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Supporting activities and completed in 2013 and the 46 years of Dyo Painting achievements in the fields of buildings were handed over Competitions education, art and culture in to the Directorate of National Durmuş Yaşar, the founder of Turkey, Yaşar Education and Education. Dyo Coating, which was founded Culture Foundation has ever Various training courses are in 1954 and which is the first since the day of its establishment provided throughout the year coating factory in Turkey, started assumed the construction of to the companies of the Yaşar the work out of the conviction many schools and of additional Group and to other institutions that it was necessary to carry buildings, dining halls, and and organizations at the Durmuş out artistic and cultural activities sports and cultural facilities in Yaşar Training Centre of the as well as economic activities, line with needs. Yaşar Education and Culture and in 1967, thirteen years after In the framework of education Foundation. the foundation of the company, investments, the construction of it was decided to organize The Foundation, which has the Yaşar Education and Culture a painting competition to Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery and published about 40 works so Foundation Special Education encourage the arts and artists. Painting Museum far, organizes events where Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Application Centre and Work current problems in Turkey and Dyo Painting Competition, which Put into service in 1990, the Application Centre with 18 in the world are assessed with started in 1967 as the only Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery operates classrooms, a project specially a scientific approach and the private painting competition within the Selçuk Yaşar Museum, designed for the education of results are made public. in Turkey and which has been which was opened in 1985 and autistic children, commissioned organized by the Yaşar Education which is the first private painting by the Yaşar Education and The charter of the Foundation and Culture Foundation since museum in Turkey. Culture Foundation in the entrusts it with the duties of 1993, was held for the 35th Kahramandere Neighbourhood, carrying out services to publicize time in 2012. The 1.585 works In 2013, Yaşar Education and Güzelbahçe, Izmir, was and protect our cultural and by the 944 artists entering the Culture Foundation continued historical heritage, supporting its activities of art through the competition were presented archaeological excavations, exhibitions of Hüseyin Yüce, to art lovers in Izmir, Antalya, publishing their findings, Ayşegül İzer, Orhan Ersoy, Umur Gaziantep, Ankara and Erzurum publicizing them at national Türker, Bekir Sami Çimen, Cavit during 2013. and international level and Atmaca, Mustafa Pilevneli and offering them to the public Yalçın Gökçebağ in the gallery on for its information. In this the lower floor of the museum. framework, Yaşar Education and The summer exhibitions were Our Social Contribution Projects Culture Foundation continued to held with Fahri Sümer, Murat extend financial support to the Ateşli, Funda İyce Tuncel and Nysa excavations in 2013 and Mahmut Durmuş in the Çeşme allocated vehicles for use at the Altın Yunus Art Gallery. site. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 86 87 Pınar Assistance to Other Institutions and the Association of Turkish With the social responsibility assets as an important and theme “Let’s Protect Nature, and Organizations Businesswomen, assistance was projects it implements, Pınar essential means of the principle Let’s Take Care of the Future”, provided to the Ceylan Primary contributes to the well-being of of giving back to society. The received a large number of A chemistry laboratory was entries, a total of 377,824 works and Secondary School in Silopi, society and to increasing the Pınar Painting Competition, the provided to the Ödemiş Science Şırnak for a playground, a from every region of Turkey, quality of life for individuals. Pınar Children’s Theatre and High School and equipment fountain and interior coating. from the Turkish Republic of Carrying on activities in the the sponsorship for the Pınar to the Special Education Class Northern Cyprus and from fields of education, sports and Karşıyaka Basketball Team are in the Nazire Merzeci Primary Yaşar Education and Culture Germany. 23 children selected art on the social dimension of among the social responsibility School. A scholarship was Foundation participated in by the jury including specialists the Contemporary Istanbul sustainability, the company projects carried on by the granted to a student under the gained the right to participate in International Modern Art Fair puts into practice and carries company for many years without “European College Postgraduate the 1-week Art Camp in Istanbul and granted a contribution to on projects for all segments of interruption. Scholarship Programme” started under the coordination of the the Orion Education Foundation society. by the Ministry of European Pınar Painting Competition famous painter Devrim Erbil. Union Affairs in order to develop towards the cost of printing The students who took part Pınar generates value for the the book “The Logbook of Piri For 32 years now, the Pınar Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation Pınar the human resources needed in whole of society through the in the competition were given Reis”. In 2013, the Foundation Painting Competition has allowed their netbooks and certificates the area of the European Union. direct and indirect employment continued to provide financial hundreds of thousands of in a ceremony held on the last opportunities it creates, its Under the project “My Country and in-kind support as a sponsor children to express themselves day of the Art Camp. 3 students investments, the goods and is Special” supported by the to a large number of institutions by painting and aimed to support participating in the Art Week services it procures and Ministry of National Education and organizations. the painters of the future by from Ağrı, Diyarbakır and Cyprus the taxes it pays as well as ensuring the development of became entitled to a scholarship. its products. In addition to children’s painting skills. these, the company regards The awareness rate of the Pınar the permanent support and Pınar Painting Competition, Painting Competition in 2013 is contribution it provides to the which is opened with a different 31% according to the awareness arts, to education, to sports theme each year and which measurement carried out by GfK and to the protection of cultural was organized in 2013 with the Turkey. Pınar Painting Competition, Pınar Children’s Theatre and the sponsorship for Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball Team are among the social responsibility projects carried on by Pınar for Our Social Contribution Projects many years without interruption. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 88 89 Other Pınar Children’s Theatre Pınar-UNICEF Cooperation Altın Yunus Social Contribution Projects • 250 kg of blue caps collected 26 Years Old from water bottles used after Pınar continues its cooperation Contributions to Education • Housekeeping materials were services provided to guests Having reached more than three with UNICEF and develops joint Institutions donated for the renovation have been delivered to the million children across Turkey projects that will make a change of the rooms at the Alaçatı • We participated in the career Konak Municipality to purchase free of charge in 26 years, the in the lives of children. In this Tourism Training Centre. As days of the Balıkesir University wheelchairs for the disabled. Pınar Children’s Theatre aims framework, Pınar cooperated a result, the school was able to inculcate a love of theatre in with UNICEF for a donation to Tourism School for Higher to put up the relevant rooms • An event organized for the children and continues in every the Regional Boarding Primary Learning and provided students for sale on a daily basis in the benefit of the autistic disabled play to contribute to the cultural, Schools in Şanlıurfa, instead of with information about the job summer months and to start was hosted, with the funds psychological and mental New Year presents to be sent on and training opportunities at the revolving capital operations. raised to be spent for their development of children. the occasion of the New Year in Hotel. With this revolving capital education. 2013, as it did in 2012. income obtained, resources were Having staged dozens of plays • Following negotiations with the provided for other areas in need for children every year since Çeşme Tourism School of the of improvement at the school. 1987 with its professional staff, Aegean University, a practical the Pınar Children’s Theatre put training programme was included • Support has been extended to on stage its new play “Aladdin’s in the curricula of the school. the construction of the animal Magic Lamp” in the teaching The students will begin to have shelter in Çeşme and the food year of 2012-2013 and shared practical training at the Hotel needs of the animals in this the excitement of this visual enterprises in the teaching year shelter are provided from meals world with children. The Theatre of 2014-2015. not served or from leftovers. met thousands of theatre-going children during its Anatolia Tour Pınar Other in the provinces of Izmir, Mardin, Kızıltepe, Şanlıurfa, Gaziantep and Eskişehir. The awareness rate of the Pınar Children’s Theatre in 2013 is 33% according to the awareness measurement carried out by GfK. Our Social Contribution Projects Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 90 91 Education and Publications Yaşar University Yaşar University, which started Institute that offers 8 postInstitutional Basic Courses in all education in the academic year graduate and 3 doctorate its departments with the aim of of 2002-2003, is one of the 5 programmes. ensuring that its students are foundation universities in Izmir. aware of their responsibilities to Yaşar University aims to raise society. Carrying on education in the individuals who: Selçuk Yaşar Campus in Bornova, Starting from its competences, • Can easily put their mental the Yaşar University has 6,211 the Yaşar University continues potentials into practice; students and a total of 631 to work in line with its personnel members with 393 • Have high design and project fundamental mission of “high of them academic and 238 skills; quality education and research administrative. that establishes the science • Can think analytically, A Campus Pushing the In Yaşar University, there are 7 culture and contributes to the systematically and regularly; Boundaries of International faculties with 25 departments, development of society in the Standards! one Vocational School for Higher • Are not content with what they local and global sense”. Learning that offers 11 prefind and are curious, investigate International standards Yaşar University believes in the graduate programmes, one and question; determined in terms of the power of recognizing different Foreign Languages School for criteria of natural environment • Care about the environment cultures and disciplines and Higher Learning, one Social and physical space per student and their own lives; encourages its students in this Studies Institute that offers 12 are implemented at the Selçuk respect. In this framework, the post-graduate and 3 doctorate • Can act with the awareness of Yaşar Campus. Yaşar University offers five-star programmes, and one Science social responsibility; and accommodation service at the At the Campus, where ramps Yaşar University • Participate in and organize civil Altın Yunus Student Hostel with and lifts conforming to standards society activities organized in a capacity for 400 persons to are used for the convenience of the framework of sensitivity to Erasmus Exchange Programme physically disabled students, a ethical and aesthetical values. students as well as its own first has been achieved in Turkey students and guest members of by banning the consumption of The Yaşar University, whose teaching staff. cigarettes and other tobacco institutional identity and stand products in the indoor and is identified with the slogan Carrying its success in academic outdoor spaces. “Science, Unity, Achievement”, education to social events, sports has introduced the compulsory and art activities organized with courses of Design Culture, the participation of students, the Project Culture, Research Yaşar University with its many Education and Publications Culture, Human Sciences, sportsmen obtained important Ethics Culture, Aesthetics positions in the inter-university Culture and Social Responsibility competitions held in the Project under the heading of academic year of 2013-2014. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 92 93 An international city university EU Centre, Erasmus Programmes At the Yaşar University, events to develop the social which offers an international life of its students. Concerts Through the publicity work and Under the Bologna process experience of education with of classical music, exhibitions, student exchange programmes harmonization work conducted a diverse student profile at conferences and panels are held conducted by the International at the Yaşar University, the its campus, students from 25 in the campus and support is Relations and European Union European Commission awarded different countries including given to the social and cultural Centre, a large number of the university with the Diploma the USA, Great Britain, Oman, activities of students with 43 foreign students prefer to Attachment Label in 2011 and Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Nigeria actively working student clubs. continue their studies at the with the AKTS Label in 2012. and Australia receive full-time Yaşar University, a city university New Investments As the only university from education. which has achieved international Turkey among the first 20 An area of 8,400 square metres, standards. Scholarships universities selected out of 64 located opposite the local metro Underlying the Yaşar University’s applications from 27 different Yaşar University supports the stop, next to the Selçuk Yaşar concept of management countries, the Yaşar University achievements of students and Campus, has been purchased and responsibility are for was found by the European contributes to their education and made part of the campus. international quality concern in Commission worthy of the “2010 with different scholarship Following this investment, education to be reflected in all Erasmus Achievement Award”. In opportunities including the the Yaşar University has an units of the university and in the academic year of 2013-2014, Education Scholarship, the additional indoor area space of students and for the education 83 students went abroad under Academic Achievement 30,000 square metres. offered and diplomas to be at the Erasmus Programme and Scholarship, the Talent In the academic year of 2013world quality. 120 Erasmus students came to Scholarship, the War Veterans 2014, the Foreign Languages the Yaşar University for study. Scholarship, the Accommodation In addition, the Yaşar University School for Higher Learning and Yaşar University Scholarship and the International English Preparatory Class was International Relations Office the Vocational School for Higher Student Scholarship. the first Turkish programme and Learning were moved from the Established to develop the ninth non-US programme to be 45% of the students at the Alsancak Campus to the modern international perspective of Yaşar accredited in the area of English Yaşar University benefit from building constructed on the said University and to coordinate teaching by obtaining CEA scholarships granted at different area. its international activities, the accreditation. rates. International Relations Office www.yasar.edu.tr increases international education Social Life opportunities for students In addition to academic and academics and integrates education, the Yaşar University campus life with the intercultural makes efforts and organizes and international dimension. Education and Publications Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 94 95 Trainings, Meetings and Activities for Stakeholders Pınar Meat Occupational Training who completed their training “Meat from the Point of the developments, examining issues and additional training is Unit were recruited by Pınar Meat. Producer and the Consumer” of human and social psychology, organized for 4 to 6 days under At the year end, 57 students Book covering particular cases, and the name of personnel changes, Established as part of Pınar Meat were attending the Occupational offering book summaries. additional staff, and updates. due to the lack of an institution Pınar has made the second Training Unit, from which a 361 dealers trained 5,390 hours providing training in meat and printing of the book “Meat from The bulletin, published for 14 total of 325 persons graduated in related programmes. meat products processing, the the Point of the Producer and months now, is sent to the YBP between 1998 and 2013. Pınar Meat Occupational Training the Consumer” by Prof. Dr. sales staff and to the highTraining activities are planned Unit was opened for training in “Yaşam Pınarım” Magazine Cemal Sarıcan. level managers of the Group at the beginning of the year 1998 to eliminate the shortage companies. and on a monthly basis by Containing useful information “Dyorum” Magazine of trained personnel in the the dealer managers of the especially for parents and having Trainings and Meetings for Other sector. This training activity, “Dyorum” magazine is published relevant company and the YBP been published since 2004, Stakeholders which set a first example in as 3 issues a year and sent to Business Management Systems the “Yaşam Pınarım” magazine 10,000 persons free of charge. Çamlı Feed and Fattening Directorship. Trainings, Meetings and Activities for Stakeholders Turkey, is aimed at ensuring is an important instrument that young people aged 15 to of the link established with Sales Techniques Training for Business Management Systems Çamlı Feed and Fattening 19 who have completed their Pınar’s consumers and business Dealers by the Technical Training Directorship System Projects organized “Cattle Feed Seminars basic education, entered into partners and with academic Directorship Bulletin for Farmers” in Dörtyol, Milas working life and wish to learn and bureaucratic circles. The Merkez, Kemikler, Türbe and a trade receive their theoretical Prepared by the YBP Business Sales techniques training to magazine is published quarterly Selimiye for farmers. “Cattle and practical occupational Management Systems develop the sales personnel and distributed freely. Starting Feed Training” is among the training under a programme and Directorship under the heading of dealers continued in 2013. to be sent to consumers as an training activities conducted for thereby including them in the of “News from the System” and A total of 23 training sessions e-bulletin in 2013, the magazine stakeholders. skilled intermediate manpower quarterly published for the Food have been organized for the reaches 115,000 people every needed by the country. Such Group, the bulletin provides YBP sales representatives, the fresh month as a result. information about technological teams and the non-domestic training also makes it possible Dealer SAP and Business Pınar Newspaper innovations concerning the consumption channel. to achieve the goals of ensuring Processes Training by the professional discipline in working sector as well as ongoing or Being an important source of Business Management Systems Dyo Coating life, reaching occupational completed projects concerning information on issues such as Directorship standards at national level, systems implemented by all Dyo Academy fattening, dairy technologies, improving the quality standard in project teams included in the The Dealer Sap and Business and fatstock health for dairy The minimum norms and Food Group. Processes Training provided by production and raising efficiency. and meat farmers and published qualifications adopted by the quarterly, the Pınar Newspaper is the YBP Business Management Technical Training Directorship European Union to show the In 2013, at the occupational Systems Directorship to newly prepared for the 25,000 farmers Thematic Publications required knowledge, skills and training unit, 16 apprentice established dealers of the who supply milk to Pınar, for attitudes for an occupation to Education and Publications students were provided Prepared by the Technical YBP, Dyo Coating and Pınar veterinary surgeons and for the be successfully practised in by master instructors with Training Directorship, “Thematic” Water companies includes farmers with whom the Pınar accordance with the levels of occupational skills in meat (Bulletin of the Technical Training SAP installation training and Meat purchasing department competence are determined in and meat products processing Directorship) is published on additional training needed. Oneworks. our country by the Occupational and were entitled to receive the first day of every month, to-one training is provided for Qualifications Agency (OQA). Experienced Apprentice describing the activities of 10 days under the name of “SAP Certificates. Nine of the students training conducted, sharing Transition” about all processes, Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 96 97 Dyo Coating is the first coating the 21st organization in our shows took place as part of the leadership. Under the training the FOGRA certification. In Vocational high school students firm authorized to give testing country licensed to carry out activities. programme, which lasted for 6 all processes of the FOGRA and university students receive and certification services under testing and certification for months, training was given to PSO (Offset Printing Process practical training at our Regional Master Seminars the qualification of Master building painters on the basis of 1,195 persons including repeats. Standard), which is the quality companies, respectively, for Building Painter who uses our national qualifications. The master seminars, which indicator of the printing sector, three days a week and in June Industrial Paints Technical products, as in many branches of are annually held across Turkey firms are supported and to September. 509 university With all its infrastructure and Service Activities work. and have become traditional, consulting services are offered students had practical training at preparations completed in 2013, through the FOGRA partners our companies in 2013. were held in 2013 with the In 2013, large industrial firms The Dyo Academy Certification the Dyo Academy Certification participation of 3,650 masters. such as Otokar, Vestel and at the company. 2 FOGRA Department started a project in Department will issue OPAUnder the long-term training At the seminar, information was Arçelik were given 2,400 hours certifications were effected in 2013 to carry out its activities approved Occupational programme “Stepping into Yaşar/ provided on issues to contribute of training, contributing to the 2013. in this direction and took an Qualification Certificates to into Life (SYL)” introduced in to the professional development promotion of Dyo. important step to clear the building painters who prove Dyo Printing Inks participated 2012, 6 students in that year of the masters, and new way for nearly 50,000 master their occupational skills and Dyo Printing Inks Activities in the campaign “I Have A Tree and 3 students in the following Trainings, Meetings and Activities for Stakeholders products were introduced. painters across Turkey to receive competences by successfully Planted”, launched by Natural year worked on a project basis an Occupational Qualification In addition to the training at our companies Yaşar Holding, passing the tests that involve In 2013, the marketing, sales and Environmental Protection Certificate. It was accredited by implemented at Dyo Printing Pınar Dairy and YBP for 6 two stages as theoretical and and technical service teams Urbanism Services for a the Turkish Accreditation Agency Inks, training seminars are months. practical. carried out screening work greener Turkey, and presented under the TS-EN-ISO-IEC 17024 organized through R&D and in order to become solution saplings that had been planted In 2013, a total of 5,475 persons technical service departments Cooperation with universities Standard and was authorized partners in respect of surface in Karaağaçlı, Manisa to all its under the qualification including dealers, sub-dealers, cooperation to provide technical problems at hotels located on business partners. University students form a 11UY0023-3 Building Painter shop assistants, masters and information and to share sectoral the coastal line in our country unique manpower pool for Level-3. As a result, the Dyo consumers were given 10,861 developments for the Printing Practical Training Opportunities due to both regional effects and the business community. Academy Department became man/hours of training to ensure Schools of the Marmara and for High School and University utilization during the year. Participating in career days, customer satisfaction and to Istanbul Universities, for dealers, Students which make it possible to meet provide information about • Antalya Hotel Screening Work: for industrial customers and for The Yaşar Group offers practical the need for skilled manpower products. A total of 410 hotels were visited printing house masters. training opportunities to high and allow students to get in November 2013. Special training seminars school and university students acquainted with the business Hardware Supermarket Activities • Aegean Region Hotel Screening continue to be organized in in order to contribute to community, the Yaşar Group To increase brand awareness Work: A total of 97 hotels were addition to group training events. raising skilled, innovative and considers this channel one of in the final consumer and to visited in December 2013. responsible generations moving the most effective means of Participating in sector-specific communication with students. In publicize the products, hardware forward in the light of science Road-to-Victory Training fairs and symposiums and closely this framework, we participated supermarket activities are and to enable them to acquaint watching the market in the light in the career days of 8 organized at certain points In 2013, training was provided themselves more closely with of developments, Dyo Printing Education and Publications during certain periods every to wholesale dealers across working life and to develop universities in 2013. Inks started to produce local year. Such activities were Turkey through the training themselves. As a result, students printing inks for the first time in carried out in April to June seminars called “Dyo Road to find the opportunity of practical, Turkey in 2013. 2013 in Istanbul and Izmit at Victory” on different subjects on-the-job training and are hardware supermarkets where from personal development to One of the activities included in a database of skilled Dyo products are sold. Band sales techniques, from customer implemented to enhance candidates who can occupy the performances and caravan relations management to total quality in the sector is relevant positions in the future. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 98 99 Sponsorships and Recognitions Main Sponsorships Other Sponsorships Pınar KSK Pınar Water, Turkish Athletics Pınar • 14th Symposium in Search of Nesin Foundation “Children’s Federation Official Beverage Quality implemented by the Paradise” Pınar displays its contribution Main events sponsored by Pınar Sponsor Izmir Quality Association, 5-6 to sports, which it regards as in 2013: • Paint sponsorship of the event June an important part of social Giving support to projects that “Painting the Poorhouse” • Aegean Brand Summit development, by sponsoring the will make a social contribution • Panel on Water in the Aegean organized by the Aegean • Paint sponsorship of the Fevzi Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball Team out of corporate citizenship Region, 7 June University, 12 March Çakmak Primary School, Keban, (Pınar KSK), who have continued awareness, Pınar became • 49th Turkish Paediatric Elazığ their struggle in the Turkish the official beverage sponsor • 13th Paediatric Days organized Congress, 11-13 June Basketball Premier League under of the World Indoor Athletic by the Nursing School of the • Sponsorship of the poster the name of “Pınar Karşıyaka” Championship to increase the September 9 University Hospital • 59 Meat Science Congress, th painting event of the Bilkent since 1998. As a sponsor, Pınar interest of the Turkish people at the Sabancı Cultural Centre in 18-23 August University Model United Nations also provides nearly 1,000 in athletics. Pınar was also the Izmir, 5-6 April Group children every year with the main sponsor of the European • “World Food Day” implemented opportunity of doing sports at Teams Athletic Championship • 10th Leadership Summit, 11 by the FAO Head Office, 10 • Sponsorship of the “Activity the Çiğli Selçuk Yaşar Facilities. organized by the Turkish April October Week” event of the Bosporus Athletics Federation. University Operations Research • TRT Children’s Country • “Engelsizmir” Project Main Sponsorships Other Sponsorships Winning the Spor Toto Turkish Club Cup and becoming champion in ESTİ implemented by the TRT implemented by the Güzelyalı the 2013-2014 season, Pınar KSK Children channel, 15-23 April Rotary Club and the Izmir • “Avaşın Yorulmaz” Painting Pınar gives support as the main Metropolitan Municipality, 30 Exhibition, School of Fine Arts, also represents Turkey abroad • International Children’s sponsor to the Aegean Water October Kocaeli University and brought the Eurochallenge Theatres Festival implemented Sports and Tennis Specialty Cup to Turkey in the 2012-2013 by the Ankara State Theatres, • 22nd Congress on Quality, 12• Project of colouring the garden Club (ESTI), established in 1993 season, taking part in the final 24-30 April 13 November walls of the Bornova Çamdibi in Izmir. Having successfully four contest. Primary School and Secondary represented Izmir in the Turkish • 28th Torunlar Athletic • UIP-4th Bosporus Summit, 20Yaşam Pınarım KVSK Premier League since 2008 School with the Architecture Competition organized by the 22 November under Pınar Water Sponsorship, Department of the Yaşar Pınar contributed also to Karşıyaka Rotary Club at the ESTI also contributes to • Summit on Marketing in the University volleyball through the support it Atatürk Olympic Stadium, 2-3 the promotion of Turkey in Customer Age, 4-5 December extended to the Yaşam Pınarım May • Alsancak Stadium name right tournaments held abroad. sponsorship Karşıyaka Volleyball Sport Club in • Tire Milk Symposium organized • 4th Food Safety Summit, 14-15 2013. Hido Talent Camp by the Tire Kutsan Vocational May • Fethiye Tennis and Alpinism School for Higher Learning, Pınar sponsored the “Hido Talent Club sponsorship • “Quality in Life, Projects and Aegean University, 5 December Sponsorships and Recognitions Camp” organized by the Hidayet Ideas Competition”, organized by • Dance with Colours, Tango Türkoğlu Sports Schools at the • Brand Conference, 19-20 the Izmir Branch of the Quality (Joint Painting Exhibition) Halkapınar Sports Hall on 23 to December Association for the first time, 30sponsorship 29 June 2013. 31 May Dyo Coating • TTF International Turkish • “Food R&D Project Market” • Paint sponsorship of the Telecom Izmir Cup Challenger implemented by the Aegean children’s festival held in the Aziz Tennis Tournament sponsorship Exporters Union, 3-4 June Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 100 101 Fairs and Congresses Recognitions Pınar In 2013, Pınar: Pınar • Fruit Juice Sector: TCSI • In the Outdoor Advertisements Water was found worthy of the Sustained Achievement Award – Competition organized by “A best new product awards in the Pınar participates in and also • Displayed its products at the • According to the “Best Liked Gold Statue Awards”, Pınar Dairy was found categories of Water (domestic) extends support to many stand of the Yaşar Holding Food Companies in Turkey” research worthy of the “Best FMCG and Glass Bottles with a congresses organized every and Beverage Group in the 82nd organized by GfK and the Capital • Received in 2013 for the Fruit Advertisement” and “Best Special Seasonal Concept and of Water year in areas such as quality, International Fair of Izmir; Magazine, Pınar Dairy is the Juice Sector: TCSI 2012 Sector Application” awards. (individual). food, R&D and marketing best liked Turkish company in First Silver Statue • Participated in the Nonfor the development of the the dairy sector and Pınar Meat • Pınar Dairy’s advertising film “I • In the Packaging Crescent and Domestic Consumption EXPO • Received in 2013 for the Milk sector. Meeting with different the second best liked Turkish Have Grown with Pınar” which Stars Competition organized by Fair at CNR in Istanbul and found and Milk Products Sector: TCSI marketing and consumer company in the meat sector. made a great echo was shown the Association of Packaging the opportunity to promote its 2012 Sector First Silver Statue channels at the fairs in which it by MediaCat among the 10 Industrialists for the fourth time products in the non-domestic • The RepMan Reputation participates within and outside • According to the Turkish advertisements with the best this year, Pınar Water was found consumption sector; and Surveys Centre announced the the country, Pınar with its more Customer Satisfaction Index insight in 2013. worthy of the gold prize in the than 600 products is one of most reputable sectors and • Participated in the Gulffood (TCSI) 2013 second quarter graphic design category as a the participants in the most 2013 Fair organized in Dubai, companies in Turkey. According • Pınar Delight Sausages and results, Pınar Fruit Juices result of its glass bottle series prestigious fairs of the region which is the most prestigious to the survey conducted by GfK Gourmet Finger Sausages achieved the highest customer with a seasonal concept. and the world. Refusing to and most highly attended fair Turkey among a total of 16,243 received the “Excellence Award” satisfaction rate as in the past people in the 7 geographical in the Food Category of the • On the occasion of the Aegean Fairs and Congresses Recognitions compromise on the principle in the Middle East, and found 4 years and proved to be the of sustainability in terms the opportunity to promote its regions, Pınar was among the brand best liked by consumers Packaging Crescent and Stars Chamber of Industry 2012 of contributing to sectoral products to the international most reputable 10 companies in in the fruit juice sector. In the Competition organized by Awards, a total of 15 awards development, Pınar more closely markets. Turkey. Ranked eighth last year TCSI study, the packaged water the Association of Packaging were given to Pınar Meat and promotes its products on the among the most reputable 10 and fruit juice sectors at 80 Industrialists for the fourth time Pınar Water. In the Industry international markets and puts Çamlı Feed and Fattening companies elected by the public, this year. Group of Milk and Milk Products, points were the sectors with the its signature to distinguished • Agroexpo Agriculture and Pınar has risen to the seventh highest TCSI rating among the Pınar Dairy became first in the • The Direct Marketing Awards events that contribute to Animal Husbandry Fair, Izmir rank this year. sectors measured in the second categories of “Highest Exports”, organized by the Association of the food sector on different quarter of 2013. “Highest Investment”, “Highest • Taste activities from Çamlı • One out of every four brands Direct Marketing Communication dimensions. Production” and “Highest Marine at 475 spots listed in Superbrands was in the • In the “brand closest to Experts for the sixth time this Employment in Production” Sponsoring events aimed at the food and beverage category. mothers” survey of the MOM-Z year determined the best in the • Sheep and Goats Fair, and third in the category of development of gastronomic Pınar received an award as one platform led by mothers of the Z sector. At the event, where 78 Seferihisar “Highest Taxpayer”. In the and culinary culture in Turkey, of the super brands. generation, Pınar Dairy received agencies had applied with 357 Industry Group of Meat and Pınar creates opportunities to the first award as the brand projects, the “Pınar Gourmet • Ese European Seafood • At the Turkish Customer Meat Products, Pınar Meat meet with sector leaders and closest to mothers. Sausage Delicacy Table” was the Exposition, Brussels Satisfaction Index (TCSI) Awards became first in the categories of scientists. winner of the third prize in the Sponsorships and Recognitions Ceremony organized by the • Pınar Dairy received the “Highest Investment”, “Highest category of the best guerrilla Turkish Quality Association, Pınar Mediacat Felis “best outdoor Employment in Production” activities. was found worthy of 3 awards media use” award through the and “Highest Tax Payer” and following a satisfaction survey growing rackets application of • Following a survey conducted second in the categories of conducted among 119 brands the campaign “I Have Grown by BrandSpark International with “Highest Exports” and “Highest and some 275,000 consumers: with Pınar”. some 15,000 shoppers, Pınar Production”. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 102 103 Social Media In the Industry Group of Altın Yunus • twitter.com/PinarKurumsal: communication with women Beverages, Pınar Water became Special recipes, press bulletins, aged 25 to 45. Many • An award was given by first in the categories of special announcements, and campaigns and competitions the Environmental Events “Highest Taxpayer” and “Highest celebration messages for special are implemented through the organization for sustainable Employment in Production” days and weeks are shared Facebook fan page. contributions to the environment and second in the categories of with consumers through the and to the development of • www.facebook.com/ “Highest Investment”, “Highest corporate twitter account. In nature. anneningunlugu: Useful Production” and “Highest addition, the wishes, needs and information for mothers and Exports”. • Certificates of proposals of consumers are their children and detailed acknowledgement were given followed and resolved by the • In the Izmir Chamber of information concerning our by the Çeşme Municipality, the Pınar Communication Centre Commerce Traditional Tax products are shared through the Konak Municipality and the through the official twitter Awards Ceremony, Pınar Dairy Facebook page “Mother’s Diary”. Association of Nature and Animal account at twitter.com/InfoPinar received a plate as one of Lovers for the food support made available for consumers • www.facebook.com/PinarKido: the top three members of the regularly provided to the animal who reach the corporate account Information concerning Kido’s Chamber in Corporation Tax shelter since 2006. for comments and proposals. campaigns, and activities in the province of Izmir. Pınar organized for children are shared Dairy in the Group of Milk and • A Golden Certificate in Hygiene • www.facebook.com/ through the Pınar Kido Facebook Milk Products, Pınar Meat in and Food Safety was received. LightYasaminSirlari: Consumers page. the Group of Meat and Meat are directed to healthier living Recognitions Social Media Products, and Yaşar United • A Blue Flag Certificate was through the light living contents • www.facebook.com/ Marketing in the Group of received. daily shared on the Facebook pratikanneler: The “Practical Food and Consumption Goods • A certificate of page “Secrets of Light Living” Mothers” Facebook page for Manufacturing and Wholesale acknowledgement was given opened for those who adopt light Pınar Ready Food has been Trading won Gold Medals in for the housekeeping materials living as a way of life. introduced. The page aims to the Net Commercial Profit donated by the Alaçatı Tourism reach working mothers and • www.facebook.com/ Declaration while Pınar Water Training Centre to a school. shares with them contents that PinarLabne: The Pınar Labne received a Special Award in the make their daily lives easier. Facebook page reaches Group of Alcoholic and Nonconsumers with interesting Alcoholic Beverages. In addition, content and recipes. Pınar Dairy won a Gold Medal in Foreign Currency Earning while • www.facebook.com/ Pınar Meat was awarded the PinarSutleBuyuyorum: The Silver Medal and Pınar Water a Sponsorships and Recognitions Facebook fan page “I am certificate of commendation. Growing with Pınar Milk” has been opened to provide continuous and measurable Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 104 105 GRI Index and UNGC Principles GRI Index Related Related GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of the GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of Indicators Report Report Indicators Report the Report Profile 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 1. Strategy and Analysis of the report 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of UNGC Chairperson’s Message 4-5 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Full Determination of 3 the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior Continued Full facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Report’s Content Chief Executive Officer’s 6-7 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ position) about the relevance of sustainability to the Support Message or between organizations organization and its strategy. Statement 2. Organizational Profile 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 calculations, including assumptions and techniques 2.1 Name of the organization Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 8-9 Indicators and other information in the report 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 8-9 main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons joint ventures for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Full Inside Back Cover Arka Kapak İ of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, methods) and names of countries with either major operations or Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 8-9 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in covered in the report the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 8-9 GRI Content Index 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 8-9 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Full GRI Index 106-1108 sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Disclosures in the report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: Number Full Yaşar Holding At a Glance 8-9 Assurance of employees, net sales (for private sector organizations) 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking GRI G3 indicators are applied or net revenues (for public sector organizations), total external assurance for the report. If not included in the in preparation of this report. capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, No external inspection private sector organizations); and quantity of products or explain the scope and basis of any external assurance services provided provided. Also explain the relationship between the GRI Index 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Full Determination of Report’s 3 reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) regarding size, structure, or ownership including Content 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Full Recognitions 102-104 Governance 3. Report Parameters 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Full Top Management 22-23 Report Profile committees under the highest governance body responsible 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational information provided oversight 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Full Arka Kapak İçi 112 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Full Governance at Yaşar Group 24-25 body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 within the organization’s management and the reasons for 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Full Arka Kapak İçi 112 this arrangement) report or its contents 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Full Governance at Yaşar Group 24-25 GRI Index and UNGC Principles Report Scope and Boundary state the number of members of the highest governance 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Partial Our Reporting Approach 2-3 body that are independent and/or non-executive members Determining materiality, Prioritizing topics within the report, and Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) Full Our Reporting Approach 2-3 See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 106 107 Related Related GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of Indicators Report the Report Indicators Report the Report 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Partial Governance at Yaşar Group 24-25 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency UNGC 8 Partial Energy Efficiency 40-41 recommendations or direction to the highest governance improvements UNGC 9 body EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable UNGC 8 Partial Energy Efficiency 40-41 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Full Risk Management 28-29 energy based products and services, and reductions in UNGC 9 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Business Ethics 30-31 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Full Corporate Reputation 26-27 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and UNGC 8 Partial Energy Efficiency 40-41 of the members of the highest governance body for guiding Management reductions achieved UNGC 9 the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and EN8 Total water withdrawal by source UNGC 8 Full Water Management 66-67 social topics EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and UNGC 7 Full Energy and 34-37 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Full Sustainability Approach of 32-33 reductions achieved UNGC 8 Combating Climate Change codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Yaşar Holding UNGC 9 Energy Efficiency 40-41 environmental, and social performance and the status of EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method UNGC 8 Partial Packaging Waste and 68-69 their implementation Waste Management Stakeholder Engagement EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills UNGC 8 Full Our Environmental 62-63 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Full Collaboration with Non44-45 Concerns and Principles Governmental Organizations and Sector Representatives EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or UNGC 8 Full Our Environmental 62-63 treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Concerns and Principles 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Partial Collaboration with Non44-45 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage with whom to engage Governmental Organizations of transported waste shipped internationally and Sector Representatives EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of UNGC 7 Full Packaging Waste and 68-69 Economic products and services, and extent of impact mitigation UNGC 8 Waste Management Disclosure on Management Approach UNGC 9 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Please refer to following web EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging UNGC 8 Full Packaging Waste and 68-69 including revenues, operating costs, employee pages for Economic data materials that are reclaimed by category UNGC 9 Waste Management compensation, donations and other community investments, www.yasar.com.tr Labor Practices and Decent Work retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and www.investyh.com governments Management Approach GRI Index Our Compensation 48 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Full Our Employment Data 70-71 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared UNGC 1 Partial Management System contract, and region to local minimum wage at significant locations of operations LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age UNGC 6 Full Our Employment Data 70-71 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior UNGC 6 Full Recruitment 46-47 group, gender, and region management hired from the local community at locations of Our Employment Data 70-71 significant operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective UNGC 1 Full Union and Collective 60-61 bargaining agreements UNGC 3 Bargaining Agreement Environmental LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational UNGC 3 Full Legal Rights of Employees 49 Disclosure on Management Approach changes, including whether it is specified in collective EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input UNGC 8 Partial Packaging Waste and 68-69 agreements materials UNGC 9 Waste Management Partial 56-59 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and UNGC 1 Occupational Safety EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source UNGC 8 Full Energy and 34-37 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by GRI Index and UNGC Principles Combating Climate Change region EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source UNGC 8 Full Energy and 34-37 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskUNGC 1 Full Training Programs and 56 Combating Climate Change control programs in place to assist workforce members, Health Controls their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 108 109 UNGC Principles Related GRI Indicators UNGC Scope of Reported Part Page of Indicators Report the Report LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements UNGC 1 Full Union and Collective 60-61 with trade unions Bargaining Agreement LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Full Employees’ Development 51-55 employee category Rights LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Full Employees’ Development 51-55 that support the continued employability of employees and Rights assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Full Performance Management 51-52 performance and career development reviews System LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Full Employees’ Gender 72-74 Subjects UNGC Principles UNGC 1 employees per category according to gender, age group, UNGC 6 Distribution Data Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Employees’ Average Age 75-77 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Distribution Data LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee UNGC 1 Full Our Compensation 48 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to category UNGC 6 Management System collective bargaining. Human Rights Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Disclosure on Management Approach Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for UNGC 1 Full Child Labor 48 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to UNGC 2 occupation. the elimination of child labor UNGC 5 Environment GRI Index UNGC Principles HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for UNGC 1 Full Involuntary Servitude and 48 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to UNGC 2 Forced Labour Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor UNGC 4 Security Services Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the UNGC 1 Full 59 technologies. organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of UNGC 2 human rights that are relevant to operations Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Society Disclosure on Management Approach SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed UNGC 10 Partial Risk Management 28-29 for risks related to corruption Business Ethics 30-31 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption UNGC 10 Partial Risk Management 28-29 Business Ethics 30-31 Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Full Added Value to Lives of 84-85 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction our Consumers: Customer Satisfaction GRI Index and UNGC Principles Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 110 111 Report Name Period Publication Date Scope Yaşar 2009 UNGC COP Report 01.01.2008 31.12.2009 30.03.2010 The companies indicated on pages 5-8 Yaşar 2010 UNGC COP Report 01.01.2010 31.12.2010 08.04.2011 The companies indicated on pages 9-13 Yaşar 2011 Sustainability Report 01.01.2011 31.12.2011 06.07.2012 The companies indicated on pages 12-33 Yaşar 2012 Sustainability Report 01.01.2012 31.12.2012 06.07.2013 The companies indicated on pages 14-27 Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report 01.01.2013 31.12.2013 06.07.2014 The companies indicated on pages 12-21 Yaşar Holding A.Ş E-mail addresses for Stakeholder Feedbacks: İzmir Head Office You may transmit us all your opinions, suggestions, and questions Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 35210 concerning the Sustainability Report printed by the Yaşar Group to the İzmir Turkey e-mail address specified below: Phone: +90 232 482 22 00 (Pbx) forabetterlife@yasar.com.tr Fax: +90 232 484 17 89 483 46 59 E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr “Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report” is prepared exclusively for informing Web: www.yasar.com.tr purposes. Sources and information believed to be true and reliable pertaining to the period covered by the report were used. The content appearing in the present report may not be interpreted as Istanbul Representative Office a statement, guarantee or commitment, and the completeness and Setüstü No: 23 Kabataş 34427 unchangeableness of the relevant content is not guaranteed. Istanbul Turkey All rights pertaining to the present report belong to Yaşar Holding A.Ş. Phone: +90 212 251 46 40 (Pbx) Fax: +90 212 244 42 00 We express our thanks to Sustainability Reporting Team E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Members Due to their contribution to the preparation of Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Ankara Representative Office Report we extend our sincere thanks to; Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvarı the Sustainability Committee, Ali Suavi Sokak No: 11 Maltepe 06570 Ankara Turkey Sustainability Reporting Team, Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 (Pbx) Carbon Footprint Team Members, Fax: +90 312 232 01 82 232 16 73 And to our Carbon Leaders... E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Yaşar 2013 Sustainability Report
