Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 1 / 29 Our sustainability work 2013 Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 2 / 29 Contents The CEO’s introduction .....................................................................................................3 The Nolato Group in brief ..................................................................................................4 The current situation and prioritised areas ........................................................................6 Strategy and targets for sustainable development..............................................................7 Target-oriented activities ...............................................................................................10 Environmental responsibility........................................................................................... 11 Environmentally-adapted products ................................................................................. 15 Social responsibility .......................................................................................................16 Business partners and other stakeholders ....................................................................... 18 Financial responsibility ..................................................................................................20 Risks relating to sustainable development .......................................................................21 Many activities during a year ..........................................................................................22 About our sustainability report .......................................................................................23 Nolato and GRI ............................................................................................................. 24 The UN Global Compact ..................................................................................................28 Definitions and glossary .................................................................................................29 Nolato AB (publ), 269 04 Torekov, +46 431 442290, www.nolato.com, info@nolato.com This document is a translation from Swedish. In the event of any differences between this verion and the Swedish original, the Swedish original shall govern. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 3 / 29 A clear responsibility for our operations Nolato’s business model is based on close, products. Good examples of this include long-term, innovative collaboration that the fuel cell technologies from development creates added value for both customers and companies myFC and PowerCell, which were shareholders. The 2013 financial year was presented to President Obama during his our best ever, with sales of just over SEK 4.5 visit to Stockholm. In both cases, significant billion and an operating margin (EBITA) of components were manufactured by Nolato. 9.4%. We have carried out many activities at The Group has employees on three contiour Chinese units, within our Employee Care nents, and we have customers and suppliers Programme, with the aim of improving our Hans Porat, President and CEO all over the world. Our stakeholders place employees’ knowledge, motivation and wellstrict requirements and expectations on being. We are also involved in a long-term Significant events in 2013 us – not least when it comes to sustainable project to support a school in a poor area development. We meet these requirements near Beijing. Significant social initiatives are Nolato Jaycare’s units in Portsmouth and Newcastle, which were acquired in 2012, were certified and expectations by taking a clear responalso in progress at the Group’s unit in Hunin accordance with ISO 14001. sibility for people and the environment. We gary, including through the employment of also work strategically and systematically on people with disabilities. Lövepac Converting’s units in China were certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001. Nolato Beiissues relating to sustainable development. The work involved in introducing certijing had already been certified in accordance with It is obvious to us that the company should fied management systems has continued, and this standard for occupational health and safety be a good neighbour and a good global citiduring the year Nolato Jaycare’s operations management systems. zen, and that we should take responsibility in the UK were certified in accordance with During the year, Nolato Beijing received the Best for what we do and always apply sound ISO 14001 and Lövepac Converting’s units Practice Activity Safety Award 2013 from Beijing business ethics. in China were certified in accordance with Development Area’s working environment departToday’s operations involve different OHSAS 18001. ment. requirements to those of the past, and We have adopted the international For the fourth year running, our sustainability although our sustainability work began standard for social responsibility, ISO 26000, work was awarded the highest grading in the busimany years ago, we constantly encounter as a guideline for our sustainability work. ness publication Veckans Affärer’s Sustainable Portfresh challenges. We have therefore raised The standard supports our commitment to folio. the bar even further when it comes to energy the UN Global Compact. In insurance company Folksam’s responsible consumption, reduced environmental impact, We work with lean manufacturing at enterprise index, Nolato came 25th among 250 listresource efficiency, processes and products. many of our units, and within Nolato Medied companies in terms of the environment, and 40th place when it comes to human rights. As part of this work, we introduced Groupcal this is brought together under the concept wide targets a few years ago in relation to of Medical Excellence. Issues relating to the Nolato’s whistleblowing system was introduced at all Group companies. the environment, the working environment, environment and the working environment social responsibility and business ethics. We form part of this concept, and I would mainThe work to ensure good conditions for the are now starting to see the results of these tain that “lean means green”. Group’s employees in China continued with an active Employee Care Programme. targets, and it is pleasing to note that we are Finally, I would like to mention the moving in the right direction, even if this initiatives being carried out in connection work is by no means complete. with more efficient management of various A great deal happens during the course of resources. Here, we are working with energy a year in a global company, and our sustainefficiency, more efficient use of water, reducability report contains both small and large ing rejects and carrying out various initiaevents. I would like to emphasise the followtives to prevent waste and improve waste ing events in particular: management. These initiatives are good Making our products more environfor the environment and good for Nolato’s mentally friendly has become increasingly finances. important to us. As a natural part of this work, we review material use, phase out Happy reading! dangerous chemicals and try to increase the reuse of materials. We also work together with our customers to develop cleantech Hans Porat, President and CEO Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 4 / 29 The Nolato Group in brief Sales per market Development, production & sales North America etc. SEK 333 M Sales & technology Sweden SEK 882 M Other Nordic countries SEK 166 M Asia SEK 1,996 M Other Europe SEK 1,145 M Sales Our operations Our values SEKm Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group Nolato has a long tradition of responsible 5000 with operations in Europe, Asia and North business, and one of our Basic Principles is 4000 3000 America. We develop and manufacture prodthat efficient business operations must be 2000 ucts in plastic, silicone and TPE for leading, combined with ethics, responsibility and 1000 often global, companies within three areas. environment awareness. These areas are 0 – medical devices (such as inhalers, insulin therefore natural and integral aspects of our 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 pens and catheter balloons) business activities. Operating profit (EBITA) – telecom components (subsystems for We are signatories to the UN Global SEKm mobile phones, often with significant cosmetCompact and report sustainability work in 500 1,500 Miles ic content, as well as methods and materials accordance with GRI. 400 300 for shielding electronics) 200 – products for industrial companies (such Our employees 100 as packaging, hygiene products and vehicle The average number of employees in 2013 0 components). was 9,357. Of these, 91% were outside Swe2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 den. Earnings per share Our offering SEK 15 Nolato’s customer offering comprises most Our shares 12 technologies in the field of polymers and covNolato was listed on the stock exchange 9 ers the entire value chain through to product in 1984, and its B shares are listed on the 6 delivery. NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange in the 3 We endeavour to develop close, long-term Stockholm Mid Cap segment, where they are 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and constructive collaboration with customincluded in the Industrials sector. ers and we are often chosen for the producCash flow after investments SEKm tion of complex products with stringent Our history 400 technical demands. Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska 300 Our wide-ranging capabilities support Latexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the trade200 our customers’ product development. Our mark Nolato, which has been the company 100 involvement in customers’ development name since 1982. Today’s global Group is the 0 work at an early stage allows us to optimise result of organic growth and acquisitions. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 product design to help achieve a better endThe head office is still in Torekov, Sweden, Excluding acquisitions and disposals product. but the majority of operations are now based abroad. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 5 / 29 Amanda Martinsson, Nolato MediTech Fang Zhang, Nolato Beĳing Peter Mickelsson, Nolato Plastteknik Nolato Medical Nolato Telecom Nolato Industrial Financial highlights: 2013 2012 Financial highlights: 2013 2012 Financial highlights: 2013 2012 Sales SEKm 1,274 1,159 Sales SEKm 2,079 1,548 Sales SEKm 1,170 1,170 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 165 133 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 166 96 Operating profit EBITA SEKm 119 105 EBITA margin % 13.0 11.5 EBITA margin % 8.0 6.2 EBITA margin % 10.2 9.0 Average number of employees 988 932 Average number of employees 7,611 6,741 Average number of employees 753 743 Customer offering: Customer offering: Customer offering: Development and manufacturing of complex Design, development and manufacturing of Development and manufacturing of components product systems and components within medical advanced components and subsystems for mobile and product systems in plastic and TPE for customtechnology and advanced packaging solutions for phones. Product and systems for shielding of elecers in the automotive industry, hygiene, packaging, pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. tronics (EMC). gardening/forestry, domestic appliances and other Geographic information: Geographic information: selected industrial segments. Development, production and sales in Sweden, the Development, production and sales in China, SweGeographic information: UK, Hungary, the US and China. Sales offices in Gerden and Malaysia. Sales and technology offices in Development, production and sales in Sweden, many, France and the Czech Republic. the US and India. Hungary, Romania and China. Success factors: Success factors: Success factors: Medical understanding, broad technological offerCreative development work, cutting-edge technoloTechnology, project management and productivity. ing, development expertise, global production and gy, advanced project management, fast production Customers include: robust quality. start-ups and high productivity. Atlas Copco, Brose, Haldex, Husqvarna, LandCustomers include: Customers include: rover, MCT Brattberg, Sanitec, Scania, SKF, Volvo, AstraZeneca, Becton Dickinson, Boston ScientiEricsson, Huawei, Motorola Solutions, Nokia, Volvo Cars. fic, Coloplast, Gambro, Novo Nordisk, Pfizer, Sanofi, Nokia Solutions, Sony Mobile, Xioami, ZTE. Volatility: Takeda. Volatility: Medium. Follows the Northern European industrial Volatility: High. Project-based operations. business cycle. Low. Steady market growth. Product life cycle: Product life cycle: Long-term growth potential. Short. Medium/Long. Product life cycle: Long. 28% 38% 46% 24%36% 26% 26% Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 6 / 29 The current situation and prioritised areas 2013 was the best year to date in Nolato’s During 2014, we will prioritise areas includActivities in relation to sustainable develhistory from a financial perspective. The ing the following: opment within the Group’s supplier chains. same was true of 2012. Continued energy efficiency and reduced Further training for our employees on From a sustainability perspective, the environmental impact. issues relating to people, the environment Group was able to present improvements Improved resource efficiency, including and ethics. during 2013 within a number of areas, through reduced rejects and waste. Continuing to develop our corporate although it is hard to demonstrate that this Making products more environmentally responsibility (CR) work, with a focus on was the best year ever. The work with confriendly through new materials and producemployees, customers and society. tinuous improvements continued to produce tion processes. good results, and the Group’s key performance indicators within the field of sustainability showed a positive trend. During the Key ratios within sustainability 2013 2012 2011 year, Nolato’s units carried out many initiatives and activities that contributed towards Financial responsibility sustainable development. Sales, SEK millions 4,522 3,874 2,977 Key driving forces in this work included Operating income (EBITA), SEK millions 427 303 199 Nolato’s overall targets within sustainEBITA margin, % 9.4 7.8 6.7 able development, its commitment to the Average number of employees 9,357 8,421 5,496 UN Global Compact, GRI reporting, and demands and opinions from the Group’s Environmental responsibility stakeholders, particularly its customers. Breach of environmental and working environment legislation, 0 0 0 Future-oriented initiatives were carried out number of cases during 2013 in relation to energy and the Energy consumption, GWh/SEK million sales 0.036 0.043 0.047 climate, health and safety, certification in Water consumption, m3/SEK million sales 35.2 43.7 40.6 accordance with ISO 14001 and OHSAS Emission of greenhouse gases, tonnes of CO2/SEK million sales 13.7 15.5 15.4 18001, reduced waste volumes, supplier Waste, tonnes/SEK million sales 1.1 1.4 1.3 assessment and preventing countering corCertified environmental management system, % of total no of plants 100 86 85 ruption. Social responsibility Prioritised areas Occupational accidents (cases with >1 day absence; 34 64 28 cases per employee) (0.004) (0.007) (0.005) We believe that Nolato’s long-term ambition Female employees, % 57 62 71 of becoming a sustainable company in all Training on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct, respects will be a lengthy process, and that >90 >90 >90 % of employees it will take time to achieve this. There are Application of ethical & humane principles and corruption, number of registered breaches 0 0 0 also a number of external circumstances that we cannot influence. However, within those Evaluation of subcontractors, % of number of units carrying out envi>90 90 90 ronmental/social responsibility evaluations areas where we do have an influence our work will continue unabated in accordance with our overall strategy. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 7 / 29 Strategy and targets for sustainable development Nolato has a long tradition of responsible reporting is now being gradually adapted in business, and one of our Basic Principles line with the guidelines of GRI G4, and here is that efficient and profitable business the focus on materiality is one of the most Focus on operations must be combined with ethics, important changes in our way of reporting. material Integration with aspects business operations responsibility and environmental awareness. The diagram below shows how we have With time, the original ideas of basing our prioritised aspects within sustainable develOpenness and operations on professionalism and responopment. dialogue with Environmental interested sibility have been developed into a carefully Here, we have taken those aspects that are parties responsibility Target-oriented activities thought-out strategy for sustainability. of significance to Nolato’s business strategy, Subscription to This strategy is based on the fact that we and that we deem to be important to our international are fully convinced that a future-oriented, stakeholders, as our starting point. Our susinitiatives responsible approach is not only necessary tainability report gives an overview of how Ethical Social from a responsibility perspective, but also we deal with the prioritised aspects and how responsibility responsibility creates opportunities and business benefits. the Group applies the GRI indicators that are Analysing and Compliance relevant in this context. (See pages 24 – 26.) preventing risks with legislation A focus on the most important issues Systematic work and Within the framework of ISO 14001, the Integration with business operations management systems Group’s plants have long worked with a Sustainability issues come into Nolato’s focus on important environmental aspects. operations in many different ways, includIn order to gain a perspective on priorities, ing when changing over to new technoloNolato’s strategy for we promote these issues to Group level and gies, internal and external communication, sustainable development include aspects relating to social responsibilacquisitions, crisis and risk management, ity and business ethics. We have previously reporting and training. The overall focus for done this in a less formal manner, and have our sustainability work is details in Nolato’s not reported on the background to the conBasic Principles, Code of Conduct and polisiderations involved. Nolato’s sustainability cies. Aspects relating to Nolato’s long-term high Aspects relating to sustainable development have been prioritised with regard to what is important to our stakeholders and for our business strategy. high Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 8 / 29 strategy, our overall targets, contact with relevant environmental legislation during The Nolato Spirit the mass media and investors, and reporting 2013. In one case, sanction charges were results are dealt with at Group level. A repapplied for stating incorrect waste codes, and Nolato has five fundamental value and policy docuresentative from Nolato’s Board has specific in another case a penalty charge was applied ments, which convey the values, principles and attitudes that make up our core values. responsibility for monitoring questions relatfor the late receipt of a report on refrigerants. ing to sustainable development. In terms of the working environment, four Nolato’s Basic Principles Operational responsibility for the busiof the units were inspected during the year The Basic Principles make up the common values platform for all Group operations, and are thus the ness has been delegated to the MD of each by the working environment authorities. guiding force for all Nolato employees, regardless of company. The Group management reguA few minor deviations were noted during where in the world or in which part of the organisalarly monitors the progress of this work via these inspections. tion they may work. dialog with the companies’ management and Nolato’s Code of Conduct through internal and external audits. In conSystematic work The Code of Conduct formalises the content of the nection with the annual sustainability report, It is now just over fifteen years since Nolato’s Basic Principles in terms of our ethical and compassionate principles. an in-depth analysis is carried out of complimanagement decided to introduce certiance with legislation, the fulfilment of Group fied environmental management systems in Nolato’s Environmental Policy targets and how performance and key ratios accordance with ISO 14001, and the first The Environmental Policy formalises the guidelines have developed during the year. unit was certified in 1997. Since then, this for regard for the environment in the Basic Principles. commitment has been part of our strategy Compliance with legislation for sustainable development and the requireNolato’s Quality Policy One natural aspect of our day-to-day work ments for ISO 14001 applies to all existing The Quality Policy outlines the underlying focus of our quality work. involves compliance with the environmental companies and any new companies acquired and health and safety legislation that affects by the Group. Nolato Jaycare’s plants in Nolato’s Information Policy us. From a strategic perspective, it is also Portsmouth and Newcastle, which were The Information Policy governs the dissemination of information by the Group, including in relation to listimportant to evaluate risks and opportunities acquired in 2012, were certified during the ing requirements. relating to forthcoming legislation, which year. This means that all production units are we do through our participation in networks now certified. and regular contact with various authorities. ISO 14001 systematises environmental In Sweden, Nolato carries out operations work and leads to continuous improvements. with notification requirements in accordThis work involves various types of reviews ance with the Swedish Environmental Code and audits. Within Nolato, there are more at all plants. The plants in China, Hungary, than 75 internal environmental auditors who Romania and the US require permits or are carried out 72 environmental audits during covered by other requirements in accordance the year. On 19 occasions, the plants were with environmental legislation in the country audited by external certification bodies. We in question. have trained internal environmental auditors One natural aspect of our day-to-day during the year, and Nolato is represented in work involves compliance with the environthe ongoing work relating to the new version mental and health and safety legislation that of ISO 14001. The five value and policy documents are compiled in affects us. From a strategic perspective, it is All the Group’s plants are certified in the booklet the Nolato Spirit, which is available in the also important to evaluate risks and opporaccordance with the requirements of the ISO languages of the countries where Nolato operates. tunities relating to forthcoming legislation, 9001 quality management system. In addiIn workplace meetings and new staff appointments, the Nolato Spirit is actively used as an aid to which we do through our participation in tion, more than 80 percent of the units are make all employees aware of the core values and networks and regular contact with various certified in accordance with ISO standards guidelines applicable to their work at Nolato. authorities. In most cases, regular reports for the automotive industry (ISO/TS 16949) are submitted to the environmental authorior medical technology (ISO 13485). At You can find the Nolato Spirit booklet at www.nolato.com/sustainability ties and the supervisory authorities carry out most of the plants, the various management inspections. Ten units were inspected by the systems are fully or partly integrated into environmental authorities in 2013, and only the operating system. A working environa few minor deviations were noted. ment management system (OHSAS 18001) Another piece of legislation that affects has been introduced at Nolato Beijing, and Nolato’s operations relates to hazardous Lövepac Converting’s units in China were chemicals (REACH, RoHS, refrigerants, etc.) certified during the year. The intention is and around half the units are subject to legto increase the use of the system within the islation regarding producer responsibility for Group, and for more plants to prepare for packaging waste. There were no significant future certification. We have continued to breaches of permits, conditions or any other apply the guidelines contained in the standNolato’s sustainability report 2013 9 / 29 ard on social responsibility (ISO 26000). actively with the ten principles, and report the the adaptation is complete. A self-declaration This standard is based on seven fundamental results in an annual report (Communication in accordance with GRI can be found on concepts, and provides voluntary guidelines on Progress) to the UN. This report forms pages 24 – 27. for what an organisation can do to contribute part of our sustainability report, and more towards a sustainable future. information about the UN Global Compact We listen to our stakeholders can be found on page 28. One aspect of Nolato’s sustainability work Analysing and preventing risks involves listening to the opinions of various Risk analyses are carried out regularly within Openness stakeholders. Here, our employees, customareas relating to the environment, the workOpenness is part of our sustainable developers and suppliers are of course important, but ing environment and social responsibility. We ment strategy. One tool in our communicawe are also influenced by a number of other carry out thorough analyses of environmental tion is the compliance of our sustainability stakeholders. Our view of which stakeholdand working environment risks in connection reporting with the GRI requirements. The ers are significant to Nolato is based on many with company acquisitions. The same applies new GRI G4 guidelines were introduced in years of experience and dialogue, and on to a growing extent to our contact with sup2013, and in this Sustainability Report we events during the financial year. pliers. More information about sustainable have started to make adaptations in line with The table below shows which areas have development risks can be found on page 21. GRI G4. In accordance with GRI’s recombeen of particular interest to Nolato during mendations for most companies, Nolato has 2013. International initiatives selected the Core level, and reports those Nolato has signed up to the UN’s ten prinindicators that can be linked to the prioritised ciples relating to the environment, human sustainability aspects. In view of the fact that rights and anti-corruption measures (the the guidelines are new and have not yet been Global Compact) since 2008. We work translated into Swedish, we cannot claim that Overview of dialogue with stakeholders 2013 Stakeholder Examples of key areas Activities during 2013 Customers Product declarations, the presence of hazardous chemicals Dialogue with customers in connection with business contacts and during customin products, environmental adaptations for our products, and er visits and audits. (See page 18.) compliance of Nolato’s Code of Conduct with customer requirements. Consumers The majority of Nolato’s products are sold to industrial customConsumers’ views are addressed via dialogue with customers and the demands ers. Although this relates to consumer products such as mobile they place on us. phones, pharmaceutical packaging and hygiene items, it is unlikely that the product will be linked to Nolato’s operations. Employees Issues relating to health, safety, pay, benefits, social conditions, Training, information, dialogue, development discussions and employee surveys. development opportunities and business ethics. At Nolato MediTech, a survey was conducted on views about Nolato’s sustainability work. Suppliers Environmental issues, health and safety in the workplace, soInformation together with audits and supplier assessments. (See page 18.) cial issues and compliance of suppliers’ codes of conduct with Nolato’s requirements. Shareholders Risk management and efficient use of resources. Integration Meetings with investors. Sustainability report. Regular reporting to Nolato’s Board. and investors of sustainability issues into business operations. CommunicaContinuing to sign up to the UN Global Compact. tion and image. Society Involvement in local societies where Nolato operates. ParticipaMany examples of social commitment, contact with schools and universities, and tion in industrial networks and other networks. participation in business initiatives. (See page 19.) Authorities Compliance with legislation. Dialogue with environmental and working environment authorities in connection with inspections and site visits. (See page 8.) Voluntary organisaClimate-change issues, hazardous chemicals, energy and Nolato has not had any direct contact with voluntary organisations during the year. tions (NGOs) water consumption, and social issues. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 10 / 29 Target-oriented activities Within the framework of ISO 14001, Nolawide long-term targets were introduced below provides an overview of the developto’s units have long worked with environin 2010. These Group targets cover areas ment of these targets and our assessment of mental targets. The target-oriented work that are important for our internal sustainthe possibility of achieving them. Detailed leads to advances and improvements, and ability work and to our stakeholders. The information about emission data and other in order to strengthen initiatives within targets relating to energy and the climate parameters is presented elsewhere in this the entire field of sustainability, Groupwere sharpened during 2013. The table sustainability report. Area Sustainability targets How things went Environmental Energy Reduced energy consumption in relation to net sales. The target The production units carried out many energy-saving responsibility for the period 2014-2016 is a reduction of 10 percent compared measures during the year. Overall energy consumption with the average for 2011-2012, measured in GWh/net sales. As fell, and the same was true of energy consumption measured in GWh/net sales. See pages 11 and 22. an intermediate target, every unit shall draw up its own targets and carry out at least one measure during 2013. Climate Reduced emissions of greenhouse gases in relation to net sales. Energy-efficiency measures are reducing emissions The target for the period 2014-2016 is a reduction of 10 percent at many plants. Increased production and hence increase compared with the average for 2011-2012. As an intermediate purchase of electricity generated from fossil fuels in China target, every unit shall draw up its own targets and carry out at and Hungary have resulted in increased indirect emissions least one measure during 2013. overall. See pages 12 and 22. Chemicals Chemicals that are particularly hazardous to the environment or A few candidates for substitution were identified during health shall be identified and phased out. the year. The use of solvent-based paints increased in China. See pages 13 and 22. Waste Reduced amount of waste (tonnes/net sales). As an intermediMeasures carried out have reduced the amount of ate target, every unit shall report its own targets and carry out at waste and increased recycling. More plants and increased least one measure during 2013. production have lead to an increase in the amount of waste during the last five years. See pages 14 and 22. Environmental management All plants shall be certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Nolato Jaycare’s two plants, which were acquired dursystems ing 2012, were certified during 2013. All production units are now certified. See pages 8 and 22. Environmentally-adapted During 2013, Nolato shall take part in at least three projects Around ten environmental adaptations have been made products aimed at reducing the environmental impact of new or existing to products. Although the target for the year has been met, products. we have not finished making environmental adaptations to products by any means. See page 15. Social Safe workplaces Minimise work-related accidents and illnesses Introduce incident The number of occupational accidents per employee responsibility reporting systems (near misses). has fallen, but the work to reduce the total number of accidents is continuing. Systems for reporting near misses are now in place at all units. OHSAS 18001 has now been introduced at three plants in China. See pages 17 and 22. Ethical and compassionate prinThere shall be no cases of infringements of human rights, disInformation and training in connection with the Nolato ciples crimination or forced labour. Active information shall continue to Spirit have been carried out at most units. New employees be provided to employees and new employees. are the main target group. See page 16. Business partAnti-corruption work There shall be no cases of bribes, corruption or cartel formation. A whistleblowing system was introduced at all units ners and other Active information shall continue to be provided to employees. during 2013. Employees are informed about Nolato’s regstakeholders ulations both on employment and in connection with various forms of staff information. See page 16. Suppliers Improved evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability work. During In China and the UK, around 30 employees have been 2013, every company must have evaluated at least five subcontrained in auditing methods. More than a hundred supplitractors. ers have been evaluated in relation to the environment, the working environment and social responsibility. See pages 8 and 18. Customers Customer requirements in relation to the environment and social The results of evaluations and audits are good. Three responsibility shall be met by a comfortable margin. plants in China have been approved in accordance with the Sony Green Partner scheme. See page 18. Society, investors and analysts Reporting shall take place in accordance with GRI. Nolato shall Good results from evaluations of sustainability work in continue to subscribe to the Global Compact. We shall achieve business publications and by stakeholders. Adaptation in good results in evaluations by analysts and independent instituline with GRI G4 is underway. See page 18. tions through transparent information within the field of sustainability. Target achieved. Positive trend, but measures remain in order to achieve target. Negative trend. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 11 / 29 Environmental responsibility Environmental aspects some units for heating, but a clear trend is Energy consumption Nolato manufactures components and prodthat fossil fuels can be replaced with heat GWh GWh/SEKm uct systems in polymer materials (plastic, pumps or biofuel. 175 0.07 TPE and silicone), metals and combinaThe total energy consumption was 164 150 0.06 tions of polymer materials and metals. The GWh (168), and Nolato’s key ratios which 125 0.05 Group’s base technologies include injection detail energy consumption in relation to moulding, extrusion, dipping and die-cutting. sales – show a downward trend. The overall 100 0.04 Plastic covers for mobile phones and other energy costs for 2013 were around SEK 110 75 0.03 electronic equipment are painted at a plant million (116). 50 0.02 in China. We work with both an overall energy-effiOur operations interact with the surroundciency target and local targets and activities. 25 0.01 ing environment in a number of different During 2013, energy-saving activities were 0 0.00 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ways. In accordance with the guidelines of carried out at all plants. These included: Total Group energy consumption, GWh GRI G4, those aspects that are material from Replacing lighting with LED lamps. Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm an environmental point of view and from a Installing lighting sensors. business strategy perspective, and that are Optimising the use of air-conditioning seen to be significant to the Group’s stakeand improved control of ventilation equipholders, are reported on. (See page 7.) The ment. most important direct environmental aspects Investing in energy-efficient equipment, can be linked to the use of energy, water, raw such as compressors and electrical injection materials and chemicals, waste generation, moulds instead of hydraulic versions. environmental risks and atmospheric emisProduction planning to use equipment sions of carbon dioxide and solvents. We also as efficiently as possible and to minimise report indirect environmental aspects such as rejects. suppliers’ activities, transportation and the Training and energy mapping. use of Nolato’s products. Atmospheric emissions Energy The Group’s production units use energy for Emissions of carbon dioxid production equipment, lighting, ventilation, Emissions of the greenhouse gas carbon cooling, transportation, purification plants dioxide are caused by the Group’s direct and and heating. Indirect energy in the form of indirect energy consumption, the transporelectricity and district heating made up a tation of raw materials and finished prodtotal of 97 percent of consumption during ucts, and many activities carried out by the 2013. Fuel oil and natural gas are used at Group’s suppliers and customers. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 12 / 29 Atmospheric emissions Other atmospheric emissions Emissions of carbon dioxide, CO2 The use of around 600 tonnes of paints and tonnes ton/SEKm Emissions of carbon dioxide solvents resulted in emissions of around 70,000 28 We have restricted reporting on emissions 140 tonnes (33) of VOCs (volatile organic 60,000 24 of carbon dioxide to include direct and indicompounds). The majority of these paints 50,000 20 rect energy consumption. This is not to say and solvents are used for painting mobile that emissions from transportation, business phones in Beijing. A new calculation model, 40,000 16 travel, suppliers and users of Nolato’s prodcombined with reduced use of water-based 30,000 12 ucts are deemed to be unimportant. Without paints, resulted in a significant increase in 20,000 8 quantifying the size of emissions, our actions emissions. 10,000 4 include environmental adaptation of transThe poor air quality in Beijing has attractportation and travel. ed a great deal of negative publicity, and 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Carbon dioxide emissions during 2013 traffic and coal-fired power stations are conEmissions of carbon dioxide (Group), tonnes totalled 62,000 tonnes (60,000), of which sidered to be significant causes of the probEmissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm 2 percent came from direct energy consumplem. However, the authorities have also tighttion. Energy-efficiency improvements and ened the requirements on industrial plants other measures have reduced emissions at to reduce emissions of air pollutants. We are a number of plants. Increased production therefore working to reduce emissions of soland hence increased purchase of electricvents from painting mobile phones, including ity in China and Hungary resulted in an by trying to convince customers to use waterincrease in total emissions. The Group’s key based paints where possible. During 2014, ratios, which detail emissions in relation the most important measure will be replacing to sales, indicate that we are moving in the an older propane-run purification equipright direction towards the Group target of ment plant with more efficient methods that reduced environmental impact. involve less of an environmental impact. Examples of new, ongoing and planned There are just over two tonnes of ozonemeasures include: depleting substances (HCFs) in air-conditionContinued energy efficiency measures ing equipment and other equipment at ten or at all plants. so production units. A few minor emissions Phasing out fuel oil and installing occurred in 2013, corresponding to less than heat pumps or biofuel. These measures are half of a percent of the installed quantity. planned for the units in Götene and Skånes Emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitric Fagerhult during 2014. oxides are low, accounting for 4 tonnes (5). Replacement of an older air emission Emissions of dust and malodorous substancabatement equipment used to reduce emises are negligible, and no complaints were sions of solvents to the air in Beijing. The air received from local residents during the year. pollutants were incinerated using propane, which produced emissions of carbon dioxide. Raw materials and chemicals Reducing reject levels and waste volWithin Nolato, approximately 30,000 umes. tonnes of polymer materials were used in Purchasing more fuel-efficient vehicles 2013. More than 95 percent of this was and improved logistics. made up of plastics, with the remainder Nolato Jaycare has signed a national consisting of various types of synthetic rubClimate Change Agreement. The agreement ber. Silicone rubber and latex rubber are used applies to energy-intensive industries, and by primarily in medical technology products. reducing their energy consumption particiOther materials used in the magnitude of pating companies can benefit from reduced 1,000 tonnes per year are paints, solvents frees under the British Climate Change Levy and metals. system. Nolato Jaycare is a member of the A number of the Group’s products are Federation of Plastic Industries, giving it subject to customer requirements for the access to tools that can be used to calculate polymer to consist of virgin raw materials. and reduce its environmental impact. This is particularly true of pharmaceutical Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 13 / 29 packaging and medical technology products. and a water-based air emission abatement Water consumption However, some customers do have an interequipment at the painting lines, the unit m3 m 3 /SEKm est in recycled plastic, for example for use in accounts for two thirds of the Group’s water 175000 70 certain mobile phone models. The proporconsumption. The manufacture of products 150000 60 tion of recycled plastic was low during the in latex rubber in Torekov accounts for just 125000 50 year (<1%), but there are several customer under ten percent of total water consumpprojects underway in which the aim is to tion. 100000 40 increase the proportion of recycled materials. Installations to reduce water consumption 75000 30 We are also seeing an interest in reducing the are in place at most of Nolato’s units, such 50000 20 use of materials in certain products, which is as closed cooling water systems for injec25000 10 beneficial in view of both costs and the envition moulds and other equipment. A specific ronment. water-saving programme is being carried out 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Nolato is affected by legislation and cusin Beijing, including both technical meastomer requirements in connection with ures and training. The amounts of pollutants Total water consumption for the Group, m3 Consumption divided by sales, m3 /SEKm chemicals, and one of the Group-wide tardischarged to wastewater are limited, and gets aims to reduce the risks involved with consist mainly of sanitary water. All produchazardous chemicals. The substances that tion units are connected to municipal sewage have been identified in the candidate list of treatment plants. The costs incurred by the the REACH chemical legislation have been Group during 2013 for water and cleaning prioritised, and here we have only identified wastewater totalled approximately SEK 1.7 one such substance. In addition to this, we million (1.8). are also naturally focusing on chemical substances that have been highlighted by authorWaste ities and the Group’s customers, and in social From a five-year perspective, the total debate. This includes softening phthalates in amount of waste has increased. In 2013, this plastics, certain organic solvents, PVC and totalled 5,000 tonnes (5,300), of which hazhalogenated flame retardants. ardous waste constituted 15 percent (12). This increase was caused by increased proWater issues duction and more production units, but was Water is used primarily for cleaning, sanimitigated by measures to reduce the number tary purposes and cooling, but there are of rejects and to improve waste management. some processes where water consumption During the financial year, around 50 peris relatively high. This is true of the unit in cent of waste was recycled as material and 25 Beijing, which is in an area that suffers from percent as energy. The amount of waste sent a shortage of water. With many employees, to landfill fell from 15 percent to 10 percent, Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 14 / 29 with Nolato Jaycare’s units in Portsmouth Transport Amount of waste and Newcastle making a positive contribuA number of measures were carried out in tonnes tonnes/SEKm tion towards this. Within the framework 2013 to reduce the environmental impact of 6,000 3.0 of the introduction of ISO 14001, better transporting goods and business travel: 5,000 2.5 sorting of waste and increased internal recyThe application of eco-driving and cling were implemented. In Newcastle, the changing over to vehicles and company cars 4,000 2.0 amount of waste sent to landfill was reduced with lower fuel consumption. A policy for 3,000 1.5 by 57 percent, with waste costs being cut by travel by rail in the UK. around SEK 50,000. Greater use of video-conferencing. 2,000 1.0 Another positive example of systematic Increased degree of filling for lorries, 1,000 0.5 work in connection with waste issues can be and coordinated transportation. found at Nolato MediTor, where rejects were Packaging project at Nolato Jaycare to 0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 reduced from 5.7 percent to 3.7 percent over reduce the number of shipments (see below). Amount of waste (Group), tonnes a three-year period. A new dipping robot will By customers being able to assemble Amount of waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm cut reject levels even further. extruded shielding gaskets themselves, the External waste processing costs during the transportation of bulky and/or heavy prodyear amounted to SEK 2.7 million (2.8). ucts to and from Nolato Silikonteknik can be reduced. Packaging project brings environmental benefits Every year, Nolato Jaycare in Portsmouth By packing the containers using shrink delivers 16 million plastic containers for wrap, the need for cardboard boxes was pharmaceuticals to a customer in Italy. eliminated and the initial attempts showed This mostly involves two sizes of conthat the packaging equipment could easily tainers: 57 ml and 110 ml. be connected directly the injection mouldThe products are packed in standard ing machine. cardboard boxes, which are placed on 500,000 containers have been sent to wooden pallets and loaded onto lorries the customer for evaluation, and these that drive a total of 120,000 kilometres in improvements will be fully rolled out in a year. 2014. The cardboard boxes are discarded by The project offers many advantages, in the customer before bring the containterms of costs, logistics and the environers into the production plant, and in total ment: this involves more than 22,000 cardboard The number of containers per pallet is boxes and 30 deliveries each year. increased by several thousand. A project was started in 2013 with the The number of cardboard boxes is aim of avoiding the use of cardboard boxreduced by around 20,000 per year, and the es, helping the customer to achieve better number of pallets by around 500. warehouse management and increasing the Transportation is reduced by around number of containers per pallet, as well as 32,000 kilometres per year. reducing the number of journeys. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 15 / 29 Environmentally-adapted products When collaborating with customers on used by the fashion chain KappAhl for trans20 percent more energy-efficient than their products, Nolato works with concept develporting clothing. predecessors. opment, design, material choices, construction, prototypes, production tools, volume Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle is carryNolato MediTor has launched enviproduction and product post-processing. ing out projects to reduce the use of PCV. ronmentally adapted breathing bags with Products’ environmental performance has In Portsmouth, as well as working on the reduced use of polymers and a smaller carbecome increasingly important, and this packaging project (see page 14), work is also bon footprint. is true of products such as mobile phones, underway to reduce the polymer content of vehicle components, white goods, chainsaws, certain plastic bottles. Nolato is involved in the development of pharmaceutical packaging and medical techproducts within the field of environmental nology products. From a business strategy Nolato Gota and Nolato Lövepac have engineering, such as fuel cells. perspective, it is important for us to play an developed components used in Volvo Cars’ active role in environmentally adapted prodnew Drive-E range. The aim is to create Nolato Cerbo manufactures and is conuct development. Here are a few examples of a new generation of strong, fuel-efficient tinuing to develop pharmaceutical packagprojects and existing products: engines, and the first engines are now being ing that uses less plastic and therefore has a used in Volvo’s cars. The engines are around smaller carbon footprint. Development projects are being carried out at Nolato in China in connection with the increased use of water-based paints for mobile phones and casings for batteries. Other measures including reducing the use of environmentally harmful chemicals in products. Examples of this include phasing out halogenated flame retardants and restrictions on the use of PVC. At Nolato Plastteknik, the possibility of replacing chroming of plastic components with other technologies is being investigated. Development projects are also continuing on the use of wood fibre and plastic in composite materials used in automotive components. The company has recently developed a new type of water sprinkler that reduces water consumption in toilets. Plastics are replacing other materials in vehicles, household appliances and chainsaws. This results in benefits such as reduced weight and fuel consumption. This type of product development is being carried out at When President of the USA Barack Obama came to Sweden, he visited KTH Royal Institute Group companies including Nolato Plastof Technology in Stockholm. There, he learnt about fuel cell technology from the development teknik and Nolato Gota. One product that companies myFC and PowerCell. In both products, significant components were manufactured has existed for several years is a range of by Nolato. Here, President Obama is seen speaking with Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt and plastic crates made from recycled plastic, researchers Rakel Wreland Lindström and Carina Lagergren. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 16 / 29 Social responsibility Employees on three continents Human rights Average number of employees Nolato has production operations at around Nolato’s Code of Conduct provides guidance 10 000 twenty plants on three continents. Attracting, on issues relating to human rights, and the 9 000 recruiting, developing and retaining skilled Group’s employees receive regular informa8 000 and committed employees within a global tion on what applies within this field. When 7 000 perspective is essential in order to develop the whistleblowing system was introduced in 6 000 and to continue to be a successful company. 2012 and 2013, virtually all employees were 5 000 4 000 The Group works with management develgiven a review on our views on misconduct 3 000 opment, employee training, diversity and in connection with business ethics, discrimi2 000 issues relating to health and safety. nation, child labour and forced labour, both 1 000 In 2013, the average number of employees within Nolato and among our suppliers. No 0 at Nolato was 9,357 (8,421). The increase breaches of the Code of Conduct were iden2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in the number of employees was mainly tified in 2013. attributable to Nolato Telecom’s operations Nolato’s equality work is decentralised, in China, as a consequence of higher producand is carried out in accordance with the Employees by business area Average tion volumes. 91 percent (90) of employees individual companies’ equality plans. Durwere employed outside Sweden, and during the year, 57 percent (62) of the Group’s Nolato Medical 988 Nolato Industrial 753 ing the year Nolato had more than 7,500 employees were women. Nolato’s Group employees in China. management does not include any women. All units are wholly owned by Nolato, and 30 percent (30) of the Board of Directors fully comply with the guidelines of Nolato’s were women. Basic Principles, Code of Conduct and Environmental Policy. The practical work relating Training and personal development to staffing issues within the Group is decenNolato’s business strategy is based on having tralised. Each individual Group company access to qualified, highly trained employees. Nolato Telecom 7,611 therefore has responsibility for dealing with Their knowledge must be kept up to date these issues in a way that complies with the and deepened, and regular training is thereGroup’s guidelines and with each country’s fore carried out. In 2013, employees took Employees by country legislation and culture. part in 166,000 (92,000) training hours, Average corresponding to around 18 (11) hours per US etc. 249 Everybody has the right of employee. Particularly extensive training UK 271 representation has been carried out at the Group’s units in Hungary 506 China 7,517 All Nolato employees have the right to be China, and at Nolato MediTech and Nolato Sweden 814 represented by trade unions, and the right Hungary. to collective agreements. At 12 units in SweDuring the year, around 1,400 employees den and China, all employees are covered by took part in development discussions, career collective agreements. At the units in other development or some other evaluation of countries, there are no unions or collective their work. Employee surveys are carried out agreements, and this reflects the normal situregularly at a number of the Group’s units. A ation in these countries. handful of surveys were carried out in 2013, the most in-depth of which was at Nolato Beijing. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 17 / 29 Health and safety Employee Care Programme Causes of occupational accidents The Group target in connection with health Many of Nolato’s employees in Beijing are Energy Other Hazardous substances and safety aims to reduce the number of temporary employees via staffing agencies, Lifting, etc. cases of occupational accidents and workas a result of short product cycles and highly related illnesses, and to create a better variable production volumes. These employunderstanding of the causes of accidents and ees have the same conditions as permanent illnesses. Preventive work is important, and employees. About a year ago, specific measvarious types of working environment measures were introduced out to attract, retain urements, safety rounds, risk analyses, mediand develop both permanent and temporary cal examinations and training were carried employees. These activities make up the Falls/slips Machinery out during the year at the majority of the Employee Care Programme, and include: plants. There are formal safety committees at A focus on health and safety, through 90 percent of the units, corresponding to 98 training, information and competitions. percent of employees. An exercise break twice per shift. Workplace accidents Environmental and working environment Premises for breaks during working Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 training is carried out regularly, and during hours, and individual lockers for personal LWC (absence 44 28 64 34 2013 every employee took part in an averbelongings. ≥1 day) age of 5.4 (4.2) hours of training. Within the The opportunity to attend lessons in Accidents per 0.006 0.005 0.007 0.004 working environment, this related to issues English and Japanese. employee such as first aid, fire protection, safety, the A newsletter with improved internal application of OHSAS 18001 and chemical information. health risks. Employee surveys, together with a The standard for occupational health and forum where employees can discuss matsafety management (OHSAS 18001) was ters with the company’s MD. These opinions subsequently introduced at Nolato. Lövepac have resulted in concrete measures such as a Converting’s plants in China were certinew canteen, more dishes and an additional fied during the year, and Nolato Beijing was free meal per day. already certified. More units are now workInteresting leisure activities. This can ing to introduce OHSAS 18001. involve bus trips to central Beijing on SunDuring 2013, 44 (64) occupational accidays, needlework competitions and internet dents resulting in at least one day’s absence access. (LWC, lost work cases) were reported. This corresponds to 0.004 (0.007) accidents per employee. Total absence caused by occupational accidents was 381 days (755). Here, a few cases of long-term sick leave in Hungary and China in particular contributed towards absence. The most common causes were accidents caused while working with machinery and equipment, and falls and slips. In recent years, we have become ever better at recording events that could have caused a workplace accident (near misses). A reporting system is now in place at all units, and we can analyse the underlying causes behind accidents. The number of recorded events has increased from 150 in 2011 to 607 in 2013, which we interpret as indicating improved awareness about risks and not that the working environment has deteriorated. The causes of near misses correspond well with the causes of workplace accidents. Behind every accident that occurs lies a sigExercise break in Beijing. nificant number of incidents, and this has been confirmed by experiences from international statistics. Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 18 / 29 Business partners and other stakeholders Good business ethics Customers place requirements One of the Group-wide sustainability targets In accordance with the tenth principle of the Nolato has customers within industries applies to a sharper focus on our suppliUN Global Compact and Nolato’s Code of where aspects relating to the environment, ers’ sustainability work. Our suppliers are Conduct, our business principle shall feathe working environment and ethics are informed about Nolato’s Code of Conduct ture integrity and responsibility. As a natudeemed to be important. This includes the and supplementary specifications of requireral Group target, we take a zero tolerance automotive, food, telecommunications and ments and monitoring through questionapproach towards bribery, corruption and pharmaceutical industries. These requirenaires and audits. The Nolato Ethical Audit cartel formation. These matters are complex ments cover the entire field of sustainability, Questionnaire forms the basis for the way in for a global company, and the view of norand whereas the emphasis was previously on which we evaluate our suppliers. mal business principles varies between differenvironmental risks, issues relating to social In addition to the auditors who already ent countries and cultures. responsibility and ethics have now become exist within Nolato, around twenty audiWe use the following methods to steer and increasingly important. tors were trained in China during 2013 on monitor Nolato’s business principles: Around 95 percent of the Group’s units auditing environmental and social responsiWe communicate our joint values in report customer requirements within susbility. In the UK, a handful of auditors were the form of Nolato’s Code of Conduct. The tainable development, and during 2013 trained on environmental auditing. Almost management of the Group’s companies are two thirds of the plants were evaluated or 80 suppliers were evaluated during the year responsible for ensuring that these values are audited by customers. The results of these via questionnaires, and 29 via site visits or filtered through to their organisations. evaluations were excellent, and we extend audits. The criteria for selecting suppliers for We continuously monitor costs, expensmethods and criteria to the evaluation of our evaluation vary within the Group, but it is es and income. suppliers. usually new suppliers, key suppliers or supWe pay particular attention to ethical Some of Nolato’s customers have systems pliers for whom there are specific risks who issues in our relationships with our partwhereby the customer qualifies for certificaare selected for monitoring. ners. Standard business practice should be tion. One example is the Sony Green Partner Based on the results of completed evaluobserved in each individual country, but scheme, where Lövepac Converting in China ations, we have not identified any specific if business principles do not comply with was approved during the year with Nolato risks in connection with the environment and Nolato’s Code of Conduct, we should refrain Beijing already having been certified. social responsibility. from doing business or take alternative relFor more information about customer evant actions. requirements, see the table below. Investors We carry out annual evaluations of For the fourth year running, Nolato’s suscompanies’ work to counteract bribery, using Supplier assessment tainability work was awarded the highest UN Global Compact checklists. Last year’s A significant number of Nolato’s suppliers grading in the business publication Veckans evaluation shows that much of this work are global groups within the polymer and Affärer’s Sustainable Portfolio. In insurance takes place within the framework of Nolato’s chemicals industry. These companies often company Folksam’s responsible enterprise Code of Conduct, and the target groups are carry out advanced CR work, and are not index, Nolato came 25th among 250 listed mainly employees, suppliers, customers and therefore the primary targets of our evaluacompanies in terms of the environment, and authorities. Several of the companies have tions. The focus is primarily on new suppliers 40th place when it comes to human rights. drawn up detailed policies and guidelines and suppliers for whom we have identified on issues such as gifts, entertaining and some type of risk within sustainable developexpenses, and report that they remain active ment. in countering corruption. A whistleblowing system has been Customer requirements Percentage of units which report customer introduced within the Group, enabling requirements within sustainable development employees to report misconduct in confi2013 2012 dence. Implement ISO 14001 32 33 No cases of bribes, corruption or cartel formation were identified during the year. Phase out hazardous chemicals 42 48 Compliance with REACH and RoHS 26 14 Product-related environmental information 42 57 Follow the customer’s Code of Conduct / CR issues 74 71 Other requirements (including “conflict minerals”) 21 9 Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 19 / 29 Social commitment During 2013, Nolato continued to work on excellent contributions to the company’s Nolato has contact with neighbours, schools, sustainability issues together with the Interproduction. universities, voluntary organisations, authornational Institute for Industrial EnvironmenWe make financial contributions to ities, sports clubs and cultural institutions. tal Economics (IIIEE) at Lund University, schools, healthcare, sports clubs and social During 2013, there were many cases of conSweden. activities, and in many cases we have longtact with schools and universities, with the In Hungary, the employment of workers term involvement that includes many of our most common being study visits. In around with various disabilities has attracted a very employees. One current example is Building a dozen cases, this involved degree projects positive reaction from the local community Hope Together in China. within fields such as nanotechnology, quality and the authorities. Thanks to employment, systems, flexible learning and organisational people with visual and hearing impairments theory. now have a better quality of life, and make Building hope together “Nolato has had a presence in Beijing between the school and Nolato. For examWe are also planning to donate further for more than twelve years, and many of ple, this will involve teachers visiting us equipments, such as projectors. The school the thousands of employees who work or so we can show them the work we do and has really captured the interest of many of have worked for us come from small and what our workplaces are like. our employees.” often very poor villages in China,” says Jörgen Karlsson, MD of Nolato Beijing. “The time has come to give something back, and we are involved in Daxiwan Town Central Primary School.” The school, which 150 pupils and 23 teachers, is located in a poor area around three hours from Beijing and had virtually no computers. Nolato saw opportunities to improve the education provided and the teachers’ working conditions, and has established long-term cooperation with the school. “During 2013, we contributed 20 computers, desks for the teachers, printers and photocopying machines. We are convinced that this equipment will be of benefit, and the next stage involves increasing contact Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 20 / 29 Financial responsibility A successful year Financial highlights In recent years, Nolato has concentrated on creating a balanced Group structure with SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2013 2012 three business areas, and this has taken place Net sales 4,522 3,874 alongside continuous strengthening of our Operating profit (EBITA) 427 303 profitability. The strategic focus has resulted EBITA margin, % 9.4 7.8 in a number of successful acquisitions within Profit after financial income and expense 403 272 Profit after tax 314 202 Nolato Medical. Return on capital employed % 26.7 19.4 2013 was a successful year for Nolato, Return on shareholders’ equity 24.9 17.7 and sales rose by 17 percent to SEK 4,522 Net financial assets (+) / net financial liabilities (–) 122 – 113 million. Operating income (EBITA) was up Equity/assets ratio, % 52 44 41% to SEK 427 million, and earnings per Earnings per share, SEK 11.94 7.68 share rose to SEK 11.94. Cash flow after Dividend per share 8.00 6.00 investments was extremely strong, totalling Average number of employees 9,357 8,421 SEK 362 million excluding acquisitions and disposals. Environmental investments Environmental costs Sustainable development and finance SEK m SEK m During 2013, Nolato invested SEK 13.3 milWaste management lion (11.4) in measures relating to reducing Waste management Purification equipment environmental impact and improving the Improved working environment working environment. The biggest investExternal services ments were made within the field of energy, and around a quarter of investments involvCertifications ing working environment improvements. Investments relating to energy-efficiency Authority charges measures remain at a high level, and include Other investments new equipment and more efficient lighting. Administration Environmental, health and safety costs Protecting soil totalled SEK 13.9 million (6.0), and were and groundwater Energy-efficiency improvements dominated by costs for operating the purification plants for solvents in Beijing. Costs for environmental coordinators, environFinancial value for stakeholders mental management systems, reporting to authorities and other administrative activiStakeholder 2013 2012 Comment Suppliers 2,438 1,984 Comp. for materials and services ties account for around a fifth of these costs. Employees 1,095 1,012 Salaries and benefits During the year, environmental, health and Shareholders 210 158 Dividend safety improvement measures generated Creditors 8 15 Interest expenses cost savings of SEK 3.2 million (2.0). These Society 89 70 Reported effective tax for the Group savings were mainly made through more Total 3,840 3,238 efficient use of energy and improved waste management. Financial value for stakeholders Nolato’s business generates financial value that is distributed among the various stakeholders. This includes suppliers, employees, shareholders, creditors and society. (See the table to the right.) Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 21 / 29 Risks relating to sustainability Nolato’s strategy includes continuously miniview of the pollution situation in Beijing ing products that are no longer accepted by mising operational risks through active and there is a risk that environmental requirecustomers. planned risk management, while still capitalments will increase. As a supplier, Nolato has limited possiising on the business opportunities that conWhere applicable, the Group’s units meet bilities for countering this risk, since most trolled risk-taking brings. The main features the requirements of the REACH chemical products are manufactured on behalf of of risk management are identification, evalulegislation, the RoHS product legislation, customers. However, Nolato works in close ation, governance, reporting, monitoring producer responsibility for packaging waste collaboration with them and continuously and control. For different types of significant and other relevant environmental and workmonitors developments in order to be able to risks, there are routines for accepting, reducing environment legislation. We have not initiate the replacement of hazardous materiing or eliminating the risk. currently identified any increasing risks with als, the introduction of new, more environNolato’s annual report for 2013 provides relation to new or amended legislation. mentally friendly polymers and the developdetailed information about operational and ment of new products. financial risks. Within the field of sustainabilContaminated land and ity, we have identified a number of risks that hazardous substances in buildings Climate-related risks could be significant in terms of the Group’s There has been no known occurrence of One of the Group’s plants is located in an financial position. More demanding environcontaminated land, and nor are there any area where future climate changes could mental legislation, taxes, fees and other envirequirements in terms of investigations or cause landslips (Gothenburg). Here, we ronmental requirements can entail significant decontamination. In Sweden, three of the monitor the risk and vulnerability analyses costs for industrial operations. There are plants have been classified in accordance carried out by the authorities. also risks from a business perspective relatwith the environmental authorities’ Mifo Climate change is important to Nolato, ing to the environment and social responsimethods. The risk assessment is administraand an overview is provided on page 12 bility, which have been identified in recent tive in nature, and is not based on actual of how the Group is working to reduce its years, with a particular focus on production samples of soil and groundwater. All our carbon footprint. At the same time, it is in developing countries. Nolato carries out plants are in the lowest risk class, and are also important to be prepared for how cliregular risk assessments in the countries not prioritised by the authorities for further mate change could affect operations from where we operate. The aim is to identify new action. a financial perspective. This could involve risks and/or costs relating to the environHazardous substances such as asbesdamage to plants and infrastructure, as well ment, ethics and social responsibility as early tos exist in a few individual buildings, and as aspects relating to access to raw materion as possible. only give rise to action in connection with als, the conditions faced by suppliers and extensive rebuilding or renovation work. changed customer behaviour. Taxes, charges Environmental legislation PCB inventories have been carried out at the and emission restrictions may, of course, also Nolato’s production units have the permits Swedish operations, and small quantities of affect Nolato. required for their operations, and no more these environmentally harmful substances extensive applications for renewing permits have been identified. These substances have are planned for 2014. At the plant in Beibeen removed in accordance with Swedish jing, stricter authority requirements have environmental legislation. been introduced in connection with reducing atmospheric solvent (VOC) emissions. Making products more Investments will be made in air emission environmentally friendly abatement equipment to supplement existing Society has a growing interest in environequipment. This does not currently involve mentally friendly products, and one identifiaany significant costs for the Group, but in ble business risk is our product range includNolatos produktionsenhet i Torekov Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 22 / 29 Many activities during a year Over the course of a year, a great deal happality’s schools were advertised for the first tion in the amount of packaging, pallets and pens within the field of sustainability at time in 2013. Planning is underway to switch transportation. (See page 14). In Newcastle, Nolato’s units. Here is a selection of initiafrom fuel oil for heating to pellets. waste management and recycling improvetives and activities from Europe, China and At Nolato Cerbo in Trollhättan, energy ments reduced the amount of waste sent to the US. You can find out more about these consumption was reduced by 700 MWh. landfill by 57 percent. activities elsewhere in this sustainability Absence due to illness fell to 2.7 percent, report. which is regarded as being low in Sweden. China The work involved in lean production, the Many actions were carried out at Nolato Sweden visualisation of activities and results, and Beijing during 2013 which are reported elseNolato Polymer has invested in two new working with improvement groups had a where in this sustainability report. Highlights injection moulds with low levels of energy positive impact on many of the plants’ key include the Employee Care Programme, consumption. In Torekov, a system has been ratios. which focuses on creating a good, stimulatinstalled that treats and purifies cooling A number of new pieces of energying working environment for employees, water. The installation of a geothermal heatefficient production equipment and two and Building Hope Together, in which the ing system is also planned. eco-transformers were installed at Nolato company is supporting a school in a poor At Nolato MediTech in Hörby and LomPlastteknik in Gothenburg. The amount of area near Beijing. Work to reduce energy ma, the work involved in Medical Excellence material (plastic) used in key products has and water consumption has also continued, has been developed further with a trainbeen reduced. and suppliers have been audited in relation ing day for all employees and almost 1,300 Nolato Hertila in Åstorp successfully to sustainable development. During the year, improvements that have been implemented. passed inspections by the environmental and Nolato Beijing received the Best Practice In Hörby, more than 90 environmental and fire authorities. Having shared its manageActivity Safety Award 2013 from Beijing safety improvements have been implemented. ment systems for several years with Nolato Development Area’s working environment Reject levels have dropped to the lowest ever Polymer, the unit was certified separately in department. level, and the key ratio for energy consumpaccordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Nolato Lövepac in Beijing and Shenzhen tion has been reduced by 7 percent. was certified in accordance with OHSAS In order to reduce transportation and to Hungary and Romania 18001, and became an approved Sony Green be closer to customers, Nolato Silikonteknik Nolato Hungary in Mosonmagyaróvár Partner. A programme for employee suggeshas moved some of its production from introduced measures to reduce its consumptions for improvements was introduced, and Hallsberg to Beijing. tion of water and energy and its waste volthe Lövepac Newsletter was launched. Nolato MediTor in Torekov has reduced umes. Some of the staff took part in floodreject levels and installed more efficient, prevention activities near the Danube during USA more environmentally friendly dipping a week in summer 2013. The integration of Nolato Contour in Baldwin stepped up its equipment. The number of near-accidents in disabled employees continued, and activities supplier assessment activities and increased the workplace has also been reduced, medito introduce OHSAS 18001 have begun. its focus on issues relating to the environcal examinations have been carried out for At Nolato Romania in Negoiesti, energy ment and social responsibility. Thanks to all staff and an electronic system has been consumption was reduced and the work to increased recycling, the amount of waste was introduced for administering safety data introduce OHSAS 18001 was started. reduced from 95 tonnes in 2012 to 30 tonnes sheets. in 2013. Nolato Gota in Götene is carrying out retUK rospective work to replace older equipment Nolato Jaycare’s plants in Portsmouth with new, more energy-efficient equipment. and Newcastle were certified in accordance Three injection moulds were replaced during with ISO 14001. In Portsmouth, activities the year, and the new versions are thought to were carried out to reduce energy consumpbe 30 percent more energy efficient. Nolato tion and waste. A customer project was startGota’s scholarships for pupils at the municied which will result in a significant reducNolato’s sustainability report 2013 23 / 29 About our sustainability report A focus on materiality for those countries where Nolato has operacorrected data for emissions of VOCs, and Nolato’s sustainability report for 2013 tions. Information on emissions of VOCs costs for the operation of the air emission includes aspects relating to the environment, (solvents and paints) is mainly based on mass abatement equipment, at the plant in Beijing, the working environment, social responsibalance calculations. In this year’s report, China. (See pages 12 and 20.) bility and ethics. Our ambition is that this compared with previous reports, we have report, together with supplementary information, should give our employees and Company/plant Country Number Building EstablisEnviSignifiexternal stakeholders a transparent picture of emarea hed (year) roncance for of the company’s corporate responsibilployees (m2) mental the suspertainability ity activities and how this interacts with mits report our business activities. One new feature for the year was that we have started the Nolato Beijing, Beijing China 6,842 33,882 2001 Yes High work involved in adapting the report in line with the new GRI G4 guidelines, which Nolato Hungary, Masonmagyarovar Hungary 506 11,500 2000 Yes High has involved a sharper focus on aspects of Lövepac Converting, Beijing China 4,721 2000 No High importance to Nolato and to the Group’s 675 stakeholders. We hope that this report will be Lövepac Converting, Shenzhen China 2,580 2008 No High of interest, and we welcome comments and Nolato Romania, Negoiesti Romania 29 2,960 2010 Yes Medium suggestions for future improvements. Nolato Polymer, Torekov/Ängelholm Sweden 72 11,035 1973, 1995 Yes Medium All Nolato’s units were included in 2013 in the report, with the exception of the unit in Nolato Jaycare, Portsmouth UK 11,132 1986 Yes Medium 271 Malaysia, which is operated by a subcontracNolato Jaycare, Newcastle UK 4,790 1998 Yes Medium tor. The plant in Sunne, which was divested of during the year, is not included in the Nolato MediTech, Hörby Sweden 7,000 1999 Yes Medium 175 report. The same applies to a plant in India, Nolato MediTech, Lomma Sweden 5,000 1980 Yes Medium where no operations were carried out durNolato Cerbo, Trollhättan Sweden 110 11,000 1971 Yes Medium ing the year. In total, 19 production facilities contributed data. Nolato MediTor, Torekov Sweden 56 3,948 1973 Yes Medium Nolato Gota, Götene Sweden 107 21,000 1965 Yes Medium Reporting principles Each production unit provides quantitative Nolato Contour, Baldwin US 167 8,631 1993 Yes Medium and qualitative information in accordance Nolato Plastteknik, Göteborg Sweden 102 13,000 1980 Yes Medium with Nolato’s sustainability reporting formula. The manager of the relevant company or Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult Sweden 40 4,200 1968 No Low unit is responsible for the quality assurance Nolato Hertila, Åstorp Sweden 23 4,474 2000 Yes Low of the information submitted. The year’s perNolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg Sweden 36 2,500 1995 Yes Low formance is compared and verified against information for previous years. Further quality checks are carried out in connection with interviews and site visits. Reporting of data Questionnaire for all units Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur Quality control of data dioxide and nitric oxides from direction Q4 Q1 Preparations ahead of a new report Sustainability section in the annual report energy consumption are calculated using conversion factors. These are based on the energy content and the quality of the fuel Q3 Q2 GRI/COP report used. Carbon dioxide emissions from indirect energy consumption (primarily electricity) are based on emission data from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) Follow-up and review of sustainability data Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 24 / 29 Nolato and GRI Adaptation in line with GRI G4 give a complete, balanced, comparable, accuThe table below shows the extent to which has begun rate and reliable picture of the organisation’s Nolato works with GRI G4, and it should The organisation behind GRI has estabdevelopment within sustainability. It should be noted that some work remains before the lished voluntary comprehensive guidelines include both positive and negative aspects. reporting can be regarded as being complete. for how companies and other organisations In this year’s sustainability report, we have The Swedish version of the sustainability should report on their sustainable developstarted to make adaptations in line with GRI report uses our own translation of GRI G4, ment activities. The guidelines of version G4 and this will continue during 2015. We since no official translation exists yet. G3.1 were replaced by version G4 in 2013, have expanded the section on strategy, analyIn the table, SR refers to the sustainability and reporting organisations are expected to sis and materiality, and have added informareport and AR refers to the annual report for have adapted in line with the new guidelines tion relating to some key indicators. 2013. by December 2015. Reporting in accordNolato has chosen to report in accordance ance with GRI shall focus on sustainability with the Core level, and the indicators area aspects that are significant to the organisaadapted in line with the evaluation of aspects tion and its stakeholders. Reporting shall on page 7. Core areas covered by the report (General Standard Disclosures) Designation acRequirement or indicator Reference External cording to GRI verification Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation on the importance of sustainability issues and NoSR3; AR6-7 — lato’s sustainability strategy. G4-2 Description of the most important effectors for Nolato’s stakeholders, risks and opportunities. Trends, targets and proSR7-11 — grammes. Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation. Nolato AB (publ) — G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. AR5 — G4-5 Location of Nolato’s headquarters. Torekov, Sweden — G4-6 Number of countries where Nolato operates and other geographic areas that are material with regard to sustainable SR16, 23; AR4 — development. G4-7 Ownership and legal form. AR36-37 — G4-8 Nolato’s markets and customers. AR18-29 — G4-9 Number of employees, number of operations, net sales, debt and equity, quantity of products provided. AR44–55 Yes G4-10 Employees (employment type, gender, region, variations in employment numbers). SR16 — G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR16 — G4-12 Description of Nolato’s supply chain. SR18 — G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period (size, structure, ownership, supply chain). SR23; AR15 — G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by Nolato. SR13, 17 — G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which Nolato subSR9 — scribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Membership of national and international organisations. SR27 — Identified material aspects and boundaries Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 25 / 29 G4-17 Companies included in Nolato’s financial report. Companies included in the sustainability report SR23 — G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. SR23 — G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. SR7 — G4-20 Reason why aspects are regarded as material within Nolato. Internal limitation of the aspects. SR7-9 — G4-21 Reason why aspects are regarded as material outside Nolato. External limitation of the aspects. SR7-9 — G4-22 Comments on any restatements of information provided in previous reports. SR23 — G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. No significant — changes Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Nolato. SR9 — G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. SR9 — G4-26 Description of Nolato’s stakeholder engagement. SR8,9,18,19 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Nolato has responded to these. SR9 — Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. SR23 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. March 2013 — G4-30 Reporting cycle. SR23 — G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Torbjörn Brorson — GRI content index G4-32 References to requirements and indicators in GRI. This list. — G4-33 Policy for external assurance for the report. No external — assurance. Governance G4-34 Structure for Nolato’s governance of sustainability work. SR7-8 — Ethics and integrity G4-56 Nolato’s core values, Code of Conduct and policies. SR8; — www.nolato.com/ sustainability G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical behaviour, e.g. whistleblowing SR10 — Indicators Designation Requirement or indicator Reference External according to GRI verification Finance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. SR20 Yes G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. SR21 — G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. AR63–64 Yes G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. None — Environmental responsibility Material G4-EN1 Use of renewable and non-renewable materials. SR13 — G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. SR13 — Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 26 / 29 Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption. SR11 — G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption. SR11 — G4-EN5 Energy intensity. SR10,11 — G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. SR11,22 — G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products. SR15 — Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR13 — Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1). SR12 — G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3). SR12 — G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SR10,12 — G4-EN19 Initiatives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. SR12 — G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). SR12 — G4-EN21 NOx, SO2 and other significant air emissions. SR12 — Effluents and waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge. SR13 — G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR14 — G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. None — Products and services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and results. SR15 — Compliance G4-EN29 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. SR8 — Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products. SR14 — Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments. SR20 — Supplier assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. SR18 — Social responsibility G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region SR16 — G4-LA5 Participation in safety committees. SR17 — G4-LA6 Rates of injury and occupational diseases. SR17 — Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR16 — G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving performance and career development reviews or equivalent. SR16 — Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age SR16 — group, etc. Supplier assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria. SR18 — Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 27 / 29 Human rights Nondiscrimination G4-HR2 Proportion of employees informed/trained on human rights policies. SR10,16 — G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. SR16 — Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signifiSR18 — cant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Child labour G4-HR5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken. SR18 — Forced or compulsory labour G4-HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken. SR18 — Supplier assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria. SR18 — Society Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement. SR19,22 — Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. SR18 — G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. Nor recorded — incidents Product responsibility G4-PR1 Proportion of products for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. SR15 — Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 28 / 29 The UN Global Compact Nolato follows ten principles ples. Group companies’ compliance with the follows Global Compact’s ten principles. We for responsible business Group’s Code of Conduct is evaluated on a use GRI indicators to simplify the CommuIn 2009, Nolato joined the UN initiative for regular basis. In the introduction to the susnication on Progress, and the cross-reference responsible business, Global Compact. The tainability report, Nolato’s CEO Hans Porat table below details which indicators are Group thereby joined a global network of comments on the company’s Global Comrelevant in the context. more than 10,000 organisations, of which pact work during the year. 7,000 are businesses, in 135 countries. By participating in the Global Compact, Nolato Communication On Progress agrees to support ten basic principles in the Organisations that have subscribed to the areas of human rights, working conditions, Global Compact must produce an annual environment and anti-corruption. Communication on Progress (COP) detailing The publication The Nolato Spirit, which how it meets the ten principles. In Nolato’s includes the Group’s Code of Conduct and case, this is based on the information subEnvironmental Policy, is an important intermitted in the annual report and the sustainnal document that guides and coordinates ability report. Together, these reports provide employee activities in line with the ten princia true picture of how Nolato supports and The Global Compact Principles GRI indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. G4-HR2, G4-HR7, G4-SO1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-HR1, G4-HR10-11 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to coll. bargaining. G4-11, G4-HR4 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. G4-HR6 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour G4-HR5 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4-10, G4-LA1, 9, 11, G4-HR3 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. G4-EN1, 3, 8, 15, 17, 20, 21, 27, 31 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. G4-EN1-10, 15-24, 27 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. G4-EN6, 7, 19, 27 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-56, 58, G4-SO4, 5 Nolato’s sustainability report 2013 29 / 29 Definitions and glossary Carbon dioxide (CO2) Carbon dioxide is tions globally are currently certified accordSO2 (sulphur dioxide) Sulphur dioxide is formed in all carbon combustion processes, ing to ISO 14001. formed in the combustion of petroleum such as fossil fuel combustion. It is very products. The gas contributes to the acidifiISO 26000 International standard that prolikely that carbon dioxide increases global cation of watercourses and soil. Large convides guidance on how organisations can warming (the greenhouse effect). centrations are harmful to human health. deal with social responsibility issues. The Code of Conduct Guidelines for Nolato’s standard was introduced in 2010. Sustainability Development that “satisfies employees. Supplemented by policies relating today’s needs without jeopardising future LWC Occupational accidents causing at least to the environment, quality and information. generations’ possibilities to satisfy their one day’s absence (Lost Work Case). needs”. Sustainable development consists of Environmental aspects The parts of an NOx (nitrogen oxides) Gaseous oxides three components: Ecological sustainability, organisation’s activities, products or services formed during combustion processes social sustainability and financial sustainthat interact with the environment. through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful ability. Environment-related costs Costs attributto health and the environment and causes VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds). A group able to measures for preventing, reducing acid rain and eutrophication. of organic compounds that easily vaporise or restoring environmental impact directly Occupational disease A work-related disease at room temperature. The concentration of caused by the organisation’s operations. The is a disease caused by long-term exposure volatile hydrocarbon in the air has a negative same applies for costs in the occupational to a particular factor in the occupational effect on health and the environment, e.g. it environment area. The costs include adminenvironment. Examples are noise, dust and contributes to the formation of ground-level istration, purchase of services externally, solvents. ozone. authority fees, environmental management system maintenance, waste and external Occupational injury A work-related injury Water footprint The total volume of fresh inspections and audits. is a sudden incident (accident) attributable water used to produce a company’s goods to work that gives rise to a wound or other and services. Environment-related investments Investinjury. Typical injuries in the in the polymer ments for preventing and reducing environindustry are cuts, falls and injuries caused mental impact from the organisation’s operaby heavy lifting and repetitive tasks. Nolato tions. The same applies for investments to reports occupational injuries as an accident enhance the occupational environment. that causes more than one day of absence, Extrusion A method for continuously manucalled Lost Work Case (LWC). The rate is facturing products in strands, such as tubing. gauged by the number of occupational injuries per 1,000 employees (LWC/1,000). Global Compact A UN initiative for responsible business practice. Participating organisaOHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and tions undertake to endorse ten fundamental safety in the workplace. principles in human rights, occupational PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group conditions, environmental regard and antiof industrial chemicals that are hazardous to corruption. health and the environment. The use of PCB GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, but the established voluntary comprehensive guidesubstance remains in the environment due to lines for how companies and other organiits slow decomposition. sations should report their sustainability Polymers Chemical compounds comprising activities. very long chains made up of small, repeatHCFC/HFC Substances that contribute to ing units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are ozone depletion. examples of polymer materials. Injection moulding A method for manufacREACH EU chemical legislation for the safer turing polymer components. The material, handling of chemicals. Chemical substances such as a type of plastic, is injected under must be registered for a certain use and high pressure into a mould in which the comparticularly hazardous substances can have ponent is formed. restrictions imposed on them. ISO 14001 International standard relating to RoHS EU legislation limiting the use of cerenvironmental management systems that was tain substances that are hazardous to health introduced in 1996. Over 280,000 organisaand the environment.
