Building Your Tomorrow Today 2013 Integrated Report of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction About this Report Overview 2013 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction’s Integrated Report includes content on its value, vision, strategy and corporate social responsibility. This report was also written to provide transparent information on our financial and non-financial performances to our diverse stakeholders. Reporting Principle Based our report on the framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and core initiatives from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guideline. Reporting Period The reporting period covers January 1 to December 31 of 2013. Data from the past three fiscal years was provided to analyze trends over time. Moreover, data from the first-half of 2014 was calculated on performance. Scope and Boundary Financial and non-financial performance in this report covers business activities of our head office, subsidiaries and overseas project sites, using boundary identification procedures of GRI G4. Verification This report was verified by DNV GL, an independent assurance agency, to ensure its reliability and enhance its quality based on GRI G4 guidelines and AAA 1000 Assurance Standard (AS) 2008. Details regarding assurance results are available on pages 100 and 101. Additional Information This report can be downloaded from the homepage of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Integrated Integrated Composition Reporting Creating Value Contents of Reporting Management Environment & Prospect Business CSR Vision & Strategy Supporting Global Leader in Responsible Responses Power & Water and Sustainable Growth Future Plans Table of Contents CEO Message 06 Doosan Credo 08 Doosan Group 11 Overview Company Profile 14 Introduction of Business 16 Management Strategy 18 Governance 20 Ethical Management 22 2013 Highlights 24 2013 Doosan Way 26 Business Analysis Review of Operations 30 Materiality Analysis 32 Reporting Content of Material Issues 34 Strategic Focus Upgrading Business Portfolio 38 Investing in Future Growth Engines 39 Entering New Markets 41 Upgrading Core Business Leadership 43 Enhancing Product Lineup by Business Sector 44 Center of Excellence 45 Global R&D 46 Conducting National Projects 49 Cotracts for Technical Tie-up 49 Upgrading Business Systems 50 Shared Growth System 51 Rationalization of Energy Efficiency 55 Growth through Work-Life Balance 57 Risk Management 58 Performance Review Talent Management 62 Green Management 70 Safety and Health 74 2013 Integrated Report of Social Contribution 80 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Customer Satisfaction 84 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is committed to enhance Special Story 87 corporate value and to create social value in social by developing and capitalizing on technology to better human society and the planet. Financial Statement 90 We will continue to share our financial and non-financial performance and activity for sustainable growth with all of our valued stakeholders Independent Assurance Report 100 through this report. GRI G4 Index 102 06 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 07 CEO Message Dear stakeholders, I would like to sincerely thank you all for the support you have shown to our company, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. Our company aims to become a global leader in the power and water business. For more than fifty years, we have helped to ensure that these commodities are available to people around the world. Today we continue to develop unique technologies and solutions to help preserve a clean environment for future generations to enjoy healthy lives. In the process, we are working to raise the value of the Earth. Global economic activity remained sluggish in 2013, but Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction still managed to win contracts for highly significant projects. These include the Vinh Tan 4 coal-fired thermal power plant in Vietnam, two 1,000MW ultrasupercritical coal-fired thermal power plant units for the Sinboryeong complex in Korea, and a reverse osmosis desalination plant in Chile. We also divided the Power BG (Business Group) into the Boiler BG and Turbine/Generator BG, strengthening the competitiveness of these respective product lines and taking another step toward the “One Global Doosan” structure to fulfill our global leadership ambitions. The New Business & Technology Committee was also established, along with new R&D centers around the world for each BG to help boost their fundamental competitiveness. In addition, we established the CSR Committee to support the systematic fulfillment of our corporate social responsibilities, and further identified and implemented various CSR initiatives related to areas covered by the five subcommittees (Human Resource, Ethics Management, Shared Growth, EHS, and Community), such as strengthening the human rights policy, expanding CSR programs to the supply chain, and establishing a strong platform for EHS management. Most importantly, we are upholding the global standard of CSR and seeking to become a model corporate citizen by actively participating in global sustainability initiatives of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). We expect the business conditions to remain poor in 2014. However, in preparation for the global economic recovery in 2015, we will focus on bolstering our fundamental competitiveness. In the meantime, we plan to maintain mid and long-term growth momentum by diversifying our business portfolio and securing new growth engines such as ICT (information and communication technology), and expand our business to surpass that of our rivals in and out of Korea to become an undisputed global leader. Moreover, we will continue to pursue business expansion in the constantly growing market of Latin America and the rapidly emerging market of Africa. Respectable stakeholders, As our business grows, we seek to closely abide by our people-centric business philosophy. Thus, we aim to continuously help realize a better society and pursue sound growth for our stakeholders. This means developing the competencies of our employees, establishing a work-life balance, ensuring world-class transparency, cultivating EHS capacity, pursuing mutual growth with our suppliers, and performing our role as a responsible corporate citizen by raising the future competitiveness of the local communities. We will also freely disclose our progress in this regard to the stakeholders. This 2013 Integrated Report covers our business results and outlook, as well as our commitment and efforts in the area of CSR. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction helps to Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction is doing its best to raise the value of our planet, and we ask for your continuous support in helping us succeed with this noble effort. Thank you. supply the Power and Water, essential elements for human society. At the same time, we develop unique technologies and solutions aimed at preserving a clean environment, Geewon Park a fundamental foundation for the health and welfare of future generations. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer In the process, we hope to contribute to the betterment of humankind and our planet. 08 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 09 Doosan Credo Our Vision Our customers are the reason Doosan exists. The true measure of Doosan’s success is customers' satisfaction and respect. We aspire to be a Proud Global Doosan a leading innovator of products and services that improve the quality of life for people and communities around the world. Our goal is to always deliver superior value than our competitors. We will achieve this by living the Doosan Credo. Guided by our Credo, we will drive our second 100 years of growth. We achieve this by understanding our customers’ needs and meeting or exceeding their expectations. Core Values Embracing world-class technology and innovation is vital to our survival. Doosan’s people are our greatest asset and the key to our future. Tomorrow drives today at Doosan; we always look to the future instead of the past. They are at the heart of all our achievements. We strive to understand, and stay ahead of, change. Our continued and distinguished success will only be possible We continuously seek to improve our business model, products, services and methods. through developing and cultivating our talent. We celebrate and properly reward successful risk-taking, Our people possess great capacity, willingness and drive while also respecting valuable attempts that fail. to contribute to the Company. Doosan applauds the spirit of challenge over complacency. They are relentless in enhancing their skills and capabilities. Our future success will be driven by seeking breakthrough ideas, knowledge, technologies and They embrace our Core Values and demonstrate these beliefs and principles resources regardless of their origin, either internal or external. in their daily behaviors. Profit measures our success and drives our growth. Cultivating people is our highest priority and a shared responsibility. Our profit must exceed our capital cost Attracting and recruiting the right talent, who understand and embrace our values, and be sufficient to fuel our continuous growth and investment. will be the foundation for developing our people. Our people understand how the work they do contributes to Doosan’s profit. We believe people develop and grow through performance at work We recognize that long-term success is built by respecting the rights of our suppliers, and we give them the authority and responsibility that best match their capabilities. distributors and partners to earn fair profits. Through experience, people develop to their maximum potential. Fair and immediate feedback and recognition are offered Creating a socially responsible enterprise is our duty to society. as we believe this is central to self-development. We see business and society as a close partnership and an opportunity for mutual growth. Our people are given the opportunity to develop their strengths Doosan will be proactive in this partnership, and address areas for improvement. As a result, Doosan people are proud of who they are contributing the time and resources required for success. and respected as business professionals. Our goal is to develop and grow alongside society, as a trusted and trustworthy partner. Wherever we operate, we do so transparently and lawfully. Integrity and transparency are fundamental Doosan strengths. We aim to contribute to the development of talent in society. We make profit profit by creating value through fair and transparent activities. Our community service activities promote both corporate and social development. We acknowledge our mistakes and keep our promises. We never compromise our principles. We provide clean and safe working environments. Doosan maintains all our facilities to the highest possible standards. Inhwa best expresses who we are and provides us with a unique competitive edge. This is the basis for superior productivity as well as being our responsibility to our people, their We define Inhwa as teamwork in the truest sense of the word, families, our customers and shareholders. grounded upon fairness and camaraderie. Environmental protection is our duty and obligation By carefully following these virtues we have created One Doosan; to every community where Doosan does business. a collective strength built on the contribution of a wide diversity of individuals. We know this ultimately results in greater value creation. Inhwa means we maximize our organizational strength and potential through true teamwork built on defined, transparent rules of fair play. Selfish rivalries between individuals or departments have no place at Doosan and discrimination of any kind is not tolerated. Inhwa means each individual contributes to the success of their colleagues and team, resulting in both excellent team and individual performances. Inhwa also means we are open; Doosan welcomes proactive ideas and constructive criticism from everyone, regardless of seniority or position. Our unique practice of Inhwa extends beyond the internal organization and embraces the entire Doosan community, from our families to our shareholders, affiliates and partners. 10 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 11 The Doosan Way represents our strong beliefs and Doosan Group philosophies to become a ‘Proud Global Doosan’. Doosan Credo Continuous Changes and Growth for the Past 118 Years The Doosan Credo is a set of stipulated principles representing Doosan’s business philosophies and unique way of doing business, which have served as the Doosan has demonstrated the strength of its 118-year history, the longest among Korean companies, and at the same time achieved dynamic and fast change and foundation of our success for the past century. The Doosan Credo contains nine core values that guide our decisions and the way we do business. Through the growth over the years. Doosan took the first step in its legendary history in 1896 when Park Seung-Jik opened Korea’s first modern store in Baeogae, Jongno 4-ga, realization of these values, Doosan accomplishes its ultimate goal. The Doosan Credo consists of Doosan’s ‘Vision’ and ‘Core Values’. Seoul. After going through continuous growth, Doosan successfully evolved into a consumer goods company specializing in beer and other beverages. Since then, by completing vertical and horizontal integration centered on the alcoholic beverage business, Doosan posted about a 80% market share during the 1970s and 1980s and has enjoyed an unrivaled leading position in diverse consumer goods sectors of the Korean market. Aspiration Doosan’s ultimate goal is as the creation of a 'Proud Global Doosan.' This means each of our employees and all of our shareholders will benefit from, and be proud of their association with Doosan. In other words, every employee takes great pride in being a member of Doosan and each customer recognizes and appreciates Successful Transformation into ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) Doosan’s high-quality goods and services. Every shareholder values our fair and high levels of profit. Doosan was faced with numerous challenges during the mid-90s due to market saturation and cut-throat competition in the domestic market. To overcome these difficulties, Doosan decided to sell its flagship beer division, the OB (Oriental Brewery), and integrate subsidiaries under the judgment that it was necessary to drastically Core Values change the business portfolio based on the selection and concentration strategy. Such a pioneering move has enabled Doosan to solidify its position and become even stronger. Since 2000, Doosan has embarked on a massive transformation to become a global company, developing new growth engines and overhauling its business Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan Credo everywhere we operate every day, to build a Proud Global Doosan. These values guide the way we portfolio altogether. Through a series of successful M&As, Doosan has completely transformed itself from a consumer goods company to an ISB (Infrastructure Support do business, the way we treat each other, and the way we work with all of our partners. The nine core values are as follows: Business) provider, specializing in power, water, construction & engineering, heavy machinery & construction equipment, energy, national defense, and industrial facilities. People Inhwa Profit A Leap Towards the Position as a Global Player In the 2000s, Doosan made momentous inroads into the world by acquiring Babcock (U.K., 2006), a company that possessed coal-fired boiler technology, and Bobcat (U.S., Cultivating People Customers Social Responsibility 2007), a manufacturer of various construction equipment. At that time, the acquisition of Bobcat was the largest M&A deal made by a Korean company. Currently, Doosan takes the first to second place in the seawater desalination and power generation markets worldwide and its 19 products are recognized as world-class Korean products. Integrity and Transparency World-class Technology and Innovation Safety and Environment These achievements have helped Doosan to solidify its dominance in the global market. Doosan has also proven its global leadership in organizational operations. It has hired talents based on merits irrespective of race and nationality and put foreign executives in the positions of top management. As a result, the percentage of foreign employees Traits of Doosan People has reached 50%. In addition, Doosan has established scientific and advanced work processes and systems, which drives the competitiveness in its global businesses. Doosan’s Growth Engine Behind the success of Doosan is its unwavering ‘trust in people.’ This was something our founder firmly believed in, who often had said, “Investment in people makes the foundation for business.” This belief is well summed up in our 2G strategy (Growth of People, Growth of Business). The 2G strategy has been the driver of our past success Limitless Aspiration Cultivating People Inhwa and will guide us through our journey toward prosperity in the global era. At the heart of the 2G strategy is the virtuous circle of ‘growth of people laying the foundation for the growth of the company, and the latter leading back to the former.’ With its trust in employees and continuous investment in human capital, Doosan was able to go through bold restructuring and innovative portfolio transformation successfully. The Future of Doosan Doosan hopes to become a “Proud Global Doosan”, backed by our firm belief and trust in people. The “Proud Global Doosan” means becoming a company that every Open Communication Tenacity & Drive Prioritization and stakeholder is proud of. Our stakeholders include not only employees, but also our customers, shareholders and local communities around us. Our vision is to become a Focus company that everyone involved with can be proud of. To bring better life to mankind and everyone who works for us, Doosan continues to walk forward, always striving to do our best every step of the way. 12 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 13 Doosan’s Vision Doosan aims to become one of the global top 200 companies by 2020 A Company with Global Overview through the execution of people-centered management, the source of global Competitiveness Joining the competitiveness, and setting up a global standard business process. World’s Top 200 by 2020 Brand Slogan “Building Your Tomorrow Today” Company Profile 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction not only produces castings The brand slogan ‘Building Your Tomorrow Today’ means that Doosan will Introduction of Business 16 & forgings that are basic industrial materials, but also facilities continue to work hard in many corners of the world around the clock to Management Strategy 18 make contributions to building a better tomorrow and creating better living nuclear and thermal power plants and seawater desalination. These Governance 20 conditions for mankind, as part of its efforts to achieve its goal of being Business philosophy products are provided to plant builders both at home and abroad Ethical Management 22 Building business pro‘devoted to human beings’. It also represents the commitment of Doosan to that considers talented to sustain a better future for mankind. cesses that meet global 2013 Highlights 24 build infrastructure for all human lives through its Infrastructure Support people as the source of standards 2013 Doosan Way 26 global competitiveness Business (ISB). Doosan’s Affiliates Doosan’s efforts are directed at creating a better foundation for life. Doosan is engaging in diverse areas of business, ranging from infrastructure support businesses such as industrial facilities, machinery, equipment, to consumer goods. ISB (Infrastructure Support Business) CSB (Consumer & Service Business) Doosan Heavy Industries Doosan Engineering Doosan Feed & Doosan Infracore Oricom Neoplux & Construction & Construction Livestock Doosan Engine Doosan DST Doosan Capital Doosan Tower Doosan Bears Doosan Cuvex Doosan Dong-A Doosan Magazine Doosan Corporation Affiliated Organization Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Doosan Yonkang DLI (Doosan Leadership Doosan Art Center Electro-Materials Industrial Vehicle Mottrol Foundation Institute) Doosan Corporation Doosan Corporation Information Glonet & Communications ❖ Financial Achievements of Doosan Group in 2013 Total Assets Total Equity Sales Operating Profit (KRW in billions) (KRW in billions) (KRW in billions) (KRW in billions) 31,166 9,058 21,936.5 1,154.8 14 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 • Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 15 Company Profile ‘Technology to Raise Value’ Global Network Since its foundation on September 20, 1962, Doosan Heavy Industries & Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is performing business activities in the world via local subsidiaries, branches, and affiliates located in Korea, Europe, Asia, and Construction has been working as a specialist in plant equipment for over America. We are continuously expanding our global network to advance as a global company. 50 years by providing facilities for power and water plants to approximately 40 countries worldwide. We are the world’s No. 1 company in the seawater Doosan Skoda Power, Czech Doosan Lentjes, Germany desalination industry and striving to become a global leader in the power Doosan Power Systems, UK generation field. Specifically, we have been the biggest supplier of nuclear Doosan Babcock, UK power plant equipment in the world for the past 20 years and we currently supply equipment for the UAE nuclear power plant project. Furthermore, our acquisition of global power plant equipment manufacturers, such Doosan Engineering & Services, USA Doosan Heavy Industries America, USA as Babcock of the UK, Skoda Power of the Czech Republic, and Lentjes of Germany have enabled us to secure 3 core technologies related to boilers, Newington Office, USA Doosan Enpure, UK turbines, and generators. We also operate global production networks for a Doosan IMGB, Romania Pittsburgh Office, USA Global HQ, Beijing Office, China Korea Vina manufacturing factory in Vietnam, IMGB in Romania, and DPSI in India. In the eco-friendly green energy business, we obtained the WinDS3000TM Frankfurt Office, Germany Doosan Heavy Industries Japan Doosan HF Controls, USA certification for a 3MW onshore or offshore wind power system and signed Cairo Office, Egypt Kuwait Office, Kuwait Shanghai Office, China Taipei Office, Taiwan a contract to build a 9MW wind power generation complex in Shinan, Doosan Hydro Technology, USA Riyadh Office, Saudi Arabia Jeollanam-do, South Korea in 2011. Our leadership is further evidenced in CSS Vina Hanoi Office, Vietnam developing and commercializing carbon capture and storage technology. Manila Office, Philippines Middle East Operation Center, UAE Under the vision of ‘Global Leader in Power and Water’, we will continue to Dubai Office, UAE Doosan Heavy Industries Vietnam contribute to the delivery of light and water to mankind, and materialize Water Dubai Office, UAE (Doosan Vina) Abu Dhabi Office, UAE technology that increases value for all. Mumbai Office, India Bangkok Office, Thailand Doosan Power Systems India Jakarta Office, Indonesia Santiago Office, Chile New Delhi Office, India ❖ General Information (As of December 2013, domestic business) Company Name Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CEO Geewon Park, Keysun Han Head Office 22 DoosanVolvo-ro, Seongsan-Gu, Changwon, Gyeongsangnamdo, Korea Employees 8,703 persons (including executives and advisers) Credit Rating A+ (Korea Ratings – June 28, 2013) Middle East & Africa Europe Asia UAE Dubai Office U.K. Doosan Power Korea Head Office & Changwon Plant Water Dubai Office Doosan Babcock Seoul Office Abu Dhabi Office Doosan Enpure Vietnam Doosan Vina Middle East Operation Center Czech Doosan Skoda Hanoi Office Saudi Arabia Doosan Power Systems Arabia Republic CSS Vina ❖ Organization Chart Water Riyadh Office Germany Doosan Lentjes India Doosan Power Systems India CEO Riyadh Office Frankfurt Office Mumbai office Egypt Cairo Office Romania Doosan IMGB New Delhi Office Kuwait Water Kuwait Office Taiwan Taipei Office China Shanghai Office North America Beijing Office COO U.S. Doosan Heavy Industries America Indonesia Jakarta Office Doosan Hydro Technology Japan Doosan Heavy Industries Japan Doosan Engineering & Services Philippines Manila Office Doosan HF Controls Thailand Bangkok Office Technology Turbine/ Castings & Management South America Pittsburgh Office Nuclear BG EPC BG Boiler BG Water BG Finance Div Research Generator BG Forgings BG Div. Institute Chile Santiago Office Newington Office 16 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 • Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 17 Introduction of Business Power Plants Green Energy Doosan Heavy Industries and Construction considers the future ahead and leads in development of new and renewable energy technology and distinguish Coal-fired Power Plant ourselves in the offshore wind power field. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has developed Korea’s first 3MW class offshore wind power system, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been supplying boilers, turbines, and other main facilities to domestic and overseas coal-fired power plants for the WinDS3000TM and obtained international certification from a renowned German certification agency, DEWI-OCC, in 2011. This established the foundation for past 40 years. We provided generation facilities to domestic coal-fired power plants in Dangjin, Taean, Boryeong, and Hadong. Looking abroad, we have achieved tapping into overseas markets. Our performances in this sector included the 9MW class Shinan wind power complex in Jeollanam-do in 2010, the 30MW class Tamla prominent contributions to the Raipur plant (685MWX2) in India and the GHECO-ONE plant (700MWX2) in Thailand, along with the world’s largest, the Mundra offshore wind power project, and the 24MW class Yeongheung wind power complex phase 2 in 2012. In 2013, we obtained New Excellent Product certification on plant (800MWX5) in India. In Vietnam, we signed a contract for the Mong Duong 2 (600MWX2) coal-fired power plant, and are currently a partner for localization our 3MW wind power system from the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards. We believe that our market penetration into Europe, the US, the Middle-East, of a coal-fired power plant with the Vietnamese government. In December of 2013, we received an order for the 1,200 MW level Vietnamese Vinh Tan 4 coal-fired and Southeast Asia will accelerate in the near future. On top of that, to cope with tightened environmental regulations, we are actively promoting development power plant project as well. Moreover, we are now conducting the project of Shin-Boryeong #1 and #2 coal-fired plants, using eco-friendly, highly efficient, selfand commercialization of carbon capture and storage technology. developed power generators (1,000 MW) with the USC (Ultra Super Critical) method. Water Plant Combined Cycle Power Plant Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is the world’s No. 1 business in the seawater desalination business. It boasts three core source technologies -MSF (MultiIn accordance with growing combined cycle and cogeneration power plant markets, we are expanding the supply of gas and steam turbines. We took over the Stage Flash), MED (Multi-Effect Distillation), and RO (Reverse Osmosis) -for seawater desalination. We offer unrivaled project performances via those technologies. Czech Republic’s Skoda Power in 2009 to secure the original technology for steam turbines and we are focusing on developing source technologies for gas The Farasan project in Saudi Arabia in 1978 paved the way for our entrance into the Middle Eastern market and we participated in seawater desalination projects turbines by capitalizing on in-house technical capabilities. We supplied core power generation facilities to combined cycle power plants in Seoul and Pocheon, and in Saudi Arabia and the UAE in the 1980s and 1990s. These projects allowed us to independently develop engineering technology for desalination facilities that cogeneration power plants in Yangju, Sejong-si, and the Saemangeum regions in Korea. Externally, we conducted large combined cycle power plant projects, such had been monopolized by companies in the US, Europe and Japan. In 2010, we proved our premier technology and ability in the MSF area by winning an order as the Jebel Ali M combined cycle plant in Dubai and the Qurayyah combined cycle power plant in Saudi Arabia. for the world’s largest, 228MIGD class Ras Al Kair project in Saudi Arabia. In 2011, we reaffirmed No. 1 position in the seawater desalination industry by earning the Yanbu MED project in Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest facility. Since 2012, we have been producing and shipping freshwater vaporizers to Vietnam to secure price Nuclear Power Plant competitiveness. In addition, in 2012 our firm laid the foundation for entering the global water market by acquiring the UK’s Enpure, featuring engineering and As Korea’s leading nuclear power plant facility maker, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been supplying core facilities, such as nuclear reactors, steam manufacturing technology for pretreatment facilities. The Escondida seawater desalination plant project in 2013 was a significant landmark in that we won a new generators, turbines and generators, as well as supplementary equipment for nuclear fuel handling and transportation casks for nuclear fuel. It is one of our main project in Central and South America, beyond the Middle East. goals to have an integrated production system for nuclear plants, including the entire process of manufacturing equipment, large-scale technology, and a selfsupplying ability. Based on these strengths, we won orders to supply core facilities to 6 nuclear power plant projects in the US in 2008. We also became a supplier Castings & Forgings for the Korean government’s UAE nuclear power plant project. Additionally, our ‘Nuclear Power Excitation System’ with 3 current controllers was selected as a world class Korean product in 2013. We have successfully performed main equipment production and replacement, and expanded our service business. By capitalizing on its world leading facilities and technology, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction manufactures and supplies components for power generation, including large-sized castings & forgings used for vessels, in steelmaking, and in various industrial facilities. In particular, our superior technology in manufacturing ultra-sized castings & forgings, such as components for nuclear power generators, has been highly acknowledged at power plants around the world. In 2006 we expanded our production capacity by acquiring Romania’s biggest castings & forgings manufacturer, Doosan IMGB. We currently possess 9 world-class Korean products, including crankshafts for ships and low pressure turbine rotor shafts. 18 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 • Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 19 Management Strategy Vision and Strategy Strategy and Framework for CSR Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is making a concerted effort to realize its vision of ‘Global Leader in Power & Water’ by executing Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established a new CSR strategy in 2013 to extend its social responsibility as a corporate citizen. It the ‘Doosan Credo’ based on the ‘Doosan Way’. is composed of three factors – Developing People, Reliable Operating, and Responsible Engagement. It serves as a template to guide us in optimum management strategy and solidifies our position as a global company. Vision ▶ Global Leader in Power & Water Aspiration Proud Global Doosan Doosan Way Doosan Way Global Leader Power & Water CSR Goal Fortune World’s Most Admired Company in 2020 (Engineering and Construction) Becoming a global Representing main top-tier player in businesses all businesses CSR Mission Supporting Responsible and Sustainable Growth CSR Pillars Developing People Reliable Operating Responsible Engagement Human Ethical CSR Dimension Shared Growth EHS Community Resource Management • ‌Making fair operations • ‌Building preemptive Upgrading Core • ‌Strengthening activities to Strategy ▶ Upgrading Business Portfolio Upgrading Business Systems habitual and scientific safety Business Leadership • ‌Enhancing talent improve customer • ‌Developing and management system management • Developing ‌ ethical satisfaction operating a sustainable • ‌Developing world-class CSR Priorities • ‌Developing management • ‌Enhancing stakeholder supply chain healthcare programs a ‘Great Workplace’ system engagement • ‌Strengthening overall • ‌Advancement and • ‌Establishing a strategic Global Leader in Power & Water competitiveness of scientification of green social contribution system suppliers management system The vision, ‘Global Leader in Power & Water’, connotes our commitment to evolving into a global leader in the global power and water Building a company-wide Establishing a company-wide CSR Reinforcing of CSR markets. We aim to continuously lead the global market by ensuring world-class technological power, cost competitiveness, sales revenue Enabler CSR promotion system performance management system communication and profitability, human resources development, and corporate culture. Demand of Global CSR Initiative: ISO26000 / UN Global Compact / GRI Society Strategies to Achieve the Vision To secure fundamental competitiveness, we are focusing on Business Portfolio, Core Business Leadership, and Business Systems upgrades. Major CSR Areas As a global company, we are pursuing quantitative and qualitative growth based on cutting-edge technology and excellent quality. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction selected human resources, ethical management, shared growth, EHS, and community as corporate promotion areas of CSR. We address these areas with our business strategy. We set principles for major promotion, and publicize their performance, via strategic planning and with specific tasks. Realizing technology independency and securing technologies to compete with global top-tier players through developing source CSR Organization Upgrading technologies for core businesses Core Business Upgrading In April 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction founded a CSR team and CSR committee to increase efficiency of CSR promotion Leadership Building portfolio centered on high value-added Business and create corporate consensus of CSR. The CSR Team is in charge of performing CSR strategy and communication, and operating the CSR products and market diversification Portfolio committee. The CSR committee regularly inspects outcomes and plans CSR projects. Utilizing resources efficiently and maximizing global business performances by optimizing local ❖ CSR Committee Upgrading subsidiary and production base operation Business Systems COO Coordinator CSR Team Advisory Group Operation Strategy Innovation To achieve our vision of ‘Global Leader in Power & Water’, we will dedicate to securing top-tier competitiveness in product and technology Technology Human Resource Ethical Management Shared Growth EHS Community Legal Affairs and gaining the momentum for growth through diversifying our business portfolio and markets. Planning 20 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 • Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 21 Governance Board of Directors ❖ Operation of the BOD No. of meetings Attendance rate of the BOD Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction includes the Board of Directors with 2 executive directors and 4 outside directors to ensure (Times) (outside directors) (94.2) independence and transparency in decision making. It elects a director during the shareholder's meeting in accordance with relevant laws, (%) (89.8) 13 11 11 (82.3) 91.8 articles of incorporation and the BOD regulation. We thoroughly review related laws to enhance the efficiency of the Board of Directors. We 85.2 heighten the board’s professionalism by electing members with experience in specific areas. The CEO is responsible for chairing the Board 83.3 of Directors. The Board of Directors also operates the Audit Committee, the Outside Director Recommendation Committee, and the Internal Transaction Committee to make efficient decisions. ❖ Board of Directors 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 (As of March 2014) Position Name Duty Remark Executive Director Geewon Park CEO, Chairman, Chairman of the BOD Unchanged Evaluation and Compensation Keysun Han CEO, President Unchanged Compensations for both executive and outside directors are determined within the limits approved at the shareholders’ meeting. In 2013, Outside Director Hyungjoo Kim Professor of Computer Engineering at Seoul National University Completed term approved compensation limit was KRW 15 billion and a total of KRW 3.4 billion was paid. Compensations for the management are determined (March 29, 2014) by the performance evaluation covering not only financial performances but also the level of achieving strategic targets. Kyungsoon Song Representative at Korea Expert Consulting Group Newly appointed Dongmin Cha Lawyer at Kim & Chang Law Firm Newly appointed Bokhyeon Baik Associate Professor of Business School at Seoul National University Newly appointed Rating of and Awards for Corporate Governance In 2013, we received A+ rating at the ‘Governance Structure Rating’ hosted by Korea Corporate Governance Service and grand prize at the ‘ESG Evaluation Award’. Also, in March 2013, we were awarded the grand prize at the ‘9th Transparent Management Award’. These achievements ❖ Committee under the Board of Directors (As of April 2014) proved our commitment to the BOD-driven transparent management and business ethics. Committee Purpose and Role Member Name Outside Director Recommendation Committee • ‌Recommend outside director candidates 3 outside directors Kyungsoon Song, Dongmin Cha, Bokhyeon Baik Shareholder Structure Audit Committee • ‌Audit accounting & finance 3 outside directors Kyungsoon Song, As of December 31, 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction issued 106,158,256 shares in the Korea Exchange (KRX). The largest • ‌Evaluate the operation of the internal accounting Dongmin Cha, Bokhyeon Baik management system shareholder was Doosan Corporation with 41.40% of the shares, while the National Pension Service held 6.12% ownership. The CEO reports • ‌Approve the appointment of outside auditors corporate management performance to shareholders during the meeting, and reflects their opinions on operations by reviewing them with Internal Transaction • ‌Deliberate and approve any internal transactions between 3 outside directors Kyungsoon Song, the Board of directors. Committee subsidiaries worth KRW 5 billion won or more Dongmin Cha, Bokhyeon Baik ❖ Shareholders Operation of the Board of Directors Doosan Heavy Industries & Institutional The Board of Directors is the supreme decision making body for company management. The Board of Directors reviews and votes on issues Doosan Corporation Construction Investors Foreign Investors Individuals and Others stipulated in the articles of association and entrusted from the shareholders’ meeting, basic management principles, and matters related 41.40% 6.89% 15.89% 11.89% 23.93% to business operation. A Board of Directors meeting can be convened within 10 days when more than one third of the members state the purpose, agenda, and desired date. The BOD’s decision is determined by a majority attendance and a majority vote of attended directors, As of December 31, 2013 but voting rights of any individual with special stakes in our company are prohibited. The Board of Directors deals with economic, social, and environmental issues comprehensively and the composition and activities of the board are released through our website. Protection of Minority Shareholders We operate a system to vote in writing to protect the rights of minority shareholders. The company attaches ballot paper for individual Board of Directors Activities in 2013 items to the general shareholders’ meeting notification so that minority shareholders can express their opinions by letter without having In 2013, the Board of Directors of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction held 13 meetings and addressed 31 major agenda items. The Board to physically attend the meeting. Shareholders can exercise their voting rights by completing the ballots and sending them back to the of Directors provides the outside directors with explanation on the corporate decisions and shop tours and it also enhances its operational company at least one day before the meeting. efficiency through preceding presentations on key issues by CFO and director in charge. 22 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 • Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 23 Ethical Management Ethical Management of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Establishing Operational Rules for the Code of Conduct In line with rearranging the Code of Conduct, we are promoting the establishment of operational rules. We plan to apply higher ethical Ethical management of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is defined as enhancing competitiveness and maximizing economic value standards by establishing specific regulations for a whistle-blowing policy, Lessons-Learned White Paper system, bribery prohibition, and by eliminating unethical elements beyond just the simple idea of ’Growing into an ethical company’. Likewise, we strive to become ‘Proud fair trade. Global Doosan’ based on ethical management, integrity and transparency. ❖ Areas of Operation Rules for the Code of Conduct ❖ Organization for Ethical Management ❖ Ethical Management System 01 Operational rules for the whistle-blowing policy 06 Rules on prohibiting illegal use of internal information CEO Ways to raise value of society, 02 Operational rules for the white paper system 07 Rules on protecting assets Ethical Management environment and company 03 Rules on forbidding bribery 08 Rules on healthy corporate culture CFO COO 04 Rules on limiting entertainment 09 Rules on fair trade Integrity and Social Transparency Responsibility Doosan credo to make Audit Team Internal Control Team Shared Growth Promotion Team CSR Team a second century on the 05 Rules on conflict of interest 10 Rules on internet use strength of growth for the past 100 years Doosan Way In 2013, we completed the establishment of Lessons-Learned White Paper and whistle-blowing systems. The remaining 8 rules are still covered Employees by the Code of Conduct that had been enforced since 2002. By continuously upgrading and implementing operational rules, we will become a company that everyone can trust to trade, and that is attractive to investors and employees. Rearranging the Code of Conduct Major Ethical Management Activities ❖ Number of Reports by Whistle-blowing As needs arise for establishing a global Code of Conduct consistent with the Doosan Way, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction rearranged its Code of Conduct, instituted in February 2002. In July 2013 the Code of Conduct became based on the Doosan Way. In sum, we will enhance our business competitiveness and perform social duties responsibly, strictly abiding to our Code of Conduct. Whistle-blowing Policy l We operate an internal whistle-blowing system to help employees report any violation of the Code of Conduct. In 2013, a total of 22 cases were Online 15 cases reported and handled. This procedure played a great role in preemptively preventing risks. ❖ Major Contents of the Code of Conduct Once a violation is confirmed through investigation, violators receive disciplinary action Offline 7 cases and work procedures are improved to prevent the reoccurrence of similar violations. Inhwa Prohibition of discrimination and behavior, rational personal management, open communication, and fair labor conditions ❖Whistle-blowing and Cyber Reporting Process Report on investigation Systematic management of Acceptance Investigation of the facts Integrity and results reports, results, and follow-up Prohibition of bribery, entertainment, and other illegal benefits, transparent disclosure of financial records, transparency prohibition of conflicts of interest and illegal use of internal information, protection of corporate assets and Notice of the acceptance Give opportunities of explanation Follow-ups (Result notice/punishment/ Efforts to protect reoccurrences by confidential business information within 7 days to violators Lessons-Learned White Paper) systematic management Fair competition Pursuit of shared growth with suppliers, prohibition of illegal negotiation and information exchange, and Lessons-Learned White Paper System l Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has ❖ ‌Education about Ethical Management prohibition of abuse of authority in 2013 operated the Lessons-Learned White Paper system since July 2013 with the goal of analyzing basic causes, deducing improvement plans, and sharing results of major issues Entry-level employees Focus on customers, 6 408 Respect for customer opinions, pursuit of customer satisfaction, provision of accurate information on products reported internally and externally, or that occurred during business operations. Basic innovation, and growth and services, continuous growth and innovation causes and improvement plans of reported issues are quantified as data and then used times, persons to prevent reoccurrence. Education by each BG 13 1,503 Social responsibility Social contribution, maintenance of safe work environment for all, eco-friendly growth times, persons Cyber Reporting Center l We operate a cyber reporting center whereby every employee can report violations of the Doosan Way and misconduct. This elevates the awareness Employees of suppliers 8 250 of business ethics. The cyber reporting center is served both in Korean and English to ensure easy access for various stakeholders. times, persons 24 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 • Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 25 2013 Highlights Establish the One Global Leadership System Focus on Strengthening Fundamental Competitiveness In April 2013, we carried out a large-scale reorganization to establish the One Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established R&D centers for each BG to Global Doosan Leadership system in the boiler, turbine, and generator businesses, secure technological competitiveness. Currently, Boiler BG, Turbine & Generator BG, strengthen company-wide competitiveness in new orders, and enhance and Water BG operate their own R&D centers in the UK, the Czech Republic, and technological power. We first divided Power BG into Boiler BG and Turbine/ Dammam of Saudi Arabia, focusing on global competitiveness and developing core Generator BG, then integrated Boiler/Service (Babcock) and Turbine (Skoda) technologies. businesses into each BG, respectively. Diversify the Market in the Water Business Build a System to Boost Quality Innovation In August 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction signed its first project contract In 2013, we established a foundation to enhance quality control and competitiveness in Central and South America for a seawater desalination plant, thereby proving its across the board by instituting a system to boost innovation. As a result, we reduced competitiveness in technology and winning orders in an area other than the Middle crucial quality issues by 70% compared to the previous year by improving employee East. Our water technology and market competitiveness also received recognition in quality awareness and competency. 2012, when The National Academy of Engineering of Korea (NAEK) selected the Yanbu MED seawater desalination plant as one of the ‘Top 25 Scientific Technologies and Industry Performances of Korea’. Win a Large Plant Project in Vietnam Have a Strong Sense of Pride as Doosan People In December 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won the Vinh Tan 4 In March 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was awarded the grand prize project worth KRW 1.6 trillion in Vietnam, despite difficult conditions domestically in the ‘9th Management Transparency Awards,’ hosted by 5 economic organizations. and overseas. This achievement elevated our position in Asian power plant markets Doosan was recognized for its transparent management system, ethics management in Vietnam, India, and Thailand. and social contributions. Maintain Future-oriented Labor and Management Relationships Target the Domestic Eco-friendly Thermal Power Plant Market The pursuit of an enjoyable workplace with open communication and future-oriented In October 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction commercialized the labor and management relationships provided a sense of pride among Doosan engineering technique of Korea’s first 1,000 MW USC (Ultra Super Critical) coalemployees. The Autumn Concert at the Changwon plant, the Doosan Family Culture fired power plant by winning an order for boilers and turbine generators for the Festival and the Doosan Family Concert provided all employees with opportunities Shinboryong plant’s units 1 and 2, thereby bolstering our position in overseas to raise company morale and improve communication. In addition, the company markets. maintains a culture of shared growth and cooperation by supporting a dispute-free environment based on trust and respect between labor and management. Develop Future Energies to Strengthen Competitiveness Expand Social Responsibility Management Our 3MW class wind power generation system obtained NEP (New Excellent Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction proved its dedication to its systematic CSR Product) certification from the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards (KATS). by creating a CSR team and a CSR committee to oversee and adopt CSR governance. Moreover, we supplied 8 wind power generators, with a total capacity of 24MW, to In 2013, Doosan received the Korean Prime Minister’s ‘Shared Growth of Small, the 2nd Yeongheung wind power complex in Korea. Medium-sized, and Large Companies Award’ for our contribution to shared growth based on benefit sharing. 26 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 • Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 27 2013 Doosan Way The Doosan Way Day On July 3, 2013, the first Doosan Way Day event was held in the presence of the Chairman and CEO of Doosan Group, Yongmaan Park, other Top Team members and around 80 major executives from each affiliate and BG in order to review the changes and accomplishments over the year since the announcement of the Doosan Way and to discuss future tasks and plans for execution. Moreover, employees who achieved significant results in the technology field were awarded with the ‘Doosan Technological Excellence Awards,’ while those who successfully demonstrated All employees of the Doosan Group are committed to embracing the Doosan Way, which represents our corporate beliefs the Doosan Way in their works were presented with the ‘Doosan Way Awards.’ Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction received the Innovative and philosophies, to become a ‘Proud Global Doosan’. The Doosan Way provides the foundation for accelerating our progress Award in recognition of the development of the ‘USC Boiler for Power Generation’ in the Doosan Technological Excellence Award sector and an and creating a better future. With the Doosan Way, we aim to help our employees find meaning in their lives, build a peopleadditional nine awards in the Doosan Way Award sector for accomplishments such as the ’Development of the World’s First Integrated Monitorcentered corporation, and promote future-oriented growth. ing & Control System (IMCS) for Thermal Power Plants.’ Highlights of the Doosan Way in 2013 The Doosan Way Workshops The Doosan Way Workshop, which started in May 2012 for the spread and rollout of the Doosan Way, came to a close in April, 2013 after being carried out for over eleven months. The workshop was held both at home and abroad, with the participation of more than 20,000 executives and employees. By encouraging discussion and engagement in numerous programs, the workshop has contributed to enhancing employees’ understanding and awareness of the Embedding the Doosan Way in Work and Behavior Doosan Way, making them realize that the Doosan Way is the most powerful To realize the three change models based on employees’ understanding and consensus regarding the Doosan Way values, we strived to keyword to guide the corporate culture of Doosan. embed the Doosan Way in our overall business process and behaviors. ‘Doosan Way Agenda’: Aligning our work and business process to the Doosan Way values The WHY Campaign The Doosan Way Agenda aims to encourage leaders and staff members to carefully check to see if the existing work process satisfies the Doosan Way (9 Values, The ‘WHY Campaign’ is underway to explain ‘Ways to Implement the Doosan Way’. 6 Traits) and gradually change toward the Doosan Way. In 2013, a pilot program for the Doosan Way Agenda activities was carried out for a total of 11 business Under the theme of ‘Think-Explain-Ask WHY’, employees will be able to better units. The progress was shared during the Doosan Way Time hosted by the COO, and exemplary cases were also introduced via the Doosan Way Council. comprehend the purpose and key points of their business tasks and properly utilize their capability and time. ‘Proud You & I’: Establishing a genuinely caring corporate culture that helps exhibit the Traits of Doosan People The aim of the Proud You & I program is to promote a positive corporate culture by encouraging employees to identify and compliment exemplary ❖ 3-step Why cases where the Traits of Doosan People were well exhibited. More than 1,000 best practices were found in 2013, and they were shared across the company through various methods. Think WHY Explain WHY Ask WHY The Way to Think and Communicate The Doosan Way Implementation Plan for 2014 • Why do we do this task? • The purpose of this task is... • What is the purpose of this task? In 2014, we have performed the Doosan Way Survey for blue collar employees in order to assess their levels of awareness and implementation • What is the key point of this task? • The key point of the task is... • Why do you think so? of the Doosan Way and are currently establishing improvement measures. Other plans include speeding up efforts for acquiring a strong • Is this the Doosan Way? • What we expect from this task is… • Could you elaborate please? competitive edge and adopting advanced processes and systems to realize the three change models and continuing with the embedment of Why we need to ask ‘Why’? the Doosan Way. These activities will help employees better perceive the changes in their work process and individual behaviors. Upon organizing your thoughts, you have Communication is not a one-way street. The more you think and deliberate over WHY, Expanding the ‘Doosan Way Agenda’ Activities into Every Organization l We are planning to extend the pilot program for the Doosan Way to accurately deliver those thoughts to your Explanations without allowing any questions the more obvious your message becomes. Agenda activities carried out in 2013 into every executive-led organization in order to boost discussions about the Doosan Credo and encourage counterpart. hinder true communication. employees to create various self-actionable practices. The Doosan Way Survey Expanding the Scope of ‘Proud You & I’ Program l In 2014, we are planning to expand the scope of the existing Proud You & I program, which had focused on identifying individual best practices only, to the organization level in order to accelerate business cooperation between various The Doosan Way Survey for all white collar employees of Doosan was conducted from April 25 to May 10, 2013. The survey was designed organizations. to measure the degrees of understanding and implementation of the nine core values, assess the levels of pride as a Doosan person, and Establishing Code of Conduct by Function l A code of conduct tailored to the specific work conditions and processes of each function will be evaluate the levels of perceived changes towards the three change models of the Doosan Way. Based on the results, six initiatives to address established based on the consensus among the organization members with the aim of creating sound and healthy business standards and practices. the core values that received relatively low scores were introduced, and their processes and results were shared through the company’s Conducting Self-Assessment of the Doosan Way Activities l Every executive-led organization will carry out a self-assessment of the level of the Doosan Way Council. In addition, at the BG or Division level, a total of 30 initiatives were identified through cause analysis. These initiatives Doosan Way activities and continuously seek improvements through active communication among the organization members. were carried out at the discretion of each head of the BG or Division. 28 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 29 Review of Operations 30 Materiality Analysis 32 BUSINESS ANALYSIS Reporting Content of Material Issues 34 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is committed to providing products and services that improve the quality of life, delivering trust and pride to all stakeholders, and performing business honestly and transparently to become ‘Proud Global Doosan’. 30 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview • Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 31 Review of Operations ❖ Major Performances in 2013 In October 2013, we won the contract to construct the first district energy facility in Saemangeum industrial complex. This project includes building a power plant to produce electricity and heat by utilizing eco-friendly CFB (Circulating Fluidized Bed) boilers. In October 2013, we signed a contract Our Water BG received ‘Innovation Award’ to supply equipment to Shinboryeong and ‘Contribution Award’ at the Saudi Thermal Power Plant. That included boilers, Water & Power Forum 2013, which verified turbines, and generators for a 1,000MW our unrivaled status in the desalination class power generation system, the largest business. In addition, we won new orders capacity among single power generation for seawater desalination and water in Korea, and desulfurization facilities. In treatment plants in Chile, established the July 2013, a contract was earned to supply foundation for entering new markets 800MW class gas turbines and steam beyond the Middle East. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is a global leader in the power and water business. We specialize in power generation engineering turbines to Seoul Combined-cycle Power and power plant equipment manufacturing, such as nuclear reactors, boilers, turbines, and generators. We do major design and build sea Plant. water desalination and water treatment plants. As for the power business, we possess the capacity to engineer and produce core equipment, such as boilers and turbines. We also provide EPC solutions for plant construction. Furthermore, we have source technology and world-class products by acquiring Babcock in 2006, Skoda Outlook for 2014 Power in 2009, and Lentjes in 2011. These additions help us proactively respond to the various demands of our clients. In 2014, intensified competition is expected, due to reduction in infrastructure investment followed by global economic recession, or poor foreign exports due to appreciation of the Korean won and/or depreciation of the Japanese yen. From 2015, however, we expect the global In the water business, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction maintains the No. 1 position in the global seawater desalination market. We economy to get back on track, and expert emerging countries to achieve around 5% economic growth. Based on these projections, we are have 3 major seawater desalination technologies of MSF (Multiple Stage Flash), MED (Multiple Effect Distillation) and RO (Reverse Osmosis) making a concerted effort to secure fundamental competitiveness and develop convergence technologies to be prepared for market recovery. methods. We have the competence to supply water treatment systems by acquiring Enpure, a water treatment engineering company in the UK, in 2012. Today, we are evolving into a total water solution provider. • ‌The installation capacity of the global power generation market is expected to grow from 5,119GW in 2010 to 6,993GW in 2020. All kinds of fuels, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction enhanced its competitiveness with efforts to secure capability internally and strategically except for oil, are expected to experience increased demand. cooperating with top foreign companies. In 2007, we signed a license contract with MHI (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries) of Japan to • ‌The price of gas around the world is predicted to slightly decline due to expanded shale gas production and exports by the US. The price of coal manufacture and supply large-size gas turbines to combined-cycle power plants in the domestic market. In 2008, we established a joint will be stabilized due to decreasing demand. Therefore, it is expected that demand for gas power plants will be generated in OECD nations, where venture with Burns & Roe, an engineering company of the US, to promote improvement of thermal power plant engineering tools. environmental regulations are being tightened, and demand for coal-fired power plants will increase in non-OECD nations. • ‌As for the seawater desalination market, the Middle-East and North African region will likely represent about 70% of total new orders and the reverse Performances in 2013 osmosis method will be applied to more seawater desalination projects. • ‌While anxiety over the safety of nuclear power plants unleashed by the Fukushima incident is gradually declining, the domestic nuclear power plant In 2013, our sales recorded KRW 7.5 trillion due to the delays in many projects including large-scale power plant projects. Nonetheless, market will take up about 29% of total energy sources in accordance with the government’s 2nd basic energy plan announced at the end of 2013. we maintained a stable profitability of 6% as a result of our profit-oriented contracts and on-going proactive marketing. Sales in our main Starting with the 2,800MW class Shinkori 5 and 6 units, the construction of nuclear power plants will continue in 2014. In the overseas market, Middle business of power generation equipment recorded an operating margin of 8%. Eastern countries such as Saudi Arabia, along with China, and some European countries are planning construction of nuclear power plants. In December 2013 we won a bid for a 1,200 MW class Vinh Tan 4 coal-fired power plant. This came on the heels of the Mong Duong 2 project • ‌In the Castings & Forgings market, demand for mold steel and materials from the polar or deep sea plants are expected to show continuous growth, in Vietnam, solidifying our dominance in the Vietnamese power plant market. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction gained EVN’s (Electricity while demand for power generation, shipbuilding, and industrial facilities are likely to remain sluggish. Therefore, we will focus on developing new Vietnam) trust in its power generation equipment and competence in conducting large-scale projects, which led to the private contract products in the mold steel sector and strengthen cost competitiveness of current main products. without competition. This will give us better opportunity to win future projects in Vietnam. 32 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview • Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 33 Materiality Analysis Significance Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts a materiality analysis to identify crucial issues that need to be managed on a short-, mid❖ ‌Results of Materiality Expansion of R&D investment and long-term basis. These are reflected in our integrated report. By continuously improving and complementing the materiality analysis, we Analysis Enhancement ‌ of product systematically select and manage major issues. competitiveness Ethical management Market diversification Materiality Analysis Process Work-life balance Technology protection Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducted the materiality analysis in compliance with the process recommended by the GRI G4 Guideline. Material issues were identified by considering the significance and influence that could impact on our businesses and stakeholders. ‌Green management We intend to ensure the connectivity between material issues and our management strategy by considering the financial impact. We will ‌Securing source technology continue to communicate with stakeholders after the publication of this report to identify changes in the management environment. In ‌Integrated risk addition, we will craft a process to reflect these issues in our management strategy. ‌Future growth engine management Supply chain management Significance Strategic alliance Influence ❖ Materiality Analysis and Reporting Content Selection Process Influence Financial impact Upgrading Business Portfolio Upgrading Core Business Leadership Upgrading Business Systems by material issue New Materiality issue Increase of materiality compared to previous year Maintenance of materiality Determine significance to the company Identify influences of stakeholders Short-term aspect Long-term aspect Recognition Expectation Materiality Analysis Results A total of 12 out of 45 issues that impact our businesses have been identified as material issues. Newly-selected material issues for our sustainable growth were: • Attainability • ‌Connectivity with vision and • ‌Interest in issues • ‌Demand for response to • Relevance to financial results strategy • ‌Subordination of issues issues ‘investment in future growth engines’, ‘market diversification’, ‘technology protection’, and ‘strategic alliance’. The materiality of ‘ethical management’, ‘green • Level of management interest • ‌Effects on change in • ‌Demand for disclosing management’, and ‘supply chain management’ were similar to those of the previous year. The significance and influence of ‘enhancement of product competitiveness’, management activities information on issues ‘expansion of R&D investment’, integrated risk management’, ‘securing source technology’, and ‘work-life balance’ issues increased compared to the previous year. Changes in significance compared to the previous year are indicated by marks. Identify financial impact by material issues Analysis of Financial Impact Achievement of short-term financial results To measure the materiality of the issues, we analyzed the financial impact of the issues separately from the significance and influences impact. We considered the level of short-term financial performance, influence on change in the business model, and impact on business process. As a result, the following issues were Impact on change in business models Relative comparison by material issue of each item confirmed to have high financial impact: investment in future growth engines and securing source technology. To strengthen our business, we will concentrate on Impact on business procedures managing issues that showed higher financial impact and promote plans to create financial results from CSR issues that showed relatively low financial impact. Review and Capitalize on Material Issues Material issues identified by the materiality analysis were finalized through internal review and are reflected in this report. Results of identifying material issues are reported to stakeholders through the integrated report and our website. We will continue to enhance the material issue identification process. Step 4. Step 1. Step 2. Step 3. Review and Identify material Prioritization of Review of material reflection in issues issues issues management strategy • Form ‌ an issue pool by analyzing and deliberating • ‌Evaluate materiality of the issue pool based • ‌Conduct review of executives if selected material • ‌Receive feedback on material issues in report corporate vision, strategy, the industry, international on significance in the aspect of business and issues reflect economic, environmental, and social from stakeholders after publishing standards, and media based on the aspect list of the influences of stakeholders and prioritize the issues aspects in a rational and balanced way • ‌Review if change or new issues will be GRI G4 guideline reflected in management strategy 34 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview • Business Analysis Strategic Focus Performance Review 35 Reporting Content of Material Issues Through the materiality analysis, we identified three material issues in line with our management strategy: Upgrading Business Portfolio, Upgrading Core Business Leadership, and Upgrading Business Systems. Each section contains disclosure on management approach, relevant activities, and performance. The following chart shows how material issues are reported on this integrated report, and how the company makes efforts to respond to crisis and opportunities in each strategic sector. Direction of Material Issues Reporting Contents Background (Crisis & Opportunity) Strategic Responses Management Strategy • ‌Laying the foundation for green energy business • ‌Trend of tightening global environmental regulations with practicality such • ‌Laying the foundation for green energy business to cope with environmental Wind power as the restriction of carbon dioxide emission regulations Investment in • ‌Increasing demands for ICT-based software to meet customer needs in the • ‌Preparation of ICT-based technology and its application plans Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) future growth engines power business • ‌Optimization of operational efficiency and maximization of asset value by Carbon Capture & Storage (CCS) • ‌Privatization of power infrastructure and increasing needs for the Brownfield capitalizing on source technologies for boiler and steam turbine and plant • ‌Enhancing competitiveness through ICT convergence business in the world engineering capability through the Brownfield business Offering remote monitoring service • ‌Increasing demands for power, desalination, and water treatment facilities in • ‌Expansion of new orders through global sales networks Upgrading Market diversification • ‌Entering the Brownfield IPP business Central and South America • ‌Focus on receiving new orders based on EPC capability in seawater desalination Business Portfolio • ‌Pioneering the Central and South American market • ‌Increasing demands for power plants in emerging markets including Africa business • ‌Entering into African market • ‌Promotion of entrance into new markets • ‌Developing USC.HSC boiler model, securing CFB • ‌Trend of tightening global environmental regulations with practicality such • ‌Securing high-efficiency and eco-friendly boiler technology and expanding technology, and developing USC CFB boiler as the restriction of carbon dioxide emission relevant businesses Expansion of product lineup • ‌Market diversification and diversified customer needs by market • Establishment ‌ of a full lineup of turbines to meet diverse market needs • ‌Expanding turbine lineup • ‌Developing gas turbine technology through national • ‌Stabilization of gas prices by shale gas production and increasing demands • Seizing ‌ opportunities for gas power business through securing OEM capabilities for for coal-fired power plants driven by environmental regulations gas turbines R&D to develop technology projects • ‌Improvement of technological power and cost competitiveness of • Expansion ‌ of market share by capitalizing on technology and production capacity • ‌Building global R&D cluster and management system competitors in emerging countries such as China acquired by M&As and strategic alliances • ‌Enhancing the operation of Global IP • ‌Increasing demands for intellectual property and possibility of • Enhancement ‌ of technological capability based on our COE operation system Technology protection • ‌Accelerating open Innovation activities patent dispute comprised of the Product COE and Tech COE • ‌Conducting national projects and signing technical • ‌Rise in importance of protecting and preemptively securing technologies • Continuous ‌ increase in R&D related expenses and workforce Upgrading Core collaboration • ‌The advent of open innovation by cooperating with external research • Establishment ‌ and operation of the Global R&D Cluster and its management system Business Leadership Securing source technology institutes and universities as a new value creation method • Expansion ‌ of the IP portfolio and reinforcement of relevant processes and • ‌Growing needs to secure advanced technologies against technology infrastructure protection barriers of global companies • Accelerating ‌ open innovation activities through the CTO fund Strategic alliance • ‌Participation in national projects and expansion of technological alliances with power plant operators • Building supply chain management system • ‌Increasing social interest in relationships with suppliers • ‌Enhancement of suppliers’ competitiveness through providing consultation • Establishing virtuous cycle partnership • ‌Rise in importance of suppliers’ competitiveness due to the services and financial aids Supply chain management • Rationalizing energy efficiency expansion of global business • ‌Introduction of sustainability management to our supply chain and • Responding to climate change • ‌Growing needs to meet environmental initiatives establishment of support systems for activation Green management (climate change and GHG emissions, etc.) • ‌Development and utilization of technologies for GHG reduction to secure • Constructing integrated risk management system • ‌Requirement for understanding of customer countries’ environmental competitiveness • Pursuing work-life balance regulations for overseas projects • ‌Elevation of distinctive competitiveness through developing eco-friendly Integrated risk management • ‌Requirements of overseas project owners for capability and performance in technologies (CCS and new and renewable energy, etc.) Upgrading environmental management • ‌Minimization of local risk by capitalizing on world-class technologies and fluent Business Systems • ‌Expanding the scope of contract risk, project risk, and local legal risk in construction experiences Work-life balance accordance with increasing overseas projects • ‌Securing competitiveness to conduct local projects by capitalizing on our global design and production networks 36 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 37 38 STRATEGIC FOCUS Upgrading Business Portfolio Upgrading Core Business Leadership 43 Upgrading Business Systems 50 사업 및 운영 리뷰 30 2013년 성과 32 2014년 전망 33 중대성 평가 34 핵심 이슈에 대한 전략적 대응 36 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will continuously pursue upgrading its business portfolio, core business leadership, and upgrading business systems to secure global competitiveness and prepare for the next 100 years as a global player. 38 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 39 Strategic Focus Upgrading Business Portfolio Investing in Future Growth Engines Laying the Foundation for Green Energy Business Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provides a business basis for green energy to correspond to carbon dioxide emission regulations and other government’s environmental enforcements. In 2009, for the first time in Asia, we independently developed 3MW class wind power generator WinDS3000TM and became the first domestic company to obtain international certification for the 3MW wind power generator system. Since then, a number of onshore and offshore wind power plant projects have been carried out in Korea. Furthermore, in 2011, we signed a contract with Korea Western Power for Korea’s first IGCC (Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle) plant with high energy efficiency, eco friendliness, and low carbon emission. This project includes engineering, manufacturing, installation, and commissioning of core equipment and facilities. In 2010, we received national projects for carbon capture and storage (CCS) technologies and completed the development of a greenhouse gas treatment system that utilizes oxy-fuel technology to separate carbon dioxide during combustion. Currently, we are developing post combustion capture (PCC) technology to separate and collect carbon dioxide from exhaust gas through technical alliances with overseas subsidiaries and top-tier companies. As evidenced by these examples, we are scaling up our green energy business to build a foundation for sustainable growth. Importance of Business Portfolio Upgrades Our Response Upgrading the business portfolio is not an option but a Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction demonstrates must for every company today. It is necessary to build world-class capability to design and manufacture power a business portfolio to respond to changing market plant materials and core equipment such as boilers and environments and deliver more customer value. turbines. We are striving to promote new businesses and market diversification by focusing on upgrading our WinDS3000™ IGCC Gasification Plant in Taean business portfolio as our core strategy for competitiveness enhancement. ICT, Conversion of New Technologies We intend to enhance the competitiveness of our main products and deliver differentiated value to customers by Performances Achieved and Future Plans for Business Portfolio Upgrades applying and fusing information and communication technology (ICT) to our business sectors. The convergence of ICT creates a virtuous circle by transforming engineering, construction and management information of a plant Classification Performances in 2013 Plans in 2014 into a large data base, and then utilizing it to improve the product and discover new business. It is a challenge Investing in future • ‌Participated in basic design of the IGCC gasification plant • ‌Developing PCC (Post Combustion Capture) technology to separate and growth engines and construction project for 300MW IGCC gasification capture CO2 that needs to be overcome for future growth. We have been building a foundation and securing core capability plant in Taean • ‌Building the foundation for adopting innovative ICT and securing relevant to adapt ICT since 2013, and we will start utilizing it to differentiate our products, strengthen our competitiveness, • Analyzed the Oxyfuel 100MW plant core capabilities promote new business, and create added value. • Signed a MOA for the production of wind power generator • ‌Diagnosing the performances of the Brownfield projects in Southeast Asia, • Built a remote monitoring system India, and South Africa, and promoting acquisition of them Diversifying the • Expanded and reorganized our Santiago Branch in Chile • ‌Solidifying position by winning new orders in the Central and market • ‌Won new orders in the Central and South America region South America region (Escondida in Chile) • Setting plans to penetrate into African market 40 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 41 Entering New Markets ❖ Expected benefits from ICT convergence Efforts to Tap into New Markets Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction continuously seeks ways to penetrate new markets. We conducts sales Customer Service Opportunities for Increase of Productivity and marketing activities by targeting countries through analysis of local policy and market conditions, and then Innovation New Business establishing concrete action plans. • ‌Improving efficiency, operation • ‌Detecting symptoms beforehand • Plant related applications rate, and flexibility through • ‌Reducing the possibility of fatal • Remote monitoring service, etc. optimizing the operation of plants malfunction Process to Tap into New Markets Our new market penetration strategy is based on definite principles and systematic analysis. Careful study of the target countries’ market conditions and policies, consultation with local experts, and establishment of specific ▣ Remote Monitoring Service by ICT plans are priorities before sales and marketing activities. We started the ICT-based remote monitoring service (RMS) that allows real-time monitoring of power plant operation data without the limitations of time and space. To expand this service, the RMS Team was newly Analyzing Analyzing Focus on Conducting project Organizing a local policies penetration and sales and established in October 2013 and the Remote Monitoring Service Center (RMSC) was built in January 2014. This feasibility in task force and market setting business marketing service contributes to improving the performance of power plants. new markets conditions models activities ❖ Effects of the Remote Monitoring Service Maximization of Profitability Creation of Customer Value Strategies to Penetrate New Power and Water Markets PowerㅣCentral and South America are expected to become an attractive and sustainable market for our power business. To solidify our presence in this region, we have reorganized the Santiago Office in Chile for expansion. The office focuses on current local water projects and promotes sales and marketing by dispatching employees to work with local agents. Currently, executives, expats, locals and agents are working at the office to cover the Central and South America region. • ‌Increasing availability, performance, and reliability of • ‌Reducing maintenance costs power plant operators • ‌Improving operation ability through technological WaterㅣIn August 2013 we won an order for the Escondida project, worth USD 103 million, to build the largest RO • ‌Enhancing power plant operation technology and sales alliance method seawater desalination plant in the Central and South American region. Upon completion, this plant will produce 220,000 tons of fresh water, which can be used by 550,000 people every day. By winning this project bid The RMS is provided based on a continual operation system for stable operation of power plants. It is against top-tier companies from France, Spain, and Israel, we were able to prove that our technological prowess systematically operated through real-time observation, a symptom monitoring system, failure prediction and an and contract competitiveness are highly recognized in regions beyond the Middle East. We will continue to analysis system. solidify our position in the Central and South American market, where future orders for seawater desalination plants for industrial use are highly expected. Entering Brownfield IPP Business The recent trend of increased privatization of government-owned power plants and business portfolio diversification of IPP (Independent Power Producers) in the global market has created many opportunities for us to enter the Brownfield business and expand our horizons upstream. We can do so by capitalizing on our core competency that specializes in power plant equipment and facilities. We have the ability to upgrade performance and operational efficiency of deteriorated power plants by leveraging our source technologies and engineering expertise to transform them into economic and eco-friendly power plants through optimized operation and maintenance. Therefore, this business will allow us to engage in electricity sales and plant maintenance, which will mitigate the volatility of existing business and promote the service sector. Currently, we are proactively carrying out marketing activities through local business networks in countries where demand for electricity is anticipated to increase in the long run. 42 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 43 Strategic Focus Upgrading Core Business Leadership Developing African Markets To penetrate the untapped emerging market in Africa, we are proactively studying the market characteristics by country and product type. In addition, we are drawing up measures to increase the chances of winning projects in the African market by utilizing domestic and overseas organizations, and seeking ways to cooperate with other companies to identify additional projects. We are also planning to expand our presence, which is currently centered around the North African region, into the South African area to cover the entire African market. Maximizing capability to tap into new markets by sharing information on each country and market gathered from global networks built by each business sector such as nuclear, EPC, boiler, turbine/generator, and water Asia, India, and the Middle East, etc. Importance of Core Business Leadership Upgrades Our Response Creating Core Business Leadership is our key management tool to We have strengthened our product lineup to secure global Synergy among Global Networks secure global top-tier competitiveness in the increasingly top-tier competitiveness and established global R&D aggressive power and water markets. networks. In addition, we are conducting major national projects and concluding technical agreements to maximize Central and synergy in diverse business areas. Africa South America Performances Achieved and Future Plans for Core Business Leadership Upgrades Classification Performances in 2013 Plans in 2014 Strengthening • ‌Developed engineering and manufacturing technologies • Promoting ‌ the development of HSC (Hyper Super Critical) technology and model Focusing on solidifying our position in the Setting up plans to tap into the product lineup for for 1,000MW class USC (Ultra Super Critical) boiler • ‌Developing USC CFB boiler each business • ‌Analyzed competitors and market conditions in the coal• ‌Building full lineup of steam turbine desalination plant market and winning new African markets fired and combined thermal power plant sectors • ‌Securing capability for engineering and manufacturing of large gas turbine orders for power plants as the Central and South COE operation • ‌Strengthened collaboration among local subsidiaries by • ‌Improving existing products’ performances and developing new American market has been penetrated by signing system establishing the Global R&D Center technologies the Escondida project • ‌Accelerated new business development and enhanced • ‌Expanding R&D expenditures and workforce cooperation among BGs by reforming COE organizations • ‌Creating synergy through collaboration among global R&D centers at the Central R&D Institute Global R&D • ‌Unified global R&D systems (use of common tools, sharing • ‌Reinforcing fundamental technological competitiveness through improving operation system of information, and active communication) R&D quality • ‌Enhanced competitiveness in IP portfolio and technology • ‌Strengthening the patent development system and upgrading technology related contracts and negotiation power licensing operation system • ‌Strengthened open innovation activities • ‌Expanding the scope of R&D to include ESS, cyber security, big data, and nano-materials Conducting national • ‌Won 8 national projects including the development of • ‌Strengthening cooperative relationship with industry-university-institute to projects and large gas turbine and commercialization technology for pursue national projects technological decontamination of steam generator • ‌Signing additional technical alliances to enhance technological capability alliances • ‌Invested KRW 34.1 billion in national projects in 2013 and systematically managing agreements • ‌Enter into technical partnership, technology innovation, and overseas project development contract 44 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 45 Enhancing Product Lineup by Business Sector Center of Excellence Boilers COE Operation To bolster competitiveness in the coal-fired power business sector, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is putting forth every effort to enhance its core business leadership secures technologies for high-efficiency and eco-friendly power plants and environmental facilities. As such, we based on the COE (Center of Excellence) system established in September 2012. The COE operation system developed engineering and manufacturing technology for a highly-efficient and eco-friendly 1,000MW class consists of the Enabling System, Product COE and Tech COE. It contributes to improving competitiveness of USC (Ultra Super Critical) boiler. This product can improve power generation and reduce carbon dioxide emission existing technology, developing future growth engines, and maximizing the company’s technology value. by increasing pressure and temperature more effectively than the current supercritical coal-fired power plants. Furthermore, the development of HSC (Hyper Super Critical) boiler technology will improve efficiency by 2~3%. Enabling System Product COE Tech COE We secured source technologies for eco-friendly CFB (Circulating Fluidized Bed) boilers by acquiring Lentjes of Germany, and we intend to develop USC CFB boilers through this technology. Strengthening the Establishing R&D Reforming COE Organizations Enabling System Center by BG at the Central R&D Institute • ‌Building the global IP operation system • Boiler BG(Doosan Babcock) • ‌Solidifying fundamental technologies • ‌Building the global R&D management • ‌Turbine/Generator BG by organizing technology domains that system (Doosan Skoda Power) cover all business areas • ‌Running the TLB* to strengthen • ‌Enhancing new business development synergy between COEs and collaboration systems between BGs * TLB: Technology Leadership Board ▣ The COE of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction The COE system in Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is a method whereby each business group, subsidiary, and R&D institute is responsible for developing products and managing their technology and future business. Turbines Our turbine business also focuses on maximizing competitiveness of product and technology. We are striving to Establishing the COE Operation System build a full line-up of steam turbines by analyzing competitors and markets needs and constantly cultivating new In 2013, we established the Global R&D Center with the reorganization of the boiler, turbine and generator BGs models to respond to diverse market demands. Meanwhile, to capture business opportunities in the growing gas to strengthen technological competence. We encouraged cooperation among overseas subsidiaries to secure power plant industry, we plan to proceed with technology development by participating in national projects to fundamental competitiveness, and accelerated research on future technologies through the Central R&D Institute. secure self-developed gas turbine models. In addition, our institutes, located in 8 major cities in 4 countries (Korea, UK, Czech Republic and Germany), are proactive in developing new technologies. ❖ R&D Investment to Total Sales ❖ Performances in R&D (%) 2.14 Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 R&D expenditure KRW in billions 144.1 177.3 182.9 1.84 1.7 R&D investment to total sales % 1.7 1.84 2.14 No. of R&D Tasks 85 119 164 (improvement/new tech. product/ cases (42/36/7) (57/53/9) (77/68/19) future business) R&D workforce persons 596 612 873 2011 2012 2013 No. of source technology developments cases 8 14 18 46 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 47 Global R&D Increasing Global R&D Operations Upgrading Global IP Operation Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established a midand long-term plan to enhance operation of the We are strengthening our IP portfolio by encouraging use of the ‘IP (Intellectual Property) Management’ system. global R&D systems. This plan consists of building global R&D infrastructure and management systems, enhancing Accordingly, we are operating under Global IP Management. In 2013 we established major R&D targets to enhance global IP management, and strengthening open innovation activity. This has contributed to increased efficiency in the IP portfolio and our competitiveness in technology negotiations. our technology portfolio and synergy in developing technology. ❖ Strategy for Upgrading the Global IP Operation in 2013 ❖ Framework for increasing sophistication of Global R&D • ‌Accelerating the global R&D management system • ‌Investing in R&D facilities to enhance Tech COE in Upgrading the Global the mid to long-term IP Operation Building global R&D infrast❖ IP Registration/Application in 2013 ructure and Enhancing Competitiveness of the IP Portfolio Enhancing Competitiveness in Technical Contracts management and Negotiations systems No. of applications • ‌Analyzing patents of core products 165 • ‌Developing and securing global IPs • ‌Establishing upgrade methods of company-wide contract • ‌Upgrading the operation and negotiation systems Increasing sophistication of cases • ‌Operating company-wide technical contracts and global R&D operations (Domestic: 151/Overseas: 14) negotiations No. of registrations Increasing Enhancing open 56 sophistication of global IP innovation Through the Global IP management system, we identified IP risk response and IP strategic direction for each activities cases operations product. This identification was done by patent analysis on 6 core products and components. The Patent (Domestic: 50/Overseas: 6) Subcommittee functions to streamline patent creation and R&D-related documentation, enhancing patent quality. We also established the infrastructure framework to secure quality and unified operation of our corporate patents. • ‌Expanding global IP • ‌Enhancing open innovation by expanding application ❖‌Technology Patents for New • ‌Building independent IP operation systems for local of CTO funds and building an integrated operation Businesses subsidiaries system ❖ Performance in Global IP Management in 2013 • ‌Enhancing the IP process and infrastructure • ‌Solidifying collaboration between internal and external No. of applications technology experts by holding forums and building an 55 Classification Performance in 2013 information sharing system cases Arrangement of staff • ‌Assignment of IP coordinators to departments such as Development Team responsible for IP • ‌Sharing IP issues in the development stage and communication within IP Team (Domestic: 47/ Overseas: 8) • ‌Initiation of new IP activities within the organization Building Global R&D Infrastructure and Management System No. of registrations Operation of the Patent • ‌Capitalizing on IP for R&D Global R&D Management System l We unified the R&D management system to organically combine the 20 Subcommittee • ‌Determining whether to apply for patents functions of the Global R&D Center. First, we created a sense of unity with the global R&D body by applying • ‌Evaluating and rewarding ideas cases common management tools. Second, we efficiently utilized resources by sharing technology development tasks • ‌Collecting and capitalizing on other non-patent job know-how (Domestic: 16/ Overseas: 4) and results with all relevant personnel to prevent overlapping investment. Lastly, we revitalized communication Establishment of an • ‌Forming an integrated database of negotiation histories and written contracts of affiliates and * ‌Including fuel cell, wind power, super integrated operation system subsidiaries at home and abroad for technology development with overseas subsidiaries by building a communication system in English. We conductivity, and GT for Group-based IP • ‌Building an integrated patent management and analysis system shared the roadmap for product development, and prepared a forum to propose ideas. ❖‌No. of Accumulated Domestic and Enhancement of • ‌Establishing License Team to manage negotiation content alongside the Legal Affairs Team Overseas Patents competitiveness in technical • ‌Recruiting human resources for the IP Team Investing in R&D Facilities in the Mid to Long-term l In 2014 we established a 3-year investment plan for the negotiation (Cases) Central R&D Center to upgrade research facilities for developing materials and conducting new large projects 710 (HSC, Large GT). We reviewed 29 research facilities regarding heat treatment, forging, and steel-making, centered 654 on materials. We plan to continuously upgrade our research facility with an investment of KRW 5.6 billion. IP Management Plans in 2014 This investment will be divided into three categories: outside leasing, project equipment, and generally used 582 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to continually improve its IP competitiveness by aggressively equipment. These investment plans will allow us to enhance our fundamental competitiveness and increase promoting the patent development system, and advancement of the technology licensing system. These steps customer satisfaction by improving the quality of our R&D. will accelerate the Tech COE process and hopefully lead to the discovery of future technology. 2011 2012 2013 48 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 49 Conducting National Projects Enhancing Open Innovation Activities Status of National Projects To energize innovation, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction annually allocates 5% of R&D expenses as In 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction obtained 8 new national projects, including development of the CTO fund. The firm uses this fund to develop innovative technology, for convergence and integration, and large gas turbines for power generation and commercialization of steam generator desalination technology. for high level technology sensing. This budget is also used for feasibility studies. The CTO fund also is used to Currently, 16 national projects are ongoing, and this year’s investments amount to KRW 34.1 billion. Through these reduce prototype production costs, simplify task selection, and to expand cooperation between domestic and projects, we contribute to enhancing the technological competitiveness of Korea, and we seize opportunities for foreign research institutes. In December, we concluded partnerships with overseas universities, including MIT entrance into global markets. and Stanford, to expand our reach into diverse research areas such as space, aviation and convergence. These partnerships will help us forge new business opportunities and initiate creative R&D activities. Developing High-Efficiency Large Gas Turbine for Power Generation l A national project to develop highefficiency, large-scale gas turbines for power generation was initiated in July 2013 to reduce dependence on the ▣ Use of the CTO Fund in 2013 import of large gas turbines, which are a core piece of equipment for combined thermal power plants. This project created a proprietary model for our export strategy. This task will continue for 60 months and be completed by A total of 7 tasks are being implemented for research and technology seeding, including a feasibility June 2018, accelerating our large gas turbine business. It also will expand the portfolio of gas turbine models and study on reducing the time for plant start-up time cultivate a global supply chain led by domestic SMEs. ❖ Use of the CTO Fund and Achievements Developing Commercialization Technology for Decontamination of Steam Generators l To prepare for a new market in the disassembly of nuclear power plants in 2020, we are focused on securing relevant technology Target Purpose Major Achievements in cooperation with nuclear power plant operators, other companies, and research institutes. To become a major player in this new business area, in September 2013 we began a national project to develop commercial technology for the decontamination of steam generators. This task will continue for 40 months with its • ‌Enhancing future technologies, innovation, completion in December 2016. The project will target the post-construction business and advancement into the • ‌Signing contracts with Stanford University, conversion, upstream technology and securing EEAP, MIT ILP (attendance from 2014) global nuclear plant disassembly market. global network Overseas research institutes Contracts for Technical Tie-up • ‌Verifying possible commercialization of fledging technologies • ‌Seeding and developing technologies Technology Innovation Tie-up l Korea East West Power • ‌Strengthening networking with domestic • ‌3D computerized flow analysis technology for On November 5, 2013, we signed an agreement to cooperate on technology innovation with Korea East-West universities and research institutes and side-flow turbine, etc. Domestic research cooperation in recruitment Power. The agreement was made to achieve technological innovation in the power plant industry by combining institutes KEWP’s plant operation experience with our engineering and manufacturing capability. A total of 11 projects were selected for the agreement. These projects include research and development of core technologies for • ‌Expanding regular exploration of creative ideas generation, diagnosis of deteriorated equipment and performance improvement, support for emergency repair, • ‌Activating idea-based task proposals instead of and preceding investigation and establishment of technical support systems. Also, we plan to form a Technology Council chaired by executives pursuing results • ‌Strengthening collaboration to develop • ‌Mitigating risk by preliminary investigation of of both companies to ensure the success of this agreement and promote regular technology exchange. and conduct future business and share new In-company tasks with high risk potential technologies with each BG Technical Tie-up for IMCS l Korea Western Power We signed a technical agreement to operate an integrated monitoring & control system at the Taean power plant, The budget of the CTO fund for Open Innovation activities in 2014 will be approximately KRW 4 billion, an increase unit 1, with Korea Western Power. This agreement was designed to promote cooperation on operation of the of 48% compared to the previous year. It will be used to develop future technologies such as ESS, cyber security, power plant control system, including a remote monitoring service and a real-time emergency recovery system. big data, and nano-materials. We also plan to operate Open Innovation activities more efficiently by establishing Through this agreement, we will prepare countermeasures for any emergency and improve our engineering and and simplifying the CTO fund’s task selection procedure. reliability. This pact will also serve as a springboard for winning new bids in the future. 50 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 51 Strategic Focus Upgrading Business Systems Shared Growth System Building Virtuous Cycle Partnership The Virtuous Cycle Partnership with suppliers is the motto of our shared growth system. It means that Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction intends to build a system in which all suppliers can be involved in its management activities, such as strengthening technology capability and enhancing business systems that have been conducted within the company. ❖ Structure of Virtuous Cycle Partnership Doosan Heavy Acceleration of Industries & Suppliers Enhancing technology growth Construction and productivity Major Activities for Shared Growth Building SCM (Supply Chain Management) System l In response to the market’s interest in corporate social Importance of Business Systems Upgrades Our Response responsibility and the trend of clients to evaluate and monitor SCM, we established SCM to upgrade our business It is essential to build a systematic business systems Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has secured systems. to deliver value to stakeholders, including customers, distinct competitiveness in the industry by building investors, suppliers, and local communities. This system advanced and scientific business systems, through which Operating Supplier Evaluation System l We conduct comprehensive evaluations on the capability of internal should encompass all management aspects, including we provide value to various stakeholders. and external suppliers and subcontractors twice a year. Evaluation criteria include basic business competence and resource recycling, profit creation, and redistribution of their social and environmental impact in a fair and transparent manner. The results are reflected in the next year’s economic value. shared growth plan and are used as data to cultivate and support suppliers. Performances Achieved and Future Plans for Business Systems Upgrades ❖ Raising Shared Growth Fund Operating Shared Growth Fund l Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction provides suppliers with various (KRW in billions) financial aids by operating a direct support system with no interest, or a joint support system with low interest Classification Performances in 2013 Plans in 2014 115.8 through the Shared Growth Fund. Since 2011, our subcontract payment schedule has been expanded to 3 times Shared growth • ‌Operated a group to support suppliers to increase • ‌Strengthening competence tailored to each supplier competitiveness • ‌Enhancing prevention activity to comply with fair transaction and internal a month and payment is settled within 10 days from issuing of the invoice. Cash payment was also expanded. The • ‌Built SCM (Supply Chain Management) system and transaction rules 64.8 improvement of payment conditions helps suppliers solve difficulties in their financial management. evaluation system to enhance supplier competence • Expanding communication with suppliers • Held a conference for shared growth 34.0 Industrial Innovation Movement 3.0 l We have been contributing KRW 500 million every year to activate the Rationalization of • ‌Formed a TFT to manage company-wide energy use and • ‌Verifying energy efficiency improvement performance and identifying energy efficiency GHG emissions Established a roadmap additional tasks Industrial Innovation Movement 3.0. About 70% of the contribution (KRW 350 million a year) is used to support • Saved KRW 7.89 billion by reducing GHG emissions • ‌Making performance flow charts satisfying the characteristics of each BG suppliers and the remaining 30% (KRW 150 million a year) is used to support SMEs other than our suppliers. or plant 2011 2012 2013 Work-life balance • ‌Pursued employee work-life balance through smart office • ‌Expanding flexible work practices activities (better efficiency and reduced waste) • Identifying additional tasks to eliminate inefficiency and waste Operating a Consortium for HRD Ability Magnified Program l Since 2010, we have operated a consortium for Risk management • ‌Operated our unique risk management programs, such as • ‌Preparing construction of an integrated risk management system HRD Ability Magnified Program to provide suppliers with essential training. In addition, we set up Korea’s only Quality Gates System, Doosan Document Management technology training course for the plant business, which has helped suppliers solve technical problems rapidly System, and Lessons Learned System and respond to the changing business environment proactively. 52 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 53 Strengthening Communication with Suppliers Suppliers’ Competitiveness Enhancement Support Group l Since 2011 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction performs various communication activities with suppliers to create has been operating the ‘Suppliers’ Competitiveness Enhancement Support Group,’ consisting of 100 experts. The mutual trust and improve business relations. These interactions provide suppliers with opportunities for organization evaluates the business status of each supplier and provides customized support to cultivate longindependent growth and a horizontal partnership with us. term strategic partners. Building Virtuous Cycle Partnership Inauguration of Management Advisory Group l In September 2013, we established the ‘Management Advisory Shared Growth Conference in 2013 l The Shared Growth Conference was started in 2011 to share our annual Group,’ consisting of former executives with less than 2 years until retirement. They provide their management business plans and shared growth plans. In 2013, a total of 205 supplier CEOs attended the conference and 56 expertise to assist our suppliers and strengthen competitiveness. The group supports 5 areas of R&D, engineering companies received the excellent partner award. quality, production, and business management. Performance Sharing l Since signing an agreement to execute performance sharing with the Ministry of Knowl❖ No. of suppliers involved in the Field Trip Program for Excellent Suppliers l Employees of excellent suppliers are invited to special lectures on edge Economy in June 2012, we have strived to honor the agreement. Our efforts for performance sharing have led field trip program quality and field trips to our production sites and power plants. By linking business with the MGF (Machinery 94 to winning the Prime Minister’s Prize and our best practices were introduced into case books in 2013. Industry Shared Growth Promotion Foundation), we have benchmarked against improved cases of the excellent companies to aid our excellent suppliers with securing viability and competitiveness. Classification Promotion Tasks in 2014 Activation Operating the Performance Sharing Bureau Win-Win Call Center l To receive feedback from suppliers and to resolve any issues, we are operating the Win-Win •Managing task gathering and PR activities •Developing best practices and awarding rewards and incentives 33 Call Center and responding to every inquiry within 24 hours in principle. Any kind of inquiry is accepted through 29 Promoting performance sharing between 1st tier and 2nd tier suppliers the call center, including unfair transactions, shared growth program, support for competitiveness enhancement, •Selecting suppliers and tasks in connection with the Industrial Innovation Move 3.0 financial aid, and any other concerns related to business partnership. In 2013, more than 50 inquiries were made Expanding voluntary participation of suppliers 2011 2012 2013 and resolved. •Activating website for proposing performance sharing tasks ❖ Performance in Operating the Upgrading Reflecting the performance sharing results in the MBO for executives and team heads of procurement department Consortium for HRD Ability Magnified Program Promoting performance sharing activities in connection with competitiveness enhancement programs •Selecting suppliers with high probability of identifying tasks No. of people completing the program ❖ Supplier communication process (Persons) Suppliers’ Safety and Health Management l Our company has offered evaluations on safety and health 7,888 7,770 conditions and support for improvements to suppliers who have difficulty managing safety and health due Plan to limited funds or manpower issues. These efforts have contributed to managing safety and health issues 6,148 Planning programs throughout the supply chain preemptively. centered on applicants Process Suppliers Safety & Health Coordination Group Virtuous Cycle Partnership Risk assessment Identifying onsite hazards and conducting risk Providing technical support such as training about assessment by each supplier risk assessment methods and review of propriety of identifying hazards 2011 2012 2013 Establishment of Preparing improvement plans according to the Correcting and supplementing improvement See Do No. of courses improvement plans results of risk assessment plans set by suppliers Monitoring results Promoting programs (Courses) 25 Safety and health Continuously conducting safety and health Monitoring improvement activities and practicing of programs and to enhance supplier 19 improvement improvement plans and reporting performance to promotion tasks for supporting continuous safety improvements competence steering committee members every month and health improvement 18 Performance Implementing self-evaluation on results and Selecting promotion tasks for collaboration based evaluation establishing program operation plans to secure on suppliers’ self-evaluation results and building a EHS management ability for the next year cooperation system for continuous execution Joint Overseas Expansion l We are assisting our suppliers increase exports and sales by jointly entering overseas markets. When they participate in the overseas business, we provide support to our suppliers in attaining PQ 2011 2012 2013 (Pre-Qualification) from clients and jointly attend major overseas exhibitions. 54 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 55 Operating the Compliance Program Rationalization of Energy Efficiency ❖ No. of 1st tier suppliers supported for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction introduced the CP (Compliance Program) in June 2004 to voluntarily Energy Management the CP introduction execute fair transactions that would comply with relevant laws. Organizations responsible for the CP include the The rationalization of energy efficiency is promoted as an innovative activity created to respond to tighter 28 chief compliance officer, the compliance staff of each business group, and the compliance management team GHG related regulations and to secure cost competitiveness. Therefore, we shifted the paradigm of use and 24 (Shared Growth Team). We are committed to implementing the CP in accordance with 7 key factors of the CP. management energy from a cost reduction campaign to a technical reduction program by introducing special technologies. When introducing new technology, we trained our workers to fully appreciate and understand 19 ❖ 7 Key Factors of the CP the fundamental improvements in operating technology. The rationalization of energy efficiency started with company-wide diagnosis of energy consuming facilities. The TFT developed action items centered on 4 pillars: Appointing the shield loss, waste heat recovery, new technology introduction, and high efficiency application. These improvement Announcing the Compliance Producing and measures are reviewed for implementation efficiency. They are promoted in stages and are constructed in a way CEO’s commitment Officer through distributing the to allow the verification of the results possible. 2011 2012 2013 to the CP the decision by CP manual the BOD * CP: Compliance Program ❖ Process for Diagnosing Energy-consumption Facilities Operating the Building a Applying training programs Managing monitoring Penalties on (more than 2 hours documents system violations semi-annually) Energy Structure Diagnosis and Execution Verification Analysis Measurement • ‌Collecting data of energy• ‌Forming TFTs for energy • ‌Securing funds for increasing • ‌Verifying energy performance consumption facilities efficiency improvement at energy efficiency • ‌Completing construction of • ‌Measuring combustion each BG and company level • ‌Implementing the changes real-time monitoring system Enhancing the Compliance Program efficiency • ‌Benchmarking against • ‌Reporting interim issues • ‌Reporting the results of ❖ No. of employees trained for the CP Training about Fair Transactions l Diverse training programs about fair transaction are provided to our employees • ‌Measuring gas emission advanced companies effectiveness analysis • ‌Diagnosing energy efficiency • ‌Making technical analysis (Persons) and suppliers through online and offline channels. The number of participants in these training programs in 2013 • ‌Researching and Collecting reports on each task increased by 198% compared to the number from the previous year. In December 2013, a special training program reduction technologies at • ‌Involving international energy 1,609 was offered to about 2,000 employees working in the department of purchasing, quality assurance, project home and abroad experts management, and subcontractor management. ❖ Activities and Performance in 2013 (Changwon Plant) Monitoring Subcontract Transactions l Employees working at subcontract related departments are monitored 540 on compliance with relevant laws every quarter. We are continuously ameliorating our subcontract system to •Cooling water control system Classification Target Performance achieve no violations and fully comply with the Subcontract Law. Moreover, to prevent any errors or misconducts In-house •Improvement of ejector cover from a poor understanding of current laws and our system, our employees engaging in purchasing are provided technology •Change of heat sources 2012 2013 with regular training and case studies. These activities foster the establishment of a culture of fair transactions and Energy use (TJ) 5,310 5,135 solidify trusting relationships with suppliers. New high•TDLS control efficiency •Oxygen lancing Reduction technology •Regenerative burner, etc. (KRW in billions) 7.9 8.0 Plans for Rationalization of Energy Efficiency in 2014 To create a greener workplace, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction introduced an energy management system, installing LED lights in production facilities, adopting new energy technologies, applying high efficient technologies, and enhancing GEMS (Green Energy Management System). 56 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 57 Growth through Work-Life Balance ❖ Energy Consumption (TJ) Smart Office The Smart Office activities have been underway since 2011 to increase productivity and reduce cost and waste Classification 2011 2012 2013 in daily operations. Those objectives are promoted in several areas, including work process improvement, policies Domestic Changwon Plant 5,862 5,613 5,135 and HR management, and working environment and infrastructure enhancement. The Smart Office activities Construction 43 100 greatly contribute to refining our company’s business systems. Overseas Subsidiaries 324 429 560 Construction 278 354 433 Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Building an Execution Visualizing Performances by Securing Competitiveness Response to Climate Change System Task Improvement in QCD Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates a response strategy to climate change based on the 2011 (Introduction) 2012 (Introduction) 2013 (Settlement) After 2014 (Fruition) rationalization of energy use and control. Our response strategy to climate change, targeting a 7.6% reduction Expectation •Understanding the •Promoting positive •Establishing voluntary •Standardizing Smart rate (403,000 tCO2) compared to BAU of 2020, is managed and monitored by a response organization that would purpose and direction awareness through participation Office activities to react based on each department's energy efficiency. of the Smart Office successful experiences •Increasing satisfaction secure competitiveness by further adopting in QCD best practices ❖ Organization for Response to Responsible Organization Climate Change Major •Identifying 3 major •Expanding the •Increasing work •Developing and Our organization in charge of climate change response includes the responsible team, a BG operation committee, activities inefficient areas by methodology to efficiency through implementing and an execution team. The organization classifies response tasks and roles with the goal of achieving objective CEO diagnosing major promote the Smart further adopting best improved tasks to management in GHG and energy. Status reports on BG-level initiatives are made to the BG Operation Committee functions and crafting Office throughout the practices achieve the goal of every month, while company-wide tasks for climate change are reported to the Company-wide Operation improvement plans company competitiveness in COO •Establishing the Smart •Developing and QCD Committee. Office promotion sharing best practices system Company-wide Operation Committee ❖ GHG Emissions (tCO2) Classification 2011 2012 2013 The Smart Office activities have successfully taken root in all business groups and departments for 3 years and are Company-wide Task BG Task Domestic Changwon Plant 327,690 299,522 274,524 highly recognized for their contribution to the betterment of our company’s business systems. Construction 2,397 5,197 Task Force Team BG Operation Committee Overseas Subsidiaries 17,806 23,673 31,295 Energy Environment Team Head of each Construction 18,677 23,422 27,894 Plans for the Smart Office in 2014 BG, Executives of Planning Department, We intend to expand the Smart Office activities to daily practices in order to secure competitiveness in QCD Executives for (Quality, Cost, and Delivery). Detailed action plans include eliminating inefficiency and wasteful elements in work Operation Innovation ❖ Reduction of GHG Emissions (Changwon Plant) (tCO2, KRW in hundred millions) processes, defining clearly the responsibility and authority of each position and organization, and expanding BG Execution Reduction method 2011 2012 2013 opportunities for the employees to cooperate and communicate. Subcommittee Reduced GHG Amount Reduced GHG Amount Reduced GHG Amount Hosted by Operation Innovation Team at Improvement of ratio of 628 109 0.5 4,026 1.1 each BG heat rays Improvement of 1,980 2.1 7,882 15.5 7,501 34 Execution Team operating methods Head of Production Department Introduction of high2,205 4 33 0.1 6,230 43 efficiency facilities Optimization of 1,143 4 344 1.3 211 1.1 combustion Total 5,956 10.4 8,368 16.9 17,968 80 58 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis • Strategic Focus Performance Review 59 Risk Management ❖Types of Project Risk ❖Major Meetings for Risk Management Systematically analyzing clients' nation’s Risk Review Meeting (RRM) Risk Management Principles political, social, and environmental Location There are internal and external risk factors that affect management activities. Doosan Heavy Industries & Risk risks as well as physical risks, such as A quarterly meeting to report possible major risks in project geographical features and infrastructure execution and minimize financial and operational risk Construction is regularly monitoring such risks and strengthening prevention activities to reduce uncertainties in its management activities. Financial Inspecting risks related to contract Risk guarantee conditions and clients’ credit Cost Control Review Meeting Scope of Risk Management A monthly meeting to check risk factors by anticipating the Considering the characteristics of power, water, castings & forgings, and construction business, we are managing Examining risks related to the delay of total costs to be invested in project and future performances Contract & risks in the areas of projects, finance, and non-finance. Negotiation product schedule and clients’ excessive Risk requirements on quality ❖ Scope of Our Risk Management Onsite Expected Cost Review Meeting Reviewing cost risks from increasing raw material prices and mistakes in design, A monthly meeting to manage risk Non-financial Risk Planning and schedule risk from shortage of time factors on project sites Project Risk Management Financial Risk Management Risk Management for design related issues and project suspensions Projecting risks and Creating stable and Regularly inspecting risk minimizing their impact when sustainable operating factors in CSR, such as market Scrutinizing risk in project execution, such risks occur by defining risk performance under any change, strategic direction as lack of cooperation between clients Execution types based on project life market risk, credit risk, and check, shared growth, and EHS and contractors, occupational incidents, Risk cycles liquidity risk insufficient maintenance ability, and other related developments Risk Management Methods Risk Management System Quality Gates System l Our risk management system, QG, is a internal process that is utilized to provide check To increase efficiency in risk management, risk control procedure is carried out at the company level, while points for the 6 processes of the project, thereby increasing efficiency of risk management correlated to the ERP individual risk management is implemented by special organizations. and electronic authorization system. •Operating risk management regulations, such as project management regulation, risk ❖ Quality Gates Process management policy, and QG (Quality Gate) and internal process Project Risk •Preemptively coping with risk in all value chains, including design, purchasing, and Management procurement headed by controller and PRM (Project Risk Management) bodies •Operating the LL (Lessons Learned) system to prevent recurrence of similar risk QG1 QG2 QG3 QG4 QG5 QG6 Project Bidding Contract Preparation Execution Settlement Selection Financial Risk •Regularly inspecting financial risk through the report on internal and external financial Management indices by each financial management division Doosan Document Management System l We operate the DDMS (Doosan Document Management System) to Non-financial Risk •Regularly examine risk factors in CSR such as market change, strategic direction, allow project managers to register any risk, share it with relevant organizations, and promote preemptive and Management shared growth, and EHS organizational response to the risk. Lessons Learned System l The Lessons Learned System functions to prevent recurrence of risks. This system helps to circulate internal and external knowledge, new knowledge, and activities of each BG and department, which contributes to effectively managing any potential risks. 60 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 61 Talent Management 62 Social Contribution 80 Performance Review Green Management Safety and Health 70 74 Customer Satisfaction Special Story 84 87 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction maintains the world’s best technology to fulfill its responsibilities to the people, business, and society, and to continuously improve its corporate value; furthermore, it contributes to a safer and cleaner world to live together with local communities. 62 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 63 Talent Management In order to grow into a global leader, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction employee satisfaction, such as providing competitive market-level salaries, topEfforts to Hire Talented People ❖ Our Performance Management System is practicing the 2G strategy for the mutual growth of its people and business level compensation, and benefits present in the industry. CEO’s Presentation l Every year, the CEO visits college campuses and makes CompanyMidto long-term Annual business plans under the motto, ‘People Are the Future’. presentations about the company during recruitment season. The CEO delivers wide / BG strategies Female Employees the vision of the corporation as a manager and provides the vision of a plant ❖ 2G Strategies The number of female employees was 515 as of 2013. The number of our female engineer to students. Goals of each business Creating business Executive Executive’s MBO division opportunities through employees is less than males due to our business characteristics; however, cultivating people we expanded the female proportion to further increase the diversity in our Internship Program l We operate internship programs, through which Team leader Team goals Team leader’s MBO company. Currently, we provide female workers with 90-day legal vacations approximately 90% of the interns eventually join our firm as full-time before and after pregnancy, followed by KRW 100,000 as a congratulatory gift, employees. This figure is much higher than the 60% to 70% ratio of other firms. Team member Individual MBO Growth of Growth of 2G Strategy and a year of maternity leave. Additionally, we built break rooms for pregnant Our interns experience real work situations, participate in projects, and enhance People Business employees along with areas for nursing. problem-solving through a systematic 4-week intern program. At each step, offline one-on-one meetings between an evaluator and an evaluee are conducted. These meetings include a mid-year review. At yearend, Recruiting Talent Nurturing Specialists l In June, 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Nurture talent through signed an agreement with South Gyeongsang Province to hire more graduates a calibration meeting between the evaluator and his or her senior manager is business growth from the region. The company contributes to local job creation by networking held to prevent score-based sequencing. Then, a feedback meeting is held for Recruitment with the industry, the academy, and the local government for college level mutual consultation on the findings, and compensation is given based on the We believe that recruiting new talent is a crucial aspect of cultivating people; We are making efforts to forge a corporate culture that promotes a workperformance of each evaluee. employment. In addition, we opened the Doosan Class to nurture talented therefore, we hire competent new or experienced employees through a life balance by employing the 2G strategy to realize the growth of business students from Meister School, Sudo Electric Technical High School, Busan stringent screening process. The recruiting procedure includes necessary through the growth of people and vice versa. documentation, an aptitude test, and two-step interviews with fair evaluation Automotive High School, Changwon Machine Technical High School, and other Competence Evaluation specialized high schools. The Doosan Class provides technical and practical All employees are evaluated with a balanced formula based on job regardless of participants’ university, age, gender, or race. Employees education. In February 2013, a total of 34 graduates of the Doosan Class performance and competency in Doosan Way. This evaluation enables the received entry-level education on the role of Doosan employees. firm to provide feedback to workers on their individual strengths and discuss Employment Status what employees need to do for advancement. Based on evaluation results, As of 2013, our number of employees reached 8,703. Among them, 7,310 were Performance Evaluation a development plan is outlined in connection with individual CDP (Career regular employees and 1,393 were irregular (part-time) employees. Among Development Program) and aspirations through one-on-one meetings with regular employees, white collar positions numbered 5,065 while 2,245 had Performance Evaluation System mentors. We inspect the execution of these plans every quarter and assess technical jobs. overall achievements at the final evaluation. In our “People Session”, we discuss Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction uses the MBO, a performance evaluation system for all employees. The system sets goals, checks on progress job relocation and promotion based on fair and transparent results. Turnover Rate at the halfway point, and includes a year-end assessment concerning financial The turnover rate in 2013 stood at 0.9%, a decrease of 0.2% from 1.1% in and strategic goals. 2012. The decrease in turnover rate was attributable to our efforts to increase ❖ Domestic Employment Status (Persons) ❖ Employees Who Are Social Minorities (Persons) ❖Turnover Rate ❖ Number of Evaluees for Performance (As of employees) (%) (Person) Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 1.9 5,065 Total employees 8,252 8,715 8,703 Female 538 554 515 5,009 Regular employees 6,792 7,270 7,310 Disabled people 206 199 193 Regular office employees 4,537 5,009 5,065 National veterans 185 191 188 4,537 Regular technical employees 2,255 2,261 2,245 1.1 Irregular employees 1,460 1,445 1,393 0.9 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 64 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 65 Respect for Employee Rights Extension of Retirement Age Co-prosperity between Labor and Collective Bargaining Starting in 2014, we increased the retirement age to 60, even before Management Our labor and management strive to find a compromise based on mutual Honoring Global Initiatives for Human Rights implementation of Korean law amending the retirement age of 60. The benefits and growth through collective bargaining. On August 27, 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction adheres to the Labor Standards Act, retirement age of white collar employees will be extended to 60 from the Vision of Labor-Management Relations the company and labor union successfully concluded another collective International Labor Organization (ILO) policies, the principles of the UN Global current 56. In addition, the company will introduce a wage peak system to Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is working toward a future-oriented, negotiations with no disputes, a feat that has been maintained for eight Compact (UNGC), and prohibits forced labor and child labor. Additionally, lessen its wage burden by dividing those subject to the extension of the labor-management relations based on mutual benefits and cooperation to consecutive years. In the future, we will continue to make efforts to improve we prohibit any discrimination based on age and gender in recruitment, retirement age into two groups. achieve sustainable performance. Both labor and management should make the working conditions and enrich our employees' quality of life based on trust promotions, wages, and welfare to create a stable working environment. We are efforts to procure work-life balance and build a constructive relations. This is between the labor and the management. planning to build and sustain an integrated company. We will launch companyRetiree Support System our goal as a global company that maintains trust in good faith. wide management measures in three sectors – human rights, prohibition of Labor-Management Council Retirement Pension Plan l In December 2012, we introduced the retirement discrimination, and treatment of employee grievances. We have also further pension plan to bolster employee stability after retirement. The plan’s operating Pursuing Harmony between Labor and Management The Labor-Management Council holds regular meetings quarterly and ad hoc expanded the scope of sexual harassment prevention education into gender budget is KRW 305.1 billion and participants numbered 6,836 in 2013. We Our labor and management exchange frank opinions for effective meetings to discuss diverse agendas, such as key issues at production sites, equality and human rights. introduced both the Defined Benefit Plan and the Defined Contribution Plan communication. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's union had 2,196 improvement of working conditions, resolution of employee grievances, and and we are abiding by the legal obligatory accumulation ratio. After retirement, members as of December 2013. The Labor and the management discuss issues welfare of employees . Agendas are first discussed at working-level meetings Welfare Benefits employees can receive lump sums or pensions. and develop solutions for labor rights issues through consultative bodies. and then brought up to council meetings. The Labor-Management Council is Our employee benefit programs help foster a favorable work environment to tasked with promoting the interests of both management and labor through In 2013, the company and the labor union made arrangements on wages, ensure work-life balance. cooperation and understanding. In 2013, the Labor-Management Council Support for Employees Facing Retirement l Doosan Heavy Industries & working conditions, EHS, tuition support, rewards for longtime employees, Construction is planning to introduce support programs for retirees. These employee grievances, and the health of employees through collective discussed and improved ten agendas with participation by the labor members • Support for backpacking (Europe / Americas) Support for • ‌2-week summer vacation and 1-week year-end vacation programs will provide assistance to prospective retirees through counseling bargaining and the Labor-Management Council. In particular, we transferred and management. The preliminary working-level meetings discussed and Work-life balance • Fitness Center and education on change management. Other support programs include the HSRG (HRSG) business to Doosan E&C in April 2013 with the purpose of handled about 100 items. Residential and • Financial support for housing and life necessities consultation service for reemployment, or startups, and recommendation to long-term development. At the time, forthright consultation between labor and • Consultation service for real estate Financial Support other companies. management ensured no changes in transferred employees' wages, benefits, • Financial support for moving to another workplace and working conditions. • Support for childcare facilities Childcare • ‌School expenses for employees’ middle school, high school, Support and college students Medical • Support for operation expenses • Benefits through Chung-ang University Hospital Support • Medical services through diverse partner hospitals Family DOO • Support for employees working at overseas project sites • ‌Invitations to employees’ families to overseas sites where Program employees work • ‌Family DOO Volunteer Corps ❖ Maternity Leave ❖ Retirement Pension Plan ❖ Labor-Management Relationship Percentage of unionized workforce No. of employees covered by the labor union No. of employees joining the labor union Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2013 (%) (Persons) (Persons) Number of employees that took 18 24 34 Total amount of retirement pension plan 305.1 4,405 maternity leave (KRW in billions) 2,315 4,285 Percentage of employees who returned to 100 100 100 Number of subscribers 6,836 57.8 3,941 2,278 work after leave (%) 2,196 * As of employees who worked more than a year Percentage of employees who were still 73.3 44.4 83.3 employed over 12 months after return (%) 52.6 51.2 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 66 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 67 Cultivating Talents Building an Advanced and BIG School (Business Intelligence Group School) l The BIG School is an expert STEPS (Strategic Thinking Enhancement through Problem Solving) l The Scientific HR Development Infrastructure fostering program aimed to cultivate managerial employees ranging from STEPS program provides training to enhance the ability of strategic thinking, a Direction of Cultivating Talents Establishment of e-Library l This system allows all employees in domestic and managers to general managers with managing mindset and business acumen. requirement of the Doosan People’s concept. The program offers a 7 STEPS theories Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction believes that people are the most We composed the faculty with Korea’s best professors and commissioned overall for logical problem-solving, and also functions as Doosan People’s universal overseas to access electronic books through smartphones, tablet PCs, and other valuable asset for its growth and development. Since the beginning of the Doosan courses to outside institutions specializing in business management education. The language by applying them on actual business cases. The program further contains mobile equipments. It provides them with self-improvement opportunities, Way in 2012, we have realized ‘people’ oriented value in overall corporation and BIG school provides differentiated courses for each stage of growth. In 2013, 700 differentiated courses that correlate with varying needs for problem solving thereby encouraging the embodiment of self-initiated learning culture. As of reconstructed HR programs reflecting core values of Doosan Credo. Through these managers completed the BIG School I course, and 437 of deputy general managers competency of each growth stage ,ranging from the level of new employees to 2013, the e-Library contained 9,300 books of 2,700 different types, as well as systematic programs, our employees grow into leaders and experts. and general managers finished the BIG School II course. In 2014, we plan to expand executives. A total of 2,793 employees, or 57% of all office workers, had completed monthly purchases of approximately 50 new books. the program to potentially 1,388 employees. the program through 2013. The percentage will be increased to 75% in 2014. HR Development System Introducing Paperless Education (Using Tablet PC) l We introduced a To further enhance our employee's talent, we offer equal opportunities for paperless education system to build a smart learning environment in which ❖ BIG School Education System ❖ STEPS Education System people-centered education and professional development. Our education and textbooks and learning materials are distributed and shared through tablet Course Target Objective development system is a structured, customized training based on personal PCs. In 2013 we purchased about 200 tablet PCs which are currently being growth roadmap that strive to generate a balanced workplace learning through utilized at Seoul Learning Center and Changwon Learning Center. Target Objective Expected Effect STEPS Enhancing strategic mindset as Executive Executive a business leader the culture of self-initiated learning that Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction • ‌Developing strategic embodies and endorses. BIG School III Strategic decision-making Recommendation by BG ❖ Education System Solution Team thinking through case in line with companySTEPS Strengthening problem-solving ability Leader (Assistant Manager to studies and action Advanced through solving field business issues Provider wide strategies Head of Department) Doosan Way Cultivating Proud Doosan People learning • ‌Integrating business Manager ~ Reinforcing strategic thinking to Doosan Leadership College Doosan Professional College Senior Performance STeps Fundamental Scientific Approach to functions General Manager solve field issues People-Centered BIG School II Competitiveness Advancement Manager management through Application • ‌Enhancing competence ~ General understanding business • ‌Offering equitable opportunities • ‌Enhancing professionalism of all • ‌Providing learning environments Performer for the application of Securing competence to solve Manager processes STeps for growth to all, not just a small business functions to attract self-initiated theories Assistant Manager field issues in accordance with Cultivating leaders Fostering experts Junior number of leaders • ‌Supporting competence development instruction of managers development based on • ‌Continuous support for internalizing the with fundamental Activation of individual growth roadmaps workplace learning Doosan Way competitiveness BIG School I • ‌Acquiring knowledge of communication through New Employee (Doosan Knowledge Manager Problem Developing basic competence to solve basic business functions understanding of Heavy Industries & Manager Solving problems through case studies More Development Customized Education Meeting business systems Construction) Self-initiated Learning Opportunities for All Employees for Each Stage of Growth • ‌Strengthening education to • ‌Providing systematic education • ‌Providing HRD Portal System to STEPS New New Employee Understanding of realize the Doosan Way opportunities depending on assist efficient and systematic • Orientation Program • Foundation Program Joiner (Doosan Group) the basic concept of 7 STEPS • ‌Providing management education individual capabilities in different self-initiated learning • Anchor Program • Expert Program to all employees position/years of work • ‌Starting the Learning Credit • Build-up Program • Faculty Program • ‌Developing intensified and • ‌Enhancing support for job policy • Business Management Program • Global Program professional education programs education in correlation to job • ‌Supporting outside learning and • Essential Program for better job performance rotation study clubs ❖ Education for Office Employees ❖ Education Hours for Office Employees Number of participants Number of education courses per person Total education hours Education hours per person (Persons) (Programs) (Hours) (Hours) 21,611 330,503 4.4 67 282,199 57 52 16,380 3.2 257,392 2.8 12,414 Total education hours/Total employees 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 * As of 4,908 office employees, excluding entry-level education 68 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 69 Cultivating Technical Employees Technical Job Education Program Job Education ❖ Curriculum To help employees working at project sites develop into technical experts, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction offers various on-the-job training The company pays 50% of tuition fees and Direction of Cultivating Technical Employees Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction supports diverse education programs, courses to secure fundamental competitiveness of production sites to grants scholarships to high performers. The principle of HR development at Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is to including site managing improvement course, TMS course, job skill course, internalize the Doosan Way. For instance, we began a training course to add Doosan Way and Credo on the basis of securing fundamental competitiveness corporate college, and study clubs. cultivate Meister (technical experts) in 2014. and advanced and scientific tasks. In October 2011, we created a work environment Freshmen Junior Curriculum (new) (transferred) to satisfy the desire for advancement and maximize competency of technical emTMS (Technology Management School) l The TMS course is designed to give ❖ Curriculum for Each Job ployees by offering job titles changes and growth path as well as providing a new equal growth opportunities to all employees in adopting the Doosan Way. The vision for career development. In addition to providing the opportunies for career course provides leadership and management education for variety of positions, Basic Advanced Expert which not only helps the employees resolve communication issues in the fields (Mandatory/2013) (2014) (2015) • ‌Mechanical engineering theory • ‌Introduction to mechanical advacement, we have created a Two Track program(On-site Management Track and • ‌Basic engineering design engineering technical specialist track) to assist the employees pursue their new opportunities. ,but also allow them to learn about business management. • ‌Technical assistant • ‌Technical manager • ‌Technical senior manager • ‌Mechanical materials • ‌Introduction to industrial manager • ‌Basic trainees and head of department Major Therefore, we provide a new growth path of Two Track (On-site management track • ‌Energy engineering engineering • Employees ‌ who changed • ‌Employees selected as (50%) and technical specialist track) instead of simply offering an opportunity. • ‌On-site training • ‌Cost engineering their positions experts • ‌Metal heat treatment ❖ Objective of the TMS Education • ‌On-site training Processing Welding Quality ❖Technical Job Education System 3 days/27 hours 4 days/46 hours 4 days/36 hours • ‌Economics • ‌Economics Management • ‌Business management • ‌Organizational behavior Nurturing Proud Doosan Employees TMS III (Site Manager) (30%) • ‌Accounting • ‌Service management Change Leader Leadership & Orientation Job Duty Self-development Management Corporate College Cultural studies • Korean history • Korean history Leadership Management (20%) • Document composition • Document composition To meet the ongoing desire of those in technical positions, we founded our Leading changes/ Understanding Technical corporate college in 2014 under an agreement with Changwon University. Regular course (4 years) Course for transferred students Doosan Leader who Talents who Target Management management (online) Credit experts with employees with put Inhwa into consistently seek Requirements 140 credits (2 years) basic skills practice fundamental to improve Employees can enhance their competitiveness by combining engineering competitiveness 70 credits TMS II (Technical Senior Manager/Head of Department) theories with their field experiences. Growth enhancer Obtaining a B.A. degree in engineering at Changwon Graduation University (Entering graduate school is possible.) Leadership Management Selecting new and transferred students • ‌Entry-level course • TMS • ‌Common courses • ‌In-company college Selection Method: Documentation, an essay, and an interview Relationship management Operational efficiency • ‌Workshop (after one • Problem ‌ Solving • ‌Optional process • ‌Humanities/Liberal In 2014, 57 employees (30 freshmen, 27 transferees) of Doosan Heavy Industries year to three years) Program Arts courses • ‌Promotion Camp • ‌Global program TMS I (Technical Assistant Manager/Manager) Weekdays: 18:30 to 22:00 on Tuesday and Thursday & Construction entered the corporate college to study management and (technical assistant • ‌Study club Thinking performer Educational Weekend: 09:00 ‌ to 13:00, every other Saturday at Changwon engineering, and to hone their humanistic refinement in preparation for the era of managers, manager) operation University Campus • ‌Capability convergence. development course Leadership Management for site managers Self-development Management basics ❖Performance in Technical Job Education ❖Technical Job Education Hours ❖Technology Training Institute (Hours) Number of trainees Education hours per person Total education hours Classification 2011 2012 2013 (Persons) (Hours) (Hours) 46,063 Leadership 27,587 26,035 20,876 1,306 15.1 Job 8,396 8,415 7,474 14.4 998 37,858 Total 35,983 34,450 28,350 880 11.8 * Number of technical employees: 2,390 32,188 Total education hours/Total employees 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 70 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 71 Green Management Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is acutely aware of the seriousness ❖ Green Management Organization Managing Environmental Pollutants Reduction of Air Pollution of limited resources on Earth. Therefore, we focus on using natural resources We internally set stricter criteria (40% of legal standard) for air pollution as efficiently as possible and reusing and recycling them as well. Pollutants COO Reduction of Water Pollution than what is required by the legal standard. The results of self-tests on air generated from our business activities are collected to the maximum extent We built a monitoring system for wastewater sources from the production pollution showed that air pollution is meeting the EHS guideline of the Doosan EHS and are treated and processed through hazardous waste management process to minimize the discharge and the impact of water contaminants. We Group and the allowed emission standard. Additionally, we are conducting facilities. We also pay special attention to the preservation of the ecosystem are also promoting a plan to exclude brine water, a type of water generated maintenance and repair on 4 dust collectors with insufficient capacity after EHS Management Energy & around our worksites. In this way, with a roadmap for green management, the EHS Planning Team Team Environment Team BG EHS Team from water purification facilities used for hydraulic testing of nuclear power inspecting 25 of those that are aged 15 years or longer. Our steelmaking company endeavor to effectively pursue these multilateral efforts. plants, from wastewater by conducting component analysis. With such efforts, factory’s electric furnace, and casting factory’s molding sand treatment facility, we expect to reduce KRW 7 million in treatment cost annually. In 2013, the and rust removers are also controlled at a lower emission level than the allowed ❖ Green Management Strategies Efficient Use and Reuse of Resources testing results of 17 water pollutants such as COD, SS, and N-H, showed the emission standard by 30%. amount of water pollutants to be 20% or less than what the legal standard • ‌Building green management strategy system Reuse of Raw Materials requires. Efforts to Reduce Fine Dust l Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction planned • ‌Enhancing green management organization ‌Establishing green management promotion organization Iron is the most widely used material in heavy industry. Doosan Heavy 10 investment projects to reduce fine dust and successfully invested KRW 400 and council Industries & Construction seeks to find ways to recycle iron instead of using Waste Recycling million for environmental improvement of junkyards. In 2014, we are scheduled Expanding green management professions it only once. As a result, we plan to gradually increase the recycling rate of to invest KRW 18.5 billion on the remaining 9 projects and also aim to further • ‌Developing employee education programs Ultimately, we achieved recycling rate of 77.7% (recycled amount: 51,341 tons/ Green Culture recovered iron that amounted to 42.1% as of 2013. invest a total of KRW 25 billion by the end of 2015. • ‌Developing and promoting employee participation programs total emission: 66,025 tons) and saved KRW 1.87 million in a year for processing. In 2014, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction plans to achieve recycling • ‌Defining green products and businesses and reinforcing Reuse of Water Resources amount of 52,800 tons or more and a minimum recycling rate of 80% by Response to Climate Change their management Water resources are an important element for the global environment as well continuously discovering new recyclable items. • ‌Reducing and managing environmental pollutant emissions • ‌Building response systems to combat climate change and as for our businesses Therefore, we save 25,200 tons of water use per year Reduction of GHG Emissions GHG emissions by recycling slag coolants to protect water resources, and also save 180 tons Prevention of Soil Contamination We set a goal of reducing 4.6% GHG emissions (approximately 403,000 tCO2) • ‌Introducing environmental accounting system Green Value annually by reusing retained rain water for cleaning and landscaping. business as usual (BAU) by 2020 to cope with climate change. We reduced • ‌Expanding IT system To comply with the Soil Environment Conservation Law in Korea, we carry out daily and annual environmental inspections. We annually inspect new or 17,968 tCO2 GHG emissions in 2013 by repairing heating furnaces and heat • ‌Expanding the publication of sustainability (environmental) Energy Efficiency closing facilities on soil contamination and conduct thorough inspection and treatment furnaces and improving their operation, along with introducing report (CSR) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction optimized its combustion efficiency via purification of any contaminated soil in accordance with the legal and internal high-efficiency equipment. Our reduction target for 2014 is 10,000 tCO2. • ‌Building stakeholder’s communication channels and response processes to better respond to request of using energy shielding for heating and heat treatment furnaces, high-temperature regulations. As a result of soil inspection, the amount of TPH and BTEX in 2013 information (DJSI, ESG) heat recovery, and fuel efficiency automatic control. We saved 478TJ of energy was 30% or less than the legal standard. • ‌Expanding global initiative activities Green through utilizing a compressed air pressure control, high-efficiency pumps, standby Communication • ‌Developing green social contribution programs • ‌Introducing green purchasing system power cut-off systems, and high-voltage inverter technologies. In 2014, we set the target of 5,035TJ in total reduction which is 100TJ lower than that of last year. Environmental data in this report reflects about ❖ Use of Raw Materials (Tons) ❖Waste Recycling (Tons) ❖ Concentrations Rate of Pollutant Emission Compared to legal standards (%) 80% of our overall operation from Changwon plant and Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 both domestic and overseas projects. Raw materials 266,016 237,298 140,975 Domestic Changwon Plant 58,858 52,802 51,342 Domestic Dust 20 21 20 Construction Projects Recycled steel 102,852 93,301 82,876 COD 13 17 16 Overseas Subsidiaries 451 477 512 Steel 233,671 218,185 196,892 Construction Projects 27,803 35,957 37,482 SS 2 3 3 * Based on steel plant * Criteria: Allbaro system of Korea Environment Corporation for Domestic data Overseas Dust 44 37 38 ❖ Use of Water (Tons) ❖ Discharged Waste (Tons) ❖Wastewater (Tons) COD 47 25 16 SS 9 16 4 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Domestic Public water 1,470,000 1,400,000 1,550,000 Domestic Changwon Plant 75,190 68,176 66,025 Wastewater 276,145 202,598 128,027 Construction Projects 32,909 22,834 62,368 Underground water 3,748 2,910 3,442 Wastewater Recycling 12,000 8,760 25,380 Overseas Subsidiaries 1,479 2,285 2,103 Overseas Public water 110,000 190,000 250,000 Construction Projects 44,612 68,322 74,672 * Criteria: Changwon plant 72 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 73 Managing Hazardous Chemical Substances Reinforcing Spill Accident Prevention System Green Purchasing Ecosystem Protection Activities In preparation for marine pollution accidents, we installed 6 emergency Enhancing Hazardous Chemical Substances floodgates in our Changwon plant. We installed emulsifying sprayer in major Expansion of Green Purchasing Preservation of Ranunculus Kazusensis Management System rainwater pathways, triple oil fences, waste collector, and emulsifying sprayer Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction constructed the green purchasing In 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction discovered ranunculus Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is aware that business operation that in the final rainwater outlet to provide multiple-layers of protection. We are guideline and process to practice green management and fulfill social kazusensis, an endangered wild plant, during the highway construction project creates hazardous influence to our environment violates social responsibility. devising a way to block the whole rainwater way and collect in the event of a responsibility in 2011. We are increasing purchase of eco-friendly products after in Incheon. We immediately stopped construction and transplanted 600 seeds Accordingly, we manage any potential hazardous chemicals to conduct our leak of hazardous substances. concluding a voluntary agreement with the government. In 2013, our green of ranunculus kazusensis to Cheonripo Arboretum. As a follow-up action, we social duty. Each BG strives to voluntarily investigate hazardous chemical purchasing amounted to approximately KRW 2.1 billion. began monitoring the habitat for the next two years. Moreover, our project sites substances to strictly prevent any spills or accidents. Furthermore, we plan in Gyeongsangbuk-do and Gangwon-do are regularly monitoring the marine to implement a comprehensive response to the ‘Act on the Registration and Potential Release Route/Process environment of phyllospadix, zostera marina communities, and the seagrasses ❖ Green Purchase Process Evaluation of Chemical Substances’ and ‘Act on the Management of Chemical (Phyllospadix and Zostera marina) that grow wild in the nearby community. Substances’ which will be enforced in 2015. Proposing Investment Investment Potential risk (facility/place) Dept. screening Proposal Prevention Conservation of Wetland at Masan Bay Pre Gate The scope of registration and evaluation on manufactured and imported chemical substances expanded. Management standards legal requirements on Nearby rainwater waterway Since 2008, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has conducted hazardous chemical substances became stricter Preliminary environmental Consultation Asking for Stocking purification of Bongam mud flat at Masan Bay for wetland protection as Gate 1 on goods/ Until Dec. 31, Since Jan. 1, impact purchasing a part of Environment Day. Our employees remove sprigs and weeds at Law Classification Law conservation inspection 2013 2015 Main rainwater waterway evaluation EHS Team rainwater dewatering outlets. In 2013, we became a member of the Maritime Registration Gate 2 of chemical Rescue & Salvage Association of Korea, and contributed to preserving Preparation Conservation Performance Act on the Registration and Evaluation of New chemical New and existing substances substances chemical substances Final outlet plan management marine environment along with Gyeongsangnam-do Office, Changwon (production, import, sale) Gate 3 City Hall, Seongsan-gu Office, Kyungnam University, and other local private Act on Hazardous Chemicals Management Evaluation Inlet section of Masan Bay Integrated organizations. Additionally, about 200 employees collected about 30 tons of Purchasing Placing Hazardous of chemical Hazardous/risk Selecting* wastes from nonpoint pollution source in 2013. Gate 4 orders Chemical Substances substances Team Toxic substances/ Toxic substances/ Zero Release Masan Bay Designation observation substances/ permitted substances/ * ‌Eco-friendly products purchased by Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction: Eco-friendly of hazardous handling limits, prohibited restricted and prohibited Label Product, Excellent Recycling Label Product, Energy Saving Label Product, Reduced chemical substances/accidentsubstances/accidentsubstances Harmful Substances Product, and Reduced Wastes Product. preparing substances preparing substances Act on the Management Management Inspection on distribution Inspection on of hazardous and emissions/report on distribution and performance/classification chemical emissions/report label/handling facility substances of Chemical Substances on performance/ inspection/subcontract classification label/ (production/ report/off-site consequence self-control plan sale/storage, analysis/risk management transport/use) plan/accident reporting ❖ Expenses for Environmental Protection (KRW in millions) ❖ Green Purchases (KRW in millions) ❖ Environmental Volunteers Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Entrusted waste treatment 1,304 1,159 1,033 Total Purchasing 32,336 31,009 27,800 Number of environmental 324 219 190 Waste analysis 4 4 3 Purchasing of eco-friendly products 1,394 1,703 2,129 volunteers (persons) Other expenses 9 5 2 Environmental volunteer service 1,219 722 813 * ‌There were differences between 2012 data and 2013 data due to tightened criteria for (hours) Entrusted waste recycling 399 285 291 eco-friendly products. Expenses for outside nature 6,000 7,000 7,440 Profits from waste disposal 1,264 1,186 993 conservation (KRW in thousands) 74 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 75 Safety and Health Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction believes that employees' safety Safety and Health Management Activities Work Equipment Hazard Control to Reduce Risk Supporting EHS Activities of Suppliers management is the first step towards CSR. All employees understand the Our manufacturing division, Changwon Factory, contains a total of 690 To bolster the EHS activities of 47 suppliers in the manufacturing division, importance of people-centered EHS activities. We transformed the EHS System Reinforcing Safety Management at Worksites dangerous equipment including cranes. Consequently, we have performed Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts evaluation on their EHS into a people-centered operation system that provides repeated education and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction pursues to intensify safety education meticulous and lawful inspections twice a year in order to prevent safety activities twice a year by providing them with EHS management plan. In training, improving field-oriented safety and health procedures. Therefore, all and management for employees' self-improvement on unsafe behavior and accidents and secure the adequacy of the equipments. The legal standard the first half of the year, each BG’s EHS team advised the suppliers on EHS employees fully understand and voluntarily implement it. to achieve the 2013 target accident rate of 0.14. As a result, we first fortified enforces 2 adequate inspections after the first safety assurance; however, details, while in the second half, the team performed field evaluation on employees' EHS mindset through continuous safety education, such as EMS Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction performs additional safety inspections appropriateness and implementation status of internal BG specific plans. ❖ Safety and Health Management Strategies mindset improvement training. Then, we sought to prevent accidents related to twice a year, thereby immensely decreasing accidents resulting from dangerous Especially in 2013, we strived to continuously enhance EHS activities of Securing Global Top Tier Level in EHS Competitiveness through equipment failure or usage by performing diligent inspection and maintaining equipment. In April 2012, our Changwon Factory became the first company our suppliers by confirming workers’ awareness on EHS activities through Establishing Global EHS Mindset/System quality assurance on Harmful and Dangerous Machines and Tools. Lastly, we in Changwon to be selected as the outstanding workplace for voluntary interviews with field workers and by reflecting them on the evaluation results. Securing People-centered EHS Securing EHS System Foundation Securing EHS Response System, recorded an innovative result of accident rate, 0.06 (50% lower than actual inspection and received a recognition plate from Korea Occupational Safety & Operation • ‌Building global EHS web tools and Basic Competitiveness • ‌Developing EHS training • ‌Building management system to • ‌Building EHS performance target) by conducting on-site patrol including executives’ MSLT, publishing onHealth Agency. programs reduce EHS risks Management and job processes • ‌Adapting and promoting EHS site council safety guide, and observing workers' unsafe behavior. • Fostering global EHS staff • ‌Setting preemptive EHS management system Best Practices of • Building EHS Training Center • ‌Engaging in Preemptive risk management plans Workplace Inspection for Vulnerable Periods • Providing Personal health care • ‌Introducing Safety Leadership EHS Activities by • ‌Promoting health improvement management Program EHS Mindset Training for Improving Unsafe Behavior Our accident analysis indicated that high risk incidents occur frequently during Suppliers activities • ‌Reflecting and managing needs of stakeholders Our safety education program, known as EHS programs, includes Gimhae the vulnerable time period(night and holiday) for high-risk works. As such,we • ‌Responding Preemptively to clients’ requirements Experiencing Course for new employees’ mindset and Regular Safety & established safety operations, Permit to Work and high-risk operational Health Course for field and office workers. After conducting and reviewing director’s initiative process to minimize the frequency of these accidents. In Putting employees to work after Providing EHS newsletter the analysis on accidents that occurred in the last 5 years, we were able to addition, the EHS inspections were implemented 46 times during vacation ❖ ‌EHS Risk Management Process checking risk points based on (monthly) to inform employees discover that most of the accidents transpired among employees who worked seasons, holiday seasons, nighttime, and typhoon seasons. safety standards in case of highof the corporation’s strong Remedial either less than 3 years or between 20 to 30 years, stemming primarily from risk processes will about EHS and raise their Actions & unsafe behaviors. Consequently, we provided EHS Mindset Education to 258 Feedback Improve Workplace-Customized Written Safety Procedures awareness of EHS employees within the highest at-risk group in order to prevent future accidents Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction amended the written safety Risk EHS Risk Monitoring Identification and to secure EHS Mindset among the employees. After the EHS Mindset procedures to reflect voices of on-site workers so that any field worker can easily Education, the accident rate of these at-risk workers decreased, illustrating understand and adapt the procedures into daily operation. To further assist with EHS Risk the effectiveness of our safety training program. Furthermore, we conducted our employees in understanding the safety procedures, we combined a total of Management employees’ regular safety education once a month for a total of 87,228 hours. 37 documents detailing inspection and management procedure for tools into Permit to Risk Meanwhile, we provided specialized education for workers of heavy materials 30 documents, creating a more concise manual for the employees. Work (PTW) Assessment and drivers of excavators 12 times a year. Moreover, we shared safety guidelines Job Safety Environment and actual accident cases with 487 of high risk workers to emphasize the Analysis importance of adhering to the safety guidelines and adopting EHS Mindset. ❖Training to Enhance EHS Mind ❖ Safety and Health Training for Overseas Construction Projects ❖Regular Safety and Health Training for Manufacturing Business in 2013 ❖Voluntary Equipment Inspection Program (Cases) Classification No. of participants Remark Classification 2011 2012 2013 Classification Participants Training Hours Classification 2011 2012 2013 Remark Less than 3 years of service 156 5th Number of personnel who completed basic training 14,755 35,599 31,999 Technical workers 2,390 57,360 Inspection Performed 578 673 690 (persons) Twice a year 20 to 30 years of service 102 4th Non-technical workers 2,489 29,868 Improved Actions 172 163 148 Number of personnel who completed special 2,261 15,835 26,003 (first and second half) Total 258 9th Total 4,879 87,228 Disqualification 0 0 0 training* (persons) Total number of personnel who completed Safety 17,016 51,434 58,002 training (persons) Hours of Basic training (hours) 33,255 73,696 63,998 Hours of Special training (hours) 3,392 21,165 31,979 Total Hours of Safety training (hours) 36,647 94,861 95,977 * Special training: ‌Training to prevent accidents in work on scaffolds, machine and tool safety, work at high, confined space Entry and hot work. 76 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 77 Best Practices in Safety Culture Assessment of Self-discovering Risk Managing Risk from the Bidding Stage Ensuring Security of Overseas Employees We were recognized for our world-class standards in the areas of environment, Risk assessment is an approved risk management method to discover and Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction conducts its unique EHS system on Security issues threatening employees of both Doosan Heavy Industries & safety, and health when hosted by our client at the Mong Duong 2 Project in eliminate hazards by quantitatively evaluating them and establishing and each process before, during, and after the project. We plan to intensify our Construction and its suppliers are constantly happening on various region Vietnam. Accordingly, we were rewarded with a 2013 Golden Hard Hat for Best executing improvement plan. In order to increase our risk assessment’s usage system and upgrade core management factors to global EHS level through in the world. Therefore, we have been applying security plan on the overseas Safety Culture Project from the project owner, AES. The award served as recogin field, we introduced 4M (Man, Machine, Media, Management) for worker’s PDCA Cycle and regular monitoring. project from the start and also operate evacuation plan in all construction sites nition of our contribution to the environment, safety, and health. convenience, prevented omitted process through systematic classification, and branches overseas in case of emergency. and supported updating and managing results in EHS web-based tool for ease Setting EHS Policy and Golden Safety Rules of use, thereby enabling risk assessment’s improvement, management, and World's Top Class in Zero Accident Workplace EHS Policy, which represents CEO’s EHS philosophy to the public, is the basis for ❖ Integrated Security Management Process supplement continuously. In 2013, our Rabigh project in Saudi Arabia recorded 20 million hours of zero all EHS activities. Following the announcement of Doosan Group’s EHS Policy, Preemptive Response Process In order for a successful settlement to take place, we support and sustain the accident. This is a significant achievement that resulted from collaboration Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction also announced its newly revised EHS effort of executing risk analysis and establishing a system and we also track Process EHS Site of our employees and multinational workers. The zero accident hours Policy in 2013. the progress every two weeks through Task Force (T/F) Team. Also, we provide • ‌Establishing emergency accumulated to 40 million as of 2014 and is recorded as officially the longest We enacted and publicized Golden Safety Rules, which is the most fundamental Client proposal response plans and providing • ‌Request for security review 4 courses of education to 259 supervisors who lead the field practice of all Estimate/ meeting guidelines for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. This remarkable performance is safety rule, in order to prevent any incidents. factories. Then, the directors who completed the courses educate their workers, Sale Bidding, contract, • ‌Stipulating patrols and • ‌Request for site security plan one of many evidence of our world class competitiveness and corporate values thereby conducting and utilizing 4M risk assessment on most, if not all, operaand M&A security facilities in contract review centered on people. tions at our sites. • ‌Setting emergency • ‌Prepare detailed emergency Opening sites and Project response plans plans branches ❖T otal of exposed working hours on construction projects and execution • ‌Conducting Expatriate incident rate by region Supporting Supplier's Risk Assessment Project execution and training • ‌Update emergency plans based on monitoring data overseas residence • Monitoring country risk As a part of its Safety and Health Cooperative Program, Doosan Heavy 113,303,963 • ‌Operating emergency control • ‌Discuss asset preservation Industries & Construction provided 52 suppliers with risk assessment training. Emergency center and collaborating with plans Emergency response hours (Natural disaster, terrorism, relevant agencies • Evacuation standby Then, we held 2013 Presentation of Risk Assessment Best Practices in order and civil unrest) • ‌Preserving assets to identify the best practices and to invigorate risk assessment. In September Expansion of Korea • ‌Deciding evacuation • ‌Evacuation in accordance 2013, we granted certificates to 16 suppliers including Shingwang Mold in emergency situation with emergency plans MENA LTI* Cases 7 (Evacuation) LTI* Cases 0 LTIR* 0.148 appreciation of shared growth and promotion of Safety and Health Cooperative • ‌Deciding return to sites in Resolution accordance with the end of • ‌Identify and reporting LTIR* 0.000 Program with Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction. (Return to sites) emergency situation damages after return to work India Asia Pacific • Reflecting L/L LTI* Cases 1 LTI* Cases 6 LTIR* 0.015 LTIR* 0.048 We monitor emergency situations, such as terrorism, abduction, and natural disasters everyday and regularly communicate with relevant project sites to * Lost Time Incident (LTI) proactively respond to any emergency. * Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) ❖ Number of Incidents (Cases) ❖ Zero Accident Hours of Construction Projects in 2013 (Hours) ❖ Risk Analysis by Phase Classification 2011 2012 2013 Project Site Zero Accident Hours ① Requirements for EHS at bidding ⑤ Budget for EHS ⑨ EHS training for workers ⑬ Self-assessment and audit ⑰ Follow-up evaluation of suppliers Number of incidents 16 18 14 Rabigh PP2, Saudi Arabia 20,042,069 ② Doosan EHS standards ⑥ Pre-inspection on suppliers ⑩ High-risk work management ⑭ Incentive and penalty ⑱ Lessons learned ③ EHS management plan ⑦ ‌EHS organization and workforce ⑪ Work permit ⑮ ‌Performance review and ⑲ Project evaluation * Based on Changwon plant, domestic and overseas projects, and suppliers Ras Al Khair, Saudi Arabia 16,023,378 ④U‌ nderstanding of clients and management ⑫ ‌Site inspection and report ❖ Incident Rate (%) Noibai-Laocai Expressway, Vietnam 7,508,390 local laws ⑧ Training for EHS technicians monitoring ⑯ Support on high-risk sites Yongin Administration Town, Korea 2,820,000 Classification 2011 2012 2013 Main facilities for Singori Nuclear Power Plants 2,730,000 Iron Water Changwon plant 0.17 0.20 0.06 Pile Pressure Turbine (#3 and #4), Korea frame pressure Purchase and Domestic construction sites 0.09 0.19 0.22 Estimate Contract Design Commissioning Residential and commercial complex in 1,000,000 manufacture Overseas construction sites 0.01 0.01 0.01 Heungin-dong, Korea Installation Suppliers 0.14 0.06 0.13 Before construction Under construction After construction 78 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 79 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction operates self-care support and Health Care Program Health Care for Overseas Employees Hygiene Management management systems for employees. We provide care programs for chronic diseases, such as neuro and cardiovascular disease and musculoskeletal disease Operating In-house Clinic Center Management of Overseas Employees Management of Hygiene at Cafeteria through clinics. In addition, we not only created sports welfare centers (gym, Our in-house clinic consists of 2 medical specialists, 3 nurses, 2 physical Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction strives to provide healthcare for Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction commissions professional hygiene swimming pool, etc.) and hiking trails for health promotion in daily life, but also therapists, and 1 exercise therapist to prevent, cure, and promote health overseas employees in various ways. Therefore, we categorized circumstances companies for hygiene inspection (legal documentation, cafeteria personnel, conduct health inspections on employees. conditions of employees, suppliers' employees, and outside clients. We divided into 'before departure', 'during the stay,' and 'emergency outbreak' to kitchens, etc.) to strictly manage cafeterias, thereby preventing food poisoning sections into doctor’s office, pharmacy, recovery room, physiotherapy room, and systematically manage them. or related issues. ❖ Health Management health promotion center in order to treat personnel with chronic diseases and evaluate muscular ability and flexibility of rehabilitants of industrial accidents. Facility Management Operation of Integrated Pest Control System 01 Setting targets and making plans 04 ‌Operating customized healthcare Moreover, our specialists provide education on preventing neuro and When opening a new overseas branch, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction We self-inspected and analyzed the colonization of hazardous animals and • Systematic healthcare programs programs cardiovascular disease by visiting each business group. installs a new medical clinic in accordance with the site health review by • ‌Chronic disease treatment and healing • ‌Musculoskeletal Healthcare Committee insects based on the result of pest control in 2012. In Changwon factory, we programs • ‌Anti-smoking and healthy eating specialized institution and commissions a professional catering service to created integrated pest control system and installed insect light traps not campaigns Establishing First Aid System provide meals to overseas employees. We not only control hygienic conditions only to exterminate harmful insects around the facility, but also to prevent • ‌Depression and occupational stress management plans Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction constructed an emergency system with specialized company, but also conduct water inspections. contagious diseases. 02 Conducting health checkups • Fitness and exercise for professional first aid during the golden time (30 minutes) and for patient • ‌General and special checkups • ‌Treatment of brain, cardiovascular and • ‌Comprehensive medical checkups musculoskeletal disease transportation to university hospitals. Since 2009, we also have conducted Supports for Overseas Worksites Health Promotion for Supplier’s Employees (including spouse) • Overseas medical support regular first aid (CPR: cardiopulmonary resuscitation) trainings to all the In 2013, we sent medical teams to project sites in Raipur, India, the Ain Sokhna • Vaccinations (influenza, hepatitis A, etc.) employees of our corporation and suppliers. project in Egypt, and the Mong Duong 2 and Noibai-Laocai production sites To enhance employees’ health of suppliers. we encourage them to participate in Vietnam for the employees’ health care. In addition, we regularly inspect in the health promotion program. In 2013, we provided healthcare services of 03 Evaluating health risk 05 ‌Reviewing and improving • ‌Systematic diagnosis based on checkup programs Operating Health Promotion Center hygiene status of cafeterias and lodging facilities at overseas sites. U-healthcare system to the personnel with medical conditions. results • ‌Investigation of hazardous elements We operate health promotion center and support surgery expense, • ‌Identifying employees with diagnosed • Healthcare satisfaction survey comprehensive medical test, and free vaccination in order to manage and treat and musculoskeletal disease • Indexing (checkup rate) U-Health service Employees can measure their conditions with an • ‌Identifying and preventing other • Improvement of programs employees’ illness, along with 10% reduction target of neuro and cardiovascular for employees in-body analyzer, blood pressure meter, and blood hazardous elements to health disease among our employees. Also, we systematically run Health Care Program sugar tester, and then send the results for overall (HCP) to prevent and manage other common diseases. health management. Service methods Phone consultation service (exercise and nutrition), SMS, e-mail (healthcare encouragement, health information), blood test (metabolic syndromes), and use of U-health equipment ❖ First Aid Process HCP (Health Care Program) Diagnosis of disease / • ‌Medical support inside and outside Classification of HCP of Korea high-risk group • CPR training • Stretching training Paramedic Judgment of Emergency • Anti-smoking sessions Arrival and Transportation dispatch to situation and call for patient to major • ‌Prevention and management of emergency emergency helicopter and transfer trauma center disease patient treatment transportation Identification Assessment of potential and follow-up • Mental health management patients treatment • Low-sodium diet campaign • Prevention of contagious disease • Healthy packed meals 80 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 81 Social Contribution In 2013, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction established a strategic Direction of Our Social Contribution Activities Volunteer Group Boosting Social Contribution system of its social contribution based on the mission of each community and corporate value enhancement. Accordingly, we also operate ‘Cultivating To help local communities enhance their competitiveness and increase As of December 2013, 91% of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Weekday Volunteer Services Talents’, ‘Supporting Neglected Class’, and ‘Close Relation to Locals’ programs corporate value, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction encourages its employees were members of company volunteer groups. These groups have The volunteer group at the Seoul office has implemented volunteer services in accordance with 3 corporate principles of ‘Business Oriented’, ‘Community employees to volunteer in programs to find fundamental solutions to been carrying out regular volunteer services in Changwon and Seoul to help even on weekdays. The volunteer group at the head office in Changwon plans Focused’, and ‘Employee Engagement’. social issues. We are also proactive in supporting the underprivileged and the underprivileged. To fulfill our social responsibility as a corporate citizen, to conduct weekday volunteer service among technical employees. This will implementing community-based voluntary services. we promote employee involvement in volunteer services by offering various help all employees participate regardless of the corporate hierarchy. incentives, including remuneration, grants, and awards. ❖ Social Contribution Strategy Incentives for Activating Volunteer Services ❖Volunteer Group Organization Establishing identity of our social contribution to earn respect of Incentives are provided to encourage employees to take part in volunteer local communities and encourage all Doosan employees to raise services. Those include a mileage system, volunteer service recognition, awards Goal Social Contribution Committee Doosan Group's Social Contribution Brand self-esteem by helping others and build a blueprint to a better to individuals and groups, and plaques. Recruitment of new volunteers is also future encouraged. CSR Team Business Oriented Community Focused Domestic Social Contribution Activities a Supp ar ort Volunteer Group Expert Volunteer Group nt e fo a le sed Business r Su Enhancing the company's Encouraging diverse ft oriented pp Human Resources Development privileged Focu or t core values based on talented stakeholders to participate in Technical nder no Changwon Seoul Volunteer Group We set up a sisterhood with Changwon Science High School, and we operate Cultivatio management solving social issues of local area eu Direction communities the Doosan Class to cultivate talented students in 2 meister high school, one Social Nuclear Power BG EPC BG th contribution Environmental Safety Training Volunteer Group specialized vocational high school and 4 technical colleges. We host a Job system Employee Engagement Boiler BG Water BG Film Festival to help the youth decide on their career paths. These activities Community Execution of social contribution activities by employees Youth Safety uphold our corporate philosophy of human resource development and social lo Focused Turbine/Generator BG Financial Monitoring Group C se ie s Management Div. contribution. r to l o c a l c o mm u nit Cultivation of Support for the CommunityCastings & Forgings BG Family DOO Activity talent underprivileged based programs Volunteer Group Bas ic area Support for the Neglected Class COO/Administration Div. Club Talent Donation We provide financial aid to 77 child welfare facilities to aid them with operating • Cultivation of talent: Supporting growth and development of human resources Volunteer Group • Support for the underprivileged: Helping the youth, elderly, disabled, and women childcare programs. In addition, our employees participate in diverse programs Corporate R&D • ‌Community-based programs: ‌Enhancing local communities' competitiveness by to promote development of more than 1,300 children and teenagers every Institute partnering with stakeholders month. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction's flagship social contribution activity ❖ Performance in Volunteer Service ❖ Status of Volunteer Group Number of volunteer services Total volunteer service hours Volunteer service hours per person Number of total employees Number of volunteer group members* Percentage of volunteer group members (Times) (Hours) 28,031 (Hours) (Persons) (Persons) (%) 24,206 7,192 6,550 93.19 4.28 6,928 92.5 608 6,409 91.07 584 3.77 6,531 6,086 2.27 339 16,868 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 * ‌Number of volunteer group members: The number of employees able to participate in volunteer services, except for employees working abroad. 82 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 83 Community-based Programs photo opportunities, fashion viewings, a chance to watch Korean professional Our Flagship Social Contribution Cultural Theme Programs for We carry out activities to support rural farming villages, such as buying their baseball games, a Nanta performance, K-pop dance performance, and trips to Local Childcare Centers agricultural products. We invite them to our company through sisterhood ties water parks and the Haeundae region. The Youth Energy Project is our flagship social contribution. It provides youth with 7 farming villages in the Gyeongnam region, including Misan village in with customized charity programs meeting their needs. It is based on our We provide 7 cultural theme programs to about 1,300 children at 58 community Haman. Other activities include the Doosan Family Culture Festival and the ❖ Major Social Contribution Activities corporate philosophy that is centered on people. childcare centers in Changwon. These programs feature history, ecology, society Doosan Family Concert, with active participation of local suppliers. We also are & science, city tour, traditional play & arts, handcrafts, and nature. The programs Human resources development involved with child welfare centers and multicultural families. help marginalized children develop socially and encourage team work and •Sisterhood ties with Changwon Science •Doosan Science Day emotional growth. High School •Donation of school uniforms •Doosan academic-industrial collaboration •Donation of school textbooks Global Social Contribution training program for vocational high •Scholarships and educational grants ❖ ‌Cultural Theme Program: Outdoor Activities on Saturday school and college students. •Vocational training for job seekers Primary •Support for culture, experience, emotional health, and Medical Support in Vietnam •Job Film Festival to help adolescents school independence centered on local children’s welfare centers plan their future students •Educational grants for low-income families Building knowledge and social skills by In July 2013, Doosan Vina, a local subsidiary in Vietnam, and Chung-Ang History •Donation of school textbooks visiting historical sites University Hospital, carried out joint medical volunteer services. Throughout Support for the socially marginalized •Dream-high(Kumkum-Dda) orchestra 2013, some 2,500 underprivileged people in Quang Nam Province and Quang •Donations to 77 children’s welfare facilities •Clean residences of underprivileged Learning to have an open mind and developing selfNgai Province received health exams and treatments. Surgeries were performed •Cultural theme programs for children in •Watching baseball games and operating Ecology Middle •Job Film Festival to help adolescents plan their future reliance by exploring nature community care centers youth soccer clubs on 12 children with cleft lips and 2 children with cardio disease. Since 2009 school •Scholarships for students from low income families •Dream-high (Kum-Kum-Dda) orchestra •Charitable programs connecting 15 social when we started voluntary medical service, more than 8,000 Vietnamese •‘Dasarang Dream’ program with the Korea welfare facilities students •Educational grants for low-income families Experiencing and studying society and science to Society & received treatment and 74 children underwent surgery for cleft lips and palates Red Cross •Donation of school textbooks Science develop ability and knowledge •Kimchi sharing Event •Donation of school uniforms for no charge. Community-based Programs Changwon Understanding nature, ecology, culture, High school •Support programs for science high schools City Tour and arts in local areas Talent Donation to Vietnamese National Archery Team •Doosan family cultural festival/concerts •Clean water initiatives at Masan Bay students •Operation of ‘Doosan Class’ in meister/vocational •Renewal of the Changwon Science •Campaign to protect youth from Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and Doosan Vina signed an agreement high schools Museum hazardous environments Traditional with the Shooting Federation of Vietnam in November 2013. Since then, we •Scholarships to students from low income families Building artistic ability via traditional art activities •One-company, Seven-villages •Blood donation campaign Play & Arts have provided Vietnam’s national archery team with shooting instruction, tool sisterhood ties University •Academic-Industrial collaboration maintenance know-how, and skill building programs. Developing creativity, aptitude, and interest through Global social contribution students (Doosan Class in vocational colleges) Handcrafts artistic activities •Technology study contest and visits to advanced foreign •Medical support in Vietnam •Talent donation to Vietnamese National Beyond Summer Camp •Support for Vietnam Q-Health program Archery Team countries We, along with Chung-Ang University, co-hosted the Beyond Summer Camp •School Day event in India Experiencing Displaying creativity by exploring natural objects Nature for Vietnamese college students and high school teenagers. A total of 40 The Youth •Vocational training and employment support for job students participated in programs at this camp. The camp included lectures, seekers ❖ Social contribution expenses (KRW in millions) 19,635 15,068 14,614 2011 2012 2013 84 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 85 Customer Satisfaction To fulfill customer satisfaction, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction reflects ❖ Customer Satisfaction Network ❖ Services to Increase Customer Satisfaction Technology Support Center for Power Companies systematic management strategies driven by the Doosan way in its business Feedback on customer requirements regarding technical or general matters is practice. We offer our clients with ‘superior value’ than the competitors to build • ‌Entrust CS executives under the CEO with comprehensive matters reviewed and applied swiftly to ensure reliability and to uphold our corporate • ‌Streamline customer contact channels centered on customer support lasting relationships. We believe customer satisfaction is essential to compete image. • ‌Operate exclusive management by each power company with round-the-clock in a fierce marketplace and evolve into a leader in every business sector. Head Office Business Site emergency response •Increasing operational •Detailed solutions and efficiency collaboration Expanding Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Satisfaction Initiatives •Operating PR targeting •Regular contact with top Along with the general customer satisfaction survey done every 3 years, we government agencies client teams perform customer interviews. We regularly analyze customer needs, thereby and the public Strengthening NPS Assessment and Evaluation Emergency satisfying customer satisfaction. We upgraded our Net Promoter Score (NPS) measure in the DCSI (Doosan Operation Team Customer Satisfaction Index) to add efficacy to our assessment data. The Achievements in Customer Satisfaction DCSI is an assessment program designed to showcase outcome-based data on supply and operation of our new facilities. We draw action plans by Resolving Imbalance of Information Deducing Subjects Reflecting Customer Requirements maintaining our evaluation’s continuity and consistency and connect them to We are committed to sharing information on our technologies and operation Roles and Operation We analyzed VOCs of customers through a survey and interviews in 2013. our after marketing. methods with our customers in order to solve the imbalance of information Duties Period Most customers responded very positively to our rapid support system. This and build a relationship with them. To this end, we have unified channels to emphasized the necessity of transparently selecting and managing suppliers, listen to their voices and jointly held regular seminars and workshops. Enhancing Customer Approach and securing fundamental competitiveness in engineering and technology. We established a unique networking system that integrates the characteristics Furthermore, to cope with customers needing after service, the company is of our customers' headquarters, their operation sites, and the function of each Promoting Operational Risk Prevention Mechanism • ‌Rapidly dispatch experts in • ‌Peak time for electricity in summer implementing 14 improvement plans. department to further meet our customers' needs. To prevent incidents from deteriorated power generation facilities, we emergencies at power plants and winter preemptively diagnose customer facilities. These activities allow customers to • ‌Respond and support to ensure swift • ‌In time of emergencies at power Activating After Marketing Activities have ready response in emergency situations. re-operation plants • ‌Share information with top teams in In 2013, there was an accident at the 3rd power plant in Dangjin. It was severe emergencies caused by vibration and an inflow of saline water that resulted in damage. Partnerships for Smart Saving Technology We investigated the problem and found the cause. Since then, we have laid a We built a cooperative and co-existing partnership with power generation foundation for aftermarket service linked to warranty and maintenance work. firms by expanding agreements on technical and operational support. We also We dispatch emergency teams to power plants during peak seasons of attract their engagement in our R&D of service business including efficiency electricity use in summer and winter months, or in other emergency situations improvement and capacity expansion of power facilities and in national to normalize operation of power plants as soon as possible. This contributes to projects. a stable supply of electricity that meets customer needs. ❖ Number of Processing Days to Client Inquiry (Days) ❖ Customer Satisfaction (%) ❖Technical Support to Customers (Cases) ❖ Distributing and Sharing Information Classification 2011 2012 2013 Visits for technical advices and seminars for training Classification 2012 2013 Classification 2007 2010 2013 (Cases) Number of processing days 12.9 12.0 Customer satisfaction level 63.4 78.5 77.1 Rapid after services to sites 12 72 658 Urgent technical advice 126 107 181 73 Technical advice 10 16 67 ❖ Target for year 2014 Management visits to sites 8 62 75 Number of processing days: 7 days 31 22 2011 2012 2013 86 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 87 Performance and Plan for Social Responsibility Quality Management for Customer Satisfaction Settling Quality Innovation Special Story Our efforts to internalize quality innovation are on-going and vital to our firm. Approach to Quality Innovation We identify quality issues and improvement plans, upgrade products and Under the quality principle of “providing world-class quality to create customer enhance operating performance, thereby earning customer satisfaction. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction launched the CSR Team to better serve the mission of corporate social responsibility value” Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction focuses on quality innovation and to form a consensus on CSR company-wide. Moreover, we established a systematic CSR framework and have strengthened and differentiated management. Our quality innovation is promoted companyElevating Quality Innovation Capabilities communication with stakeholders. The CSR Committee also plays a leading role in promoting social responsibility. wide through diagnosis and by improvement plans. Quality management plays Building a System to Manage Failures in QualityㅣDoosan Heavy Industries & a pivotal role for internalizing quality innovation, and is integral to the entirety Construction expanded costs recognition and management system in quality Performance in 2013 of our business operations. Consequently, we ensure high quality products and failure to prevent confusion derived from lack of consensus and awareness service to our customers. in quality failure, and further created target cost of quality failure. We also Our commitment to CSR realized meaningful achievements. established a management system in order to quickly respond to quality failure. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was awarded the grand prize for “Best Corporate Governance Service in 2013” on June 21, 2013 by Korea Corporate ❖ Approach to Quality Innovation Governance Service. This award was in recognition of excellence in 3 categories: green management, social responsibility management, and corporate governance. Precautions and Prevention of Quality ProblemsㅣWe upgraded our Q-series to In July 2013, we published “Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction 2012 Integrated Report” containing our company’s core values, vision, and activities and activate better communication between front-end and back-end organizations, performances in CSR. We were also rewarded for progress in our disclosure level from the CDP, a global initiative in climate change, and enrolled on the list of “2013 Establishing and upgrading quality innovation system The goal is to accelerate internalization of precaution and prevention systems. In Korea CSR 30.” We will make concerted efforts to blaze new trails in these categories. Precaution addition, we extended our quality control mechanisms to our suppliers. Prevention of Failure control Focusing on Tasks to Fundamentally Eliminate Quality Problems recurrences Quality issues identified in 2012 have been generally resolved, while voluntary Building infrastructure and raising awareness and capabilities Securing improvement activities by each business group have not been satisfactory. product quality Thus, we continue to analyze quality issues of each business group, deduce Deducing improvement objectives based on results meeting improvement tasks, and apply them to real projects. We are also focusing on requirements implementing RCA tasks for quality improvement and cultivating leaders to Generating results via enhanced objective execution of customers fundamentally eliminate quality problems. Analyzing Forming a Driving Verifying failures in matrix for execution of quality objectives objectives achievements Raising Awareness and Competence Plans for 2014 We initiated the Quality Academy to enhance employee understanding and Selecting core Systematizing Strengthening Objectifying areas to be objective execution achievements awareness of quality. The Quality Academy provides all employees with training to One of our goals for 2014 is to establish and execute global CSR strategies. By capitalizing on our global networks, consisting of local branches and subsidiaries in improved operation capabilities over 30 countries, we are committed to fulfilling our role as a global corporate citizen and promulgate the CSR. On top of that, we will encourage overseas local increase their awareness of quality through competence enhancement programs. subsidiaries to prepare the foundations for CSR promotion, and outline and implement detailed CSR tasks. Joining UN Global Compact Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction became a member of the UN Global Compact, ❖ Obtaining Quality Certifications ❖ Number of quality certificates a major global initiative in corporate social responsibility. The company complies with 10 principles of the UN Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and antiCertification Types Units corruption, earning respect as a firm of integrity. KEPIC Manufacturing: MN, SN, EN 7 (Korea Electric Power Industry Code) Construction: MN, SN, EN, MH ASME (The American Society of Mechanical Engineers) Nuclear N, NPT, NS, N3, NA, Site NA, Site NPT 7 52 Human 1. We support and respect internationally declared human rights. Environment 7. ‌We support preventative approaches to environmental issues. ASME Non-Nuclear U, U2, S, A, PP, H, R 7 51 51 Rights 2. We do not engage in infringement of human rights. 8. We take the lead in assuming larger environmental responsibility. ISO (International Organization for Standardization) 9001, 3834-2, 14001 3 Labor 3. We acknowledge rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. 9. ‌We support environmentally-friendly technology. PED (Pressure Equipment Directive) H-Module, H1Module 2 4. We abolish all forced labor. Anticorruption 10. ‌We strive to eradicate corruption including unjust enrichment and bribes. Others OHSAS, Shipping Registers etc 26 5. We abolish child labor. Total 52 6. We abolish discrimination. 2011 2012 2013 88 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 Overview Business Analysis Strategic Focus • Performance Review 89 Global Operations and Global CSR Activities Special Story Securing Dominant Position in the Vietnam Power Plant Market Observance of the Equator Principle and CSR Activities in Vietnam Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction contributed to the economic development of Vietnam by operating a local subsidiary, Doosan Vina since 1995. In addition, Throughout our engineering for the Mong Duong 2 Project in Vietnam, in accordance with the Equator Principle, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has been the company fulfills its social responsibilities through various CSR activities. in thorough compliance with the Performance Standards on Environment and Social Sustainability, and the Environmental, Health & Safety Guidelines of the IFC. Agreement on Localizing Facilities for Thermal Golden Hard Hat Power Plants in Vietnam We are sustaining a zero accident record, surpassing six million man hours, We formed a consortium with LILAMA, a local construction company, in at the site of the Mong Duong 2 Project. This is attributable to the systematic December 2010. The consortium signed contracts to jointly construct 4 power operation of the EHS management system, and thorough project management, plants with 600MW capacity, including Quynh Lap I and Long Phu II coal-fired under the goal of keeping the site safe and clean. As a result, we were awarded power plants, and to promote localization of facilities for thermal power plants the “Golden Hard Hat” from AES in April 2014. The “Golden Hard Hat” was a in Vietnam. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction will engage in engineering prize awarded to sites with excellent EHS performance among 127 sites where and manufacturing of major facilities, such as boilers, turbines, generators, and AES was operating. The honor acknowledged the excellence of our safety auxiliaries. These projects will greatly contribute to helping Vietnamese firms management system, and recognized our conscientious employees. secure technologies, and assist the nation to increase local jobs. Medical Support Mong Duong 2 Project Our company carried out medical support for 288 employees, including Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction won the US$1.6 billion Mong Duong suppliers and clients, at the Mong Duong 2 Project. Accordingly, our medical 2 Project, Vietnam’s first BOT (Built-Operate-Transfer) based IPP (Independent staff attended to employees who suffered from influenza, fatigue and stress. Power Plant) project. This project calls for construction of power plants in Moreover, they took preventive measures against epidemics and inspected Quang Ninh Province , 160 kilometers northeast of Hanoi. Work is expected to hygiene conditions in the main facilities, including the cafeteria. continue until 2015. Impeccable Environmental Management Social Contribution Vinh Tan 4 Coal-Fired Power Plant Project In accordance with the Equator Principle, we have strictly managed sites so that We have contributed to improving local communities in the Campa region of In the process of engineering the Mong Duong 2 Project, we have faithfully no serious issues were noted during quarterly lender audits and regular audits Quang Ninh Province, site of the Mong Duong project, by conducting diverse carried out CSR activities, such as environmental protection, safety by the HQ of AES. In addition, there were no problems in our environmental events for social contribution. These included upgrading the Cam Hai Road, management, and social contributions for local communities. As a result, in management during inspection by the Environmental Police and the repairing Duong High School, and donating educational equipments, including 2013 we were able to win another project in Vietnam, the 1,200MW (600MWx2) Environmental Agency. computers, to Cam Hai Elementary School. class Vinh Tan 4 coal-fired power plant project worth of KRW 1.6 trillion. It is anticipated that these projects will enable us to secure a strong position in Receiving Praise from the Client the Vietnamese power plant market, estimated to be valued at about KRW 40 trillion won (35GW) by 2017. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction was honored with a letter of appreciation from the CEO of Tata Power in April 2013 for completing the world’s largest 4,000MW class coal-fired Mundra power plant in India. Anil Sardana, CEO of Tata Power, acknowledged us with the letter. It noted our monumental achievement in technology and project management. The historic project resulted in India’s first ultramega power plant project completed ahead of schedule. Moreover, Doosan Power Systems India (DPSI) won the bids to build two boilers (800MWx2) for the Lara power plant in Chhattisgarh and 3 boilers for the Kudgi power plant in Karnataka NTPC, a national power company in India. These projects are valued at KRW 600 billion and will be completed in 2016. Furthermore, DPSI set up a sisterhood relationship with an elementary school near the Gurgaon region where the worksite is located, and held a “School Day” and “Wish Tree” events to improve the educational environment. DPSI also awarded scholarships to students of low-income families. 90 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 91 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As at December 31, 2013, 2012 and January 1, 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Item December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 January 1, 2012 Audited (Restated) (Restated) To ensure future growth and profitability, Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction has focused on core Assets businesses, which contributes to laying the foundation for stable and long-term growth and maximizing Current assets the value of shareholders and the company. Cash and cash equivalents 942,761,662,374 1,827,151,710,134 2,236,884,348,297 Short-term financial instruments 777,857,734,507 506,615,552,152 336,998,884,570 Short-term investments in securities 11,917,827,393 737,414,980 7,074,438,425 Financial Statement 90 Trade receivables 2,776,055,294,417 3,031,553,045,628 4,025,733,759,925 Independent Auditors’ Report 98 Due from customers for contract work 2,341,388,036,045 1,940,352,326,496 1,846,644,598,257 Management’s assessment on 99 Other receivables 399,665,688,714 341,450,741,211 436,925,806,213 internal control over financial reporting Prepayments 570,231,903,673 794,144,278,612 938,397,342,196 Prepaid expenses 119,671,338,313 146,652,903,966 149,815,892,876 Short-term loans 617,545,492,572 837,731,019,204 890,756,421,898 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction is Korea’s representative power plant equipment maker and operates facilities to produce and supply materials, parts, and complete Derivative financial assets 123,034,100,744 354,728,817,195 150,695,931,255 products. Our major products encompass boilers, turbines, generators, nuclear reactors, steam generators, material handling equipments, environmental facilities, and castings & Firm commitment assets 22,095,293,873 107,997,479,515 199,289,045,544 forgings which are core devices of thermal and nuclear power plants, and evaporators, brine heaters, and deaerators which are necessary for water treatment plants. We not only Inventories 2,205,794,006,937 2,457,347,033,791 2,545,982,958,449 have large-sized production facilities in Changwon, Korea, but also operate the global production network. We are supplied with boilers and water related products from Doosan Other current assets 243,191,832,090 255,871,786,785 256,751,545,464 Vina, our local subsidiary in Vietnam, boilers from DPSI, turbines from Doosan Skoda Power, boilers and nuclear power related products and services from Doosan Babcock. Non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 23,012,326,807 25,216,657,188 15,145,196,447 Total current assets 11,174,222,538,459 12,627,550,766,857 14,037,096,169,816 Summarized Consolidated Operating Performance in 2013 Summarized Consolidated Operating Performance in 2013 Non-current assets Long-term financial instruments 87,452,362,744 75,285,948,214 63,453,791,690 Our sales in 2013 can be broken up into 77.8% from power generation, 9.2% Our consolidated sales in 2013 slightly decreased compared to the previous year, from water division, 4.3% from castings & forgings, 6.9% from construction, and while operating profit and operating margin were improved thanks to consistent Long-term investments in securities 200,132,851,400 290,193,237,660 313,177,869,390 remaining 1.8% from other sectors. Major products of the power generation include efforts for enhancing profitability. Share of investments in associates and joint ventures 312,921,350,015 292,433,512,472 407,054,421,526 boilers, turbines, generators, nuclear reactors, steam generators, material handling Long-term loans 519,007,967,286 48,274,213,572 138,224,181,227 equipments, and environmental facilities. Those of the water division are evaporators, Improvement of Financial Structure Property, plant and equipment 7,231,823,590,854 6,155,696,699,059 6,028,148,062,334 brine heaters, and deaerators. The Castings & Forgings division produces castings, Consolidated debt-to-equity ratio decreased from 366% in 2012 to 250% in 2013, Intangible assets 6,924,583,095,371 6,874,439,247,325 7,105,837,660,791 forgings, mold & tool steel, work roll, and crank shaft, while the construction BG which was attributable to our intensive efforts to improve financial soundness such Investment property 69,939,577,561 107,949,380,800 142,344,401,947 engages in civil engineering and architecture works. as disposal of our treasury shares, issue of GDR by Doosan Infracore, and issue of Derivative financial assets 119,236,994,110 199,116,083,882 139,560,193,434 RCPS by Doosan E&C. Firm commitment assets 31,003,113,369 79,903,845,589 201,263,899,245 Guarantee deposits 245,391,277,932 238,632,413,669 163,568,179,238 ❖ Sales Breakdown in 2013 ❖ Debt-to-equity 366% (KRW in millions) 116% down Deferred tax assets 752,356,463,180 873,122,345,096 287,349,966,046 250% Other non-current assets 57,408,932,470 51,688,708,522 88,089,677,543 Power 6,599,256 Total non-current assets 16,551,257,576,292 15,286,735,635,860 15,078,072,304,411 Water 781,660 2012 2013 Total assets 27,725,480,114,751 27,914,286,402,717 29,115,168,474,227 Doosan Heavy Castings & Forgings 362,514 Industries & Summarized Consolidated Financial Position Liabilities and equity Construction 582,211 Construction Current liabilities: Others (Industrial) 159,624 Total borrowings in 2013 decreased KRW 1.1 trillion compared to the previous year, Trade payables 2,285,172,690,453 2,224,232,748,347 2,506,445,822,227 8,485,265 while total equity increased KRW 1.9 trillion. In addition, operating profit sharply Short-term borrowings 2,401,143,971,677 2,999,325,344,770 2,890,614,628,847 Subsidiaries* 10,722,909 increased from the previous year backed by profit-oriented management activities. Asset-backed loan 270,000,000,000 176,000,000,000 186,805,000,000 Total 19,208,174 (KRW in billions) Other payables 630,132,663,407 763,759,191,711 914,305,824,349 * Sales of Doosan Infracore, Doosan Engine, and Doosan E&C Classification 2013 2012 Change Advanced receipts 429,706,500,550 556,114,414,351 937,889,604,089 Total borrowings 11,405.3 12,505.7 (1,100.4) Due to customers for contract work 1,658,024,496,845 2,083,288,925,907 2,325,826,441,539 Total equity 7,911.8 5,986.5 1,925.3 Operating profit 958.1 586.2 371.9 92 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 93 As at December 31, 2013, 2012 and January 1, 2012 Consolidated statements of profit or loss Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Item December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 January 1, 2012 Audited Item 2013 2012 (Restated) (Restated) Revenue 19,208,173,507,456 21,274,062,812,939 Withholdings 68,062,469,620 113,889,650,876 99,310,186,568 Cost of sales 16,021,590,971,115 17,787,819,506,967 Accrued expenses 510,816,836,799 586,014,813,354 1,123,816,884,389 Gross profit 3,186,582,536,341 3,486,243,305,972 Income tax payable 186,279,450,215 65,703,887,865 208,057,800,352 Selling and administrative expenses 2,228,510,805,119 2,900,091,789,400 Current portion of long-term debt 1,535,151,584,309 2,018,642,000,291 2,384,016,013,086 Operating profit 958,071,731,222 586,151,516,572 Derivative financial liabilities 119,688,709,263 268,445,755,314 279,465,119,047 Finance income 1,056,743,438,486 1,345,876,981,803 Finance costs 1,770,132,965,167 2,096,948,090,856 Firm commitment liabilities 190,652,648,109 236,352,740,530 53,788,980,741 Other non-operating income 144,397,423,635 129,647,790,218 Other provisions 147,587,636,606 145,335,178,277 195,138,604,682 Other non-operating expense 271,371,858,594 388,739,909,559 Other current liabilities 139,854,086,690 81,254,130,000 204,422,856,834 Share of loss in associates and joint ventures (47,619,865,974) (81,033,575,314) Total current liabilities 10,572,273,744,543 12,318,358,781,593 14,309,903,766,750 Profit for the year before tax 70,087,903,608 (505,045,287,136) Non-current liabilities: Income tax expense (benefit) 51,425,077,676 (602,520,873,742) Debentures 2,887,157,633,453 3,100,748,522,158 3,236,475,018,162 Profit for the year 18,662,825,932 97,475,586,606 Long-term borrowings 4,287,909,733,652 4,044,460,065,199 3,236,367,632,947 Attributable to: Long-term asset-backed loan 130,800,000,000 175,000,000,000 Equity holders of the parent 69,223,510,612 42,572,800,059 Long-term other payables 47,405,256,022 61,118,730,424 52,978,525,994 Non-controlling interests (50,560,684,680) 54,902,786,547 Employee benefits liabilities 930,390,792,822 1,141,540,892,075 1,073,098,227,961 18,662,825,932 97,475,586,606 Deposits received 255,307,344,867 252,132,774,869 211,932,719,767 Earnings per share: Basic, profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 772 478 Derivative financial liabilities 86,766,639,332 171,685,644,785 273,896,531,113 Diluted, profit for the period attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent 772 478 Firm commitment liabilities 76,128,783,708 163,628,819,304 60,605,942,188 Deferred tax liabilities 173,871,721,051 64,013,819,102 267,720,928,817 Other provisions 270,763,381,188 271,489,891,568 244,026,575,856 Other non-current liabilities 225,710,882,548 207,848,578,442 210,445,301,206 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income or loss Total non-current liabilities 9,241,412,168,643 9,609,467,737,926 9,042,547,404,011 Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Total liabilities 19,813,685,913,186 21,927,826,519,519 23,352,451,170,761 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Equity: Item 2013 2012 Issued capital 530,791,280,000 529,281,335,000 529,217,335,000 Profit for the year 18,662,825,932 97,475,586,606 Capital surplus 1,521,655,341,205 1,388,235,128,479 1,394,724,657,318 Other comprehensive income Other components of equity (13,188,236,134) (130,898,969,345) (140,842,944,397) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 324,556,819,190 (275,358,393,813) (106,006,247,525) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liabilities 141,473,301,425 (10,006,389,197) Retained earnings 2,362,821,296,186 2,307,483,981,169 2,341,744,698,969 Net gain on revaluation of land 870,857,424,644 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 4,726,636,500,447 3,818,743,081,490 4,018,837,499,365 1,012,330,726,069 (10,006,389,197) Hybrid equity instruments 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Other non-controlling interests 2,676,898,097,469 1,659,457,198,059 1,743,879,804,101 Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (19,947,267,764) (31,369,015,869) 3,185,157,701,118 2,167,716,801,708 1,743,879,804,101 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (50,657,406,284) 24,854,834,228 Non-controlling interests Equity adjustments in equity method (3,131,825,306) (3,016,950,623) Total equity 7,911,794,201,565 5,986,459,883,198 5,762,717,303,466 Net gain (loss) on translation of foreign operations (92,830,378,812) (277,057,002,013) Total liabilities and equity 27,725,480,114,751 27,914,286,402,717 29,115,168,474,227 (166,566,878,166) (286,588,134,277) Total comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 864,426,673,835 (199,118,936,868) Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 728,097,030,565 (136,839,642,588) Non-controlling interests 136,329,643,270 (62,279,294,280) 864,426,673,835 (199,118,936,868) 94 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 95 Consolidated statements of changes in equity Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Item Issued capital Capital surplus Other components Accumulated other Retained earnings Non-controlling Total equity Item Issued capital Capital surplus Other components Accumulated other Retained earnings Non-controlling Total equity of equity comprehensive interest of equity comprehensive interest income (loss) income (loss) As at January 1, 2012 (As stated) 529,217,335,000 883,636,599,252 (197,869,705,823) 2,321,193,932 3,553,289,725,308 26,332,871,815 4,796,928,019,484 Dividends (66,782,821,500) (66,782,821,500) Changes in accounting policies 511,088,058,066 57,026,761,426 (108,327,441,457) (1,211,545,026,339) 1,717,546,932,286 965,789,283,982 Disposal of treasury shares 138,453,881,054 117,261,964,907 255,715,845,961 As at January 1, 2012 (Restated) 529,217,335,000 1,394,724,657,318 (140,842,944,397) (106,006,247,525) 2,341,744,698,969 1,743,879,804,101 5,762,717,303,466 Increase of paid-in capital 1,503,445,000 11,110,458,550 12,613,903,550 Profit for the year 42,572,800,059 54,902,786,547 97,475,586,606 Stock option exercised 6,500,000 1,680,183,612 2,373,021,858 4,059,705,470 Remeasurement of the net defined Capital increase by issuing new shares benefit liability, net of tax (10,060,296,359) 53,907,162 (10,006,389,197) of subsidiaries (15,873,883,811) (893,975,027) 900,683,691,982 883,915,833,144 Net change in fair value of availableAcquisition of treasury shares by for-sale financial assets (30,526,891,363) (842,124,506) (31,369,015,869) subsidiaries (430,635,167) (11,337,366,949) (11,768,002,116) Effective portion of change in fair Dividends from hybrid equity value of cash flow hedges (25,517,456,062) 50,372,290,290 24,854,834,228 instruments (6,061,681,045) (7,477,714,955) (13,539,396,000) Equity adjustments in equity method Others (1,519,791,512) (1,030,278,527) (757,353,938) (3,307,423,977) investments (2,416,210,760) (600,739,863) (3,016,950,623) At December 31, 2013 530,791,280,000 1,521,655,341,205 (13,188,236,134) 324,556,819,190 2,362,821,296,186 3,185,157,701,118 7,911,794,201,565 Net loss on translation of foreign operations (110,891,588,103) (166,165,413,910) (277,057,002,013) Total comprehensive income (169,352,146,288) 32,512,503,700 (62,279,294,280) (199,118,936,868) Dividends (66,773,221,500) (101,023,939) (66,874,245,439) Stock option exercised 64,000,000 1,562,517,420 2,193,164,502 3,819,681,922 Changes in share of subsidiaries (12,874,058,540) (13,087,890,301) (25,961,948,841) Conversion of preferred stock 20,802,910,754 (31,377,902,976) (10,574,992,222) Issueance of hybrid equity instruments 508,259,603,649 508,259,603,649 Others (8,052,046,259) (178,041,664) 22,423,505,454 14,193,417,531 At December 31, 2012 529,281,335,000 1,388,235,128,479 (130,898,969,345) (275,358,393,813) 2,307,483,981,169 2,167,716,801,708 5,986,459,883,198 As at January 1, 2013 529,281,335,000 1,388,235,128,479 (130,898,969,345) (275,358,393,813) 2,307,483,981,169 2,167,716,801,708 5,986,459,883,198 Profit for the year 69,223,510,612 (50,560,684,680) 18,662,825,932 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liabilities, net of tax 58,821,074,484 82,652,226,941 141,473,301,425 Net change in fair value of availablefor-sale financial assets (16,948,721,673) (2,998,546,091) (19,947,267,764) Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges (39,443,253,772) (11,214,152,512) (50,657,406,284) Equity adjustments in equity method investments – debit (2,759,877,145) (371,948,161) (3,131,825,306) Net gain on translation of foreign operations (75,377,416,616) (17,452,962,196) (92,830,378,812) Net gain on revaluation of land 734,444,482,209 137,232,466 136,275,709,969 870,857,424,644 Total comprehensive income 599,915,213,003 128,181,817,562 136,329,643,270 864,426,673,835 96 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 97 Consolidated statements of cash flows Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction and its subsidiaries (Korean won in units) Item 2013 2012 Item 2013 2012 Operating activities: Financing activities: Cash generated from operating activities: Net increase in short-term borrowings 152,061,921,672 Profit for the year 18,662,825,932 97,475,586,606 Proceeds from current portion of long-term debt 117,000,000,000 Adjustments 1,777,624,103,190 1,835,842,591,112 Proceeds from asset backed loans 620,000,000,000 330,000,000,016 Working capital adjustments (924,436,130,462) (858,986,178,316) Issuance of debentures 1,155,801,483,500 1,580,757,793,885 Interest received 65,650,972,160 85,375,600,491 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 1,330,355,765,610 1,478,984,400,000 Interest paid (700,940,713,445) (1,215,366,405,655) Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares 299,918,800,070 Dividends received 5,624,266,779 6,455,014,353 Capital increase by issuing new shares of subsidiaries 883,915,833,144 530,535,202,054 Income taxes paid (91,747,497,840) (278,022,274,592) Stock option exercised 43,160,000 2,133,180,000 Net cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities 150,437,826,314 (327,226,066,001) Net decrease in short-term borrowings (17,005,645,675) Investing activities: Repayment of current portion of long-term debt (2,336,435,388,570) (2,428,799,578,047) Proceeds from disposal of short-term financial instruments 139,897,985,814 72,576,472,947 Repayment of assets backed loans (656,800,000,000) (388,559,277,489) Proceeds from disposal of short-term investments in securities 47,109,274,754 4,151,170,000 Repayment of debentures (310,174,143,523) (167,447,660,442) Collection of short-term loans 119,408,535,287 318,523,712,594 Repayment of long-term borrowing (982,493,058,161) (10,840,288,898) Proceeds from disposal of long-term financial instruments 9,611,466,277 2,524,467,359 Dividends paid (66,782,821,500) (66,773,221,500) Proceeds from disposal of long-term investment in securities 93,255,887,013 8,669,434,807 Dividends paid to holders of hybrid equity instruments (17,862,000,000) (101,023,939) Collection of long-term loans 27,494,654,224 1,496,624,257 Acquisition of additional shares in subsidiaries (3,699,999,990) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 109,620,267,563 110,572,135,345 Acquisition of treasury shares by subsidiaries (11,768,002,116) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 4,424,797,402 4,766,666,227 Net cash flows provided by financing activities 4,013,982,789 1,011,951,447,312 Proceeds from disposal of investment property 56,475,398,106 1,518,996,937 Other net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents: Proceeds from disposal of non-current assets classified as held-for-sale 4,872,000,000 12,500,000,000 Net foreign exchange difference 9,541,490,600 (2,986,646,302) Changes in scope of consolidated subsidiaries 4,687,791,850 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (884,390,047,760) (409,732,638,163) Acquisition of short-term financial instruments (426,032,782,232) (242,935,163,970) Cash and cash equivalents as at January 1 1,827,151,710,134 2,236,884,348,297 Acquisition of short-term investments in securities (39,282,339,734) Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31 942,761,662,374 1,827,151,710,134 Increase in short-term loans (389,349,882,306) (333,653,422,966) Acquisition of long-term financial instruments (22,234,079,904) (17,444,235,809) Acquisition of long-term financial investment (28,438,447,392) (67,555,363,527) Increase in long-term loans (22,196,476,852) (1,364,792,000) Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures (72,999,741,669) (13,272,284,877) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (401,455,378,897) (697,165,619,586) Acquisition of intangible assets (262,340,746,210) (255,380,170,910) Acquisition of investment property (911,530,557) Net cash flow used in investing activities (1,048,383,347,463) (1,091,471,373,172) 98 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 99 Independent auditors’ report Management’s assessment on internal control over financial reporting Independent auditors’ report Management’s assessment on internal control over financial reporting To the Board of Directors and Stockholders The Board of Directors and Internal auditor (Audit Committee) of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. March 20, 2014 February 13, 2014 We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, I, as the internal control over financial reporting officer (“ICFR Officer”) of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (“the Company”), assessed the status of the the Group), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as at December 31, 2013, and the consolidated statements of profit or loss, statements design and operations of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”) for the year ended December 31, 2013. of comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of The Company’s management including the ICFR Officer is responsible for the design and operations of its ICFR. I, as the ICFR Officer, assessed whether the ICFR has the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We did not audit the consolidated financial been effectively designed and has operated to prevent and detect any error or fraud which may cause any misstatement of the financial statements, for the purpose of statements of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and other subsidiaries, which reflect total assets constituting 66.29% (before elimination of intercompany transactions) of the establishing the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external financial reporting purposes. I, as the ICFR Officer, applied the total consolidated assets as at December 31, 2013 and total revenues constituting 66.41% (before elimination of intercompany transactions) of the total consolidated ICFR standards for the assessment of design and operations of the ICFR. sales for the year then ended. These financial statements were audited by other auditors whose reports were furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and other subsidiaries is based solely on the reports of the other auditors. Moreover, the consolidated statement of Based on the assessment of the operations of the ICFR, the Company’s ICFR has been effectively designed and has operated as of December 31, 2013, financial position as at December 31, 2012 and January 1, 2012, and the related consolidated statement of profit or loss, statement of comprehensive income, statement in all material respects, in accordance with the ICFR standard. of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012, presented for comparative purposes, were audited by KPMG Samjong Accounting Corporation, whose audit report dated July 26, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Myungho Jang, We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that we plan and perform the Internal Control over Financial Reporting Officer audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by Geewon Park, management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Chief Executive Officer or Chairman In our opinion, based on our audit and the reports of other auditors, the financial statements referred to above present fairly in all material respects, the financial position of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013, and the results of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (KIFRS). Without qualifying our opinion, the Group has restated the prior year consolidated financial statements presented for comparative purpose by applying the newly issued KIFRS 1110 as explained in Note 2. The accompanying consolidated statements of financial position as at December 31, 2012 and January 1, 2012, and the consolidated statements of profit or loss, statement of comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012 presented for comparative purpose are different from the audit report dated March 6, 2013 audited by KPMG Samjong Accounting Corporation. As mentioned in the preceding paragraph, we have conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea which may vary among countries. In addition, the procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Accordingly, this report and the accompanying consolidated financial statements are for use by those who are knowledgeable about Korean auditing standards and their application in practice. This audit report is effective as at March 20, 2014, the independent auditors’ report date. Accordingly, certain material subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred during the period from the auditors’ report date to the time this report is used. Such events and circumstances could significantly Seungwha Gweon, affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in modification to this report. EY Han Young 100 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 101 Independent Assurance Report Introduction Conclusion DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (hereinafter “DNV GL”) is commissioned to carry out the assurance engagement of the 2013 Integrated Report In DNV GL’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of DHIC’s (hereinafter “the Report”) of Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Co., Ltd. (hereinafter “DHIC”). This engagement focused on the information sustainability strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2013 Further conclusions and observations on the Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. DHIC is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and Materiality and Responsiveness, as set forth in the AA1000APS(2008) are made below; presentation of all information within the Report. DNV GL’s responsibility in performing the work follows terms of reference and scope of work agreed. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. DHIC’s Inclusivity stakeholders are the intended recipients of the assurance statement. DHIC has identified 6 main stakeholder groups as Customers, Employees, Shareholders and Investors, Suppliers, and Local community, Government. DHIC has derived expectations and interests of the stakeholder groups from a survey responded by the employees who are in relation with the Scope of Assurance respective stakeholder groups. The Report addresses the issues in respond to the interests and expectations which stakeholders have in DHIC. In our This Assurance Engagement covered data from the calendar year 2013. The scope of DNV GL’s Assurance Engagement includes only for operations view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Inclusivity is ‘Acceptable’. under control in Korea the review and assessment of followings: • Evaluation of the reporting principles for defining the integrated report content and the quality as expressed in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Materiality Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 DHIC has formed a sustainability issue pool by analyzing international sustainability standards, media news, issues addressed by industry peer group • ‌Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (APS) 2008 with a moderate level of and internal documents. The issue pool is the basis of screening relevant issues. DHIC has mapped out the significance and influence of issues and assurance and Type 1 as stated in AA1000 Assurance Standard (AS) 2008 prioritized sustainability issues that are most material. The output of the process clearly brings out material issues. In our view, the level at which the • Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines G4 (Core option) Report adheres to the principle of Materiality is ‘Good’. (Aggregated level of data that refers to the period between January and December 2013) Responsiveness Verification Methodology Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation of sustainability management The Assurance Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV GL Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustainTM strategy. DHIC has stated CSR strategy and sustainability governance in the Report. The material issues are provided in the report, which improves the V.4.1) and AA1000AS(2008). As part of the verification, we challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed responsiveness. In our view, the level at which the Report adheres to the principle of Responsiveness is ‘Good’. the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. In accordance with the Protocol, the Report was evaluated with regard to the following criteria: DNV GL has examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by DHIC. We acquired Opportunities for Improvement the information and technical data from the certified management systems. We performed sample-based audits of; The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to DHIC’s management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on • The process for determining the materiality of the contents to be included in the Report the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement; • The process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data included in the Report • E nhancing the engagement with external stakeholders to identify their expectations and interests over DHIC • The accuracy of data verified • E stablishing a process to improve the quality of data and information which are integrated into the Report • Visit to DHIC Head office in Changwon, Korea Limitation Statement of Competence and Independence The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of DHIC’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties DNV GL is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Any financial information from DHIC’s specialists operate in over 100 countries. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this annual report and company reporting on operations in 2013 or other sources are not included in the scope of the Assurance. Economic performances Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the verification process. based on the financial data were cross-checked with internal documents and the audited financial statements. The aggregation and calculation process for building economic performances is reviewed and tested by the verification team. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance Assurance Statement Nr.: AS-PRJC-504599-2014-AST-KOR_K are not verified, while the aggregated data are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. June 2014 Seoul, Republic of Korea Country Manager In-Kyoon Ahn 102 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report 2013 103 GRI G4 Index CATEGORY : General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Indicator Description Reporting External Classification Indicator Description Reporting External Page Page Status Assurance Status Assurance Strategy and Analysis Economic Economic Performance G4-1 CEO Message 6,7 ● 100-101 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 90~97 ● 100-101 G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 34,35 ● 100-101 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to Climate Change 34,35 ● 100-101 Organizational Profile EC3 Coverage of the Organization's defined benefit plan obligations 64 ● 100-101 G4-3 Name of the organization 14 ● 100-101 EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 80~83 ● 100-101 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 16,17 ● 100-101 Environmental Materials G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 14 ● 100-101 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 70 ● 100-101 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 70 ● 100-101 14,15 ● 100-101 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Energy G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 14,21 ● 100-101 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 55 ● 100-101 G4-8 Target markets (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 14~17 ● 100-101 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 52 ● 100-101 G4-9 Scale of the organization 14 ● 100-101 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 56 ● 100-101 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract, region, and gender 62 ● 100-101 Water G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 65 ● 100-101 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 70 ● 100-101 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 51,52 ◐ 100-101 Biodiversity G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain1) ● 100-101 EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 73 ● 100-101 G4-14 Organization’s precautionary approach or principle 58,59 ● 100-101 outside protected areas G4-15 External principles or initiatives that the company complies with2) ● 100-101 EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 73 ● 100-101 G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 3) ● 100-101 biodiversity value outside protected areas Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Emissions G4-17 Organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 14,15 ● 100-101 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 56,71 ● 100-101 G4-18 process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 32,33 ● 100-101 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 56 ● 100-101 G4-19 material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 33 ● 100-101 EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 71 ● 100-101 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization About this Report ● 100-101 Effluents and Waste G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization About this Report ● 100-101 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 71 ● 100-101 G4-22 effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements About this Report ● 100-101 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 71 ● 100-101 G4-23 significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries About this Report ● 100-101 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 71 ● 100-101 Report Profile EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies related habitats significantly affected by the 73 ● 100-101 organization's discharge of water and runoff G4-28 Reporting period About this Report ● 100-101 Products and Services G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this Report ● 100-101 EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 39 ● 100-101 G4-30 Reporting cycle About this Report ● 100-101 Overall G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About this Report ● 100-101 EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 72,73 ● 100-101 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 102~104 ● 100-101 Labor Practices Employment G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 100,101 ● 100-101 and Decent LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 63 ● 100-101 Governance Work LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by 64 ● 100-101 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 20,21 ● 100-101 significant locations or operation G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 20 ● 100-101 LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 64 ● 100-101 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 21 ● 100-101 Occupational Health and Safety Ethics and Integrity LA5 Safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 65 ◐ 100-101 G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 8,9,10,22 ● 100-101 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work76 ● 100-101 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity 23 ● 100-101 related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 76 ● 100-101 23 ● 100-101 integrity LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 65 ◐ 100-101 1) No significant change was witnessed during the reporting period 2) UNGC(UN Global Compact), CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project) 3) Join 60 organizations including the Federation of Korean Industries 104 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Specific Standard Disclosures Classification Indicator Description Reporting External Page Status Assurance Training and Education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 66~69 ● 100-101 LA10 Programs for skill management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 64 ● 100-101 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 63 ● 100-101 Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 20,62 ● 100-101 Human Right Investment Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR2 23 ● 100-101 are relevant to operations Child Labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor1) ● 100-101 Forced od Compulsory Labor HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor2) ● 100-101 Society Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO1 73,81,82,83 ● 100-101 development programs Anti-corruption SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 23 ● 100-101 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken3) ● 100-101 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines4) ● 100-101 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 51 ● 100-101 Product Product and Service Labeling Responsibility PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 84 ● 100-101 Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 84 ● 100-101 1) There is no worksite or supply chain with high possibility of child labor. 2) There is no worksite or supply chain with high possibility of forced labor. 3) There were 9 disciplinary actions (4 warnings or reprimands, 1 suspension, and 4 resignations) in 2013. 4) ‌We were imposed a penalty (KRW 2,794 million) on restriction on business activities as a holding company with regard to the Fair Trade Act from the Fair Trade Commission. However, we filed an appeal on the penalty with the Seoul High Court. Please refer to page 222 of our business report for details. This report has been printed with environmentally-friendly paper that used soy ink. Head Quarter/ 22, Doosan volvo-ro, Seongsan-gu, Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea Changwon Plant TEL. +82-55-278-6114 Seoul Office 465, Gangnam-daero, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea TEL. +82-2-513-6991~2 www.doosanheavy.com For any inquires or suggestion about the 2013 Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Integrated Report please contact Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction CSR Team (+82-55-278-3621).
