Pwani Oil Products Limited Communication on Progress Year: 2014 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact On behalf of Pwani Oil Products, Ltd, I am proud to reconfirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact. We first became a signatory in 2007 and did so out of the belief that the Global Compact’s 10 principles truly reflect Pwani’s operating philosophies, standards and processes. The company’s core values – Passion, Willingness, Accountability, Never give up and Initiative – are woven into everything we do and align with the UNGC principles. Within our control, we remain committed to adhering to and advancing the 10 Principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Management Team leads the entire range of activities with dedication and continues to identify sustaining ways of meeting our commitment to the UN Global Compact by balancing economic interests with those of the environment as well as with those that represent the needs and interests of the communities in which we operate and serve. Rajan Malde CEO October 2014 Company name: Pwani Oil Products Limited Sector: Food Manufacturing Edible Oils & Fats Number of employees: UN Global Compact signatory since: 13th Feb 2007 Contact person: Sara Mwaniki Address: Box 81927 Wahunzi Street Mombasa Email: rajul.malde@pwani.net or sara.mwaniki@pwani.net Phone: +254 41 2495563 Web: www.pwani.net Brief description of nature of business Pwani Oil Products Ltd, fondly known as Pwani”, was founded in 1985 by our Chairman, Ramesh Malde and Director, Anil Malde. Our beginnings were humble; selling out of a kiosk and with an initial production of 15 tons a day. Our first plant in Mombasa started production in 1985 with corn and coconut oil that later evolved into a palm oil refining plant. Today, our modern state of the art factory at Jomvu, Mombasa, has a capacity to refine over 500 metric tonnes of oil a day, prepared to the highest international standards. Adding to this, our new production facility at Kikambala produces excellent laundry and moisturizing beauty soaps, which is to the highest pharmaceutical quality. Pwani is now one of the largest manufacturers of high quality edible vegetable oils and fats, laundry and toilet soaps in the East and Central African region. Scope of this COP This communication on progress covers Pwani’s internal processes including relationship with employees, suppliers, consumers and the community. The report covers all the four broad areas labour, human rights, environment and anti-corruption. Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of UN Global Compact internationally proclaimed human rights principles covered: Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment The company has an elementary duty to observe, respect, protect, promote and fulfill the rights and fundamental freedoms of its employees and stakeholders. A brief description of our Processes or Systems The company has a well established human resource department which has the responsibility to equip employees with required skills and to deal with the needs of special groups within the company including women, older staff members, persons with disabilities, and persons with special medical needs. The company supports the under privileged in the community by providing them with basic requirements for a better life. Activities implemented in the last year 2014  Annual occupational medical examination on going  Community health support on going  Seminar’s on HIV / AIDS for better information, knowledge and awareness  A range of Environment Health and Safety (EHS) activities leading to 100% safety and healthy working environment.  Training to empower the employees at large with technical knowledge and skills.  Training to empower employees on social economic issues that affect them  Counselling centres within the HR department to cater to softer issues of the employees.  Promotion of staff expression through suggestion boxes and idea banks on the staff intranet. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  We have no records of human rights abuses  We have significantly reduced the number of accidents or incidents arising due to safety issues, and carried out aggressive campaigns to sensitise employees on value of safety at work  We have recorded no case of occupational disease in 2014 Activities planned for next year  A comprehensive Annual occupational medical examination on going for 2015  Community health support on going with partnership with various healthcare givers  Training to empower the employees at large with technical knowledge and skills.  Counselling centres within the HR department to cater to softer issues of the employees.  Publish and avail to staff all company policies and relevant labour laws Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced UN Global Compact and compulsory labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment Pwani is an equal opportunity employer with a firm policy in place to protect individuals’ rights against discriminatory practices on race, gender, sex, religion, marital status, ethnic or social origin, colour, age or disability. The company respects and applies fair labour practices in accordance with the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and other International Standards, eliminating all forms of labour malpractices. The company believes that working positively and directly with employees best serves their interests. Pwani also strives to work cooperatively with all heads of departments in the common pursuit of the interests of all employees and the Company’s mission. Our recruitment is very transparent whereby the vacancies are advertised on the website and any candidate who is employed is considered based on work experience relevant to the post applied. A brief description of our Processes or Systems It is the policy of Pwani that all employees be provided a work environment which is respectful and free from any form of inappropriate or unprofessional behavior, such as harassment including sexual harassment, pestering or bullying and any form of unlawful discrimination based on sex, gender, race, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, age, ethnic origin, or other inherent personal characteristic protected by law. We have a Sexual Harassment Policy in place which informs the Employees on the procedure to take in case faced with instances of harassment. The policy expresses the consequence if an employee is found guilty of the same. We also have a Grievance & Disciplinary Policy which details the procedures an Employee could utilize incase they have any grievance which is not addressed at their department immediately. We have implemented a system for checking and recording that all employees are paid above the minimum wage recommended by the Government. Electronic timecards, payroll, leave days and production records are put in place and reviewed on a regular basis. Overtime is voluntary and compensated at 1.5 pay rate on regular days and double rate during holidays and Sundays Each employee is entitled to 21 leave days annually as per the company’s human resource policy. Employees are also entitled to 15 days sick leave fully paid and 15 days sick leave half paid when accompanied with a medical certificate from the Doctor. The company forbids engagement of minors and persons below 18 years of age or exposure to situations in or outside the work place that are hazardous, unfair or unhealthy. Pwani Oil seeks to have a positive impact on the reduction of unlawful child labor and child exploitation. Pwani Oil expects the suppliers and contractors with whom it does business to embrace similar values and standards. The company is committed to fighting HIV/AIDs discrimination and stigma in its workplace and has a Policy documented on the same which assures Employees on the Company’s stand on HIV related issues. Activities implemented in the last year  Restructuring Pwani recognises that for a business to grow and meet the ever competitive demands of the industry there is a constant need for an organisation to change the way it runs its business. These changes are the organisational restructures which are very crucial for any business. In 2011, the company conducted a major restructuring process which would give a clear career progression to the employees. The continuous alignment of functions at Pwani is also meant to ensure a strong leadership path that meets current and future business needs is in place. HR in conjunction with senior management conduct an annual talent review of the company’s business to ensure organisational effectiveness and workforce capability needs are being met. In 2011, 23 employees were promoted and 6 moved to other sections where their full potential could be realised.  Compensation and Benefits Pwani’s vision is to become a leading employer of choice in Kenya by providing its employees with comprehensive compensation and benefits programmes. The company introduced a performance based salary review system where employee input is handsomely rewarded. This has greatly motivated employees who feel much appreciated. In 2011, 37 employees received more than 20% pay increase; 213 received 15% while 92 received more than 10%.  Welfare Pwani day – staff day out to celebrate with the directors the success of the organization  Capacity Development Pwani provides a wide variety of training and development resources for employees to apply to their current role and develop in their career development through the company’s training system. HR department developed a skills matrix to identify employees’ training needs. They include: good manufacturing Practice (GMP), production efficiency, energy management, IT skills; environment health and safety; and quality. In addition, the company has embraced ICT by creating intranet where can access life skills that can help them manage life challenge outside work. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  We have been identified by the Ministry of labor as upholding good labor practices in line with both the ILO and the Kenyan Labor Laws  There has been no labour conflict and this has led to good relationship between management and staff.  Reduced injury levels  Increased work morale and accountability amongst staff.  Structured communication leading to a better sense of ‘Ownership’ amongst the employees.  Structured incentive schemes that run across the entire company Activities planned for next year  To run a structured youth empowerment program through partnership with the local institutions through attachment  Increased internal recruitments to offer more career growth opportunities to staff.  Peak Performance strategies that seek to ensure that we maintain zero wastage of utilities consumption and to improve business efficiencies. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environmentally Friendly Technologies Pwani business strategy is guided by environmental concerns and considerations that undoubtedly play an important role in the future of the industry, and thus these issues are high on the company’s agenda. The edible oil industry in Kenya has become competitive compelling companies to focus on more environmentally friendly equipment and solutions. Over the period of 2012 to 2014, Pwani set targets of reducing its variable cost where energy presented a great potential for cost saving through technology change. Among the avenues pursued include:  Maxiflo Technology: The Maxiflo is a highly efficient condensate removal system which is an alternative to conventional steam traps. Unlike steam traps, the Maxiflo has as no moving parts and harnesses kinetic energy from steam, to eject condensate continuously. With over 200 units of Maxiflo having been installed, the company has seen improvement in thermal efficiency of process equipments by up to 15%.  New fractionation plant: Pneumatic to hydrolic system. The old pneumatic filter press requires 4 bars of compresed air for filtration process. By replacing pneumatic filter press with a hyrolic one, the company has reduced compressed air demand and hence electricity consumption by air compressors. Additionally, the new system has a higher refined oil output guaranteeing our customers of high quality oil products. Tree Planting Majority of people in Kilifi County live below poverty line and depend on the natural resources (e.g. forest) for their livelihoods, putting it under enormous strain from deforestation due to the needs of agriculture and settlement. Every year, Pwani sets aside around 240 000 Kenyan shillings to help in tackling the rapid depletion of tree cover in the county. The funds, channelled through EHS department, are meant to promote tree planting in schools and farms and create awareness of the need to protect indigenous forests. Since 2013, we have partnered with community based organisations and government agencies to encourage sustainable development through conservation. Activities include rehabilitating degraded forest areas, supporting communities to establish tree nurseries and raising environmental awareness. Part of trees planted by Pwani Managing Energy Use Energy use is a key issue for Pwani operations, particularly as regards to thermal and motive energy. We have identified energy management as key element that could assist the company to reduce its overall operation costs. The company’s energy cost accounts for an average 75% of the total variable cost per annum, where 64% of the energy account is made up of the solid and liquid fuel expenses. Electricity accounts for the remaining 36% of the annual energy bill. The elements of the energy cost have been rising over the years with the fuel consumption rising at higher rate than electricity consumption. From the year 2010, the general trend has been an increase in the energy required per unit of final product (energy intensity). However, in 2013, the company achieved a reduction in energy intensity (2.4GJ/Ton in 2013 from 2.9GJ/Ton in 2012) attributed to energy consumption reduction strategies implemented in that year. The company has invested in technology change with the aim of improving output to satisfy its growing customer base as well as increase energy productivity of its production processes. Some of the measures taken include: 1. Steam Monitoring Pwani has installed steam flow meters to measure steam consumption by each process unit. Initially, factory steam consumption was measured through a single meter on the main distribution line making it difficult to ascertain steam consumption efficiency of each section. By installing the flow meters, consumption efficiency for each unit has improved lowering the overall steam requirement by the plant. Steam metering for each consumption unit Steam Monitoring 2. Steam Consumption Controls In the past, all raw material and product storage tanks were heated continuously leading to steam wastages and compromising product quality. The company has since installed temperature controllers that regulate the amount of steam consumed. Temperature controllers installed on tanks Boiler Air-Preheating Harnessing of thermal energy in flue gas was identified as one of the energy efficiency opportunities in steam generation during a consultative meeting of the Energy Management committee in May 2013. In the initial setup, the combustion chambers of the biomass boilers were being fanned by means of Forced Draft fans that drew in air from the surrounding usually at a round 30 oC. At such temperature the air cannot accelerate combustion especially where moisture content of fuel is high. FD fan faning the boiler with cold air Biomass Boiler The aim of the project was to raise the temperature of incoming air by pre-heating it using flue gas (which is usually between 220oC and 270oC). The project involved installation of a tubular heat exchanger in the economiser. The tubes of the heat exchanger are heated by the hot flue gas and as the air passes through the heat exchanger, it is heated raising the air temperature to over 100oC. Hot air inlet Modified Boiler FD fan connected to the economiser to preheat air Since installation, there has been great improvement in fuel combustion resulting in a 5-10 per cent in fuel savings. A total of 6500kgs of biomass is saved per day. The plant can now run on two boilers instead of three. This gives a saving of 80KWh of electricity per day for not using an extra boiler. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Pwani Oil is committed to the principles of good governance and shall ensure that policies, programmes, guidelines and practices to manage corporate governance and ethics are always in place and observed. A brief description of our Processes or Systems The company endeavours always to foster an effective ethics system which is open and transparent in order for employees and stakeholders to feel comfortable raising issues they believe are inconsistent with the company norms. We have a policy in place to curb conflict of interest between our employees and the business aspect of the company. No employee is supposed to engage in business of similar manner with that of the company. Employees are also not allowed to be part of suppliers of input materials to the company. Pwani expects employees to avoid any activity, investment, association or interest that might reflect unfavorably upon the integrity or good name of the company or of themselves. They are obligated to place company’s interest in any business transaction ahead of any personal interest or personal gain to either themselves or to their spouse, family member or other individual. We have supplier pre-qualifications requirements before we engage doing business e.g. they must be tax compliant (have VAT and pin numbers) and licensed to operate. Activities implemented in the last year  We have put in place a fully fledged internal audit department  We operate a fully fledged internal security department  We engage the services of external auditors and Tax consultants to verify our records and business engagements.  Pwani is an active member of the edible oils industry grouping that has come together to fight trade malpractice in the industry and promote ethical business.  We participated and led the edible oils industry in fight against illegally imported products which are hurting both the industry and the Kenyan economy  We operate under extreme transparency in both operations and financials information sharing across entire management team.  We do open tenders for some key services while giving relevant service review for other key suppliers Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  No significant audit issues  We have not experienced any violations  Positive influence of the supplier chain Activities planned for next year  Sensitisation of staff on business ethics and governance  Strengthening the Internal Audit Department to make sure all the processes and policies to the company are audited leading to 100% adherence of the Policy.  Use of two different audit firms – One for normal statutory audit and the other for tax compliance checking How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We intend to make this COP report known to all our stakeholders  For our staff this report shall be circulated online through the intranet and notice boards.  For all other stakeholders this report shall be uploaded to the company website as well as the UN Global Compact website. Donations, awards  Energy Efficiency Award  Donation of products to Olive Rehabilitation Centre, Mombasa
