2014 Global Citizenship Report ® content INT R O D U CTION 3 W HAT W E D O 4 CA R T U S CULTU R E 5 O U R PEOPLE 6 ETHI CS AN D COMPLIANCE 9 CA R IN G F OR OU R COMMUNITIES 11 EN V I R ONMENTAL STEWAR D SHIP 13 S U STAINABLE PR OCU R EMENT 15 About this report: For more information on global citizenship efforts at Cartus, please visit our online resource page at http://guidance.cartusrelocation.com/global-citizenship.html. www.cartus.com | trustedguidance@cartus.com | connect with us ©2014 Cartus Corporation. All rights reserved. Cartus and the Cartus logo are pending or registered trademarks of Cartus Corporation. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 02 INTRODUCTION Statement of Support from the CEO To Cartus stakeholders: I continue to be extraordinarily proud of our company and its people for the generosity, involvement, and commitment to our sustainability efforts and results. This is part of our company culture—not only supporting our clients and their relocating employees, but also in how we give back to our communities around the world. We continue to support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2013, we built upon our commitment to the Global Compact by continuing our efforts in the key areas of concern (people development, support for our communities, environmental stewardship, and sustainable supplier management). In addition, we made great strides in these areas with new initiatives, all described in the Global Citizenship Report that follows. Kevin Kelleher serves as vice chair Highlights of our progress include: of the capital campaign for Regional • Remaining focused on worldwide compliance in the environmental and human rights Hospice and Home Care of Western circles, evidenced by continued efforts in every aspect of our business. Connecticut’s new 12-bed hospice residence, Connecticut’s first such facility • Working to protect our clients by maintaining stringent controls to ensure data integrity with private patient suites, to be built in and protection, including policies and procedures for protection of private information, Danbury, CT. Kevin and his family wrote messages of hope and inspiration before SSAE 16 certification, and Safe Harbor self-certification. the metal beam was lowered into its • And always, we are guided by the concept of what’s right—a focus on ethical behavior that place at the center of the building. unifies our practices and interactions—our parent company was named one of the world’s most ethical companies for the third straight year, a designation that Cartus takes equally seriously and considers a primary goal. Our laser focus on social responsibility and global citizenship is something that differentiates Cartus in our industry. Once again, I encourage you to read the report and learn about how Cartus and the people who make up our company are making a real difference. Kevin Kelleher President and CEO Kevin welcoming Tanzanian medical providers visiting the Cartus Wellness Center during their trip to the U.S. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 03 WHAT WE DO Solutions for Every Move You Make Our expertise began almost 60 years ago, when Cartus first offered • Our services cover every aspect of the relocation process—from U.S. domestic home-finding assistance. Since then, we have grown to selling a home and shipping household goods to settling into new become the most trusted guide in the global relocation industry. communities around the world. We provide logistical support as • Cartus is part of Realogy Holdings Corp (NYSE: RLGY), a global well as international assignment compensation services, intercultural leader in real estate franchising and provider of real estate brokerage, and language training, consulting services, real estate assistance relocation, and settlement services. programs, and talent management and retention. • Cartus is the industry leader in mobility support to organizations • Through our ISO-certified Supply Chain Management team, we worldwide. With nearly 3,000 Cartus employees—more than 800 employ the best suppliers in the industry, obtain the best prices, and based in EMEA and Asia/Pacific—and 20 offices worldwide, our manage them better than anyone else. clients trust us to assist more than 165,000 transferees, expatriate assignees and relocating families each year into and out of more than 150 countries. Our Asia/Pacific team was honored with a Gold Award for Excellence in Employee Work-Life Balance, recognizing innovative approaches that enable our employees to achieve a healthy work-life balance. Presented by the Forum for Expatriate Management, the 2013 Expatriate Management and Mobility Awards (EMMAs) marked a second successful year of EMMA wins for Cartus. Our 2013 EMMAs included Best Vendor Partnership with Procter & Gamble, Most Innovative Use of Technology in Global Mobility, Relocation Management Company of the Year, and the Thought Leadership—Survey or Research Study of the Year. For the third straight year, our parent company, Realogy, was named one of the ™ World’s Most Ethical (WME) companies by the Ethisphere® Institute. The WME ® designation recognizes companies that truly go beyond making statements about doing business ethically and translate those words into action. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 04 CARTUS CULTURE Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles The Cartus culture drives everything we do—both UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE CARTUS EFFORTS collectively as an organization and individually as members Human Rights Because Cartus is a service-based business, of the Cartus family. As part of that culture, our focus on Principle 1: Support and respect the the services we offer are only as good as our global citizenship reflects our commitment to the Ten protection of internationally proclaimed people. Our mission is to provide trusted Principles of the UN Global Compact. Specifically, this human rights. guidance so our clients and customers succeed—that is our focus. As part of this commitment shows not only in how we provide service to Principle 2: Ensure that the company is not mission, we follow the UN Global Compact our clients and their relocating employees, but also in what complicit in human rights abuses. human rights principles according to the our company and employees give back to our communities nature of our business. and our planet. Labor We are an extremely diverse global Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of organization, including age, gender, religion, association and the effective recognition heritage, family, interests, experiences, and Mission style. This diversity helps everyone—from of the right to collective bargaining. We come to work every day to help our customers and clients employees to suppliers worldwide—expand succeed, fulfilling the needs and earning the trust of those whose Principle 4: Work to eliminate all forms of their understanding of the world, and these lives we touch. forced or compulsory labor. differences foster richly varying perspectives. Principle 5: Work to effectively abolish Vision child labor. We will provide trusted guidance by sharing and leveraging Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination with our vast body of knowledge and experience to create superior respect to employment and occupation. solutions, build relationships, and bring more value to all our stakeholders. We will work together each day to achieve Environment As a corporate citizen of Planet Earth, we are Principle 7: Businesses should support a committed to reducing the environmental excellence in all we do, fostering trust and confirming our precautionary approach to environmental impact of our company and continually look at leadership position in the markets we serve. multiple ways to reduce our carbon footprint challenges. Values and to educate our employees on conservation Principle 8: Undertake initiatives activities. Through these efforts, we show our Service: We are defined by our service. to promote greater environmental commitment to the Environmental Principles of Financial Responsibility: We manage all resources responsibility. the UN Global Compact. as if they were our own. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Respect: We respect others and treat people well. technologies. Collaboration: We are better when we work together. Anti-corruption We know that how we carry ourselves and treat Ethical Behavior: We do the right thing. Principle 10: Work against corruption in all others affects how our stakeholders ultimately forms, including extortion and bribery. view our company. In support of this goal, we maintain a Compliance and Ethics Program As a business participant in the UN Global Compact, Cartus that includes specific anti-corruption policies has made a commitment to integrate the Ten Principles and procedures; key components include into our strategic planning and day-to-day operations. The our Code of Ethics and Key Policies, the two cornerstone documents of our corporate following Communication on Progress (COP) details our culture. The result: our parent company has efforts to fulfill this mission. been named one of the world’s most ethical companies for three straight years. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 05 OUR PEOPLE We Respect Those We Work With and For At Cartus, we continue to respect others and treat people well. We • In November, Cartus hosted an enrollment for American Cancer show respect to everyone we interact with, internally and externally, Society’s Cancer Prevention Study 3 (CPS-3). CPS-3 is a long-term earning both their confidence and their trust in return. Being both research study to help better understand the lifestyle, environmental, global and diverse, we are attuned to the nuances of culture and and genetic factors that cause or prevent cancer and to ultimately diversity. We foster and sustain an environment that is inclusive and eliminate cancer as a major health problem. The enrollment consisted supportive; we consider this essential to both the excellence of our of a survey, a small blood sample, and the promise to complete work and to the company we strive to be. We create opportunities for periodic surveys in the future. our employees to get involved, build satisfying careers, balance life and • Our offices around the world held wellness fairs, health screenings, work, and grow personally and professionally. and information sessions. As part of a workplace program to promote healthy living, for example, employees in the Hong Kong office Comprehensive Health and Safety Program recently participated in the “Weight Management & Blood Pressure Highlights of the ways in which we continued to encourage and support Monitor”—a monthly program to better understand their body the overall health and safety of Cartus employees in 2013 include: composition in terms of weight, body fat, water content, muscle mass • We completed and implemented health and safety policies that now percentage, and blood pressure. cover all of our global offices. • Our onsite Wellness Center in Danbury supported 4,000 visits in 2013 • Our Crisis Management Team updated the company’s Pandemic and and saved employees hundreds of thousands of dollars in health Infectious Disease Plan to reflect changes in direction from the World insurance fees since it opened 10 years ago. Health Organization. • Our Facilities and Security teams participated in a SWAT drill in Danbury, held in conjunction with the Danbury Police Department and Western Connecticut Health Network Paramedics. Our Singapore, Shanghai, Drew Morten, MPH, Danbury, and Geneva offices PA-C, at the onsite American Cancer have set up running clubs, with Wellness Center in Society’s Cancer participants meeting regularly Danbury. Prevention Study 3. during lunch to exercise. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 06 OUR PEOPLE Diversity and Inclusion Makes Us a Better Company At Cartus, understanding and accepting cultural diversity remains key to Through the Diversity Council and its associated resource groups, we our core value of Respect. We embrace diversity because it resonates create an inclusive environment in our offices and learn more about with our value to respect and welcome differences. Our sensitivity to each other. Diversity events have included: each other and to our customers’ unique and individual needs not only • Cultural celebrations, such as our Singapore office’s celebration of makes us a better service provider, but also makes us a richer, more the Year of the Horse. Cartus Honors Veterans—2013 video. vibrant company. • The Veterans Hall of Fame, which Click to watch. was created in the Danbury In our hiring and advancement practices, Cartus continues to disregard headquarters. race, color, religion, national origin, citizenship, age, sex, gender, • A program on the Holocaust, sexual orientation, sexual preference, veteran status, marital status, consisting of recorded interviews disability, or any other characteristic protected under applicable laws of two survivors as well as a and regulations. We make reasonable accommodations for qualified discussion with a local rabbi. disabled employees and applicants. • A panel on Women in Leadership. We are particularly proud of our gender diversity. • International Food Day, held around the globe in our offices. • A lunchtime presentation on Doing Business in China. 67% 53% • Regular emails describing facts about African-American history for Black History Month. Managers Vice President and Above and Above 72% 28% Cartus Global Staff The Cartus Global Diversity and Inclusion Council, executive sponsored by President Kevin Kelleher, has coordinated inclusion activities across our company. Director of Supply Chain Management Ken Collectively, our employees speak more Eng has been chosen as the 2013 winner than 50 languages worldwide. of the Cartus Diversity and Inclusion Award and the winner of Realogy’s 2013 Diversity and Inclusion Award. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 07 OUR PEOPLE Recognizing People Who Do Great Things As part of our core value of Respect, Cartus creates opportunities for In March 2014, our offices and employees around the world celebrated our employees to get involved, build satisfying careers, balance life and BRAVO! Day—a global celebration and opportunity to say thank you for work, and grow personally and professionally. We extend this internal everyone’s contribution to great service, collaboration, respect, financial culture of respect to all those whom we touch every day—because responsibility, and ethical behavior. Special celebrations were held in all respect is essential to every healthy relationship. offices by our various departments to say thanks to our most important asset—our people. Evidence of the value we place on our employees includes the exceptional benefits Cartus provides, including: Cartus is also proud to recognize the winners of the 2013 BRAVO! • Paid parental leave—a new benefit in 2014 President’s Awards, which reward exceptional achievement and • Adoption assistance consistent demonstration of one or more of Cartus’ company values: • Domestic partner benefits • Gold: Patty Ginochio—Director, Account Management; Bodega Bay, CA • Flexible work options such as telecommuting and flex time • Silver: Anne Sorrells—Director, Customer Finance; Danbury, CT • Bronze: Alzone Ang—Director, Client Services; Singapore Additionally, we are proud of the career opportunities we provide. Last These three winners exemplify the Cartus Culture. year, Cartus promoted or offered new positions to 450 employees—16 percent of our workforce. BRAVO! Day—a global celebration and opportunity to say thank you for everyone’s contribution BRAVO! President’s Gold Award to great service, collaboration, respect, financial responsibility, and ethical behavior. winner Patty Ginochio. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 8 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE We Are Recognized for Doing the Right Thing In 2013, Cartus continued to live our core value of being ethical and Our company’s and people’s efforts to continue doing the right thing compliant in everything we do—“doing the right thing.” This value include: mandates ethical behavior in all our business dealings. We conduct • Maintaining the 24-7 Ethics Hotline, available to all Cartus ourselves and our business with the utmost integrity. We comply with employees—the company addressed 43 issues brought to our our internal and external commitments, and we make the ethical choice attention through the hotline. whenever challenges present themselves. Our cultural of integrity as a • Annual required Compliance and Ethics training for every Cartus company is absolute and non-negotiable. employees, including: –– Code of Ethics and Key Policies As part of the Realogy value circle, we are proud to be named to –– Information Management and Security Ethisphere® Institute’s “World’s Most Ethical Companies” list for the –– Anti-corruption and bribery efforts third consecutive year. 100% of our employees complete code of ethics training every year. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 9 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Stringent Data Security Protocols Protect Those We Work For The security for all of our systems remained a key focus for us in Additionally, penetration tests are used to determine security 2013 as we: weaknesses of a computer system, network, or Web application to find • Were subject to regular reviews by our clients, external auditors, and vulnerabilities that an attacker could exploit. They can also be used to other professional oversight organizations. test an organization’s security policy compliance, its employees’ security • Completed three Data Center Disaster Recovery Exercises and awareness, and the organization’s ability to identify and respond to participated in two Realogy Disaster Recovery Exercises. security incidents. As part of our ongoing focus on system security, Cartus penetration testing in 2013 included: • Ensured seamless service and business delivery in the face of 14 major weather-related events globally through our Business • Testing conducted by third-party resources to ensure independence. Continuity plans. • Penetration testing by our parent company, Realogy. • Received annual SSAE 16 certification covering key controls over our Relocation Accounting Services. • Protected data by implementing encryption strategies for data backups and data at rest. In 2013, Cartus’ systems blocked approximately 50 million spam messages and a total of 125,055 viruses. CORPORATE COMPLIANCE & ETHICS WEEK MAY 4-10, 2014 Compliance Makes a Difference CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 10 CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work In 2013, Cartus employees around the world raised over US$300,000 • Two Swindon colleagues made and sold Easter candy to support a through charitable events in support of the United Way, Community cure for motor neuron disease. Health Charities, American Cancer Society, Junior Achievement, March • 92 volunteers participated in the United Way’s annual Day of Action, of Dimes, Red Cross, British Heart Foundation, Singapore Cancer volunteering more than 650 hours dedicated to projects in the Society, Children’s Aid Society of Singapore, and many other charities community around our corporate headquarters in Danbury, CT. supported by our employees. Our people also donated hundreds of • Employees in Hong Kong dressed in various shades of pink to show hours of time to their chosen causes and donated food, clothing, and their support for the breast cancer campaign. other goods to where they were needed. • Minneapolis staff collected food and clothing for their city’s homeless population. • A team in the Singapore office collected 150 bags of clothing for typhoon victims in Mindanao. • Chicago staff walked to support the search for an MS cure. • In the Swindon UK office, an employee took her first skydive to raise funds for her local ambulance service. Cartus employees participate in United Way’s annual Day of Action. A UK employee took her Cartus Hong Kong supports the breast cancer campaign. first skydive for charity. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 11 CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES Cartus Cares for People Where We Live and Work • Cartus was recently named for the fourth straight year to The • A Cartus team recently took part in Swindon’s Mad March Hare 10K Governor’s Prevention Partnership 2014 Mentoring Corporate Honor Run to raise awareness for Breakthrough Breast Cancer—UK’s leading Roll, which thanks companies for their leadership in advancing the charity dedicated to preventing breast cancer deaths. mentoring movement in Connecticut. Cartus has 29 employees • Cartus was honored by United Way of Western who serve as mentors through Danbury Schools and Business Connecticut with its “Corporate Volunteer Collaborative’s program. Award.” The award honors Cartus employees • Cartus Shanghai held its first Charity Family Day, welcoming 11 who annually dedicate thousands of hours to children and family members on this fun-filled day promoting volunteer outreach efforts—locally and around bonding and camaraderie. A silent fundraising auction of items the world. With the leadership of Cartus donated by the children and Cartus staff raised RMB400 for the employees, more than $1.5 million has been Cartus APAC Cares fund. raised for the needful in local communities. Charity Family Day—Cartus, Swindon’s Mad March Hare Shanghai. 10K Run. Cartus attendees at The Partnership’s 25th Anniversary Celebration and Corporate Honor Roll recognition— including Larry Post (far left), a mentor for 20 years. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 12 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Taking the Extra Step to “Go Green” At Cartus, we are committed to staying abreast of the ever-growing • Our global recycling efforts in 2013 resulted in these environmental needs of our industry and our clients and pursuing and accomplishments. maintaining high corporate environmental standards. Therefore, we are –– We recycled approximately 30 tons of comingled waste—material constantly developing and implementing new policies and procedures that will not end up in landfills. as we see the need. –– Cartus’ office supply recycling program saves the company an estimated $25,000 annually. We make environmental stewardship a priority through carpooling, –– Use of Shred-it® bins (U.S. offices only) resulted in 1,312 trees recycling, conservation, and effective office management practices such saved. as paper reduction. Our Conservation Committee has been in place for –– Our people have recycled 990.42 pounds (0.495 tons) of lamps, more than 10 years. We are committed to reducing the environmental batteries, and other office items. impact of our company and continually look at multiple ways to reduce • Elimination of Styrofoam cups from our global headquarters’ our carbon footprint and to educate our employees on conservation cafeterias and discounts for employees using their own cup or mug activities. (headquarters cafeterias). The Danbury office has reduced the use of • We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and continually look Styrofoam by 2,400 cups per week. to reduce our footprint in all areas. We are also working to establish additional baseline measures (e.g., travel miles, domestic and international air travel) to set more meaningful goals. • The Cartus Conservation Committee sponsored the annual Danbury Earth Day Fair, which provides our employees with environmental and conservation products and services for both home and office. • Ongoing technology conservation efforts include: –– All computer monitors are turned off at the end of the business day. –– Monitors enter sleep mode after 10 minutes of non-usage. –– Computers, printers, and photocopiers are programmed to switch to power-save mode when they have been idle for a specified time Cartus Conservation Committee at Earth Day Fair— Cartus, Danbury. period. –– Multi-function printers default to double-sided printing for all printing and copying jobs. The 2013 amount of carbon produced was 6929.743 metric tons, including 9.82 percent Scope 1 carbon and 90.18 percent Scope 2 carbon. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 13 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Carpooling—Making a Difference for the Earth The Cartus International Transit Day—2013 video. Click to watch. Last year, the Cartus Conservation Committee sponsored our inaugural The goal of this event was to International Transit Day. Cartus employees all over the world joined decrease (and track) our company’s together to make a positive impact on the environment by sharing a carbon footprint in an effort to raise ride, walking, taking a train or a bus, or riding a bike to work—and in environmental awareness. some cases, using roller skates, skateboards, and tricycles. Two hundred ninety-seven Cartus employees In 2013, 350 employees were actively involved in worldwide participated in the International carpooling, an effort that reduced CO2 emissions Transit Day, saving approximately 359.3 gallons by nearly 335 tons and resulted in a savings of of gas and reducing emissions by about 3.5 tons. more than 34,000 gallons of gasoline. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 14 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Ensuring Compliance, Security, and Value Our commitment to global sustainability extends to managing the • We strongly encourage our supplier partners to develop and suppliers we use to serve our clients and their employees. Cartus implement innovative solutions to sustainability challenges in the maintains a vast ISO-certified network of suppliers around the globe services they provide our clients. In 2013, some of these solutions who provided support to clients and assignees in more than 150 included: countries in 2013 and in every key phase of the relocation experience, –– One of our van line partners developed environmental solutions including destination support, home finding, temporary housing, to deal with fleet maintenance and field operations challenges, and household goods shipment. Our networks are experienced and including recycling engine oil, taking steps to improve fuel monitored by 186 regionally based Cartus Supply Chain staff, facilitating efficiency, and recycling packing materials on a regular basis. accurate, proximate monitoring and support. –– Another van line partner created a gas and oil drain service to • Cartus holds every member of our supply chain to the same prevent accelerant fires during moves. standards we apply to our efforts. Each network supplier signs a –– A temporary housing partner implemented a new centralized and contract agreeing to full compliance with all laws and regulations and automated data system that eliminated much of the paperwork with global human rights mandates. associated with its services. • Our global network suppliers undergo mandatory annual ethics and compliance training, and Cartus introduced a new standardized Risk Management System (SAI) to further reinforce supplier compliance through a formal reporting and contract management system for annual compliance certification, background checks, and PII/system compliance. Flags displayed for each country represented at the 2013 Cartus Global Network conference. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 15 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Promoting Supplier Diversity Cartus is dedicated to promoting diversity and building it into our • Cartus was nominated for the Greater New England Minority Supplier corporate culture. Since establishing a formal Supplier Diversity Development Council (GNEMSDC) Corporation of the Year Award, Initiative in 1983, Cartus has become a recognized leader in this area given to the company that exhibits exemplary achievements in the and the recipient of numerous awards. Our diversity department area of minority supplier development. conducts outreach, monitoring, and measurement. • Tom Davis, Vice President of External Supplier Diversity, continues to • In 2013, we disbursed $41.5 million to minorityand women-owned serve on the board of directors of GNEMSDC. businesses (and over the past five years have disbursed more than • Cartus awarded the 2013 Global Citizenship Award to our supplier, $200 million). Nuss Relocations. Tom Davis and Cartus professionals at the Nuss Relocations, winner of the 2013 GNEMSDC conference. Global Citizenship Award. CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 16 CARTUS | 2 0 1 4 G LOBAL C ITIZENSHIP R EPO R T | 17 cartus Trusted Guidance – For Every Move You Make SM. Cartus guides our clients through thousands of unique and complex programs. Ideally equipped to lead you, Cartus is ready to help—whatever, whenever, wherever your program is moving. To learn more, please email trustedguidance@cartus.com or visit www.cartus.com, www.cartusblog.com.
