Tudor House, 6 Friar Lane Leicester LE1 5RA, United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)116 222 9900 Fax: +44 (0)116 222 9901 hello@tudor-rose.co.uk www.tudor-rose.co.uk 31st January 2014 Global Compact Communication on Progress To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Tudor Rose reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Jon Ingleton Managing director Tudor Rose Holdings Ltd. Registered address: Tudor House, 6 Friar Lane, Leicester LE1 5RA, United Kingdom Registered in England, number 3404118. VAT: GB 715 113 083 Tudor Rose Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Tudor Rose confirms its faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women. The company encourages personal responsibility – while accounting for issues of equality and diversity – and promotes social progress and better standards of life within its sphere of influence. Implementation Tudor Rose has effective health and safety procedures in place, which comply with industry, national and international standards. We also continue to ensure that staff are afforded safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities; that the working week is limited to 40 hours; that overtime is infrequent and limited; and that employees are given reasonable breaks and rest periods. We are mindful of protecting workers from any form of workplace harassment. We are in full support of the Women’s Empowerment Principles initiative and have signed the CEO Statement of Support, adding our company’s name to the official list of signatories. Tudor Rose also continues to produce publications covering social, political and technological progress for the betterment of a wide range of human development issues around the world. Human resource policies and procedures are made available to each member of staff by means of the company handbook. Measurement of outcomes Tudor Rose senior management periodically reviews the company’s responsibilities towards human rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals Tudor Rose supports the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We recognise the rights of employees to freedom of association and to bargain collectively and we encourage employees to gather independently to discuss work-related problems. Implementation Tudor Rose has written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any discriminatory characteristics. The company has implemented a mechanism for hearing, processing, and settling employees’ grievances as well as a public disclosure or ‘whistle blowing’ policy. Employees are consulted in a periodic assessment of company strategy. 2 Tudor Rose Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes Tudor Rose senior management periodically reviews the company’s responsibilities towards labour rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals At Tudor Rose we are committed to operating our business responsibly, complying with, and ideally exceeding, environmental legislation and approved codes of practice. We are aware that this demands ongoing review and internal housekeeping, and aim to continually improve our performance. Our ethical procurement policy urges us to consider the environmental and ethical performance of companies in our supply chain and, wherever financially viable, give preference to products and suppliers with the least environmental impact and highest ethical values. As a publisher of books and magazines, our goals for the upcoming year are to reduce the number copies printed in favour of distributing content digitally, being also mindful that digital distribution also has its own carbon footprint. Implementation Tudor Rose sits on the UK’s Professional Publishers Association (PPA) environment committee that works closely with the UK Government in helping shape environmental policy, and has successfully worked to increase recycling rates. We are helping to pioneer the PPA’s Carbon Calculator – an industry-wide initiative to understand, minimise and manage the impacts of magazine publishing in the UK, allowing publishers to estimate the anticipated carbon footprint of key elements of their business. The printing of our magazines and books is carried out by suppliers that use FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified material. This accreditation guarantees that the paper comes from responsible and rigorously controlled sources. We only use paper which is certified ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free). We ensure that our print suppliers use vegetable-based inks as standard. At Tudor Rose, we are mindful of sustainability programmes such as WRAP (Waste Resources Action Programme) and the OPRL (On-Pack Recycling Label) whose combined recent work has resulted in amendments to previous recommendations on the use of plastic film. As such, we are now focused on using recyclable film, urging consumers away from consigning plastic to landfill even where the film is oxo-biodegradable. We also encourage our readers to recycle their magazines rather than send them to landfill. Tudor Rose recognises the impact that unsold copies of books and magazines can have on the supply chain and a significant effort has been made to reduce the volume of these. We 3 Tudor Rose Communication on Progress ensure that any unsold magazines that are not earmarked for back-issue sales are collected and the paper fibre recycled. We are in full support of the Caring for Climate initiative and have signed the CEO Statement of Support. Tudor Rose has shared resources with UNESCO to publish a commemorative volume of articles for the International Year of Water Cooperation 2013 to raise awareness, both on the potential for increased cooperation, and on the challenges facing water management in light of the increase in demand for water access, allocation and services. Measurement of outcomes Through our involvement with the UK’s Professional Publishers Association environment committee we are now measuring our carbon footprint with a view to changing company strategy dictating print quantities and the associated transportation footprint. Tudor Rose continues to consider the source of raw materials for suitability in the manufacture of products in the effort to deliver improvements to the company’s carbon footprint. We continue to review the impact – on management, processing and costs through the supply chain – of reducing the number of unsold copies of our of books and magazines. ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals It is Tudor Rose’s policy to conduct business in an honest way and without the use of corrupt practices or acts of bribery to obtain an unfair advantage or favour. The company attaches the utmost importance to this policy and applies a “zero tolerance” approach to intentional acts of bribery and corruption by any employee, worker or business partner working on its behalf. Implementation The company informs all employees about its anti-corruption commitment with full details made available in the company handbook of which every staff member has a copy. Measurement of outcomes The company has and promotes a function by which employees can safely report suspicion of corruption related cases through its public disclosure or ‘whistle blowing’ policy. The Tudor Rose Communication on Progress will be made easily accessible to all interested parties on the company website 4
