United Nations Global Compact—Communication on Progress This report serves as the Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact for Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL) covering 20132014. While DTTL is the signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, this report and the responses below include the activities of DTTL and its network of member firms. The table below contains information or references to material in the report that addresses the Global Compact principles. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should As a network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and LA4, LA8, LA13, support and respect the more broadly within its sphere of influence. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its HR5, HR6, HR7, protection of internationally communities, but also seeks to respond to some of the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner SO5, PR2, PR8 proclaimed human rights; and commensurate with its ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Principle 2: make sure that they HR5, HR6, HR7, In 2013, the Deloitte network selected AtrocityWatch and the International Organization for Migration (IOM) to are not complicit in human SO5 receive pro-bono support as part of the Deloitte Humanitarian Innovation Program. rights abuses. Through the program, professionals from Deloitte member firms and humanitarian organizations combine their diverse skills and expertise to co-create and implement innovative solutions to the sector’s most pressing challenges. By collaborating with local, national, and international humanitarian actors, we aim to enhance their ability to prepare for, and respond to humanitarian crises such as natural disasters. During FY2014, professionals from Deloitte member firms provided pro bono services through the program to address challenges facing the sector, such as leadership development, surge capacity, and resilience. In Deloitte’s workplaces, human rights typically take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional development, and work-life balance. Deloitte values differences—in thought, style, culture, ethnicity and Deloitte has embedded concern for human rights in its core values, as a means of integrating respect for one another in the organization’s culture worldwide. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. DTTL and member firm leaders work with multiple organizations to promote the business case for attracting, retaining, developing, and advancing women to leadership in organizations and society. Because measuring progress is critical to future advocacy efforts, DTTL and the Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) joined forces this past year to assess recent changes in company practices. Another group of leaders that continues to pursue advancing women in the workforce is the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles (UN WEP), a partnership initiative that takes the concept of empowering women out of the realm of doing good and into the reality of doing business. DTTL has supported UN WEP since its launch in 2010. DTTL’s comprehensive global privacy policy took effect in August 2011. This policy requires every member firm to put in place: • A privacy policy that defines principles to be followed in all data handling processes and systems and that meets the requirements of local laws, customs, and regulations; • A designated privacy leader; • A process for responding to privacy incidents; and • Regular privacy communications and training programs for member firm people. The primary focus of the DTTL Global Security Office (GSO) is to keep Deloitte’s people safe, particularly during times of emergency or when they are called upon by clients to work in higher-risk areas. A comprehensive program has been put in place to address ever-present threats around the globe. 1 © 2014. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator During FY2014, the GSO implemented several new approaches to better serve Deloitte professionals and member firms. Principal among these programs was the hiring of three DTTL regional security managers based in Brazil, the Netherlands and Singapore. Whenever a crisis occurs, GSO, in conjunction with DTTL’s Global Crisis Management Team, responds swiftly to help member firms account for the safety of their people, provide necessary relief, and resume normal business operations as soon as possible. Deloitte professionals also have access to a comprehensive travel security website containing the latest security bulletins, assessments, country risk ratings and other resources for travelers. DTTL also uses a mobile application from its emergency services provider that allows Deloitte practitioners to receive the latest security and health alerts and to access other resources. The Deloitte Shared Values can be found in the “Aspiration and values” section of this report. Please see “Advancing global economic prosperity and social wellbeing” for additional information related to human rights. Please see “Data privacy and security” for more details about privacy. See the “Global Security” section for additional details on how we work to manage travel risk to our people. The “Metrics” section also provides metrics on our workforce diversity. Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should The Deloitte talent experience fosters and celebrates an inclusive workplace without barriers. Member firm inclusion LA4, HR5, SO5 uphold the freedom of efforts continue to focus on factors—including gender, ethnicity, age, and disabilities—that are relevant in their association and the effective markets and important to clients that increasingly demand multidimensional perspectives and solutions. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Deloitte’s varied work and talent models allow both leaders and practitioners to create tailored career experiences that connect their personal and professional aspirations. Principle 4: the elimination of all HR7, SO5 forms of forced and compulsory Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its people, as well labour; as interaction among Deloitte people, must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. Listening to its Principle 5: the effective people allows Deloitte to prioritize their interests and concerns, and address them with appropriate communications, HR6, SO5 abolition of child labour; and policies, programs, and member firm services. Principle 6: the elimination of EC7, LA2, LA13, The Deloitte Shared Values discrimination in respect of SO5 Our Shared Values bind the people of the Deloitte member firms together, providing the basis for trusting one employment and occupation. another and enabling the network to achieve its vision. Integrity We believe nothing is more important than our reputation. That’s why we are committed to sustainable, responsible business practices. Behaving with the highest levels of integrity is fundamental to who we are. Outstanding value to markets and clients We play a critical role in helping both the financial markets and member firm clients operate more effectively. We consider this role a privilege, and we know it requires constant vigilance and unrelenting commitment. Commitment to each other We believe our culture of borderless collegiality gives us a competitive advantage, so we work hard to nurture and preserve it. We go to extraordinary lengths to support our people. 2 © 2014. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Strength from cultural diversity Both member firm clients and our people benefit from multidimensional thinking. Bringing together individuals of different backgrounds, cultures, and thinking styles helps clients rise above complex business challenges, and enables our people to develop into better professionals and leaders. DTTL Global Ethics continues to seek opportunities to raise awareness of ethical conduct, compliance with policies and standards, and available resources to support ethical decision making. To that end, we will expand efforts related to anti-corruption in FY2015 with a focus on developing new guidelines and e-learning to address this important business risk. Deloitte member firms strive to uphold the trust placed in them by clients and the capital markets and to build a similar sense of trust among their professionals. One of the most important responsibilities of DTTL and member firm senior leaders is to emphasize our commitment to ethical behavior and reinforce the responsibility of everyone in the organization to act with integrity. The DTTL Ethics team and the member firm ethics officers work closely with senior Deloitte leaders to carry out the organization’s ethics programs. These programs are designed to help member firm people understand expectations for ethical behavior, develop skills for ethical decision-making, and gain the confidence to speak up about challenging ethical situations. DTTL’s formal ethics program is composed of the following elements: • The nine Ethical Principles and four Shared Values of the Deloitte member firms; • A global ethics policy that sets out the requirements for member firms’ own ethics programs; • A global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and gifts and entertainment; • Ethics training programs, including an introductory online course, classroom programs, facilitator-led interactive case discussions and online training course; • Support activities, including communications, workshops, and webinars to facilitate best practice sharing among member firms; • Provision of a survey and self-assessment questionnaire to allow member firms to measure their program’s effectiveness; and • A practice review program to measure compliance with global ethics policies and encourage collaborative discussions and continuous improvement over time. See also “World-class leaders, Deloitte’s professionals at work” section of this report for a description of Deloitte’s approach to diversity and inclusion, and the “Metrics” section for measures of Deloitte’s workforce diversity. Further details on the DTTL Global Ethics Program are in the “Ethics” section of this report. 3 © 2014. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Environment Principle 7: Businesses should Deloitte’s approach to sustainability is twofold: initiatives we champion across our global network to reduce EC2, EN18, SO5 support a precautionary the ecological impact of approximately 210,000 people; and work member firms do with clients to advance approach to environmental sustainability practices that will help deliver long-term financial growth. challenges; Deloitte’s environmental impact is largely through the travel and office needs of a global network of businesses. Principle 8: undertake EN1, EN2, EN3, In FY2014, absolute greenhouse gas emissions remained essentially constant, even though headcount grew by initiatives to promote greater EN4, EN16, EN17, almost 4 percent. This result corresponds to a 6 percent decrease in carbon intensity per fulltime equivalent (FTE) environmental responsibility; EN18, EN20, EN28, from FY2013. Demonstrating improved eco-efficiency for the services member firms deliver, carbon intensity per and EN29, SO5 dollar of revenue, an indicator that had been relatively constant for the past three years, dropped by 7 percent in 2014 Global Report FY2014. Principle 9: encourage the EN2, EN18, SO5 development and diffusion As part of our internal network-wide initiatives DTTL and its member firms have expanded engagement with of environmentally friendly Deloitte professionals in continual learning on sustainability priorities and practices through monthly newsletters, technologies. webinars and other communications tools, for example, our sustainability social media engagement grew by more than 200 percent in the last year. Member firms also work vigorously to advance sustainability among their clients. Deloitte member firms have more than 800 sustainability specialists helping clients transition to sustainable business models and practices that will deliver topand bottom-line financial growth for the long term. In-depth disclosure of our greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our risks and opportunities related to climate change, can be found in Deloitte’s 2014 CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) Climate Change and Supply Chain submissions. Please see the “Advancing environmental sustainability” section of this report for information on Deloitte’s initiatives to manage their environmental performance as well as the environmental metrics in the “Metrics” section. DTTL’s submission to the CDP can be found at www.cdproject.net. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should Deloitte currently is involved in multiple global efforts that promote capital market fairness and efficiency, SO3, SO5 work against corruption in all its renewable energy, the fight against corruption and cybercrime, effective trade policies, equality, and forms, including extortion and humanitarian relief, among others. Here are a few of the more high-profile initiatives and groups with which bribery. Deloitte was intimately involved during FY2014. World Economic Forum One of Deloitte’s longest-running strategic relationships is with the World Economic Forum. For more than two decades, DTTL and its member firms have taken a leadership role in advancing the Forum’s objective of “improving the state of the world.” Through its work with the Forum, Deloitte has a hand in shaping the agenda on key global issues, such as the role of business in society, growth, innovation, talent, and competitiveness. Deloitte is involved in various initiatives and communities within the Forum, including Global Agenda Councils, which address key challenges and generate solutions to pressing global issues. 4 © 2014. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. UN Global Compact Principle Disclosure GRI Indicator Anti-corruption advocacy Steve Almond, Chairman of the DTTL Board of Directors, provides DTTL’s engagement in the Forum’s Partnership Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Vanguard, a group of 24 business leaders who help shape and inform the direction and dialogue around a robust anti-corruption agenda. The PACI Vanguard seeks to establish a framework that can address corruption consistently and lead to more effective enforcement. Currently, the U.S. member firm serves as an advisor to PACI and is active in a series of projects connecting public and private initiatives to stamp out corruption in supply chains, as well as improve collaboration between national governments and local, regional, and multinational organizations. At the Forum’s May 2014 meeting in Abuja, Nigeria, PACI supported the launch of the Clean Business Practice Initiative (CBPI), a private-sector-driven anti-corruption initiative that complements government efforts in fighting corruption in Nigeria. In addition to its work with the Forum, Deloitte is engaged in global anti-corruption efforts with the G20—through the B20—and the United Nations Global Compact. Deloitte also works with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UN ODC) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) on specific, country-focused initiatives. Through Deloitte’s Anti-Corruption Academies, governance, anti-corruption, and public-policy professionals provide training on combating corruption, money laundering, and fraud; and inform clients of effective compliance and internal-control programs. During the past fiscal year, Deloitte member firms launched AntiCorruption Academies in Brazil, Chile, Mexico, United Arab Emirates, and Indonesia; additional Academies are being scheduled in South America and Europe in FY2015. Deloitte is an active participant in the dynamic regulatory and public-policy discussions around the world. Deloitte professionals engage with key stakeholders—government, political, business, and civil society—to contribute to policy development that promotes investor confidence, facilitates cross-border business growth, and supports economic success, growth, resilience, and sustainability. Examples of issues where Deloitte contributes its capabilities include: responsible taxation; corporate governance; immigration and the mobility of people; anti-corruption; technology and security; jobs and skills, including youth employment; trade and investment; and women in the economy. Ethics go to the heart of our work, people, and role in society. That’s why DTTL’s Global Ethics team continues to aggressively integrate ethics into key initiatives and processes, stressing quality and consistency of approach across our network. In particular, we have heightened our focus on anti-corruption, creating new guidelines for corruption risk assessment and third-party due diligence. Please see also the “Advancing global economic prosperity and social wellbeing,” “Regulatory and public policy engagement,” and “Ethics” sections of this report for additional information on Deloitte’s commitment to combating corruption. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. 5 © 2014. For information, contact Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited.
