COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT BALSLEV, 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 CONTENT Statement of support for Global Compact 4 Balslev Consulting Engineers 5 The ten principles of Global Compact 6 Human Rights 7 Labour Rights 9 Environment 10 Anti-corruption 11 Cases 12 Activities and outcome 2014 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FOR GLOBAL COMPACT As consulting engineers, we are socially responsible for the projects, in which we participate as well as for the conduct of our company and our aim is to contribute to a sustainable development of society on all levels. With our support for the UN Global Compact, we oblige to show social and environmental responsibility and make efforts to integrate the ten principles of Global Compact in our company. On behalf of Balslev Consulting Engineers, I would like to use this communication on progress to confirm our continued support for the ten principles of Global Compact, included in our Code of Conduct and applicable to all employees. We will continue to use the principles to promote and guide corporate efforts made in terms of social responsibility. This is the first communication on progress of Global Compact from Balslev Consulting Engineers. This communication on progress includes a detailed description of our efforts to integrate Global Compact in our business strategy, culture and daily actions. The COP report is available on our website. Kind regards Bo Memhave CEO Balslev Consulting Engineers COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 BALSLEV CONSULTING ENGINEERS SINCE 1939 Balslev is a full-service company that aims to contribute to solving a great number of the big challenges we as a society face in connection with environment, construction, electrical power supply, climate, nature and energy. We deliver independent consulting services, planning and design as well as project management within all common engineering disciplines such as electrical power, HVAC & water, construction, IT & communication as well as automation. Our expertise also comprises innovative, sustainable and profitable solutions within Intelligent Building Automation, energy supply, security and transportation, corrosion protection, hospital planning and energy optimisation. The company was established in 1939 and is still owned 100% by Mogens Balslev’s Foundation. Balslev employs a total of 130 employees at the head office in Glostrup plus departments in Odense, Kolding, Herning, Viborg and Kalundborg. Balslev is member of the Danish Association of Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Princip 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Princip 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Code of Conduct In 2013, we developed Balslev’s Code of Conduct, based on the ten principles of Global Compact, outlining how we act towards the surrounding world as a company. The mandatory introduction course for new employees includes lectures in our Code of Conduct and the applicable code of ethics, in order to make them an integrated part of our organisation. Social responsibility Balslev is a socially responsible company, and we are very serious about our contribution to solving common issues. In terms of employment, we have increased focus on reflecting the global society and aim to achieve diversity in terms of ethnicity, educational background, sex, religion, sexuality, age and work ability. We are further involved in the education of new employees within the industry, and have ongoing internships for students and counsellors on bachelor and master level. Our employees are dedicated tutors, assist with dissertations and give lectures and presentations for engineering students. Balslev is owned by Mogens Balslev’s Foundation that provides support for Danish engineering sciences, ergrupper hos Balslev Medarbejdergrupper Køn within the areas especially hos Balslev of education and research. Anciennitet In addition, the foundation supports miscellaneous projects of charitable or non-profit nature and to the benefit of society. Sex distribution: Seniority distribution: Fordeling af ne medarbejderne 23% Kvinde female 42% år eller ormindre 2 years less 77% Mand male 20% 3-5 years år 8% 6-10 6-10 years år 29% 11 11 years ormere år eller more ergrupper hos Balslev Alder Age distribution: ne below 30 years of age 8% Under 30 år delt på Køn Vurdering fordelt på 2 år eller mindre Anciennitet 5% 30-34 år of age 30-34years Kvinde 3-5 år 6-10 år Mand 11 år eller mere 100 100 19% 35-39 35-39years år of age 80 24% 40-49years 40-49 år 80 of age 82 77 77 79 75 75 77 77 73 73 72 70 71 73 71 72 70 72 73 72 71 7 60 67 68 64 43% 50years 50 år eller or 60 older ældre69 69 67 67 69 70 63 Vurdering Vurdering 58 60 60 57 40 40 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 20 7 20 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 0 0 Under 30 år HR function established A permanent HR function was established at Balslev at the beginning of 2013. The purpose of the function is to support department managers with HR procedures, new HR initiatives etc. HR must provide correct and precise contracts, safeguarding the rights and obligations of both Balslev and the employees. HR must further, in collaboration with the management, develop a state of the art bouquet of benefits, a central HR system and support the human framework for development of our employees. HR must further ensure that all employees are offered a yearly employee development interview and follow-up. New employee handbook A new version of Balslev’s employee handbook was published in spring 2013, which in a precise and clear manner states the guidelines, authorities and obligations of all employees. In order to maintain focus on a civil tone within the company, the handbook includes sections concerning ’behaviour’ and ’harassment’ that point out the fact that all employees are obliged to maintain a civil tone and avoid abusive language, and that harassment is considered to be unacceptable behaviour. The employee handbook is available in a digital version on Balslev’s intranet. Mandatory intensification of the pension plan and health insurance Intensification of Balslev’s pension plan has been initiated in order to achieve a contemporary arrangement. The pension plan and health insurance are mandatory for all employees. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 LABOUR RIGHTS Princip 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Princip 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Princip 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Princip 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Introduction day for new employees Balslev believes in the importance of involvement and information about the company, our history, strategy and action plans. Thus, it is crucial that new employees receive a proper introduction to the workplace, and we have therefore established a mandatory introduction day for new employees. During the day, we introduce Balslev as a company, the individual departments and our competencies, as well as procedures and processes. The process is subsequently evaluated. We further develop a personal introduction plan for the first weeks in the company. Project management course for all employees Our employees are our most valuable asset and their knowledge and ability to run projects is vital to our success. Thus, it is essential to maintain a high level of knowledge and as a consequence, Balslev developed a grouped project management course, which was introduced in 2013. We have currently implemented seven courses in basics and 85% of all employees have already finished their course. Further, two courses in module two for construction managers and project managers. All management group employees have further participated in a special course on law in the consulting industry. Stress prevention In order to prevent stress among Balslev’s employees, we have chosen to focus on how we as managers and employees become better in detecting stress symptoms before the situation gets critical, and better in handling stress once occurred. As a consequence, we have established a stress coach hotline that is open to all of Balslev’s employees, in case they need professional help for handling situations of emerging stress. The coach can offer instruments to tackle difficult situations and thereby prevent severe cases of stress. Resignation interview and outplacement Balslev has for the past year been focusing on ensuring a proper resignation for employees that are leaving the company. We conduct resignation interviews with all resigned employees, and initiate outplacement programmes in case of dismissal. Decreasing rate of illness Balslev is focusing on decreasing the rate of illness and the goal is to be on par with average of the industry in 2014. 5,00% 4,00% 3,00% Total Fravær i alt % absenteeism in % 2,00% Gennemsnit Average 1,00% 0,00% COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 ENVIRONMENT Princip 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Princip 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Princip 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Our vision is to create the sustainable and intelligent solutions of tomorrow. We observe our vision through the great number of projects in which we play an advisory role. In planning and designing new buildings, installations, plants and infrastructures as well as renewal, Balslev does not only take the requirements of today into account. We do everything possible to ensure that the design has the required flexibility to accommodate future requirements in terms of: • Sustainability • Energy efficiency, hereunder recycling • Environmentally damaging or toxic substances • Recycling after the end of useful life. DGNB Balslev is DGNB certified and our consultant can be part of a building project team and provide guidance on sustainability and direct the focus towards areas that require special attention in order to guarantee sustainable building and DGNB certification. The DGNB system is a certification solution whose purpose is to create a common starting point for measuring and assessing sustainable building. The system is based on a holistic approach and a lifecycle assessment of a building and in that way it weighs a number of dimensions to assess sustainability. Energy optimisation consulting Our energy consultants are committed to optimise energy consumption in large buildings with both simple and more complicated installations. In close co-operation with the users and the owners’ heads of operations or technical departments, we have implemented a very large number of optimisation projects where we achieved significant energy savings with short pay back times. Research projects As consulting engineers, we are responsible for doing all the required research in terms of future energy supply, which is why our employees participate in several research projects within the area of intelligent energy. We were for instance chosen to participate in the national project IPower and the European project SmartGen, where Balslev’s employees conducted a number of case studies, showing how intelligent controlled heat pumps and electric cars can improve the quality of the electricity grid. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 ANTI CORRUPTION Princip 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Since consultants often change roles, depending on the project, we focus on maintaining our independent approach to the individual project and parties involved. In order to avoid conflicts of interests, Balslev’s employee handbook includes the following rule: „It is not allowed to receive gifts, discounts or the like from company suppliers, business partners or others, unless granted by a superior manager in each single case”. According to our Code of Conduct, Balslev does not tolerate any form of corrupt or fraudulent behaviour. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 POWERLAB DK A UNIQUE EXPERIMENTAL PLATFORM The entire electrotechnical business now has a unique experimental platform called PowerLabDK at DTU (Technical University of Denmark). Students, researchers and not least the electrotechnical industry are now able to develop, test and demonstrate SmartGrid technologies for the intelligent electrical systems of the future – in laboratories as well as in pilot studies and in full scale. Besides the large Smart Grid models and permanent energy systems, it will also be possible to test other technologies and components in PowerLabDK. PowerLabDK is a platform for experimental testing, trials and demonstration of technologies, which will contribute to the implementation of the Danish climate objectives and the long-term objective of an energy supply without fossil fuels. Balslev has been responsible for the building owner consulting in connection with the overall structural renovation of the building and the establishment of the new laboratory facilities. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARD FOR THE SØFRYD PROJECT – PASSIVE HOUSES IN MÅLØV In September 2013, the Søfryd project received the Environmental Award from Ballerup Municipality. The project was awarded for its visionary energy work, which may be an inspiration for future constructions, as well as renewals. In a turnkey partnership with Jönsson A/S and JJW Architects, Balslev built 56 sustainable flats with solar energy, thermal heating and heat recovery. The low energy consumption and the classification as passive houses is achieved through a number of measures: • Radial geothermal heat with heat pumps, saving natural gas and thereby CO2. A new method with diagonal drillings is applied, utilising the geothermal heat better than by vertical drilling, and with a higher degree of efficiency. • Solar cells (60m2) on the roof for production of electricity • Heating for natural gas has been prepared, based on e. g. Genvex and a condensing gas unit under each building as an alternative to a common heat station. This reduces the heat loss and the CO2 load, resulting in savings of a total of 50m3 natural gas per year. The heating plant is ready for installation of district heating if this becomes possible, and it requires no further conversion. The settlement thereby meets all objectives of Ballerup Municipality for CO2 neutral construction. • Energy efficient ventilation systems with heat recovery and a high degree of efficiency in all flats. • Optimised building envelope. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 COPENHAGEN UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL – ENERGY OPTIMISATION Copenhagen University Hospital’s energy consumption has been reduced by 35%. A self-financing energy action plan including new or modified steam, cooling and ventilation systems saves approx. DKK 30 mill. per year. Copenhagen University Hospital has worked determinedly with energy optimisation since the early 90s. Together with Balslev’s consultants an energy action plan was developed, which included ventilation and air conditioning, heating, cooling, disinfection, control systems, systems for compressed air and lighting. The plan identified a number of saving opportunities, which made it possible to implement the plan as it was self-financing and showed a positive cash-flow already within the first year. The largest individual savings were achieved in these areas: • The central steam system, where huge conduction losses, independent of outdoor temperatures, were identified and eliminated through an alteration of the high pressure system. • A new cooling system with reduced energy consumption, which phased out the use of CFC gasses. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOME 2014 HUMAN RIGHTS In 2014, we will continue to develop corporate diversity and focus on possible imbalances. 1. Increase/maintain the quota of women in the organisation 2. Establish collaboration with an occupational Ph.D. 3. Establish internships throughout the various corporate areas of competencies LABOUR RIGHTS 1. Reduce the rate of illness to sectoral average 2. Implement four project management courses per year 3. Initiate a pool system for educational means 4. Establish a formal SU committee ENVIRONMENT 1. Participate in min. one DGNB project 2. Participate in min. one development project with the purpose of neutralising CO2 3. Develop a balance of energy for Balslev’s project portfolio ANTI-CORRUPTION In 2014, we continue to maintain our independent approach and ensure correct behaviour by means of training, regulation and rebuke. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 16 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013
