“Developing Sustainably” SR13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani Emir of the State of Qatar His Highness the Father Emir Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani TABLE of Contents Overview QAFCO at a glance in 2013 03 CEO’s Statement 05 QAFCO Policy 07 Our approach to sustainability reporting 08 About our company 15 Developing sustainably Our business transparency and integrity 22 Our responsibility on Qatar’s growth 28 Our employees’ well-being 32 Our environmental liability 47 Our community engagement 60 Stakeholder feedback form 65 GRI application level check 66 Assurance statement 67 GRI Index 77 Acronyms 80 QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY All the photos featured in the report are for P.o.Box: 50001, Mesaieed Qatar reference purposes only. Tel: (974) 44228888, Fax: (974) 44770347 E-mail: admin@qafco.com.qa www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY QAFCO AT A GLANCE IN 2013 KEY Achievements Revenues: USD 2,250,926,878 Workforce: 1,541 employees Production of ammonia : 3,641,331 metric tonnes (MT) Production urea : 5,510,995MT Direct energy use: 181,972,288GJ Direct GHG emissions: 5,759,262 tonnes CO2eq Seawater intake from sea: 1,180,000,000m3 Fresh water used: 41,242,080m3 Fresh water discharged to the sea: 1,138,757,920m3 Employee Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR: 0,41 Contractor TRIR: 1,53 Around QAR 7 million spent on voluntary social investments KEY Figures QAFCO-6 has become fully operational in 2013, increasing QAFCO’s total urea production to 5.5 million tonnes urea, which has propelled Qatar to be the fourth largest urea producer and exporter in the world. In the 2013 SDIR Awards under the Sustainable Development Industry (SDIR) Programme, QAFCO received the runner-up position from HE Mohamed bin Saleh al-Sada, Ministry of Energy and Industry in Qatar. The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) honored QAFCO’s efforts in occupational safety and health with two awards: Management of Occupational Road Risk (MORR) Gold Award and the RoSPA Silver Award for occupational safety. Qatar University (QU) and QAFCO signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to enhance cooperation in the areas of energy systems. The agreement includes building and commissioning a heat exchanger pilot plant at QU and appointing a QAFCO Chair in the Energy Systems at the College of Engineering. Texas A&M University, Qatar and QAFCO have announced a collaboration to bring a world-recognized environmental expert to Qatar recognized as the ﬁrst holder of the QAFCO Chair in Green Chemistry and Green Engineering at Texas A&M University at Qatar. QAFCO scored the highest at 375 points among the international fertilizer companies and receive the IFA Green Leaf Award for outstanding performance in Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) in fertilizer production across the product life cycle for its ammonia and urea production facilities. 03 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Developing Sustainably 04 CEO’S STATEMENT Khalifa A. Al Sowaidi I am pleased to present QAFCO’s third sustainability report to share our progress on the sustainability journey, focusing on the triple bottom-line growth that forms the basis of our core business values. Through this report, we wish to showcase our stakeholders’ our commitment to run business sustainably, our performance on various sustainability aspects and our efforts to operate in a transparent manner by maintaining two-way dialogue with both our employees and our external stakeholders. With growing competition, declining ammonia and urea prices, and transition of the sales and marketing of our products to a third party, this year has been a major challenge to QAFCO and the fertilizer sector at large. However, QAFCO has successfully managed and overcome these constraints and ended up with remarkable growth while making signiﬁcant contribution to the environment and the society. Year 2013 has been a landmark for QAFCO, as with the completion of QAFCO 5 and 6 units, we are honored to be the largest single site manufacturer and exporter of urea and ammonia. This year, we have shown a remarkable growth of 13.4% and 21% in ammonia and urea production, respectively. Through adoption of state-of-the-art and energy efﬁcient technologies, we were able to achieve 13% reduction in speciﬁc energy consumption for urea production, which consequently resulted in reduced carbon emission intensity of our products. At QAFCO, we believe that caring for the environment is not only a legal but an ethical duty towards the society and the world and is a tool for sustainable competitive advantage. This year, we have continued our efforts to pursue diversiﬁcation into more environment-friendly products, preserving the natural resources and making least impact on human health. We are collaborating with the University of Liège in Belgium to look at the possibility of using urea as poultry feed to increase protein and to reduce administration of antibiotics that ultimately impact human health. Studies are also underway on the use of urea to improve nutrient capacities of cassava root – one of the largest food carbohydrates source in Africa. Once successful, our Sahara Reserve Forest project could be a model for home grown crops and may prove to be a milestone for providing food security to the nation. QAFCO has taken the lead to collaborate in research activities with local universities and provide facilities that will beneﬁt many industries in Qatar, such as deployment of DeNOx technology. The company has signed an MoU with Qatar University (QU) to build and commission a heat exchanger pilot plant and appoint a QAFCO Chair in Energy Systems at the College of Engineering (CENG). Through this initiative, we aim to strengthen collaboration between industry and academia to enhance the process of connecting research with education for achieving the objectives and priorities for Qatar. 05 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY At QAFCO, we believe that caring for the environment is not only a legal but an ethical duty toward the society and the world and is a tool for sustainable competitive advantage. Our employees are the backbone of our company and we are proud of our workforce for their commitment, integrity and rich experience. It is our privilege to have representation from as many as 33 countries, including 15.69% Qataris, and this diversity is our strength. We acknowledge their contribution in making QAFCO a world-class organization and are committed to providing a safe and secure working environment and due opportunities for career development. Our code of conduct, whistle-blower policy and anti-corruption policy provide our employees with a platform to raise any concerns or issues that may threaten our business ethics. We take stringent measures to ensure that health, safety, security and environmental concerns are taken into account by our suppliers, transporters, contractors and distributors. This has enabled us in last years to maintain a large network of distributors, with utmost care being taken to ensure that all are satisﬁed with the quality of QAFCO products, services and level of commitment. Being ISO 9001, ISO 14001and OHSAS 18001 certiﬁed, we are one of the few organizations in the Middle East to have achieved this distinction at the time. We have also achieved management system certiﬁcations in RC 14001 and the IFA Product Stewardship Programme. QAFCO pursues a policy of retaining existing customers while forging ties with new ones. We wish to expand our direct engagement with customers and farmers, as they are the key stakeholders to our expanding enterprise and they help us improving in our products. We are proposing to deepen our engagement with the farming community and the direct customers through our marketing company to ensure that we provide them with a richer menu of services, taking them along in a mutually beneﬁcial and interdependent relationship that ensures not only proﬁts but also our sustainable growth. Continuing our sustainability journey, our newly constituted sustainability reporting committee is in the process of formulating a strategy that would align our approach to the ambitions of Qatar National Vision 2030. This strategy will deﬁne QAFCO’s broad sustainability objectives and targets and will pave the way for achieving the triple bottom-line growth. While we hope you enjoy reading it, we would welcome your feedback in improving our efforts. Khalifa A. Al Sowaidi QAFCO Vice-Chairman & CEO Developing Sustainably 06 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY QAFCO POLICY OUR Mission We shall operate the plants efﬁciently, safely and in an environmentally responsible manner to produce and dispatch ammonia, urea, urea formaldehyde and melamine at the quality required by customers and to carry out investments to maximize shareholders returns. OUR Vision • Maintain QAFCO as the largest quality ammonia and urea producer. • Satisfy QAFCO’s need for urea formaldehyde. • As operator of Qatar Melamine Company, our vision is to be a quality melamine producer. QAFCO’s Main Objectives • Achieve highest possible production at comparatively low cost. • Operate the plants with maximum online factor. • Design and operate the plants in a safe, secure and environmentally responsible manner. • Meet customers’ expectations with regard to quality and timely dispatch of our products. • Supply QAFCO with quality urea formaldehyde. QAFCO’s Main commitments Prevent pollution and control operational and security risks in Monitor, study, assess for order to protect the environment, signiﬁcance and record the the safety and health of our environmental impacts of our employees, contractors, visitors, operations for possible reductions. neighbors and the community. WE ARE Encourage re-use and recycling COMMITTED Steward our products and services through each life cycle stages in and manage our solid waste to reduce environmental impacts. THROUGH OUR order to protect people and the OCCUPATIONAL environment. Conduct regular reviews of relevant occupational health, safety, HEALTH & SAFETY, Implement Occupational Health & security, environmental, quality and ENVIRONMENTAL Safety, Environmental, Quality and responsible care activities for Responsible Care Integrated compliance with the adopted AND QUALITY Management Systems as a prime Standards. MANAGEMENT line responsibility at all levels of our organization and continually Open information, communication SYSTEMS TO: improve their performance and and sharing of experience with all effectiveness. parties affected by or interested in our activities on safe use, Involve and consult our employees transportation and disposition of our on matters related to our Integrated products and to recognize, respect Management Systems. and respond to our community Lead QAFCO in ethical ways that concerns about our products and increase the beneﬁts to society by Comply with all relevant Qatari operations. protecting our employees, legislations, regulations and environment and community. standards adopted by the Work with government, agencies Company. and associations at all levels in the Increase the competency of development of effective and personnel and use of technology to Communicate this policy and efﬁcient health, safety, security, enhance customers satisfaction, systems performance measures to environmental laws and in industry environmental, safety, health and our employees, contractors and standards and supporting research. security performance. other stakeholders including public and make it available to them and other interested parties. 07 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING This report showcases our commitment towards the sustainable growth of our employees, economy, society and the environment. We are proud to present this third annual Business transparency and integrity; Responsibility sustainability report for the year 2013 highlighting on Qatar’s growth, Employees’ well-being; our commitment to communicate our sustainability Environmental liability; and Community performance to all of our stakeholders. This report engagement. provides an overview of our efforts towards preserving the environment; contributing to the QAFCO also follows reporting standards consistent sustainable development of our economy and with the best international practices, with the goal society; and our commitment towards our of making sustainable development in QAFCO employees. comparable to local and internationally recognized peer companies. QAFCO’s report is developed in line with the Global Reporting “Developing sustainably” is the adoptive theme for Initiative (GRI) third generation (G3.1) Guideline, a this year’s report as it reﬂects our focus on inclusive globally recognized framework for reporting on an growth by fostering ethics and transparency, organization’s economic, social, and investing in our employees’ welfare, reducing our environmental performance. environmental impacts and conducting a community minded approach to business. For two consecutive years, the GRI has rated the QAFCO 2013 Sustainability Report as Level A+ We strongly believe that our growing business which is the highest achievable level from the GRI demands a holistic approach, transcending the requiring entire management disclosure on immediate requirements of production results, sustainability performance standards and regulatory compliance and ﬁnancial interests. In assurance by an external third party. This consideration to the interests of our stakeholders, achievement demonstrates our ambition to be this sustainability report reﬂects our efforts to recognized as one of the local leaders in manage the impact of our activities on the sustainability reporting. environment, the community and the economy where we operate. QAFCO has also been a member of the United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) since 2010. This Qatar National Vision (QNV) 2030 reﬂects the report highlights our efforts and progress towards aspirations, objectives and culture of our Qatari embracing UNGC principles, a set of core values in people resting on four pillars: Human the areas of human rights, labor standards, the Development, Social Development, Economic environment and anti-corruption. Development, Environmental Development. At QAFCO, our mission is aligned to the QNV 2030’s pillars which serve as a framework within which our sustainability report is developed. The report is divided into 5 sections: Developing Sustainably 08 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY All data and information in the report refers to the calendar year starting 1st January 2013 until 31st December 2013 unless otherwise indicated. Operate the plants efﬁciently, safely and in an environmentally responsible manner to prpduce and supply ammonia, urea, urea formaldehyde and melamine at the quality required by our customers and carry out investments to maximise shareholders returns. QAFCO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Qatar Business Employee Community Environmental development ethics well-being engagement protection GRI Guidelines UNGC Principles Responsible Care Qatarization Governance Workforce Beneﬁts beyond Water resources Local Suppliers Ethics Employee workplace Energy and contractors satisfaction Education GHG Emmisions Client Employee Exhibitions and Other emissions expectations communication sponsorships Waste Financial Training and Spills highlights development Biodiversity Safety Environmental Occupational awareness health Qatar National Development Strategy (QNDS) 2011-2016 Economic Human Social Environmental QATAR NATIONAL VISION 2030 Transform Qatar into an advance country by 2030, capable of sustaining its own development and providing for a high standard of living for all of its people for generations to come. Figure 1: QAFCO approach to sustainability reporting The scope of this report focuses on all facets of the parent company Qatar Fertiliser Company Q.S.C.C. and does not include our subsidiaries. However, our processes are fully integrated within our subsidiaries, which makes it challenging to disaggregate data without comprising accuracy. In 2013, we reported data on energy, water and emission, including the whole QAFCO group, rather than adjusting for equity share of each subsidiary. In 2014, we seek to create an approach to report standalone data. In line with the GRI principles, we strive to ensure data completeness and accuracy through a meaningful data capture and aggregation approach based on QAFCO’s management systems. In 2013, we established a Sustainability Reporting Committee that oversees the data collection and reporting processes, verifying and ensuring that most material issues are included in the report and performance data are presented in an accurate manner. 09 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY The information in the report is largely sourced from QAFCO’s management systems and addresses speciﬁc requirements unique to the company’s particular needs (enhance customer satisfaction, reduce our impacts on the environment, comply with regulation, prevent personal injuries and ill health at work, damage to plant and equipment and loss of production, etc.). Our top management ensures that both the operation and management of systems are effective through internal monitoring and veriﬁcation of key performance indicators (KPIs). For further reference, the GRI index at the end of the report provides the list of GRI indicators covered and aligned to UNGC principles, explaining the reasons for any omission of information. Complimentary to the time and resources we have invested to ensure data quality, we have also enacted measures to identify and prioritize the issues relevant to our stakeholders’ interests through “materiality analysis” as described on page 14. Furthermore, the report has been assured upon by an independent third party to provide conﬁdence to our stakeholders. We have adopted a robust approach to ensure the accuracy of the data and information contained in the report. At QAFCO, we consider sustainability reporting a journey, and in the following year, we plan to improve our reporting process through the development of a sustainability reporting road map. We also encourage our stakeholders to provide feedback showing our commitment towards an excellence in reporting process for the years to come. the Jewels of Growth 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Into Our Business While issues related to sustainability have for years been central to the way in which QAFCO conducts its business, our formal journey to integrated sustainability began in 2011 when we published our ﬁrst dedicated sustainability report. This journey continues to unfold each year as we evolve and reﬁne the process to distil the business’ most material issues and integrate them into our 5-year action plan for sustainability reporting. We have already identiﬁed key sustainability areas to enhance our disclosures in the coming reporting period: • Full life cycle impacts (including upstream and downstream impacts) • Environmental impacts in intensity ratios (per quantity produced) • Impacts through the value chain • Non-discrimination • Human rights responsibilities • Product reliability • Social investment • Segregated data of the mother company and subsidiaries • Switch to GRI 4, which allows more focus on material issues Although much has been achieved, we recognize the need for stronger integration with the Qatar National Vision 2030 and the Energy & Industry Sector sustainable development framework. In 2014 we continue our journey in improving our 5-year plan by setting an overall sustainability direction for where QAFCO wishes to go in its sustainable development work in short-,mediumand long term. We will determine speciﬁc priority areas and establish goals and objectives to overcome and mitigate sustainability challenges and risks, such as energy efﬁciency, GHG emissions, water scarcity, over consumption, waste generation or human rights. To ensure the effectiveness of our plan, we will monitor progress towards our sustainability vision through a set of SD indicators and targets (mostly quantitatively) and review them in regular intervals (mostly qualitatively). We have started integrating our processes of sustainability reporting (stakeholder engagement, stakeholder mapping, materiality assessment, performance indicators) in existing ISO certiﬁed management systems to ensure that sustainability progress is being tracked in one centralized system that can be used for periodic reporting. Additionally, a careful management and coordination will be required to ensure effective progress is made. Thus, QAFCO is planning to strength our current ‘Sustainability Reporting Committee’ by creating a ‘Sustainability Committee’ chaired by the CEO and with a broad balance of representation from top management. This new committee will assess progress towards established sustainability goals and targets and looks for ways to improve performance in areas that impact all stakeholders. This Committee will be also responsible for preparation of QAFCO’s Sustainability Report. Continuous stakeholder engagement and dialogue mechanisms play a critical role in strengthening any sustainability plan. By 2014, we will clearly establish a formal approach to deﬁne, identify and prioritize our stakeholders. Accordingly, we will be able to enhance our disclosures by reporting on: process by which stakeholders are identiﬁed; why and how we engage with them (case studies, examples on how this dialogue impacted on QAFCO’s processes, etc). The results of dialogue will also serve to shape both sustainability policy and procedures within QAFCO. 11 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is a critical process that helps QAFCO understand its key environmental and social impacts, identify sustainability risks and develop innovative solutions to sustainability challenges. As part of our reporting process we engage with our stakeholders in a constructive dialogue through formal and informal means of communication. This enables us to learn their priorities and concerns in order to align our management plans and actions. We leverage on the experience and knowledge of our departments heads to capture our stakeholders feedback. As part of our commitment to our stakeholders, we aim to improve our engagement processes by adopting a more structured and systematic approach. Key stakeholders Stakeholders concerns Communication channel Qatar Petroleum (QP) • Economic contribution (revenues, • QAFCO and QP’s long-term agreement production) (QP supplying NG feedstock since 18 • Climate change and energy June 1994) (energy, GHG emissions, ﬂaring / • Performance information requests venting, natural gas used) • SDIR Programme (Annual SDIR • Environment (water, SOx, NOx, spills, template annual; Annual sustainability waste) report; 5-year plan for sustainability • Health and Safety (injuries, illness, strategy, forums/workshops, awards) incidents, LOC, heat stress) • Workforce (female employment, employee satisfaction, training and development, Qatarization) • Society (community investment, human rights) Muntajat • Product quality and responsibility • Audit reports • Product information/labeling • Customer feedback • Quality and cost of services • Material safety data sheets (MSDS) • Customer satisfaction • Compliance with safety and quality • Response to complaints requirements • Safety information • Efﬁcient production Shareholders and investors • Maximization of shareholder value • Regular board meetings • Transparency, compliance with • Annual general meetings good ethical principles • Annual ﬁnancial statements • Good corporate governance • Annual sustainability report • Good risk management • Investor communication materials • Dividends and Return on Investment • Investor website (ROI) • Code of ethics Suppliers and contractors • Clear and transparent procurement • Invoices criteria (price, health & safety, • Evaluation process environment, human rights, etc.) • Material safety data sheets (MSDS) • Long-term partnerships • Suppliers meeting and events • Stability of operations and reliability • Participation in cooperative bodies in the sector industry • Products safety and quality information Analysts and media • Comprehensive and up-to-date • Press releases information • Meetings and interviews with CEO • Good availability and accessibility • Information events • Public communications continued in the next page Developing Sustainably 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Key stakeholders Stakeholders concerns Communication channel Employees • Qatarization and local hiring •Accommodation, transport • Employee beneﬁts allowances, compensation • Labor practices grievance • Mesaieed School mechanisms • Management systems, website, • Decent labor practices (equal memos, emails opportunities • Whistle blowing policy • Career mobility and training and • Training and development development) programmes • Response to issues, future plans, • Employee Performance Appraisal current positioning and available System (EPAS) prospects • QAFCO day Government and • Economic growth • Alignment to Qatar National Vision regulatory authorities • Social well-being 2030 and Qatar National Development • Natural resources conservation Strategy (2011-16) • Lobbying issues • Press notes • Compliance to laws and regulations • Audit reports • Qatarization • Participation in conferences / forums / roundtables / meetings • Al-Besheriya Island conservation Sector peers • Fair trade and competition practices • WEBS portal • Long-term partnerships • Benchmarking studies • Best available technologies • Conferences/forums/ industry meetings • Reporting standards • Associations: International Plant • Product responsibility Nutrition Institute (IPNI) ; United Nations • Innovation Global Compact (UNGC); Responsible Care (RC); IFA Product Stewardship; AFA Arab; Gulf Petrochemical and Chemical Association (GPCA) Local community • Impact of products and operations • Sponsorships (exhibitions, conferences, on the community etc) • Local community engagement • Donations • Education • Community investment (Sahara • Resource conservation project, sea water heat exchanger project, ﬁsh hatchery project) • Environmental awareness at QAFCO school Table 1: Stakeholder engagement DEFINING CONTENTS On the Report To develop a focused sustainability report we conducted a robust materiality analysis and identiﬁed the most important and strategic sustainability aspects relevant to QAFCO from a stakeholder perspective and QAFCO’s position. It was based on: • Collecting feedback for our key internal stakeholder through questionnaires • Analyzing industry trends • Conducting benchmarking analysis 13 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Materiality analysis determined the most relevant sustainability issues for QAFCO and its stakeholders. Levels of signiﬁcance attributed internally were measured by means of a questionnaire distributed to representative of QAFCO’s staff, considered as key internal stakeholders, asking them to rank relevant sustainability aspects based on its impact/importance for QAFCO (1lowest; 5 highest). External materiality, meanwhile, was measured by reviewing and analyzing sustainability issues and materiality matrix reported by local and international peer companies. OHSE Business ethics management Community management Human Capital HIGH Level of concern to stakeholders OHS Training & Education Environmental management Economic performance Qatarization Waste Environmental compliance Energy Equal opportunities Market presence GHG emissions Training & education MEDIUM Diversity Product stewardship Biodiversity Indirect economic Impacts Procurement practices Product labelling materials LOW Innovation LOW MEDIUM HIGH Current or potential impact on the company Figure 2: Materiality Matrix We plotted each issue in the materiality matrix and developed our report content based on the issues of highest importance to our stakeholders and the greatest impact on our business (top right corner in the matrix). Based on the analysis of the most material issues, QAFCO fully reported on 48 GRI core indicators for the 2013 sustainability report. An additional 22 KPIs were also reported against, surpassing the minimum number of indicators required for level-A report. We understand that robust materiality analysis is essential to strategic sustainability planning and transparent reporting. QAFCO is committed to improve our approach to materiality assessment for subsequent reporting years through workshops with internal stakeholder and key external stakeholders such as customers, contractors, suppliers and community, as a platform to discuss their expectations and needs. Developing Sustainably 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY ABOUT OUR COMPANY Qatar Fertiliser Company (S.A.Q) is a world-class ammonia and urea producer. Created in 1969 as a joint venture company between the State of Qatar, Norsk Hydro Norway, Davy Power Gas, and Hambros Bank to produce chemical fertilizer, QAFCO is the country's ﬁrst large-scale venture in the petrochemical sector. Its inception was a signiﬁcant ﬁrst step in Qatar’s industrial diversiﬁcation program to utilize its natural gas resources. It is now owned by Yara Netherlands owing 25% shareholding and Industries Qatar (IQ) 25% 75% shareholding, a joint stock company and the majority of its shares are owned by QP, which becomes the major shareholder in QAFCO. Our complex is located in Mesaieed Industrial City (MIC), 40 km south of Doha, on the east coast of 75% Qatar peninsula. MIC is currently the hub for petrochemicals, chemical fertilizers, oil reﬁning, metallurgical and primary building materials industries in Qatar, hosting numerous small and medium-sized industries as well as a well-planned, self-contained, Yara Netherlands Industries Qatar sustainable, modern township with fully-serviced infrastructure providing a high quality of life for its residents, mainly MIC’s employees and families. Chart 1: QAFCO Ownership Structure QAFCO’s steady growth and success has put Qatar among the leading exporters of ammonia and urea in the world. QAFCO inaugurated its very ﬁrst plant and producWith the ﬁnal part of QAFCO’s expansion in 2012 tion units in 1973 with a daily design capacity of and becoming fully operational in 2013, we have 900 tonnes of ammonia and 1000 tonnes of urea. solidiﬁed our position in the international market of Posteriori, QAFCO’s complex expanded its operafertilizers, as one of the world’s leading fertilizer tions with three more trains: QAFCO 2 (1979), companies QAFCO-6, with a total installed capaciQAFCO 3 (1997) and QAFCO 4 (2004). Each train ty of 3.8 million tons of ammonia and 5.6 million consists of two production lines, one for producing tons of urea, is a state-of-the-art plant that has urea and the other for ammonia. These milestones been designed by keeping the proven commitbrought QAFCO to the height of one of the largest ment to minimize the impact on the environment. ammonia and urea producers and exporters in the world. Completion of QAFCO 4 made QAFCO the QAFCO has been diversifying its products and in single largest producer of urea with an annual 2003 we incorporated Gulf Formaldehyde Compaproduction capacity of 3 million tonnes in addition ny (Q.S.C) which produces Urea Formaldehyde to 2 million tonnes of ammonia. Concentrate (UFC) in collaboration with Qatar Industrial Manufacturing Company and United With the scale of mega projects continuing to Development Company, currently having the climb, QAFCO always sought ways to save its costs annual production capacity of 59,172 tonnes of while maintaining the quality and safety perforUFC in 2013. In 2006, we collaborated with Qatar mances. In 2011, for QAFCO-5, we kept control of Intermediate Industries (Alwaseeta) to establish all commissioning phases and improved the overall Qatar Melamine Company (QMC) for melamine project schedule. With the completion of QAFCO production. The state-of-the-art-plant and the 5, our annual production capacity jumped to 3.6 largest of its kind in the Middle East, has been million tonnes and 4.2 million tonnes of urea and completed in 2010 and it annually produces about ammonia respectively. 60,000 tonnes of melamine. 15 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Efficient Management of Resources Most of the air we breathe is 78% nitrogen. In this form, it is inert and insoluble, and not accessible to plants. Ammonia is the basic raw material for producing almost all other forms of nitrogen-based fertilizers. In some cases, ammonia is also used directly as a commercial fertilizer. At QAFCO, ammonia is produced through the Haber-Bosch process by reacting nitrogen from the (N2,O2) process air with hydrogen (3H2 + N2 -2NH3) at high pressure and temperature in the presence of a catalyst. In this process, the hydrogen is produced through ‘Steam Reforming’ by reacting natural gas, our main raw material, with water at conditions above mentioned. To a lesser extent, natural gas is also used as a process gas (i.e., an energy source) to generate the heat required in the ammonia production process. When producing the hydrogen, sulfur compounds are removed from the natural gas to avoid deactivation of the catalysts in subsequent steps. Sulfur removal requires catalytic hydrogenation to convert sulfur compounds in the feedstock to gaseous hydrogen sulﬁde. The gaseous hydrogen sulﬁde is then adsorbed and removed by passing it through beds of zinc oxide where it is converted to solid zinc sulﬁde. Catalytic steam reforming of the sulfur-free feedstock is then used to form hydrogen plus carbon monoxide. Input materials consumption Unit 2013 Process air (N2,O2) MMSCF 115,137 Steam MT 7.026 million Ammonia consumed in Urea plants (U 1-6) MT 2,996,839.05 Natural gas in Ammonia Plants (A 1-6) KNm3 3,843,822.61 Natural gas in Urea plants (U 1-6) KNm3 14,514.85 Electric power MW 1,769,566 LTS catalysts Liters 20,000 Reformer catalyst K+ Liters 1,800 Reformer catalyst Liters 10,400 Sec reformer catalyst Liters 5,000 HT shift catalyst Liters 40,000 Table 2: Input material consumption ( 2013) The next step then uses catalytic shift conversion to convert the carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide and hydrogen. The carbon dioxide is then removed either by absorption in aqueous ethanolamine solutions or by adsorption in pressure swing absorbers (PSA) using proprietary solid adsorption media. The ﬁnal step in producing the hydrogen is to use catalytic methanation to remove any small residual amounts of carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide from the hydrogen. Developing Sustainably 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Urea (N 46.6%) is produced by a reaction of liquid ammonia with carbon dioxide under high pressure, both feedstock being supplied by the ammonia (1-6) plants. The process steps include solution synthesis, where ammonia and carbon dioxide react to form ammonium carbamate, which is dehydrated to form urea; solution concentration by vacuum, crystallization, or evaporation to produce a melt; formation of solids by prilling (pelletizing liquid droplets) or granulating; cooling and screening of solids; coating of the solids; and bagging or bulk loading. The carbon dioxide for urea manufacture is produced as a by-product from the ammonia plant reformer. UTILITIES REQUIRED AMMONIA UREA NATURAL GAS FROM QP H2S REMOVAL UREA SYNTHESIS Carbamate Condenser or Pool Condenser / Stripper and Reactor STEAM GENERATION DESULPHURIZATION INSTRUMENT AIR PRIMARY REFORMING DECOMPOSITION / RECIRCULATION NITROGEN SYSTEM SECONDARY REFORMING EVAPORATION SEA WATER SHIFT CONVERSION UFC 85 MELAMINE COOLING WATER CO2 REMOVAL GRANULATION / PRILLING DEMIN PLANT METHANATION POTABLE WATER SYNTHESIS REFRIGERATION UREA STORAGE FIRE WATER AMMONIA TO UREA PLANT AND STORAGE Figure 3: Ammonia-urea production process at QAFCO The conservation of resources is a fundamental economic principle for us and we continually strive to use our materials efﬁciently. Our speciﬁc consumption of natural gas as feedstock (per tonne of urea) decreased slightly when compared to 2012 primarily due to more efﬁcient technology applied in QAFCO 5 and QAFCO 6 production process. 2012 2013 Natural gas feedstock consumption for ammonia (KNm3) 3,502,675 3,843,822 Ammonia production (MT) 3,210,561 3,641,331 Speciﬁc consumption for ammonia production (KNm3 / MT) 1.09 1.05 Natural gas feedstock consumption for urea (KNm3) 44,905 44,089 Urea production (MT) 4,554,766 5,510,995 Speciﬁc consumption for urea production (KNm3 / MT) 0.0098 0.008 Table 3: Speciﬁc natural gas consumption per metric tonnes (MT) produced (2012-13) 17 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY PRODUCT ENHANCEMENT: Meeting Market Requirements Our core business of nitrogen fertilizer production is closely linked with agricultural productivity and food production. The role of our products in food production is usually underestimated. Fertilizers are the nutrients for healthy growth of plants. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium or NPK are the three major nutrients required for a wide range of growth processes. Micronutrients — for example, manganese (Mn), iron (Fe) and copper (Cu) — are also essential for performing a number of important functions in plant nutrition. Mineral fertilizers are used to supplement the soil’s nutrient stocks with minerals that crops remove from the soil and can be quickly absorbed and used by crops. Without the addition of fertilizers, crop yields would be signiﬁcantly reduced. Since its inception 40 years ago, QAFCO has seen a shift in buying patterns of the customers with incrementally rising demand for granular fertilizer that is deemed more suitable for modern agricultural techniques. Therefore, while our oldest plant still produces prilled urea, the newest ones are designed to meet this requirement and accordingly, we have increased our output of granular products. In addition, QAFCO is planning to produce sulfur-coated urea (SCU), a product that increases nutrient recovery, improves crop yields and reduces the negative effects on the environment. Case study: securing food in Qatar The cultivation of food crops is a difﬁcult proposition for Qatar due to scarcity of water supply and limited availability of arable land. The country is vulnerable to ﬂuctuations in international commodity markets because of heavy dependence on imported grains and food items, leading to a growing sense of food insecurity in Qatar. In response, QAFCO has begun to address the situation by aiming to efﬁciently utilize “cutting-edge technology” to establish a sustainable approach to food security for dry land countries. Our Sahara Project is one such effort that would allow sustainable production of food, while re-vegetating and storing carbon in arid areas. Sahara Project, in 2011, entered into cooperation with Yara ASA and QAFCO to build a pilot facility. Successful crop cycles were witnessed in 2013, and the vegetation and grain crops grown outdoors were successfully harvested throughout the year. The external evaporative hedges functioned designed, providing the necessary cooling effect for the crops and desert plants grown externally. Also, successful growth of test algae presented good tolerance to heat and high evaporation rates, as well as the halophytes that grew well during summer. The success of the pilot study for more than two years has shown potential for implementation of the project on a larger scale. Source: Sahara Forest Project in Food Security Program on Qatar TV, Sahara Forest Project, 2012. the Jewels of Growth 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Fertilizers plays a critical role in the world’s food security and is important from both the yield and food quality perspectives. As reported by the International Plant Nutrition Institute (IPNI), the world demand for food will increase sharply over Production the coming years as population is expected to increase by almost 40% from the current 6.7 to an Achievements 2013 expected 9.2 billion by 20501 . 3.6 Million Being one of the largest single-sited urea exporter and by investing in innovation, product value addition and energy optimization, QAFCO contributes to address the world’s food security metric tons of ammonia produced challenges. QAFCO ammonia and urea production capacity is of 3.8 million metric tonnes (MT) and 5.6 million MT per annum respectively. During the reporting year, 5.5 Million metric tons of urea produced QAFCO produced 3,641,331 MT of ammonia , the highest volume in its production history. Of the total production this year 3,042,026 MT (84%) was utilized within QAFCO for the production of urea, aqueous ammonia and melamine. In the same year QAFCO produced 5.5 million MT of urea. Ammonia Urea 60,000 55,110 Hundred Metric Tonnes 50,000 45,548 40,000 36,413 32,170 32,106 29,984 30,100 30,000 22,695 22,983 22,021 20,000 10,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Chart 2: Ammonia and urea production trend (2009-13) Majority of our products are sold in bulk which allows us to reuse the vessels and containers many times. Additionally, QAFCO exported a total of 5.7 million bags of urea, bagged at a bagging plant and then loaded to ship. We recycle polypropylene (PP) and Polyethylene (PE) plastic packaging waste that is generated during bagging the product for export and other plastic waste from different departments across QAFCO. In our contract with Muntajat, we have established requirements to encourage the company to reuse urea-packaging materials whenever possible. 1http://www.ipni.net 19 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY GROWING Within As a result of our production achievements, we are experiencing a rapid growth in our operational units, human resources, ﬁnancial dimensions and physical assets. Therefore, necessary measures have been taken to stream-line and restructure the organization. Key opportunities derived from these changes include re-evaluation of job categories and creation of career opportunities for our employees. As part of business restructuring, in 2013 our marketing and activities have been handed over to Muntajat, a company established by the State of Qatar with the right to purchase, market, distribute and sell the chemical and petrochemical products produced in the state of Qatar, including our products, all over the world. In 2013, QAFCO products were exported through Muntajat to more than 35 nations, its primary market regions being South East Asia, North America, Australia and South Africa. The restructuring of the organization reﬂects QAFCO’s ambition to be organized in order to efﬁciently meet the market’s needs as well as dedicating further time and resources to its production activities. Though this restructuring is a welcome move, what we would be missing is our direct contact with the customers who have always helped us improve our product quality. We would sincerely hope to keep receiving the customers’ feedback through Muntajat and continue our efforts in meeting the dynamic market requirements. AWARDS AND Recognitions As part of our commitment to grow sustainably and to ensure quality of products and operations, we have received several certiﬁcations from international bodies and institutions for our compliance against international standards. First Current Current Management system certiﬁcation date validity date certiﬁcation body ISO 9001:2008 – Quality Management System 29 May 1996 14 May 2015 Bureau Veritas, Doha Qatar ISO 14001:2004 – Environmental Management 30 Dec 1997 14 May 2015 Bureau Veritas, Doha Qatar System OHSAS 18001:2007 – Occupational Health & 15 Dec 1999 14 May 2015 Bureau Veritas, Doha Qatar Safety Management System RC 14001:2008 Responsible Care 19 Apr 2011 18 Apr 2014 Bureau Veritas, USA IFA Protect & Sustain Product Stewardship 12 May 2011 12 May 2014 Det Norske Veritas (DNV), Programme – (Excellence Level) Belgium ISO /IEC 17025:2005 – Requirements for the 11 Mar 2011 10 Mar 2016 Deutsche AkkreditierungssCompetence of Testing and Calibration telle GmbH German Laboratories Accreditation Body Table 4: QAFCO Certiﬁcations In 2013, QAFCO participated for the ﬁrst time in the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) and won two awards in the same year: Management of Occupational Road Risk (MORR) Gold Award and RoSPA Silver Award for occupational safety and health. These awards recognize our commitment to accident and ill-health prevention and not only looks at accident records, but also health and safety management systems and practices, such as leadership and workforce involvement. QAFCO was also awarded the IFA Green Leaf Award 2013 for its outstanding implementation of management systems to ensure Health, Safety and Environment controls across the product life cycle at its ammonia and urea production facilities. In 2013, QAFCO was the runner-up among organizations with more than 500 employees under the SDIR Programme Awards. The awards were developed by QP’s HSE Regulations and Enforcement Directorate over the past three years to recognize high-quality sustainability reporting and performance. Developing Sustainably 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY QAFCO The organizational ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE structure determines the hierarchy within QAFCO. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Audit Committee Segment management is Sr. Executive Internal Audit located in Secretary Manager Mesaieed, Qatar. Projects Legal Coordinator Manager Head of Safety SEQ Certiﬁcation SEQ Head of Environment Affairs Advisor Manager Head of Quality Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Chief Administration Ofﬁcer Chief Technical Ofﬁcer Chief Operations Ofﬁcer Public Head of Head of Head of Relations Inspection & Laboratory Production Manager Materials Support Technology Supply Accounts General Human Information Maintenance Projects Production Production Product Chain Manager Services Resources Technology Services Manager Manager Manager Handling Manager Manager Manager Manager Manager (Q 1-4) (Q5&6) & Logistics Manager Head of Head of Head of Head of Head of IT Head of Head of Head of A-1 Head of A-5 Head of Contracts & Treasury Ofﬁce Human Engineering & Reliability Mechanical Prilled Urea/ Procurement Administration Resources Infrastructure Projects Head of A-2 Head of A-6 Ammonia/ Head of Planning Head of Melamine Head of Accounts Head of Head of IT Maintenance Head of Head of A-3 Head of U-5 Handling Warehouse Housing Head of Applications Planning Electrical & UFC85A Head of Human Development projects Head of A-4 Head of Planning & Head of Resources Head of Head of U-6 Granular Budgeting Catering & Administration Workshop Head of Head of U-1 Urea Clubs Instrument Head of Handling Head of Head of Civil Projects Head of U-2 Utilities & Training & Power Gen Development Head of Civil Head of U-3 Projects & UFC85A Head of Medical Head of Head of U-4 Process Projects Head of Melamine Maintenance Operations Manager Head of Mechanical (Q 1-4) Head of Mechanical (Q 5&6) Head of Electrical (Q 1-4) Head of Electrical (Q 5&6) Head of Instrument (Q 1-4) Head of Instrument (Q 5&6) Head of Rotating Machinery Figure 4: QAFCO Organizational structure (2013) 21 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLY Our Business Transparency and Integrity The National Vision builds on a society that promotes justice, benevolence and equality protects public and personal freedoms Qatar National Vision 2030 “We are committed to the highest levels of transparency and integrity in the organization and we believe that our corporate governance structure is important in delivering long-term sustainable growth” Khalifa Abdulla Al-Sowaidi QAFCO Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Let’s talk about our governance and ethics… the Jewels of Growth 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY At QAFCO, we believe that transparent and sound corporate governance and ethical behavior are essential to aligning the interests Clear operational of our shareholders, management, structure with employees and other stakeholders. A effective mechanism in good corporate governance drives place to support the operations, monitoring value creation and promotes and reporting sustainable business conduct. In February 2009, the Qatar Financial Markets Authority (QFMA) announced a Corporate Fair and Governance Code for public balanced level of independence companies in Qatar, developed in on the Board line with international practices and guidelines, and in collaboration with the Hawkamah Institute of Corporate Structured Governance. Since then, QAFCO has Corporate been upgrading its corporate Governance systems governance practices to align with in-line with the Corporate the code. Governance Code introduced by the Qatar Financial Markets Our Board of Directors is committed Authority (QFMA) to adopting the highest standards of corporate governance as a fundamental part of their responsibilities to manage the business and affairs of the company. We ensure that new issues from our stakeholders are incorporated into our corporate governance structure Figure 5: Corporate governance highlights for improvement. OUR Governance Framework All shareholders are entitled to submit items to the annual meeting's agenda, to meet, speak and vote. In accordance with the Articles of Association and Qatar Law, shareholders or their authorized representatives must be present in order to vote. In addition, votes can be cast only for shares registered in the owner’s name. The meeting is normally held in February every year. Notice of the meeting is sent to all shareholders individually, at least one month in advance of the meeting. The annual meeting of the shareholders approves the annual accounts, the board report and any proposed dividend payment. In accordance with the Articles of Association and Qatar legislation, shareholders consider and vote on the appointment of the external auditor based on the Board’s proposal and approve the remuneration to be paid to the external auditor. Normally, the Board, the Chairman and the external auditor are present at the annual general meeting. The Chairman leads the meeting. 23 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Our Board of Directors is the highest Board Member Name Date of Appointment governing body in QAFCO and has speciﬁc responsibilities that facilitate H.E. Abdulaziz Bin Ahmed Al-Malki Appointed as director on 20 best interests of the company. Seven May 2007 and as Chairman on of our eight board members are 6 March 2011 independent, non-executive Khalifa Abdullah Al-Sowaidi As a director on 27 December members, along with the chairman 1997 and as Vice Chairman on 6 March 2011 who does not participate in company operations. Our Board Hamad Rashid Al-Nuaimi 6 March 2011 Members provide a good mix of Jorgen Ole Haslestad 1 May 2009 industry-speciﬁc knowledge, broad business sense and commercial Nasser J. Al-Kuwari 6 June 2010 experience. This balance enables the Meshaal M. Al-Mahmoud 12 March 2008 Board to provide clear and effective leadership to the company and bring Saeed Mubarak Al-Kuwari 6 March 2011 information and independent Jan Duerloo 15 January 2013 judgment to many aspects of our strategy and performance to deliver Table 5: QAFCO Board members the following responsibilities: • Provide strategic oversight for operations and monitoring its execution; • Board leadership and composition; • Monitor the conduct of business to evaluate whether the business is being properly managed and sustained; • Identify risks and threats, ensuring the implementation of appropriate systems to mitigate the risks; and • Review the adequacy and integrity of our internal control systems including mechanisms for compliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules, directives and guidelines. Each director has ﬁduciary duties and must at all times act in good faith and with proper care and diligence in the best interests of the company. Our shareholders nominate their representatives on the QAFCO Board of Directors which provides them with a mechanism to present their recommendations or direction to the governance body (i.e. QAFCO Board). The Board hold at least four meetings each year at the Company Ofﬁce. In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may have relating to the operation of the Company. The Board meetings are governed by a structured formal agenda and schedule of matters arising for approval or documentation with sufﬁcient time given for consideration. Board committees are established to assist the Board of Directors in performing its duties. Currently, the company has the following seven committees: Committee Duties and Responsibilities Internal audit committee Oversees areas such as the company’s ﬁnancial statements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, internal control framework and the management of internal and external auditor’s activities. Project steering committee Oversees expansion projects, i.e. Urea 1 Revamp, Melamine Project and QAFCO 5 and 6 Projects. General tender committee Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts above QAR 10 million and below QAR 50 million. Limited tender committee Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts above QAR 500,000 and below QAR 10 million. Small tender committee Oversees the tendering and contract award process for all Purchase Orders and Contracts above QAR 100,000 and below QAR 500,000. Project approval committee Oversees the approval of internal projects for capacity enhancement, safety, environment, minor plant modiﬁcations etc. Safety and environment Established under the Chairmanship of the CEO to discuss, promote and consider policy committee matters in occupational health & safety and environmental issues of signiﬁcant importance to the company. Table 6: QAFCO Committees Developing Sustainably 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY QAFCO Sustainability Reporting Comittee In line with the company's goal to strengthen and improve its governance structure, QAFCO established a sustainability reporting committee in 2013, with seven members representing different departments, which have supported the development of the 2013 sustainability report. Additionally, the committee members will support the sustainability efforts within QAFCO by: • Draft a sustainability reporting road map and facilitating its implementation; • Identifying key functional sustainability improvement areas that are in need to be implemented; and • Increase sustainability awareness within QAFCO. No compensation is paid to the QAFCO Board Members other than the annual remuneration determined by Special Resolution of the Shareholders but it is not directly linked to company performance. The compensation of senior managers and executives is directly linked to the annual performance of the company. QAFCO places great importance on maintaining a sound control environment. Accordingly, the Board ensures that adequate review is performed on all controls, including ﬁnancial, operational, compliance and risk management. The Board is ultimately responsible for the establishment, maintenance and review of the company's internal control framework in order to obtain reasonable assurance that the company's operations are effective and efﬁcient, that there are adequate controls over ﬁnancial reporting and that compliance with relevant laws and regulations are being observed. The principal objective of QAFCO’s risk management governance structure is to manage business risks, with a view to enhancing the value of shareholders' investments and safeguarding assets. Accordingly, QAFCO has consistently and continually monitored risks and processes across the company to identify, assess, measure, manage and report on opportunities and threats that could impact the achievement of our objectives. The Board is principally responsible for establishing risk tolerance, establishing and approving related risk strategies and policies, and for the oversight over risk and compliance management framework of QAFCO. We have complied with applicable rules and the applicable market listing and disclosure requirements and no penalties or structures were imposed on QAFCO during the last ﬁnancial year. 25 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Ethics QAFCO is committed to adhering to the highest standards of ethics and legal conduct for its operations and subsidiaries with the full support of all its stakeholders. This objective provides an avenue of raising concerns related to fraud, corruption or misconduct and we assure all our staff and stakeholders that anyone disclosing such information will receive full support and protection from the company. Our whistle-blowing and complaint procedure has been developed to ensure that any allegations and concerns expressed anonymously will be reviewed at the discretion of the head of internal audit in discussion with the audit committee and the managing director. While doing this assessment, the factors to be considered include seriousness of the allegation, credibility, and extent to which the allegation can be conﬁrmed or corroborated through evidences. All QAFCO employees are instructed to disclose any act related to fraud, corruption or misconduct that comes to their attention. Receipt of any allegation will be registered and if the identity of the staff is known, an acknowledgment receipt will be provided. Within three months, the staff should expect an ofﬁcial correspondence to a preliminary evaluation on the subject matter. The type of disclosures required of QAFCO staff and concerned third parties include the following: • Unlawful acts requiring the violation of a law, gross waste of Company resources, mismanagement, abuse of authorities and speciﬁc health or safety issues related to our operations; • Fraud, which basically means any act or mission, including misrepresentation that knowingly misleads, or attempts to mislead a party to obtain ﬁnancial or other beneﬁts or to avoid an obligation; • Any activity that deliberately attempts to undermine the organizations operations and aims; and • Corruption, which means any attempt to offer, give, receive or solicit, directly or indirectly anything of value with the intent of inﬂuencing the actions of another party. QAFCO committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact in 2011. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Below is a summary of our reporting against the UN Global Compact principles within the content of this 2013 Sustainability Report. Code of conduct In order to ensure QAFCO employees represent the high ethical standards that center our company, we have produced a Code of Conduct document that we expect all to abide by. The document not only details clear ethical and compliance standards applicable to those in current positions, but it also provides guidance for post-employment. The Code of Conduct is used as a measure to reduce the likelihood of unethical practices, sustain the high reputation that our company enjoys and provide for fair and objective resolutions to unethical actions, should they arise. Human rights QAFCO not only complies with standards and laws imposed by our Government and shareholders, but also ensures that a minimum wage is provided to all contractor’ employees. In our bid assessment processes, we look into the right treatment contractors meet out to their employees. All contractors have to meet a minimum set of criteria speciﬁed in QAFCO’s terms and conditions, which includes safety and security conditions for employees, hygiene practices accommodation, provision of personal protective equipment, technical and HSE training and the possession of various certiﬁcations prerequisite to speciﬁc services and industry practices. Developing Sustainably 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Labor standards We abide by and obey the Qatar Labor Law, which prevents us from child labor practices in our workforce, contractors and suppliers. Additionally, our workforce, contractors and suppliers are aware of QAFCO's Code of Conduct & Ethics, which is aligned to Qatar Labor Law. Further information is available in our employee section. Environment We acknowledge the impact of our operations on the environment and we take actions to reduce our impact . The section “Our environment” on page 48-59 provides an overview of our environmental performance and activities to manage our natural resources. Anti-corruption The QAFCO Board of Directors, senior management and all employees in our organization aim to create a positive and transparent environment and organizational culture committed to the prevention, detection and avoidance of fraud and to undertake prompt action to eradicate fraud in the event it does occur. QAFCO aims to adopt some common methods of fraud detection, such as tips and whistle-blowers, internal audit, discovery of fraud by accident, internal control reviews and enhancement, external audit and alertness/notiﬁcation by the regulators. No organization is exempted from fraud. However, we can take steps to determine fraud occurrence and mitigate losses due to fraud. Our organization aims to adopt three focal approaches to minimize the commission and likelihood of fraudulent acts, as well as to mitigate the magnitude of loss associated with fraud. Initiatives that QAFCO aims to put in place to prevent fraud include: • Formalizing our fraud policies and fraud management and awareness framework; • Putting in place strong internal controls for our expanding business activities; • Willingness to prosecute and enforce disciplinary measures/procedures; • Constant awareness and ethics training for our employees; • Discreet or anonymous fraud reporting escalation mechanisms, i.e., whistle-blowing structure; and • Providing induction program with speciﬁc sections. 27 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLY Our Resposibility On Qatar’s Growth “Training and support for entrepreneurs is a basic precondition for enabling the private sector to carry out its required role, besides providing financial and non financial support mechanisms that will help incubate and grow small and medium-scale enterprises” Qatar National Vision 2030 “By supporting SME development and by being financial sustainable, we support Qatar economic development, reputation and the achievement of the Qatar Vision 2030” Cees Van Amelsfoort QAFCO Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Let’s talk about: financials, suppliers & contractors, customer expectations the Jewels of Growth 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Qatar continues to secure improvements in standards of living of the society through a sound management of its hydrocarbon resources. Qatar has become the most competitive economy in the Middle East. The World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report for 2011-2012, which ranks the world’s fastest growing economies, placed Qatar 14th, overtaking other countries in the region including United Arab Emirates (UAE), Bahrain and Kuwait2 . Similarly, since 2010, QAFCO’s rapid growth has not only improved the company’s fortunes in QAR 4,314 million (revenues), 64% increment, but has also positively impacted our national economy growth (213 million QAR income tax payable and approximately QAR 7 million in community investment in 2013) An improved standard of living is not the only objective at QAFCO. We also need to remain true to our mission, vision and values and balance challenges such as the size and quality of our supply chain. Qatar, and thus QAFCO, faces challenges in delivering the volume of goods & services forecast. Local supply chain capacity will need augmenting and barriers to entering the market will have to be overcome, to attract contractors, consultants and resources of sufﬁcient scale and calibre to meet our growing demand. Customer satisfaction – satisfaction with products, services and performance – is a cornerstone of QAFCO’s corporate strategy, laying the foundation for long-term, sustainable success. In line with the requirements of REGULATION (EC) No 1907/2006 of The European Parliament and of the Council, of 18 December 2006, concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), QAFCO is committed to providing our customers with the necessary / required information on any substance on the current candidate list which is or may be present in our products at a concentration above 0.1% weight-by-weight. FINANCIAL Highlights The price of fertilizer is a key metric that inﬂuences our company’ 2,500 2% 40% revenues. As farmers must reapply ammonia and urea products 2,251 2,190 year-over-year to help plants grow, the price of fertilizer remains 2,000 47% inelastic. This makes price a signiﬁcant factor that affects Revenues (mill USD) income and share prices. Signiﬁcant changes in urea prices are 1,570 largely driven by changes in supply. Since urea trades globally, 1,500 prices depend on worldwide factors such as marginal production cost and production capacity. 1,066 1,000 The large decline in ammonia and urea prices we have seen since April 2013 can be attributed to lower production costs at carbon-intensive manufacturing economies. Since 2011, coal 500 based manufacturers have beneﬁtted from larger increases in coal supply relative to demand which reduces their operation costs. As a result, the shares of natural gas-based fertilizer producers 0 were negatively affected earlier in 2013. 2010 2011 2012 2013 Chart 3: Revenues in QAR (2010-13) 2011 2012 2013 20 ,1 ,1 22 70 22 70 25,000 ,4 20 85 ,4 28 ,4 20 35 20,4 28 17 ,4 17 07 20,000 ,6 16 26 13,4 ,9 39 16 23 ,9 15 77 ,7 63 15,000 10,000 2, 76 4, 4 3, 91 3, 5 85 3, 9 94 2, 2 2, 8 54 3, 0 48 9 56 32 9 2, 06 9 1, 83 4, 255 5,000 35 42 9 0 Total Total Total Total Total Total Total Total NonCurrent Assets Equity NonCurrent & Equity & Loan Current Assets Current Liabilities Liabilities QAFCO 5 Assets Chart 4: QAFCO Financial highlights in QAR (2011-13) 2World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report for 2011-2012 29 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY In 2013, QAFCO’s revenues were higher mainly due to greater sales volume of urea due to full operation of QAFCO 5 and 6 plants although sales prices of urea and ammonia also went down, in line with international prices. Negative sales price of urea affected a dip in proﬁts compared to the year 2012. However, it was mitigated by higher selling price of ammonia and we achieved a net proﬁt of QAR 3.2billion in the year under review. In 2013, the Board of Directors has proposed a cash dividend of QAR 300 per share totalling QAR 3billion, which is subject to the approval of the shareholders at the annual general meeting. OUR Suppliers and Contractors 74.49% QAFCO does not limit its responsibility to safety, security and 68.48% 59.57% clean work environment within its premises. It has taken stringent measures to check that health, safety, security and environmental concerns are taken into account by the suppliers, transporters, contractors and distributors. Suppliers of chemicals, equipment and spare parts, as well as contractors are selected following procedures for HSSE (health, safety, security and environment) requirements. The HSSE performance of suppliers and contractors is evaluated periodically to ensure the compliance. We have taken a number of steps to support local suppliers and give preference to source local goods and services in all our contracts, provided certain criteria are met. The local suppliers 2011 2012 2013 can register with us through the web portal on our website and Chart 5: Percentage (%) of goods and we make our tenders openly available them. Once the service sourced locally (2011-13) materials and services become unavailable locally, we opt for international suppliers. We have also supported development and empowerment of local small and medium enterprises over the years by initially engaging them for small projects and investing in their development and progressively giving them more responsibilities. A successful example of this is a multi-discipline industrial engineering and construction company, capable of delivering complete solutions to its clients in the oil and gas industries. In 2013, we locally sourced goods and services worth approximately QAR413m. This constitutes more than half (59.57%) of our total good and services spending despite a decrease in trend since 2011 to 2013, mainly because of difﬁculties in obtaining local suppliers due to a lack of capabilities and limited local business expertise. At QAFCO, while we are conﬁdent about the responsible business practices of our direct operations, the business practices of suppliers represent a potential area of risk that needs to be effectively managed. In 2013, we started the necessary steps towards the achievement of Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply (CIPS) certiﬁcation that assesses our procurement and supply operations against globally and international respected standards. It will provide us with a pathway to world-class procurement and supply. CUSTOMER Expectations QAFCO’s product quality is widely As we aim to become the largest quality producer of urea and acclaimed within the ammonia, it is vital to meet and exceed our customers’ expectations. industry and several We therefore maintain a continuous dialogue with our consumers and agencies have set high the industry through conferences. QAFCO participated in one such rating for our products conference, the “IFA Communicators” workshop in Paris organized by such as “Level 1 Gold” accreditation by International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA) that acts as a platform Australian Quarantine to regularly conduct interactive sessions on agriculture management & Inspection Service and product-related issues. (AQIS). In 2013, QAFCO was honoured with the IFA Green Leaf Award and was recognized for its outstanding performance in SHE in fertilizer production among the IFA members. Developing Sustainably 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY To maintain and improve quality of products, QAFCO has implemented a stringent quality management programme facilitated by real time In 2011, we achieved monitoring and measurement of production management system certiﬁcations processes, right from incoming raw materials till in Responsible Care (RC) 14001. distribution of ﬁnal products, supported by sophisticated laboratory analysis at various stages of Responsible Care is a health, production processes. Our laboratory is accredited safety, security and Environment to ISO 17025 and we keep records of our tests whilst (HSSE) performance improvement storing product samples to respond to any client’s initiative that helps companies in complaints and/or queries after delivery. identifying and spreading good As part of its commitment to meet customers’ management practices, by expectations, QAFCO complies with national and promoting mutual support among international standards. REACH (Registration, companies and associations Evaluation, Authorization and Restrictions of Chemicals) promulgated by the European Union through experience sharing. intents to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment from the risks that can be posed by chemicals. REACH also intends to promote alternative test methods, provide free circulation of substances on the internal market and enhance competitiveness and innovation. QAFCO has fully implemented the REACH regulation requirements and the company is actively engaged in making sure it stays compliant. REACH inﬂuences what companies manufacture, import, market and use in Europe. Besides requirements for testing and registration, REACH requires exchange of relevant chemical and use information between suppliers, customers, producers, importers and authorities. This regulation is an opportunity for manufacturers/importers to properly start managing risk of their chemicals. License to operate QAFCO has incorporated REACH permanently into its operations and implemented relevant processes and IT-systems company-wide. In 2013, QAFCO did not face any signiﬁcant incident of non-compliance with regulations relating to the labelling of our products. With the “license to operate,” QAFCO will continue to supply its full portfolio of REACH-compliant products, meeting current and future legal requirements and customer expectations. Material safety data sheets Our products information is disclosed through the material safety data sheets (MSDS) that identify the product name and its commonly used synonyms along with the molecular formula. MSDS also provide company contact details, including a dedicated hotline for general or emergency information. Information is supplied and the MSDS containing speciﬁc information on handling and storage, identiﬁes product hazards, including: • Human health: how the product affects human health in case the product is harmful if it comes into contact with skin or eyes, if it is ingested or inhaled and any long-term effects that the product might have; • Environment: whether the product has any adverse effect on the environment and animal life; and • Other hazards: whether there are any additional hazards, such as spillage consequences, ﬁre, heating and explosions. QAFCO representatives for future compliance A permanent central function has been established to ensure current and future compliance in Europe and in other parts of the world. Selected focal points can make use of an associated function providing compliance services for QAFCO supplies to Europe. Through its strong compliance focus and efforts, including programs like REACH, as well as Product Stewardship and HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point), we are committed to product safety. We will continue our contribution to health and protection of the environment by providing compliant products and safe operations. 31 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLY Our EmployeesWell Being “Attracting and retaining the right mix of skills will require appropriate incentives, as well as institutional arrangements for ensuring the rights and safety of expatriate labor” Qatar National Vision 2030 “Our achievements could not have been reached without our employees. We recognize our responsibility toward guaranteeing a safe and fair working environment where national and non-national employees can enhance their skills and develop their career” Hamed Ahmed Al-Marwani QAFCO Chief Administration Ofﬁcer Let’s talk about: workforce, Qatarization, employee satisfaction, employee communication, training and development, safety, occupation health the Jewels of Growth 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY At QAFCO, we face human capital as a challenge to the sustainable growth of our business and our commitment to contribute in achieving Qatar National Vision 2030. Employee relations We are faced with several challenges in attracting local talent at QAFCO, impacting our ability to achieve the Qatarization objectives. These challenges include: insufﬁcient supply of qualiﬁed national labor, heavy reliance on expatriates, and competition for Performance management local talent from public sector/private companies offering better compensation, working conditions, job security, and prestige. Compensation & benefits To address these challenges, we have aligned our QAFCO employment strategy to our corporate growth plan. Our employees are central to our sustained growth, and their Human resources welfare is a priority for us at QAFCO. policies & procedures Our approach revolves around “linking our human resources practices and policies with the strategic goals and objectives in order to improve Recruitment & selection business performance”. The diagram illustrates key topics to long term organizational strategy and success at QAFCO. Workforce planning To identify the need for and availability of human resources, we undertake a very systematic Job analysis, evaluation and work design approach that allows us to meet our Figure 6: Human resource management highlights objectives while guaranteeing employee welfare. All functional Human Resources activities, such as recruiting, training, performance management, compensation, employee relations, succession planning, replacement plans, evaluation and analysis, and Qatarization plans, are all derived from our workforce planning process. QAFCO is a multicultural and multi-product company located in Mesaieed Industrial City of Qatar, surrounded by chemical and petrochemical plants and handling a very high volume of hazardous gases. Ensuring safety and health is our core value and prime responsibility. We are committed to the safe operation of our plants and to the safety and health of our people and contractors. Our safety and health strategic goals highlight the importance of continuously improving our safety management system, targeting known risks, improving safety culture and behaviors to minimize the risk of harm to people and our assets. Implementation of systems and processes to identify and mitigate risk and fostering of a culture in which our people take responsibility for and are committed to safety are integral to delivering on this strategy. As per the nature of the business, QAFCO faces a unique set of challenges to implement its OH&S program and keep a check on the releases from the plants. Due to the ongoing expansion and modiﬁcation activities and the much needed yearly plant turnarounds, a series of simultaneous activities takes place in an environment where other plants are live and fully functional. Plant personnel and contractors work on a very tight time schedule and sometimes under extreme weather conditions. QAFCO has established Safety Management Systems in accordance with the ISO standards. The company continuously works toward enhancing the effectiveness of its management systems by monitoring personnel safety performance of its employees and contractors working at the site, involved in routine and major turnaround activities. QAFCO has adopted a proactive approach by using leading indicators, e.g., routine hazards assessment and near misses, to identify the potential weaknesses to get rectiﬁed on time. 33 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY WORKFORCE Overview In 2013 our workforce comprised of 1,541 full-time employees on established position. Our worforce headcount, workforce including 61 Trainees & Developees (on payroll) was 1,602. Labor force rate for female employment (2%) is still low mainly due to the technical nature of our activities and the location of our facilities, despite the fact that female nationals attain higher educational levels compared with male nationals. 2013 2012 2011 Classiﬁcation Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total Management Age 20-35 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 Age 36-50 1 32 33 1 28 29 0 27 27 Age 51+ 0 28 28 0 27 27 0 25 25 Total 1 61 62 1 55 56 1 52 53 Administration Age 20-35 9 48 57 9 51 60 9 50 59 Age 36-50 8 113 121 9 114 123 6 101 107 Age 51+ 3 38 41 3 39 42 3 34 37 Total 20 199 219 21 204 225 18 185 203 Technical Age 20-35 1 547 548 2 489 491 1 407 408 Age 36-50 2 599 601 2 602 604 2 594 596 Age 51+ 0 111 111 0 125 125 0 132 132 Total 3 1,257 1,260 4 1,216 1,220 3 1,133 1,136 Grand Total 24 1,517 1,541 26 1,475 1,501 22 1,370 1,392 Table 7: Total workforce composition breakdown by job categories and age groups (2011–13) At QAFCO we acknowledge and value differences among people with respect to age, class, ethnicity and gender. A highly diverse workforce dominates at QAFCO because of the relatively small Qatari population base. Managing and valuing our diversity is a key component of effective people management, which can improve our workplace productivity. At the same time, a diverse cultural background of our employees brings several challenges, i.e., losses in personnel and work productivity due to prejudice and discrimination, and complaints, which we address in a proactive manner through our code of ethics to meet the diverse cultural needs. Senior 176 Management 5 Qatari 968 17 Middle East Asia Europe Management Non-Technical 16 Our Employees 308 Middle Management Technical 41 Rest of the 1541 2 Australia Middle East Administration 281 11 North 59 America Africa Chart 6: Employees’ roles (2013) Technical 1259 Figure 7: Employees' nationalities (2013) Developing Sustainably 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Qatarization In 2013, our Qatarization rate was 15.69%. The achievement of the elected 50% Strategic Qatarisation objective, as Training and No. Of per Qatar National Vision 2030, remains Development a challenge not-withstanding continued Qataris efforts to attract Qataris trainees, Graduate trainee/ developee 8 graduates and experienced recruits. Trainees 8 By the end of 2013 , the number of Sponsorship students 12 Qataris on employment contract Scholarship students 33 (established position) reached 176 Qataris. The total headcount was 237 Total 61 including 61 Qatari Trainees & Developees and Sponsorship & Table 8: QAFCO Training and development (2013) Scholarship students, on payroll. Qatar Petroleum Trainee Preparation Program ( TPP) This programme aims at preparing fresh graduates to acquire the required professional skills to pursue technical career opportunities and operations in the energy and industry sector. The trainee is prepared to obtain TAFE certiﬁcate in accordance with the National Training Authority in Australia. Upon completion of this program, graduates are recruited for the position of technician or operator in the industrial installations in one of the following disciplines: Mechanical, Electrical, Instrumentation Engineering and Process. In 2013, QAFCO sponsored 17 Trainees under TAFE QP Programme. In 2012, although two of our sponsored graduates failed in QP TAFE programme, QAFCO gave them another chance by allocating them in Administration positions at the Company. We aim to more than double the local headcount by recruiting upto 18 nationals in 2014. This would increase to 16.6%. the national employee body at QAFCO. The imbalance between the supply and demand for Qatari talent to meet the Company’s unique organization needs in the engineering and sciences ﬁelds, the location of our facilities and the voluntary movement of trainees and qualiﬁed practitioners (between Qatar Petroleum-afﬁliated companies and within the broader Energy & Industry Sector), remain challenges to overcome and command joint innovation solutions. Projections in Qatari employment till 2014 indicate a growth to approximately 33%. We have invested in multiple schemes and strategies to attract and retain the best local talent, by collaborating with educational institutions, offering attractive remuneration beneﬁts, and providing clearly communicated career growth prospective. We have also established links with universities and higher learning institutions and research centers, and have concluded a number of cooperation agreements, among others: • Sponsoring a chair at Qatar University (QU) to develop an applied research program in the area of energy systems; • Partnering with Texas A&M University to host a Green Chemistry and Engineering Conference to promote cutting edge chemistry research in Qatar and the region; • Signing an agreement with Texas A&M University to sponsor the QAFCO-Texas A&M Conference for a further 5 years; and • Sponsoring the participation of a Qatar University (2) Professors and (18) Students in the 4th annual Fertilizers Convention held in Dubai. 35 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY In 2013, we actively participated to the Pearl Exhibitor in Qatar Career Fair 2013. We consider career fair an important forum to attract nationals and promote our Company. However, the recruitment from this platform proves to be challenging due to the competition within the various sectors for limited available Qatari talent. QAFCO’s commitment to the continuous development of nationals resulted in the progression of trainees and developees to targeted established positions in various areas of specialization. In 2013, 16 Qataris (11 developees and 5 graduate trainees) were promoted to mainstream positions.The efforts and accomplishment of our graduates were acknowledged on QAFCO Day 2013, where the management presented awards to 22 trainees and graduates. Diligent monitoring of progress in development programs and continued personal support to the Company’s Trainnes / Developees / Students, whether at their workplaces or institutes of further education, are key activities in supporting training and Benchmarking of training development of Qataris. These and development courses commendable efforts by QAFCO’s training and development staff contributed to a and programmes ensure number of sponsored students achieving that our Qatari Nationals are Grade Point Averages of 4/4 and receiving educated and trained to their degree First Class. international standards. QAFCO continued to create promotional opportunities for vertical progression of Qatari employees through organizational restructuring. This is supported by focused continuing professional development to ensure that the Qataris places in such key positions are competent and conﬁdent to perform their duties to the highest possible standards. We concert career development program for the Qatari employees to enhance skill sets which includes vocational training (into local and international undergraduate academic programs) and continuous career development training. The Company continues to utilize training and development opportunities presented by our recent expansion projects, and plant shutdown periods, for intensive training of Qatari trainees/ graduates. EMPLOYEES Satisfaction Through our workforce planning process, we address strategic areas, such as compensation, occupational well-being, and training and development to attract, retain and motivate employees. In 2013, we engaged with an external consultant to conduct a benchmarking exercise with external competitors in order to understand and adjust our beneﬁts as per market trends. This initiative guaranteed the competiveness of our salaries, but the difference in pay structure within the oil and gas industry in the region has a negative impact on our ability to attract and retain employees as their perception of fairness of compensation relative to the market is a concern. Developing Sustainably 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY In addition to monetary compensation we provide other beneﬁts to ensure the wellbeing of our full-time employees. Benefits for full-time employees Housing allowance or accommodation in Mesaieed, Wakrah and Doha Education assistance to employees’ children within the State of Qatar Auto insurance Membership to the QAFCO Albanoush club with gym and swimming pool Travel assistance: • Return air ticket to the home country for the employee and dependents (spouse and children) once in a year. • Incidental travel expenses upon ﬁnal repatriation to their base countries. • Air tickets and airfreight for the ﬁrst arrival and ﬁnal departure Table 9: QAFCO Beneﬁts for full-time employees (2013) Our temporary staff, which normally joins the company for two or three months, is provided with transportation and canteen facilities. We monitor and ensure fair compensation and beneﬁts for our contractors as any employee working at QAFCO should be entitled to a minimum monthly salary rate. In line with our procurement policy, the contractors shall increase the minimum contract staff salary of their personnel on long-term hire by 2.5% every year. The adjustment shall be done from the second year of the contract. Further, before issuing any work order, a contractor is evaluated on speciﬁc criteria that include condition of workers’ accommodation, health and safety plan, labor uniform, food facilities, recreation facilities, emergency response, tidiness and waste handling. QAFCO continuously employs company-wide surveys to drive improvements in fostering a productive work environment for employees. To evaluate the satisfaction level of our workforce, we conduct an online annual survey and the results are analyzed by our HR system. Any eventual area of concern is reported to the top management and an action plan is developed accordingly. The main survey areas are: 1) Promptness and efﬁciency of issuing company certiﬁcates 2) Efﬁciency of online leave request 3) Process of education assistance 4) On-call duty response in case of emergency During 2013, the majority of our employees who participated in the survey posted an overall rating of “Excellent.” The only area of concern is related to school fees payment mechanism. % Responses % Employee Satisfaction 2013 2012 2011 2010 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Chart 7: Employee satisfaction (2010-13) 37 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY The satisfaction level of Newly recruited employees Employees Turnover our workforce is also reﬂected in low turnover rates which was 5.51% in 200 182 2013. To understand 133 why people leave and 96 85 reduce attrition rates, 100 77 49 we conduct exit interviews — an initiative we started this year. 2011 2012 2013 Chart 8: Newly recruited employees and employee turnover (2011-13) Termination 2 Retirement 19 End of Contract 3 Death 1 Transfer to Resignation 40 Muntajat 20 Chart 9: Employee turnover per reason (2013) EMPLOYEE Communication Employee involvement at a local level, communicating progress and recognizing achievement are key to our approach to grow sustainability in our company. We have adopted variety of methods to contact and communicate with our employees on QAFCO policies and procedures, as well as organizational and operational changes. To improve employee communication, we plan to roll out a bulk SMS service to send important messages directly to their mobile phones. The SMS service is expected to be fully implemented in 2014. QAFCO also has a range of measures to ensure grassroots engagement, including several recurring or annual events to bring senior management together with all employees. These events include the New Year party, shutdown parties and the QAFCO Day celebration. TRAINING AND Development 47 Local Training and development is pivotal to the courses success of our business and operations. We 5,786,200 ensure to provide up-to-date skills and QAR knowledge to our employees and thus allow our 143 business and operations to grow in a sustainable In-house 45 courses Overseas manner. We invest signiﬁcant efforts towards courses enhancing our employees’ knowledge and 1,820,000 QAR 320,000 skills. By doing so, we strive to guarantee their QAR personal development and ensure efﬁcient and safe operation, besides preserving the environment. Chart 10: Total training courses and budget per category (2013) Developing Sustainably 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY In line with our human resource policies, our training and development department adopts a structured approach to plan and develop training programs using the Employee Performance Appraisal System (EPAS). The EPAS is an automated system that was introduced in 1999 to ensure effective monitoring and control of employee performance. The approach ensures that our training plan reﬂects the individual development needs of all employees as well as our organizational strategic objectives. The EPAS cycle includes the following steps: • Deﬁne the purpose of the job, job duties and responsibilities; • Create objectives spelled out for each area with measurable outcomes (attendance, knowledge, etc.); • Deﬁne the priority of each job responsibility and objective; • Deﬁne performance standards for the key components of the job; • Conduct interim discussion and provide feedback about employee performance summarized and discussed quarterly; • Evaluate how the employee is performing against all criteria, and think about areas for potential development; • Facilitate fair compensation and reward management (incentive programs); • Track EPAS ranking employee performance; and • Identify the training needs of employees. Once training requirements are identiﬁed, we develop a training plan that details the level of training necessary for each job category and for individual needs. Our training plan includes management courses that provide management and leadership skills, and communication courses that aim to enhance employees’ English language proﬁciency. Further, we run safety, environment and quality-related courses as well as maintenance and operational programs. Our general courses provide ﬁnance, human resources, ERP and IT skills. Some of our training programs are run in-house by QAFCO’s training department, and a few are conducted by reputed external agencies. In some instances, we provide our employees with the opportunity to attend courses abroad. Employees achieving signiﬁcant improvements are rewarded to ensure that their performance and capabilities are recognized and fully utilized for the growth and success of the organization. Statistics of training courses – QAFCO employees 2011 2012 2013 Total training courses conducted and attended 170 240 235 Employee participation in trainings 1,562 2,208 2,356 Average attendance per training program 9 9 10 Average number of training hours per year per employee 17 16 21 Table 10: Statistics of training courses – QAFCO employees (2011-13) 56 General Courses 32 Management Participation on local 58 Maintenance 31 Comminucation and overseas courses 29 Operations 29 SEQ Senior Management 0 Middle Management 15 Lower Management 53 Staff / Workers 67 Table 11: Total employees attended local and Chart 11: Course as per skills and knowledge (2013) overseas courses based on management level (2013) 39 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Safety We are committed to providing a safe workplace for our people, with risk-based safety and health programs across the business in place to prevent workplace injuries. If people are injured, we are committed to assisting them to return to work through proactive injury In 2013, while management. conducting QAFCO has set a target to achieve zero lost time accident and zero benchmarking of ﬁrst aid accident for QAFCO staff as well as contractors on-site. The company’s determination to prevent accidents and the desire to the QAFCO continue past years good performance is reﬂected while setting the incident statistics 2013 limits. among 23 of the We achieved outstanding safety performance despite growth in YARA companies, operations. Total recordable injury rate is a key measure that we used QAFCO ranked to monitor workplace safety performance. In 2013, QAFCO’s total recorded incident rate was 0.41 for employees and 1.53 for contractors. 2nd. Both rates, for the employees and the contractors, have increased 2% and 15%, respectively, compared with the 2012 rates. This increment is due to the QAFCO 5-6 project, which became fully operational in 2013. Actual Limit 25 20 20 20 15 10 7 8 5 3 4 4 4 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 First Aid Lost Time Day Lost Env Property Cont. Cont Cont release Damage First Aid Day Lost Lost Time Chart 12: QAFCO employees safety statistics (2013) Improvement in our safety performance is the result of the dedication of our employees and the success of the Safety Information System (SIS). This system comprises an incident prevention program, including emergency preparedness plans, training, safety procedures, protective equipment, hazard inspection and communication, and incentive schemes. To assist all departments or sections in setting and achieving their OHSE targets, during 2013, the following activities were performed as a follow-up to the incident prevention program: • Improving supervision, while performing any job on-site (last 16 years statistics indicate 76% QAFCO and 87% contractor); accidents can be avoided through improved employee and contractor supervision; • Conducting the Tool Box meeting effectively; • Scheduling and conducting safety walks; • Assessing critical activities and conducting the required job safety analysis (JSA) for them; • Ensuring that the risk assessment is reviewed, communicated and followed up as per the safety procedure Occupational Hazard Identiﬁcation, Risk Assessment and Determining Controls ; • Ensuring that the entire departmental staff (QAFCO employees and contractors) attends the scheduled safety or ﬁre training, including induction, shutdown refresher and safety workshops, organized by the safety section; • Encouraging the departmental staff to report near misses, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts; and • Discussing the following with the staff during weekly or monthly section meetings: o Near misses reported and the possibility of some of them to lead to personal injury. o SIS review to learn from accidents occurred in other areas or at similar plants o Recommendation from the QASEC meeting o Recommendation from the management review meeting o Shutdown recommendation o Mock drill recommendation Developing Sustainably 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Going beyond our facilities: With the aim to maintain our progress towards zero aqueous ammonia transportation lost time accident and zero ﬁrst aid, we established a high-level safety and environment committee, In 2013, QASEC (the safety and environment QASEC. The committee was formed under the committee) raised the following concerns Chairmanship of the CEO to discuss, promote and related to aqueous ammonia tankers: consider policy matters in occupational health There are no bafﬂes or partitions installed in and safety, and environmental issues of signiﬁcant tank containers; and importance to QAFCO. Our sixteen (16) members Leakage is possible in case of a ﬂip over, committee meets twice a year and each year the most probably through the top cover of a CEO selects two employees to represent the tanker. workforce. The role of the selected employees is to bring employees’ interests, which might not be QASEC adopted the following measures to identiﬁed by the top management, under the mitigate the risk of leakage: attention of the committee. Training provided to contractors on the handling and maintenance of aqueous ammonia was recorded in the SIS. Training frequency was increased (once every six 851 QAFCO 721 months). In addition, TREM cards, and route employees Contractors map to the QAFCO ﬁlling station and back trained trained were standardized and provided to tanker Auxiliary ﬁre Safety in drivers; and Drivers were trained in defensive driving. All training Handling QAFCO drivers at present are certiﬁed in Behaviour based Transporting defensive driving. safety awareness Aqueous QASEC also decided to check the following: Risk Assessment Ammnonia Valve speciﬁcation of the tanker; and Shutdown safety Safety Induction Reasons of a contractor for breaking the journey and not transferring aqueous training Brieﬁngs ammonia directly from QAFCO to Ras Gritas. Safety Brieﬁngs Safety culture Even after achieving impressive safety performance, safety awareness among our employees and contractors remains our paramount concern. The culturally diverse background, despite the obvious strengths it brings to the company, creates the challenge of impressing the importance of some safety aspects either from language or cultural perspective. Our priority, therefore, is to ensure high safety standards by instilling a common perception of safety risks among employees through safety awareness campaign and mandatory contractor training before commencement of any work. This year, we have initiated development of two ﬁlms about safety measures that are being sponsored by QAFCO. The ﬁlms will be translated into six different languages. Road accidents in Qatar are considered to be another dominant challenge and we attempt to mitigate it by providing a driving awareness course to remind our employees of the signiﬁcance of defensive driving, not only for when they commute to work but also for personal travel. QAFCO has established and maintained documented procedure that aims at registering for identiﬁed occupational hazards, risk assessment and risk control. 41 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Hazard identiﬁcation and mitigation Over the period, with increase in production capacity, QAFCO has diligently worked on improving its safety performance. The company has adopted continuous improvement strategies, implemented industry best practices, and conducted risk assessment and mitigation. QAFCO engages employees at all levels in its efforts towards hazard identiﬁcation and mitigation. The ﬁgure below describes our risk assessment approach towards hazard identiﬁcation ad reporting. Hazard identiﬁcation & reporting for risk assessment (By an employee) Initiator’s Head of Section for review and categorization OR Already risk Carry out risk Forward to other Report in incident Reject assessment done assessment area responsible reporting system (SIS) for categorization Forward to action Forward to action Justify & close Give reference & taker (within section) taker (within section) close Carryout risk assessCreate incident ment and sent back report & close to H.O. section Register the risk Update / revise / close by Head of Section Figure 8: Risk assessment approach at QAFCO In addition, the company has been adopting the best available technologies, learning from others and sharing information with the industry on a local as well as global level by attending seminars and workshops around the world. All sections at QAFCO carry out risk assessment for their respective activities. An organizational setup involving employees at different levels, heads of sections and department managers has been assigned the responsibility of implementing the risk assessment process. For any change in the organization, management system or operations, risk assessment shall be carried out for signiﬁcant associated hazards prior to the introduction of such a change. The risk assessment process is being used as the main tool to enhance and support workplace precautions. Further, it helps in the classiﬁcation of risks as major, medium and minor and thus supports in prioritizing the corrective action for those risks where a safeguard is not sufﬁcient. Each area (sections and departments) identiﬁes the hazards relevant to their area of responsibility, carries out the risk assessment, comes out with the risk control measures as required, and registers them electronically in the SIS. QAFCO has made great efforts to strengthen security by carrying out Security Vulnerability Assessment (SVA) and taking many critical proactive measures to deal with security threats. Based on the identiﬁed critical threats, an SVA is carried out and registered in a dedicated and conﬁdential ﬁle accessible only to authorized personnel within the company. The SVA register identiﬁes the threat type, likelihood, vulnerabilities and consequence. The risk is assessed (using a risk matrix) on the basis of these aspects, and relevant counter measures are recommended accordingly. Developing Sustainably 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Our employees are in the best position to identify safety and security risks as well as reducing the likelihood of an accident while doing their daily jobs according to safety best practices. Therefore, we encourage our staff to report risks and near misses and we recognize and reward good safety performance. Our CEO recognizes the best reported near miss and risk during the Annual QAFCO Day celebrations by awarding the individuals with certiﬁcates and cash award. A contractor’s employees are awarded during shutdown activities on a daily basis by identifying the best safety performance. Plant reliability As part of the continual improvement process and our commitment to achieve excellence in safety performance, we carefully maintain our assets and reduce the incidents of risks due to ﬁres, explosions and accidental chemical releases. This year, two optimized shutdowns were executed without any lost time and were completed ahead of schedule. Shutdown excellence is a journey, and achieving and sustaining excellence is wholly dependent on a site’s approach to shared accountability and is a continually improving process. Relief valves study To increase the production capacity, old plants in QAFCO are subject to a de-bottlenecking process. For the past many years, QAFCO has been able to operate the plants well above the plate capacity through plant revamps and modiﬁcations. During one of the internal evaluation process, it was observed that a relief valves evaluation against the maximum demonstrated production (MDR) load was not carried out. A concern was raised and relief valves evaluation (maximum relieving capacity vs. plant load) was conducted across the site. The evaluation turned satisfactory except for a few relief valves that were operating close to the rated capacity. The case was referred to the vendor for further evaluation and recommendations. Hazardous area classiﬁcation To protect personnel and equipment from unexpected ﬁre, due to the presence of ﬂammable atmosphere, we have adopted the international standard IEC 60079-10 as the basis for classifying hazardous areas within the QAFCO site. This standard has been applied to all production facilities (all ammonia, urea, power generation and utilities areas), and plant areas have been suitably classiﬁed into different zones (Zone 0, Zone 1, Zone 2) and non-hazardous areas. Any changes in the in-plant facilities are subjected to assessment of impact on existing hazardous area classiﬁcation drawings, and changes are made following the established guidelines and procedure. 43 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Ammonia venting in the old plants During one of the annual risk assessment reviews, it was observed that old ammonia plants did not have adequate system to handle ammonia release during plant upset and emergency shutdown. It was proposed that instead of venting ammonia vapors at high elevation, an adequate ﬂaring system should be installed to avoid ammonia concentration in the surrounding and splashing out of liquid ammonia from the vent. The project is in the ﬁnal stages of implementation. Modiﬁcation of the primary reformer fuel supply system Due to the recent incident of primary reformer explosion during plant startup in a European fertilizer company, QAFCO conducted a risk assessment study to evaluate all the reformer ﬁring procedures and the built-in safeguards available that could avoid an explosion. During the study, two out of four reformers were found not to have an adequate built-in safeguards. A project was initiated and the required safeguards were provided based on a header tightness test as a condition to get permissive to open the main fuel supply valve to the reformer. Equipment critically ranking In QAFCO, equipment criticality ranking is done based on the consequence of failure of the particular equipment or machine on the safety of personnel, impact on the environment and its cost implication due to business interruption. All the new and existing tagged equipment at site are categorized in terms of consequence of failure and probability of occurrence and are assigned the necessary preventive maintenance tasks according to the QAFCO maintenance process requirements. Ammonia storage systems QAFCO’s anhydrous ammonia storage capacity has increased with the increase in production capacity. The surplus anhydrous ammonia is shipped to consumers or is kept in four inter connected unrefrigerated storage tanks for its consumption in the process. This gives QAFCO the ﬂexibility to keep all the urea plants in service even when any of the front-end (ammonia) plant is down. As the old tanks were built in 1970s, it was normal practice to store anhydrous ammonia in single wall (single containment) refrigerated atmospheric tanks. However, during the expansion project in 1997 and subsequently in 2004, a double integrity, double-wall full-containment design (Bund wall) was chosen to improve the safety and reliability of the ammonia storage facility. To avoid spread of ammonia vapors in the surroundings in case of plant upset or breakdown of storage tanks refrigeration system, a ﬂare system has been installed to be used for ammonia gas venting through ﬂare. We are currently proposing to put up foam suppression system to further reduce the risk of spreading ammonia. In case of accidental release from the storage tanks, applying foam will slow down the release of ammonia vapor into the atmosphere. It will provide enough time for evacuation, if needed. The project is in the initial stages, as the foam stability with respect to the local weather conditions is being evaluated. Developing Sustainably 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY To maintain the integrity of the ammonia storage tanks and to protect the workers and the environment, a detailed study was also conducted to evaluate the operation of ammonia storage tanks in QAFCO. In this study, industry best practices for the maintenance of ammonia storage tanks were identiﬁed and recommended based on the comparison of data with other plants. Implementation of these recommendations will reduce the potential risks and the hazards associated with the equipment or plant operation. For many years, stress corrosion cracking (SCC) in carbon steel anhydrous ammonia storage tanks has been a major concern for the fertilizer industry. This is because in early 1980s, SCC was found in fully refrigerated ammonia storage tanks and the research performed afterward conﬁrmed the potential of SCC in low-temperature applications. Considering the potential risk of SCC, an internal study was conducted to evaluate QAFCO’s anhydrous ammonia storage tanks to ensure safety and health of workers, to protect the environment and to maintain the integrity and operating capability of these assets. In this study, the operating parameters were taken into consideration, as one of the main reasons for SCC is moisture and oxygen content in stored ammonia. As mentioned earlier, QAFCO has a multilayer protection around ammonia storage tanks; therefore, the chances of ammonia containment loss from the storage tanks are minimal. Reliability and maintenance benchmarking study QAFCO always looks to identify where can reliability and maintenance performance be improved at our plants and processes. In 2013, a benchmarking study was carried out to compare our maintenance processes and practices in 2012 against 293 chemical peer companies located and operating within the Gulf region and globally. Representative employees from each section participated in the process of collating information for the benchmarking purpose. The overall performance is presented in terms of a Reliability and Maintainability Efﬁciency Index (RAM EI). QAFCO was ranked just within the top 25% list of companies, being the ﬁrst-quartile performer. 18 Reliability Effectiveness 16 14 12 10 QAFCO 8 Index RAM EI 6 4 2 0 25 50 75 100 Chart 13: Reliability and maintenance benchmarking study (2013) Total Participation, % We also adopt Root Cause Analysis (RCA) approach to prevent the reoccurrence of any process safety issues and to ﬁnd effective solutions to improve plant equipment reliability. In 2013, QAFCO management supported the selection of the Reality Chart RCA methodology and made a signiﬁcant investment to train approximately 300 staff members to effectively use this methodology. The implementation of this methodology is in progress with approximately 30 failure analyses being carried out using this method and generating value adding solutions. This is certainly a step in the right direction and helps eliminate defects and improve overall reliability. 45 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Occupational health We provide employees with preventive and curative health services, such as medical surveillance, vaccinations, illness and injury treatment, health promotion and ﬁrst-aid training within the company. Further, we assess all workers for exposure to workplace hazards and monitor general health status. Medical screening is also provided at speciﬁc occasions, such as: • Pre-employment • Job transfers • Return to work after long illness or signiﬁcant injury In addition to medical services, QAFCO provides its employees and their families with health insurance that covers both private and public medical services available locally and abroad. Even though the number of employees has been increasing steadily for last few year, the total number of consultations and sick leave days have relatively decreased from 2012 to 2013. We treated 10,321 cases during 2013 that were 15.3% less than the previous year. Medical centre statistics 2013 2012 2011 Consultations 10,321 11,909 10,723 Sick leave days 5,597 5,735 4,756 Sick leave days per employee 3.5 3.6 3.26 Contractor consultations 1,120 1,056 1,137 Referrals to specialist 140 170 136 Hospital admissions 58 36 36 Work accidents 12 8 13 Work related illness 13 17 19 No. SL for work related cases 4.5 16.5 10 Table 12: Medical centre statistics (2011-13) Due to extreme hot weather in Qatar, where temperature in summer can reach as much as 50 degrees, incidents of heat stress are very likely. In order to reduce the risk of heat-stress disorders, QAFCO organizes a heat stress campaign every year. The campaign includes: • Issuing pamphlets to QAFCO and contractor employees; • Posting banners and ﬂags at different locations in QAFCO 4/1 and QAFCO 6/5; and • Closely monitoring heat index (combination of temperature and humidity) Developing Sustainably 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY To prevent heat stress, QAFCO has adopted a heat index for evaluating the working atmosphere condition. Heat Index, Flag Colors and Rest Period are based on the following table: Heat Flag Color Work: Water Index to be Controls Rest Period Requirement posted (Minutes) (1Cup=1/4 Litre) Up to 26 No Flag Continous monitoring 1 Cup every 27-38 Yellow and not working alone 40:10 20 mins Work under shade above 49, 1 Cup every 30-53 Red Elevated Work Stopped 30:10 15 mins above 54 Black Stop Work Figure 9: Heat stress index Case study: less stress and more resilience Technology must be aligned with the human resources of any organization in order to be successful. In 2013, QAFCO requested for consultancy services of a leader in the application of psychology to safety, leadership development and well-being in the workplace. The services included carrying out the “Less stress and more resilience” workshop for most senior managers at QAFCO. This workshop took our management through a well-being model, which is grounded on the latest neuroscience well-being research. Through a practical approach, our management was able to experience for themselves the advantages of having appropriate psychological well-being of resources to deal with life’s challenges. 47 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLY Our Environmental Liability “Economic development and protection of the environment are two demands neither of which should be sacrificed for the sake of the other” Qatar National Vision 2030 “We are committed to maintain a balance between developing needs and protecting the environment by managing our operations and preserving the natural heritage of Qatar” Mohd. Y. Al-Eshaq QAFCO Safety, Environmental and Quality (SEQ) Manager Let’s talk about: water, energy, emissions, waste, spills, biodiversity, environmental awareness the Jewels of Growth 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Qatar is facing major environmental challenges that need to be appropriately resolved, particularly in achieving water security, reducing carbon emissions, increasing energy efﬁciency and mitigating risks that threaten the safety of the terrestrial and marine environment. Qatar has already committed to enforcing international standards for environmental protection when designing and implementing its industrial projects. Companies must also commit to making its future path of development compatible with the requirements of protecting and conserving the environment. At QAFCO, we acknowledge the impact of our operations on the environment and community living close to our activities and have taken considerable actions to reduce and mitigate that impact. We have a well-established Environmental Management System (EMS), ISO 14000-certiﬁed, which help us set up processes and practices to identify, evaluate and reduce our environmental impact and at the same time increase our operating efﬁciency. Improve overall environmental performance Improve external Identify pollution relations and prevention public image opportunities Environmental Improve internal Improve communication Management compliance System Reduce risk Enhance opera(environmental, tional control and health & safety) efﬁciency Cost savings Figure 10: Environmental Management System highlights Our top management commits to environmental improvement, which is reﬂected in our established environmental policy. Our HSE Committee oversees the effectiveness of these systems by holding frequent review and progress meetings that ensure objectives and targets are met. The EMS is also designed to address our regulatory demands in a systematic manner, reducing the risk of non-compliance and non-regulated issues, such as pollution prevention, odor management, and water and energy conservation. Being in operation for a long time does present particular challenges while complying with environmental laws and regulations. Some of our facilities are 40 years old, dating back before many of the modern environmental best practices were conceived. Therefore a part of our successful environmental legal compliance in 2013 included our continuing effort to retroﬁt and upgrade these facilities in order to meet environmental standards. At QAFCO, we are not only focused on the immediate holdings of the company, but we also adopt particular external sustainability projects. For instance, our Sahara project aims at protecting and enhancing Qatar biodiversity through conservation of maritime and terrestrial species at Al-besheriya Island and at creating revegetation and other green jobs through proﬁtable production of food, water, clean electricity and biomass in desert areas. 49 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Water Sources It has been forecast that by 2020-30, water demand in Qatar would be 602 million m3 due to increased food production for an increasing population3. However, the country’s current water supply is around 465 million m3 and a severe shortfall is expected by 20304. Qatar is located in a water scarce region and, factoring in the climate change repercussions, water security is one of the most important environmental issues. QAFCO understands business risks and opportunities relating to water scarcity and is committed to promote responsible water management. It acknowledged the fundamental need for more detailed work on water conservation, efﬁciency and productivity. The strategy adopted by the company is to use water efﬁciently, and recycle and reuse it wherever possible. There has be an increment in the net water intake from sea since QAFCO 5 and 6 are fully operational in 2013. QAFCO (1-4) supports QAFCO (5-6) for water export; therefore, water supplied by municipal authorities has also increased in 2013 compared to 2012. Ammonia and urea manufacture are highly energy-intensive processes and require water for process cooling and steam generation. Seawater is use as the main cooling media (once through seawater circulation via seawater cooling towers). Apart from forming the main cooling media, seawater is also used to produce desalinated water, which is used as makeup water for producing demin water. The process and steam condensates, and boiler blowdowns generated during the ammonia and urea process are reprocessed via long exchange waterbeds, and demin water thus produced is recycled and reused completely within the process. Wastewater is often produced in high volumes during the ammonia process. Discharging ammonia-laden water into the environment can cause problems. QAFCO has already initiated a project to collect all the discharges from the plants to be sent for proper treatment and disposal in order to attain the goal of zero process wastewater discharge to the sea. The plan is to reuse the treated water after further processing for steam production or for other uses in the plant. By incorporating and modifying operating procedures during plant startup and rundown activities, QAFCO has already signiﬁcantly reduced discharge to sea. The company does not use freshwater for irrigation purposes. Final sanitary wastewater is treated in our sanitary wastewater treatment plant and is used as irrigation water for greenbelt within the company premises. We plan to fully utilize the treated water for irrigation by increasing green spaces in QAFCO. Water management 2011 2012 2013 Sea water intake/returned (m3) Sea water intake from sea 1,290,000,000 1,320,000,000 1,180,000,000 Sea water returned back to sea 1,280,000,000 1,308,000,000 1,138,757,920 Water consumed/used (m3) Net water intake from sea after discounting water returned back to the sea 10,000,000 12,000,000 41,242,080 Municipal water QAFCO (1-4) 330,896 305,293 437,357 supplies or other water utilities QAFCO (5-6) 60,000 46,293 12,390 Total water consumed/used 10,390,896 12,351,586 41,691,827 Water recycled/reused (m3) Process and steam condensate re-used within QAFCO (1-4) and QAFCO (5-6) 11,589,900 15,584,900 12,442,066 and Melamine Plants Treated sanitary waste water used in irrigation 60,500 61,000 39,955 Table 13: Water management (2011-13) 3Middle-East and Northern Africa Water Outlook, World Bank, January 2011. 4Qatar General Electricity & Water Company 2013 Developing Sustainably 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Energy At QAFCO, we seek to become a leader in energy efﬁciency in our sector. Energy efﬁciency is central to our strategy as we look to scale up production and reach an annual capacity of 5.6m tonnes of urea in 2013. In the coming years, QAFCO wants to conserve energy and at the same time increase production of both ammonia and urea5. Energy management 2012 2013 Direct energy sources total purchased (GJ GHV) for electricity, heating, conversion units Direct non-renewable (natural gas) 155,189,018 181,972,288 Direct energy sources produced (GJ) NA NA Total direct energy consumption (GJ) 155,189,018 181,972,288 Indirect energy sources purchased (MWh) Electricity 294,411 257,847 Electricity generated (MWh) QAFCO (1-4) 379,865 734,419 QAFCO (5-6) 655,216 777,300 Total electrical power generation 1,035,081 1,511,719 Table 14: Energy management (2011-13) Installation of co-generation – 1 unit The present auxiliary boiler in Ammonia 1 and 2 belongs to old generation boilers (2 Nos.) producing saturated steam at 12 bar and 26 bar, respectively. These boilers are not equipped with a proper heat recovery system, and thus operate at low thermal efﬁciencies. Also, the old power station (PS 1.7) is a conventional electric power system based on once-through cycle. The electric generation capacity of the station is 25–30 MWh, with an overall efﬁciency of 20%–22%. Accordingly, with the objective to improve efﬁciencies, QAFCO opted for gas turbine-based, CoGen 1 and 2 (CHP) plants with a capacity of 140MW and producing 600t of steam per hour. The CHP plants are designed to meet the thermal and electrical base loads of a facility, leading to an increase in the facility's operational efﬁciency and a decrease in energy costs. At the same time, CHP reduces the emission of greenhouse gases, which contribute to global climate change. The facility includes four General Electric Frame 6B gas turbine generators, ﬁve steam turbines, ﬁve compressors and additional heat recovery steam generators. The turbines are equipped with dry low NOx (DLN) technology, which makes the facility more environment friendly. Auxiliary boilers in Ammonia-1 and the power station (PS 1.7) have been replaced after new Co Gen-1 unit at QAFCO (1-4) site, with installation of 85% efﬁciency that became operational in 2013 . CoGen-1 generates 64MWh of electric power and 300 metric tonnes/h of superheated steam at MP pressure of 50 bar. The old vintage auxiliary boiler Ammonia-2 will be decommissioned by December 2015. Additionally, QAFCO is working on several initiatives to increase energy efﬁciency and improve production output. Use of advanced technology in QAFCO 4, 5 and 6 has resulted in improved energy efﬁciency. Also, transferring to production of granular urea in these units instead of crystalline urea is considered more suitable for agricultural techniques. QAFCO is looking to enhance its QAFCO 1 and QAFCO 2 projects as well. This development would lead eventually to raising energy efﬁciency in Ammonia 1 and 2 projects, so that they consume 35GJ per tonne instead of 46.5GJ per tonne. 5 http://www.thefreelibrary.com/Energy+efﬁciency+to+guide+Qafco+production+policy.-a0329144226 51 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) emissions At QAFCO, we are looking for mitigation measures to reduce our carbon footprint in order to assure the environmental sustainability of critical processes, which are indispensable, such as the production of ammonia process. Integrating ammonia plant with urea plant helps prevent huge amounts of CO2 release to the atmosphere; however, this depends on the production capacity of urea plants. Metric tonnes (MT) 2012 2012 2013 NOTES Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 142,000 4,683,855 5,759,262 56 kg CO2/GJ (LHV) Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) NA NA 47,255 Lower heating value = Higher heating value x 1.11 GHG emissions saving 66,209 345,951 261,664 Reported by U-3 as CO2 export to Q-5 (ref PIMS U-3 report) Table 15: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (2011-13) Before 2011, QAFCO faced the issue with excessive amounts of CO2 released to the atmosphere and reduced these amounts by increasing urea production capacity and by sending some CO2 to neighboring plants — Qatar Fuel Additives Company and Qatar Vinyl Company — that used CO2 as feedstock for methanol production. Exports to the neighboring plants were stopped in 2012, after Urea-6 plant came online in the same year. In 2013, with QAFCO-5 and 6 being fully operational, we maximized the use of process CO2 for urea production. When synthesizing ammonia and urea from natural gas, ammonia is always formed in excess and there is a shortage of CO2. The excess hydrogen is used as fuel for the steam reformer, excess of ammonia is sent for urea production and the CO2 produced by the reforming process and the CO2 recovered from the ﬂue gas reformer or boiler are then fed together to the urea synthesis section. It maximizes the urea production, minimizes reconstruction and reduces our CO2 emissions. Natural Gas Fuel Gas Steam Primary CO2 Fuel Reformer Recovery Air CO2 CO2 Urea Secondary CO2 Ammonia Urea CO Shift Reformer Removal Synthesis Synthesis NH3 H2N2 Figure 11: Flue gas CO2 recovery for urea production Developing Sustainably 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OTHER Emissions Emissions of ozonedepleting substances We have conducted detailed studies on alternative substances and their suitability, and subsequently planned and executed the phaseout of halon, such as chloroﬂurocarbons (CFCs) and HCFs, as a ﬁreﬁghting agent. As an alternative, water mist and Novec 1230 are used in the total ﬂooding ﬁreﬁghting system. This initiative demonstrates our dedication to environmental preservation and our people. All ozone-depleting substances are being phased out completely and these projects are ongoing. NOx emissions QAFCO is also responding to the local environmental regulations by conducting feasibility studies and modiﬁcations to achieve the challenging NOx emission limits (125 mg/N m3) speciﬁed by the Ministry of Environment. Nitrogen oxides or NOx, are highly reactive gases, where nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and nitric oxide (NO) are the most harmful air pollutants. Due to old vintage boiler and burner technology, normally NOx generation is high in ﬂue gas. In December 2013, auxiliary boilers at Ammonia-1 plant were decommissioned after Cogen-I commissioning. QAFCO is planning to decommission auxiliary boilers at Ammonia-2 plant by the end of 2015. Meanwhile, QAFCO has requested local authorities an extension of current TBCAP to exempt these limits. In 2013, QAFCO also exceeded its limits in primary reformer Ammonia-3 since the DeNOx system stopped functioning due to corrosion in downstream coil. Additional exceeding limits were detected at HRSG G1.8 in our power station. The HRSG DeNOx system did not perform properly due to suspected chocking at the upstream and downstream of the ﬂue gas recycle blower. Inspection and repairs were planned from March, along with G1.8 shutdown for 20 days. A time-bound compliance action project was also raised to control NOx emission from the Ammonia-4 primary reformer. In the meantime, request was made to the Ministry of Environment to extend exemption by the end of 2013. 8,000 NOx SOx Tonnes Particulate Matter (PM) 7,000 6,677 6,000 Metric Tonnes 5,000 4,606 4,000 2,634 2,812 3,000 2,291 1,862 2,000 1,335 1,061 1,061 1,000 0 2011 2012 2013 Chart 14: Other emissions (2011-13) Note: (1) Calculation is based on laboratory analysis on ﬂue gas OR direct measurement through online analyser wherever applicable and corresponding estimated stack ﬂows as per plant load conditions.(2) Lab measurements are based on fortnightly analysis frequency.(3) Particulate matter reported is in form of Urea dust from prilling tower and granulator stacks 53 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY In 2013, QAFCO 1–4 signiﬁcantly decreased NOx and SOx emissions to the atmosphere from QAFCO 1–4 plants compared to emissions in 2012. Overall emissions have increased as QAFCO 5–6 became fully operational in 2013. Efforts are underway to improve compliance by implementing environment-related projects. The following measures have signiﬁcantly reduced our plants’ NOx emissions: Selective Non Catalytic Reduction (SNCR) DeNOx system has been installed at the primary reformer ﬂue gas duct in Ammonia-3 plant. Besides the two main products (prilled and granular), QAFCO is also producing UFC-85 and aqueous ammonia. Both ammonia and urea solution are used to reduce the NOx in the ﬂue gases of the primary reformer. It has been planned to implement the same in Ammonia-4 plant to further reduce the NOx emission at QAFCO site. Both Ammonia-3 and Ammonia-4 primary reformers DeNOx systems will be fully operational in 2015. In heat recovery steam generator system, Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) DeNOx technique has been applied to reduce the NOx emissions from the gas turbine exhaust. The system is a combination of catalytic and ammonia or urea solution injection system. To reduce the NOx emissions from the auxiliary boilers in Ammonia-3 plant, Low NOx burners with Flue Gas Recirculation (FCR) technique has been applied. Low NOx burners are designed to provide fuel staging which generates fuel-rich and fuel-weak areas to reduce ﬂame temperature. Introduction of FGR reduces NOx by reducing ﬂame temperatures and local oxygen concentration in the ﬂame zone. QAFCO not only meets NOx reduction challenge, but also helps other industries to meet their NOx targets. QAFCO is leading the way in reducing NOx emissions by using DeNOx technology in its plants and is also providing urea and ammonia solutions to other Qatari industries and power stations to help control their NOx emissions. In 2012, QAFCO invested QAR 31.72 million to build up the necessary infrastructure for the preparation, storage and export of those solutions to different users. In 2013, a total of 3,961 metric tonnes/day of 19% aqueous ammonia solution was produced in QAFCO's DeNOx infrastructure. OUR Waste Non-hazardous waste We produce three type of non-hazardous waste: food waste, general domestic waste, and non-hazardous Industrial waste. For collection of non-hazardous waste generated, we use three color-coded rubbish skips. As part of the induction training and shut-down brieﬁng, we educate our employees on waste segregation, management and disposal to control QAFCO’s liabilities on the environment. Each rubbish skip has a signboard displaying information on the type of waste and the correct management practices to be followed. Food waste from the canteen and dining halls is collected and sent for landﬁll at the Domestic Solid Waste Management Centre, a local licensed landﬁll located in Mesaieed city. We are conscious that wasting food raises social questions; therefore, we monitor the amount of food waste produced on a daily basis and our experienced canteen staff ensures preparation of the right amount of food. General domestic waste, such as cardboards and ofﬁce refuse, is collected and sent to the landﬁll. Non-hazardous industrial wastes includes construction/industrial wood, glass, small empty plastic cans, small empty metal containers, rubber/fabric/plastic materials, spent resins, metals, concrete/ceramics/soil, ammonia converter, iron oxide catalyst, alumina balls/lumps, and ceramic balls/rings. The waste is collected, segregated into plastic, glass, steel and paper waste and sent for recycling to the local companies. Developing Sustainably 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Through our procedure, we established the requirements and means for environmental management that is mandatory for the contactor working in QAFCO premises, in order to control, manage and dispose of the non-hazardous industrial wastes that are generated during the preparation, execution and completion of the activities. The table below shows the total amount of waste disposed and recycled during 2012 and 2013. The waste is composed of tires, spent catalyst, waste lead-acid batteries and used oil (lube, hydraulic, transformer, and grease) and other non-hazardous waste (food waste, cardboards, ofﬁce refuse, construction/industrial wood, glass, small empty plastic cans, alumina balls/lumps, ceramic balls/rings, etc.) 2012 2013 Total waste disposed (kgs) 12,000 12,100 Percentage waste recycled 75% 75% Table 16: Amount of waste generated and recycled (2012–13) Hazardous Waste Spent catalyst Spent catalyst generated Sent for recycling All types of spent catalysts are ﬁlled 350 (immediately after being unloaded from 291 plants’ vessels) into labeled metal drums 300 and kept in a temporary special store 250 yard awaiting sale for the purpose of Liters recycling/metal recovery by a third 200 165 153 party, which provides a “certiﬁcate of 135 137 150 consumption” stating the details of each 107 catalyst treatment and the ultimate fate 100 of the components of the catalysts. 50 Spent catalyst is the only type of waste sent out of the Mesaieed Industrial City 0 (MIC) Hazardous Waste Treatment 2011 2012 2013 Center (HWTC). Chart 15: Spent catalyst waste (2011-13) The third party is selected through tendering and evaluating the bidders on technical, environmental and commercial criteria. The bidders are required to specify the intended catalyst treatment method and commit to provide the certiﬁcate of consumption at the end of the treatment process. Used Oil All types of used oil (lube, hydraulic, transformer and grease) that are Used oil generated Sent for recycling generated from QAFCO’s plant 250,000 229,600 226,800 machinery/equipment are collected into labeled used oil drums, labeled with 200,000 177,200 information on origin and type of used oil. The used oil drums are then temporarily 141,800 150,000 Liters transferred to a designated used oil yard, until they are taken out by the oil supplier, 98,132 101,800 100,000 who takes back the used oil from QAFCO site for reuse/reclamation. The oil supplier 50,000 also provides a certiﬁcate of consumption describing where the 0 collected oil/grease has been used or the ultimate fate of the oil/grease. 2011 2012 2013 Chart 16: Used oil waste (2011 -13) 55 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Lead-acid batteries and tires Waste lead-acid batteries generated in QAFCO are collected and sent for recycling/treatment. The ﬁeld maintenance engineer of the concerned group (electrical/mechanical/instrument) holds the overall responsibility for preparing the batteries for disposal and sending the waste batteries to the “Waste Lead Acid Batteries Temporary Storage” after ﬁlling and submitting the online “Waste Lead Acid Batteries Entry Form,” under EMS (Environmental Management System). The stored waste lead-acid batteries are treated at the MIC Hazardous Waste Treatment Centre, at price based on the rate-tariffs/charges stipulated in the “Hazardous Waste Management Services Agreement” signed between QAFCO and MIC. Our environment section is responsible for the coordination with MIC, for the disposal of the stored waste batteries in an environmentally responsible manner, in accordance with QAFCO’s policy. Lead-acid batteries collected Lead-acid batteries recycled Tires 180 162 160 155 140 131 120 Number 100 80 62 67 64 60 47 35 40 31 20 0 2011 2012 2013 Chart 17: Other hazardous waste (2011-13) Miscellaneous hazardous wastes Other hazardous wastes, such as cement asbestos sheets and spent laboratory reagents that are generated from concerned areas are generally transferred to a relevant designated storage temporarily, until taken out for treatment/disposal at a licensed hazardous waste treatment facility. The facility must be committed to provide the certiﬁcate of consumption at the end of the treatment process, describing the ultimate fate of the waste components. Spills Chemicals handling at ammonia plants are Ammonia Hydrazine (NH2-NH2), Methyl diethanolamine (MDEA), aMDEA, Nalco-8539, Nalco-8514, oil and grease. Spillage of these chemicals can be mixed with water of the trench during operational activity. Although no spills were reported in 2013, QAFCO continues adopting the following precautions to avoid impact to the environment: • No spillage should be contained (secondary containment pallets are being used for storing chemical drums); • Chemical oils must not be washed out in the trench during plant washing/cleaning activity; • MDEA ﬁlter backwash water from system 00 and 05 must not be lined out to the trench; • U0503, U1201, U1202, U1203 condensate must not be drained in the trench; • Routine cleaning of compressor house oil pit is to be followed strictly; • Urea 4 granulation section washing is to be carried out without draining contaminated water into the trench; and • Urea conveyor belt washing is to be done without draining contaminated water into the surface trench. Developing Sustainably 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY QAFCO has also prevent spills by using different kits, tools and equipment stationed in each of A-1, A-2, A-3, U1, U2, U3 plants, Chemical Store No. D and safety store. A smaller kit is located inside the laboratory. • Spill-defense mobile kit: to respond quickly to clean up the indoor and outdoor spills; • Leak-sealing lance: for fast-leak sealing by a single operator on storage tanks or road tankers; • Drum and tank repair kit: repair leaks in stainless steel, zinc-plated steel, rubber and beryllium storage tanks and drums; • Pipe patch kit: repairing a variety of pipes sizes from 0.5 inch to 5 inch diameter; • Sorbent materials: made from inert materials designed to absorb and temporarily retain liquids without deteriorating or solidifying; • Spill X-A: a ready mix sorbent, neutralizing and solidiﬁcation agent for use directly on acid spill treatment; • Spill X-C: a ready mix sorbent, neutralizing and solidiﬁcation agent for direct use on caustic spill treatment; • Spill X-FP: a urea-based agent designed to chemically react with the formaldehyde solutions for controlling formaldehyde spills and their vapors; • Hazorb bulk boom: used for diking to control the spread of spill around machinery, drums and trucks; • Test ammonia-recondensing kit: pumping out of liquid ammonia and solution-based chemicals; • Spill control applicators: the gun applicator can treat up to 3 gallons of spill, which is equivalent to about 9.30m2 spill; • Oil and acid drainage gully: used as collecting gutter for chemical liquid leaking; • Spill-XS: agent designed to clean up the organic solvents spills, reduces vapors released and minimizes waste for disposal; • Tractor cart: with positive locking latch and safety bail to add extra protection to prevent accidental dumping; • Diaphragm hand pump: pumping both low and high-viscosity media as well as heavily contaminated liquids containing stones, sand and metal parts with 10mm diameter; and • Chemical decanting pump: decanting of aggressive and high viscose chemicals. 57 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Biodiversity We believe biodiversity has an intrinsic value that is worth protecting regardless of its value to humans. An environmentally aware population values the preservation of the natural heritage of Qatar and its neighboring states. QAFCO is not aware of any event in 2012 causing signiﬁcant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. The company is located in Mesaieed Industrial Area, approximately 50km south of Qatar's capital, far away from any community or a protected area of high biodiversity value Our environmental, health and safety section manages historic environmental liabilities associated with known or suspected contamination of soil at QAFCO, which includes operating sites and legacy sites. In addition, we support several projects that help protect and restore our delicate ecosystem outside Mesaieed Industrial Area. Caring for Al Besheriya’s environment Al-Besheriya Island is located in the marine zone of Mesaieed Industrial City (MIC) where QAFCO facilities are located. The island is frequented by tourists and bird watchers. It does not hold an economical value since a grant of a permit is needed to visit the island. In 1999, the Ministry of Environment (MoE) appointed QAFCO as a custodian of the island. Since then, QAFCO, together with the MoE has been conducting clean-up operations on the island where families were also invited to participate. The campaign aimed at installing new containers for rubbish disposal, planting 200 mangrove saplings, and renovating all the shelters on the island. Whatever fate is set for Al-Besheriya, at present it is safe in the hands of QAFCO. We continue with our effort in monitoring the environmental condition on the island by carrying out a baseline survey, in collaboration with Qatar University, of both the marine and terrestrial zones showing the details of the biodiversity at the island and its surrounding waters. The central part of Al-Besheriya is quite small, less than a kilometer in full length. Vegetation is scruffy and soils demonstrate marked aridity. On the island, there is a graveyard covering almost a third of the area. The island is devoid of fresh water and too saline and arid to support plant growth. However, two species known to occupy disturbed location all over Qatar grow profusely on the island. These are Zygophyllum qatarense and Salsola imbricata. Since the island is isolated, detailed studies on these can be carried out on their autecology. Small mangrove plantations set up in 1999 constitute less than 20 individuals. Verbal communications reveal that 200 saplings were initially planted at the southeastern end of the island. Only 19 survived but they are of good growth and healthy condition. Al-Besheriya is a locus for those interested in carrying out serious studies on bird species and their migration routes. Besides being a resting place with an aesthetic value, it is also a paradise for bird watchers. Though ospreys are not listed as endangered bird, they do occupy vicinities of the sea since they depend on ﬁsh as their diet. A pair exists on the scaffolding with two nests. These can be monitored to gain information on their breeding habits and reproductive success on an isolated location. As for the future of the island, it must be a bird sanctuary under IUCN category II under QAFCO’s care. Presently, efforts are ongoing to declare the island as protected area and to restrict any movement on the island during the migration and nesting season. Developing Sustainably 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Fish farm and hatchery To support and improve ﬁsh diversity and population, QAFCO is planning to establish a ﬁsh hatchery in Mesaieed. After completion, the project will improve the biodiversity of the local marine life by introducing various native species. Artiﬁcial reef installation Increase in industrial activities close to the Mesaieed shorelines have adverse effects on the local marine environment due to the damage to natural reefs and decrease in ﬁsh population. These reefs provide a rich habitat for ﬁsh and other marine species, and unfortunately cannot rebuild themselves fast enough to meet the environmental and human demands. QAFCO has taken the initiative to reduce the impact of industrialization on marine environment by deploying artiﬁcial reef balls in selected sites close to the Sealine beach in Mesaieed. There has been a signiﬁcant buildup and recovery of coral reef has been observed in the area. 59 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLY Our Community Engagement “Qatar will provide its citizens with their basic needs and guarantee them equal opportunities” Qatar National Vision 2030 “This convention has showed me that big companies meet together and work together to find solutions to the problems they are having. Also, the convention discussed how to optimize the methods of producing fertilizers in different types. This was really interesting and informative. I would like to thank the CEO of QAFCO Khalifa Al-Sowaidi for this great experience” Ahmad Ali Al-Kuwari Student from Texas A&M University sponsored by QAFCO at the GPCA convention Let’s talk about our efforts beyond our workplace, our exhibitions and sponsorship the Jewels of Growth 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY In line with the Qatar National Vision 2030 and as an integral part of our business approach we engage with, and support the development of, local communities. Our main operations are located in Mesaieed, managed by the MIC, a subsidiary of Qatar Petroleum, in the State of Qatar. Mesaieed was established in 1949 as a tanker terminal by Qatar Petroleum on a previously uninhabited site along the coast. Our community development activities encourage us to behave ethically whilst improving the quality of life of the workforce, family and society at large. Our community development activities organized in 2013, support employees’ volunteering aspirations by engaging them in several programs such as the ﬂower and vegetable shows, as well as enhancing environment awareness. We understand that stakeholders are paying more attention to how responsibly we behave towards their communities. Employees, customers, government and investors are now asking for information on our sustainability performance and social investment is an important part of this. We strive to evolve from corporate philanthropy and cash donations into more collaborative and focused forms of community partnerships. Measurement and reporting of these activities and creating the best possible outcome for the funds invested in our social activities will be a goal pursued with the same rigour as our ﬁnancial objectives. Our total investment in social activities such as sponsorships, donations and community development projects was QAR 7 million in 2013. BENEFITS Beyond the Workplace All our full-time employees can avail beneﬁts of housing services. We have more the 1,300 houses and accommodation for families and bachelors, and we strive to ensure high-level maintenance services as well as cover water and electricity expenses. While we strive to provide comfortable accommodation, we have already created two social and sports clubs: Al Banush and Al Maha Club. Our clubs were developed with the vision to create a place where employees can engage in social activities and enjoy their recreational time. Both the clubs are non-revenue generating: all operations of the clubs are subsidized by QAFCO and membership of the clubs is open to all employees. Considering the diverse culture in QAFCO, we introduced various exciting activities, including social get-togethers, Ramadan celebrations, children talent shows, cultural activities and artistic performances. Further to this, the clubs host various personal development programs to enhance the skill levels of our local community; both facilities also serve the purpose of a “ladies’ club” or a meeting point for women of the surrounding community. The annual QAFCO ﬂower and vegetable show is also held in Al Banush club. Finally, we encourage club members to come up with social activities and strive to support their initiatives. Each club has its own committee that is responsible for taking care of the social activities and initiatives. We are committed to expand both facilities by providing additional place for recreational activities. Our employees are encouraged to complete an annual questionnaire aimed at improving the level of service and evaluating the tenants’ satisfaction levels. In 2013, we started developing a report summarizing the tenants’ feedbacks, and we are even planning to further develop it by automating the system to limit the usage of paper as well as streamlining our system. QAFCO celebrates National Sports Day As part of its social responsibility towards the community, QAFCO features various sport activities on the occasion of the second anniversary of the Qatar National Sport Day (QNSD). In 2013, QAFCO’s employees, their families and Mesaieed residents from different age groups actively participated in the event and engaged in several sport activities. 61 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY COMMITMENT to Education As part of our commitment to support community development as well as the development of our employees’ families, we sponsor the QAFCO Primary School, which was established in 1974. The school provides education from three to eight years of age along with free transport facilities. Currently, the school has about 220 students from six to seven different nationalities being taught by 14 teachers recruited from the communities. The school is governed by a committee that meets formally once a month and informally on a daily basis. In 2013, we received accreditation from the supreme educational council as well as the Civil Defense Approval. Further, we placed order for new furniture, which will be delivered next year for providing better facilities to our students. During the academic year 2013–14, our students engaged in several activities, including outdoor educational trips. Further, our school has taken various initiatives towards increasing environment awareness among students. They are being taught to think and act in ways that will conserve our nature; they are being involved in programs that include water conservation, planting of trees or participation in QP Environment Fair in Doha. The environmental program is supported by the Environment Team of QAFCO. Student competitions, such as recitation competition, talent competition and coloring competition are held in the school as part of their curriculum to compare each of their skill levels and creativity with that of their classmates. Our students have actively participated and won prizes in the QAFCO ﬂower and vegetable show, drawing and coloring competitions conducted by IAAD, Friends of Thrissur Doha, etc. They are also taken for educational trips to Islamic museums and gardens in Mesaieed with the aim of bringing them closer to nature. Case study: Qatar University seawater heat exchanger Qatar Fertiliser Company and Qatar University (QU) have signed an MoU to enhance cooperation in areas related to energy systems. The agreement includes building and commissioning a heat exchanger pilot plant at QU and appointing a QAFCO Chair in Energy Systems at the College of Engineering (CENG). The pilot plant is a stand-alone unit that will be housed at the university’s Gas Processing Center and is expected to be operational in 2014. The Chair, which is established and funded by QAFCO, will develop an applied research program in the area of energy systems according to QAFCO’s needs. The research program will be integrated with the undergraduate student graduation projects and graduate theses, wherever appropriate. The Chair will also establish a research and consulting program, as well as conduct workshops, technical consultation, and provide engineering education through course development and summer training supervision. Developing Sustainably 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OUR Environmental Awareness to the Community QAFCO is not only focusing on complying with local regulations by reducing its environmental foot print but also reaching out to the community by organizing and sponsoring events to educate community members and school children about their responsibilities towards environmental protection. Calendar of environmental awareness around Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec the year Al-Maha club conducted an Environmental Drawing Competition in March 2013, to mark the Qatar Environment Day. Coordinated the distribution of Grass heads to 3 Arabic School and 2 Expat Schools to mark the Gulf Environment Day and the Earth Day Environment Corner during QAFCO’s Flower & Vegetable Show in Al-Banush Club, in March 2013.One of the main highlights was the success of the Sahara forest Project. 3-days participation on the QP Environment Fair in April 2013 to showcase and present our environmental achievement and initiatives to the community. Environmental Awareness Materials in the form of Posters, Wall Stickers, labels, rulers with environmental messages were distributed to ﬁve different local schools. Environmental Awareness presentation and training to students from Texas A&M University of Qatar in March 2013, and AlEeman Independent School for Girls, in Oct. 2013. “Kulluna” (We are all for Children’s Health) fair participation that was conducted at Mesaieed Primary and Preparatory Independent School for Girls, from 26-28 November 2013. The Kulluna for Health and Safety campaign has taken its vital message to nine Qatar schools, educating children, teachers and parents about health and safety and the beneﬁts of a healthy lifestyle. Drawing competition in Mesaieed Schools on theme “Environment & Safety during Qatar National Day” Celebration. Competition was divided into 4 groups & each group was awarded three prizes. A total 118 entries were received from Schools. 63 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY OTHER Exhibitions and Sponsorships QAFCO ﬂower and vegetable show Our commitment to the environment is reﬂected in our activities, such as the ﬂower and vegetable show that we have been supporting since 1988. The exhibition grew steadily since its inception in terms of the number of people attending, as well as exhibitors. The ﬂower and vegetables show would not have been so successful without the commitment of our employees who volunteer during the exhibition every year. The show is a great platform for encouraging volunteerism and cooperation between QAFCO and the community, as well as increase environmental awareness among our workforce and their families. QAFCO participation in the TAMUQ Conference Texas A&M University hosted the QAFCO-Texas A&M Qatar Chemistry (TAMUQ) Conference. The main focus of the conference was to explore green chemistry and its application in environmental challenges. This was the sixth installment of the annual event with QAFCO that began in 2007. The conference featured an impressive technical program and sessions showcasing opinions and research from some of the industry’s most respected names in green chemistry and engineering. It provided a forum for exchange of ideas that would beneﬁt academia as well as industry. QAFCO sponsored the Made in Qatar exhibition QAFCO sponsored the Made in Qatar exhibition organized at the Doha International Exhibition Centre. The exhibition symbolized the Qatar National Vision 2030 of diversifying the country’s economy from the traditional sectors of oil and gas and expanding its sources of generating national income. QAFCO participated as a “Gold Sponsor” to the “Made in Qatar” exhibition. Event / Activity Owner Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Qatar Career Fair: An event to meet with Qatari Qatar Foundation University and secondary school graduates to enhance the Qatarization policy. State of Qatar Qatar National Day State of Qatar National Sport Day Gulf 4th GPCA Annual Fertilizer Convention Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association GPCA Participation of University Student in 4th GPCA QAFCO Annual Fertilizer Convention: Initiative by QAFCO to involve University students in professional scientiﬁc forms Made in Qatar Exhibition: for promoting Qatar Qatar Chamber Industry of Commerce 4th Conference on Corporate Responsibility Ministry of Business & Commerce 7th IEEE GCC 2013 Conference: QAFCO Sponsored Qatar Society of the participation of 20 University students in this Engineers professional & scientiﬁc Conference 2nd Form for young Volunteers: social and human Qatar Center For event Voluntary Activities Equestrian Racing Tournament: In cooperation with Equestrian & QP and QP subsidiaries Racing Club 6th Open Fly-In Day Qatar Flying Club QAFCO Flower and Vegetable Show 2012: Annual QAFCO Event sponsored by QAFCO since 1988. QAFCO-Day: Social & Entertainment Event for QAFCO QAFCO Staff 2 QAFCO Open Tennis Championship: Annual Event QAFCO sponsored by QAFCO since 1985 QAFCO Annual Ramadan Tournament: Annual sport QAFCO Sport tournament includes, Football, Cricket, Volleyball Committee and Basket Ball and snooker competitions for QAFCO employees QP Chairman’s Cup Football Tournament: In QP cooperation with QP and QP subsidiaries QAFCO Annual Cricket Tournament QAFCO Sport Committee Table 18: Calendar of community engagement activities around the year Developing Sustainably 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY STAKEHOLDER Feedback Form 1) Kindly assess the following elements of the report. (Please tick the appropriate box) Poor Satisfactory Good Excellence All important topics are addressed The report structure and wording make the report easy to read Quantitative data is comprehensive The report is balanced 2) Please provide your feedback on the following sections of the report. (Please tick the appropriate box) Report section Poor Satisfactory Good Excellence Our business transparency and ethics Our responsibility towards Qatar’s growth Our employees’ well-being Our environmental liability Our community engagement 3) Please provide your overall opinion. (Please tick the appropriate box) Poor Satisfactory Good Excellence QAFCO 2013 Sustainability Report 4) Would you like to see any additional topic in the sustainability report 2014? 5) Do you have any further comments or suggestions? 65 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY GRI Application Level Check Developing Sustainably 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY ASSURANCE Statement 67 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY GRI Index STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Proﬁle disclosures Proﬁle Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from CEO presenting overall vision Fully pp. 5-6 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Fully pp. 5-6 2. Organizational proﬁle 2.1 Name of reporting organization Fully Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Fully pp. 3 and 15-19 2.3 Operational structure of the organization Fully p. 21 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Fully p.15 2.5 Countries of operation Fully QAFCO only operates in the State of Qatar. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully p.15 2.7 Markets served Fully pp.15; 18-19 2.8 Scale of reporting organization Fully pp.15-19 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period Fully pp. 9; 20-21 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully p. 20 3. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period Fully p. 9 Further to information occurred in 2013, data from previous years are also provided to facilitate comparison. In those cases, it is indicated in which period occurred. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully p. 8 Latest report in 2012. 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully p. 8 QAFCO develops the report in annual basis since 2010. 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report or its content Fully pp. 2; 65; and back cover 3.5 Process for determining report content Fully pp.13-14 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully p. 9 In 2013 report, our subsidiaries (GFC and QMC) were excluded from the boundary of the report. Both companies operate as integrated parts of QAFCO, which complicates the segregation of information on environmental aspects (energy, water, emissions, efﬂuents and waste). In 2014, we will work hard to include our subsidiaries within the boundary and provide a clear data breakdown of QAFCO and its subsidiaries. 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully There are no speciﬁc limitations. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Fully p. 9 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully pp. 9-10; 52 calculations 3.10 Explanation of any re-statements of information Fully There are no re-statements of information. provided in earlier reports 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting Fully Subsidiaries (GFC and QMC) have been excluded from the boundary in the 2013 report; In 2013, QAFCO changed its organizational structure mainly to create promotional opportunities for vertical progression of Qatari employees; and The migration of QAFCO’s marketing, sales and distribution activities to Muntajat was completed on 1st March 2013. Mandated by Emiri Decree in 2013, Muntajat holds exclusive rights to purchase, market, distribute and sell Qatar's production of chemical and petrochemical regulated products to the global market. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully p. 77 Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to external Fully pp.10 and 67 assurance for the report Developing Sustainably 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Proﬁle Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure, including committees under Fully pp. 22-25 the highest governance body responsible for speciﬁc tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Is the Chair of the Board of Directors also an Fully p. 24 executive ofﬁcer? 4.3 Number of members of the Board of Directors that Fully p. 24 All Board of Directors' members are males. are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to Fully p. 24 provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Fully p. 25 the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Fully QAFCO has established and implemented body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided appropriate controls and procedures to ensure the systematic identiﬁcation of potential conﬂicts of interest and to address such conﬂicts of interest if they arise. Our Related Party Policy monitors related party transactions to ensure fair rules for employee and board member share trading. 4.7 Process for determining the qualiﬁcations and Fully p.24 expertise of the members of the Board of Directors 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, Fully pp.7 and 26-27 and principles 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully p.25 overseeing economic, environmental, and social performance, including risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Process for evaluating the highest governance Fully p.25 body’s performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or Fully Precautionary Principle is addressed by applying principle is addressed by the organization our principles of risk assessment and management. Risk assessment includes hazard identiﬁcation, characterization, exposure assessment and risk assessment. Risk management encompasses the identiﬁcation, selection and implementation of alternative actions for addressing risk through the control of identiﬁed hazard(s) and/or exposure. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Fully pp. 13 and 20 and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or advocacy Fully pp. 20 and 30 organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully pp.12-13 organization 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders Fully p.12 with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Fully pp.12-13 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through Fully pp.12-13 stakeholder engagement and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns 69 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on anagement Approach (DMAs) G3.1 Level of UNGC DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach to Economy Aspects Economic Performance Fully pp. 28 31 Principles Principles Aspects Market presence Fully pp. 19-20 and 29-31 1,3 & 6 1, 4, 6, and 7 Indirect economic impacts Fully pp. 29-31 and 60-64 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach to Environment Materials Fully pp. 16-17 Energy Fully p. 51 Water Fully p. 50 Biodiversity Fully pp. 58-59 Emissions, efﬂuents and Fully pp. 52-57 waste Products and services Fully pp. 15-20 and 30-31 Compliance Fully There were no cases of non-compliance reported in 2013 concerning environmental aspects. Our Internal Audit Committee, supported by QASEC Aspects Committee, oversees areas such as: Compliance with legal and regulatory Principles requirements related to environmental issues; 7, 8 and 9 Internal control framework; and Management of internal and external auditor’s activities for environmental aspects. Transport Partially p. 41 and 52 QAFCO does not completely measure EN29 i.e. impact due to GHG emissions of transportation, waste, etc. We plan to disclose further information in the 2014 report. Overall Not reported Information on EN30 is conﬁdential. However, we are planning to get approval to disclose on this indicator in 2014 report. DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach to Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment Fully pp. 33-39 Labor/management relations Fully pp. 32-33 and 36-38 Occupational health & safety Fully pp. 46-47 Training and education Fully pp. 35-36; 38-39; 41; 46-47 Diversity and equal Fully pp. 33-36 opportunity Principles Aspects Equal remuneration for Fully Aligned to Qatar Labor Law, a working woman is 1, 3 and 6 women and men paid wages equivalent to wage payable to a man, if the nature of work is the same, and shall be offered the same opportunities for training and promotion. More information “Our employee well-being” DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach to Human Rights Investment and Fully pp. 26-27 and 30 procurement practices Non-discrimination Fully pp. 26-27 Freedom of association Fully Qatar's constitution and laws provide for freedom and collective bargaining of association, within limits based on public order Aspects and morality concerns. Child labor Fully We abide by and obey Labor Law which prevents us from Child Labor practices in our workforce, contractors and suppliers. Additionally, our workforce, contractors and suppliers are aware of our Code of Conduct & Ethics, which is aligned to Qatar Labor Law. More information in HR2 and Principles “Our business transparency and integrity” section. 1, 2, 3, 4, Forced and compulsory labor Fully pp. 26-27 5, and 6 Security practices Fully All our contractors are trained in QAFCO's Code of Conduct & Ethics aligned to Qatar Labor Law. Qatar Labor Law states procedures and behaviors to be followed regarding human rights compliance. Indigenous rights Not reported This indicator is not applicable to QAFCO as no indigenous population are affected by the Company operations. Developing Sustainably 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY G3.1 Level of UNGC DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach to Human Rights Aspects Assessment Fully All our contractors are trained in QAFCO's Code of Principles Principles Conduct & Ethics aligned to Qatar Labor Law. 1,3 & 6 1, 2, 3, 4, Qatar Labor Law states procedures and behaviors 5, and 6 Aspects to be followed regarding human rights compliance. Remediation Fully Our Internal Audit team is responsible for overseeing and resolution of any internal grievance issues. DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach to Society Local Communities Fully pp. 60-64 Principle 10 Corruption Fully pp. 26-27 Public policy Not reported Not material Aspects Anti-competitive behavior Fully There is no contribution in 2013 to any political party. Compliance Fully In 2013, there were no cases of non-compliance with laws and regulations. DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach to Product Responsibility Customer health and safety Partially More information in PR1 and PR2. Product and service labeling Fully pp. 30-31 Marketing communications Not reported QAFCO is not responsible for marketing and communications. Customer privacy Not reported Muntajat is responsible to manage customer satisfaction. Principles Aspects Compliance Fully In 2013, there were no cases of non-compliance 1and 8 with laws and regulations related to Marketing communications or labeling. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles Economic Performance EC 1 Direct economic value Fully p. 29-30 No Speciﬁc generated and distributed Requirement including revenues, Income statement period ended 31.12.2013 operating costs, employee (QAFCO standalone): compensation, donations Sales: 8,240,052,435 QAR and other community Cost of sales: (4,081,771,274) QAR investments, retained GROSS PROFIT: 4,158,281,161 QAR earnings and payments to Other income: 118,910,523 QAR capital providers Selling and distribution costs: (307,825,494) QAR Administrative expenses: (587,381,823) QAR Finance costs: (167,052,163) QAR Gain/ (loss) on foreign currency exchange: 3,394,366 QAR PROFIT FOR THE YEAR: 3,218,326,570 QAR Other comprehensive income Net unrealized gain on cash ﬂow hedges: 155,150,515 QAR Total comprehensive income for the year: 3,373,477,085 QAR Employee wages and beneﬁts: Cost of sales – Salaries, wages, and related expenses: 246,796,520 QAR Administrative expenses – Salaries and related expenses: 281, 394,930 QAR Payments to provider of funds: Dividends to all shareholder: Declared during 2013: 1,700,000,000 QAR Actual in 2013: 2,900,000,000 QAR Interest payments made to providers of loans: 41,421,455 QAR Interest on all forms of debt and borrowings: Interest on interest rate swap: 119,152,280 QAR Amortisation of deferred arrangements fees: 6,478,428 QAR 71 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles Economic Performance Payment to government (Income tax payable): 213,112,608 QAR Donations and other community investments: Around $2 million spent on voluntary social investments EC 2 Financial implications and Fully pp. 16-19 and 50-52 Principle 7 other risks and opportunities due to climate change EC 3 Coverage of the organizaFully pp. 36-37 No Speciﬁc tion’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan Requirement obligations EC 4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial Fully QAFCO did not receive any ﬁnancial value No Speciﬁc assistance received from assistance from the government in 2013. Requirement government EC 5 Range of ratios of standard Fully There is no minimum wage established in the State Principle 1 entry level wage by gender of Qatar . compared to local minimum wage EC 6 Policy, practices, and Fully p. 30 'Local' means companies manufacturing No Speciﬁc proportion of spending on goods and providing services at Qatar, which are Requirement locally-based suppliers registered in Qatar”. EC 7 Procedures for local hiring Fully pp. 35-36 Principle 6 and proportion of senior management hired from the local community EC 8 Development and impact Fully pp. 60-64 No Speciﬁc of infrastructure investments Requirement and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC 9 Understanding and Fully pp. 29-30 and 60-64 No Speciﬁc describing signiﬁcant Requirement indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Environment performance EN 1 Materials used by weight Fully pp. 16-17 Principle 8 EN 2 Percentage of materials Fully pp. 16-17 Principles 8 used that are recycled and 9 input materials EN 3 Direct energy consumption Fully pp. 3 and 51 Principle 8 by primary source EN 4 Indirect energy use by Fully p.51 Most of the electricity consumed at QAFCO is Principle 8 primary source catered from Internal generation. A small share is purchased from Qatar General Electricity & Water Corporation (KAHRAMAA), the sole transmission and distribution system owner and operator (TDSOO) for the electricity and water sector in Qatar. A total of 928,249 GJ were purchased in 2013 and 1,059,880 GJ in 2012. EN 5 Energy saved due to Partially p. 51 QAFCO does not calculate energy saved as Principles 8 conservation and result of conservation and efﬁciency improvements. and 9 efﬁciency improvements In the next reporting year, QAFCO will report on this key performance indicator. EN 6 Initiatives to provide Fully p. 51 Principles 8 energy-efﬁcient or and 9 renewable energy-based products and services EN 7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Fully In 2013 there were no initiatives in place to reduce Principles energy consumption and indirect energy consumption. 8 and 9 reductions achieved EN 8 Total water withdrawal by Fully p. 50 Principle 8 source Developing Sustainably 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles EN 9 Water resources Fully p. 50 Principle 8 signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water EN 10 Percentage and total Fully pp.3 and 50 Principles 8 volume of water recycled and 9 and reused EN 11 Location and size of land Fully pp. 58-59 Principle 8 owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN 12 Description of signiﬁcant Fully pp. 58-59 Principle 8 impacts on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value EN 13 Habitats protected or Fully pp. 58-59 Principle 8 restored EN 14 Strategies, current actions, Fully pp. 58-59 Principle 8 and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN 15 Number of IUCN Red List Not There are no IUCN Red list species and national Principle 8 species and national reported conservation list species with habitats in areas conservation list species affected by operations. with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN 16 Total direct and indirect Fully pp. 3 and 52 Principle 8 greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN 17 Other relevant indirect Not QAFCO is planning to estimate other indirect GHG Principle 8 greenhouse gas emissions reported emissions for next reporting year. by weight EN 18 Initiatives to reduce Fully p. 52 Principles 7, 8 greenhouse gas emissions and 9 and reductions achieved EN 19 Emissions of Fully p. 53 Principle 8 ozone-depleting substances by weight EN 20 NOX, SOX, and other Fully pp. 53-54 Principle 8 signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight EN 21 Total water discharge by Fully p. 50 Principle 8 quality and destination EN 22 Total weight of waste by Fully pp. 54-56 Principle 8 type and disposal method EN 23 Total number and volume Fully pp. 56-57 Principle 8 of signiﬁcant spills EN 24 Weight of transported, Fully pp. 54-56 Principle 8 imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII and the percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN 25 Identity, size, protected Fully pp.5-6, 50 and 58-59 Principle 8 status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by discharges of water and runoff EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate Fully pp. 49-59 Principles environmental impacts of 7, 8 and 9 products and services and extent of impact mitigation 73 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles EN 27 Percentage of products Fully p. 19 Principles 8 sold and their packaging and 9 materials that are reclaimed by category EN 28 Monetary value of Fully No non-compliance in 2013. Principle 8 signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN 29 Signiﬁcant environmental Partially p. 41QAFCO does not measure the environmental Principle 8 impacts of transporting impact of transporting members of the workforce products and other goods such as GHG emissions. We are planning to provide and materials used for the further information in the next report. organization’s operations and transporting members of the workforce EN 30 Total environmental Not QAFCO can not disclose this information due to Principles 7, 8 protection expenditures reported conﬁdentially reasons. We will consider to get and 9 and investments by type approval on the disclosure of expenditures in the coming reporting period. Labor and Decent Work performance LA 1 Total workforce by Fully p. 34 Please note that all our employees are No Speciﬁc employment type, full-time and permanent employees. Requirement employment contract, and QAFCO is only operating in Qatar. region, broken down by gender LA 2 Total number and rate of Fully p. 38 Out of the total 88 staff who were Principle 6 employee turnover by age discharged from QAFCO, there were 3 staff who group, gender, and region belonged to Training & Development. Thus, the number of staff who were discharged, excluding those under T&D, is 85. The employee Turnover rate based on 1541 employees is 5.51. -Total number and rate of new employee hires entering employment (males: 96 / Rate: 6.23; females: 0) Total number and rate of new employee hires entering employment (< 30yrs – 54 / Rate: 3.5; 30yrs<M<50yrs – 42 / Rate: 2.72; >50yrs – 0) Total number and rate of newly hired employees leaving during the reporting period (males: 2 / Rate: 0.13; females: 0) Total number and rate of newly hired employees leaving during the reporting ( < 30yrs – 1 / Rate: 0.065; 30yrs<M<50yrs – 1 / Rate: 0.065; >50yrs – 0) Total number and rate of employees leaving employment during the reporting period (males: 82 / Rate: 5.32; females: 3 / Rate: 0.19) Total number and rate of employees leaving employment during the reporting period(< 30yrs – 3 / Rate: 0.19; 30yrs<M<50yrs – 50 / Rate: 3.24; >50yrs – 32 / Rate: 2.08) LA 3 Beneﬁts provided to Fully p. 37 No Speciﬁc full-time employees that Requirement are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations LA 15 Return to work and Fully There were no parental leaves in 2013. No Speciﬁc retention rates after Requirement parental leave, by gender LA 4 Percentage of employees Fully Collective bargaining agreements are not allowed Principles 1 covered by collective in the State of Qatar. and 3 bargaining agreements Developing Sustainably 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles LA 5 Minimum notice periods Fully Operational changes are communicated through Principle 3 regarding operation our intranet – however, there is no formal policy changes, including whether and/or procedure around minimum notice period. it is speciﬁed in collective agreements LA 6 Percentage of total Fully p. 41 Principle 1 workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA 7 Rates of injury, occupationFully p. 3 and 40 Principle 1 al diseases, lost days, and absenteeism and the number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender LA 8 Education, training, Fully pp. 38-39, 41 and 60-64 Principle 1 counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA 9 Health and safety topics Fully Trade unions are not allowed in the State of Qatar. Principle 1 covered in formal agreements with trade unions LA 10 Average hours of training Fully pp. 38-39 Data are only focused on the PUBLIC No Speciﬁc per year per employee, by Courses (Local & Overseas Courses). Hours of Requirement gender, and by employee training attended by Senior Management:0 / category Hours of training attended by Middle Management (Male: 688; Female: 0) / Hours of training attended by Lower Management (Male: 4392; Female: 848) / Hours of training attended by Workers (Male: 6432; Female: 40) LA 11 Programs for skills manageFully pp. 38-39 No Speciﬁc ment and lifelong learning Requirement that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA 12 Percentage of employees Fully p. 39 In 2013, all our employees received regular No Speciﬁc receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Requirement performance and career development reviews by gender LA 13 Composition of Fully pp. 24 and 34 All Board of Directors' members are Principles 1 governance bodies and males. and 6 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity LA 14 Composition of Fully QAFCO pays fairly regardless of gender. Salary ratio Principles 1 governance bodies and between men and women is 1:1. and 6 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 75 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles Human Rights performance HR 1 Percentage and total Partially p. 26 QAFCO has not speciﬁc clauses in its Principles 1, 2, number of signiﬁcant contracts mentioning human rights. We have 3, 4, 5, and 6 investment agreements already proposed our legal department to consider that include human rights including clauses incorporating human rights clauses or that have concerns in investment agreements and contracts. undergone human rights screening HR 2 Percentage of signiﬁcant Partially In 2013 none of our contractors & suppliers was Principles 1, 2, suppliers and contractors declined as a result of human rights screening. 3, 4, 5, and 6 that have undergone QAFCO abides by Labor Law which prevents us screening on human rights from situations of Forced Labor, Child Labor, Women and actions taken Discrimination as well as any other anti-human rights behavior. Qatari Labor Law states. Accordingly, QAFCO values are aligned to the Labor Law. Additionally, we get to know our contractors before engaging them, ensuring they abide Law of Qatar. We also educate our contractors on QAFCO values and code of conduct. HR 3 Total hours of employee Partially At QAFCO. all employees receive induction related Principles 1, 2, training on policies and to our Code of Conduct & Ethics i.e. Fraud 3, 4, 5 and 6 procedures concerning Awareness Framework, Whistle Blowing Policy, aspects of human rights QAFCO values and principles, behavior, etc.QAFthat are relevant to CO abides by Labor Law which prevents us from operations, including the situations of Forced Labor, Child Labor, Women percentage of employees Discrimination as well as any other anti-human trained rights behavior. Qatari Labor Law states. Accordingly, QAFCO values are aligned to the Labor Law and induction training is provided to all employees. We will provide with more detailed and accurate information in our next report. HR 4 Total number of incidents of Fully No incidents reported in 2013. Principles 1, 2 discrimination and actions and 6 taken HR 5 Operations and signiﬁcant Fully Qatar's constitution and laws provide for freedom Principles 1, 2 suppliers identiﬁed in which of association, within limits based on public order and 3 the right to exercise and morality concerns. freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk and actions taken to support these rights HR 6 Operations and signiﬁcant Fully No incidents reported in 2013. Principles 1, 2 suppliers identiﬁed as and 5 having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Operations and signiﬁcant No incidents reported in 2013. HR 7 suppliers identiﬁed as Fully Principles 1, 2 having signiﬁcant risk for and 4 incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor HR 8 Percentage of security Fully p. 26-27 Principles 1 personnel trained in the and 2 organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Developing Sustainably 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles HR9 Total number of incidents of Not This indicator is not applicable to QAFCO. Principles 1 violations involving rights of and 2 indigenous people and actions taken Percentage and total Fully We abide by and obey Qatar Labor Law. We No Speciﬁc number of operations that ensure that our operations are developed to Requirement have been subject to comply with local laws. All our operations undergo HR 10 human rights reviews an environmental impact assessment and we and/or impact assessments ensure that are aligned with our code of ethics and conduct. HR 11 Number of grievances Fully No incidents reported in 2013. No Speciﬁc related to human rights Requirement ﬁled, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Social performance SO 1 Percentage of operations Fully p. 12-13 and 60-64 We develop environmental No Speciﬁc with implemented local impact assessment (EIA) reports to evaluate the Requirement community engagement, possible impacts that our proposed project have on impact assessments, and the environment, consisting of the environmental, development programs. social and economic aspects. SO 9 Operations with signiﬁcant Fully pp. 60-64 No Speciﬁc potential or actual Requirement negative impacts on local communities. SO 10 Prevention and mitigation Fully pp. 60-64 No Speciﬁc measures implemented in Requirement operations with signiﬁcant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO 2 Percentage and total Fully pp. 23-27 All our departments and employees Principle 10 number of business units (100%) are analysed for risk related to corruption as analyzed for risks related to per our Whistle Blowing policy. corruption SO 3 Percentage of employees Fully All employees receive induction in QAFCO's Code Principle 10 trained in the organization’s of Conduct & Ethics i.e. Fraud Awareness anti-corruption policies and Framework, Whistle Blowing Policy, QAFCO values procedures and principles, behaviour, etc. SO 4 Actions taken in response Fully No non-compliance Principle 10 to incidents of corruption SO 5 Public policy positions and Not QAFCO does not report on this topic, as during the Principles 1-10 participation in public reported stakeholder consultation it was not deemed policy development and material to an assessment of QAFCO’s future lobbying prospects. SO 6 Total value of ﬁnancial and Fully No contribution in 2013 Principle 10 in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO 7 Total number of legal Fully No non-compliance No Speciﬁc actions for anti-competitive Requirement behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO 8 Monetary value of Fully No non-compliance No Speciﬁc signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total Requirement number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility performance PR 1 Life cycle stages in which Partially pp. 30-31Planning of Product Realisation is carried Principle 1 health and safety impacts out at our company, based on our Integrated of products and services Policy and other organisational practices and in are assessed for consistency with the other processes of the QAFCO improvement and Management Systems. QAFCO has implemented a 77 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles percentage of signiﬁcant stringent quality management programme products and services facilitated by real time monitoring and measurecategories subject to such ment of production processes, right from incoming procedures raw materials till distribution of ﬁnal products, supported by sophisticated laboratory analysis at various stages of production processes. For our Ammonia and urea products, we identify signiﬁcant environmental aspects and occupational health, safety and security risks related to: purchase of materials, evaluation and selection of suppliers, certiﬁcation, manufacturing, storage and disposal stages through documented procedures and practices. The Consent to operate conditions as speciﬁed by the HSE legal requirements also helps us in identifying signiﬁcant aspects and impacts. During the enquiry stage, QAFCO determines customer requirements including those for delivery and post-delivery activities. We also identify other product requirements not stated by the customer but necessary for speciﬁed use or known and intended use. The reason why we are not assessing EH&S impacts during the development of product concept is due to the ﬁxed nature of our products. We are planning to develop new products, such as sulfur-coated urea (SCU). QAFCO will document the EHS impacts during the research and development of product concept. In 2013, Muntajat started managing Marketing and promotion of our products. That is the reason why we are not reporting on EHS impacts at this stage. However, we will continue engaging with Muntajat to be able to provide information in the coming year. QAFCO is strongly committed to technological innovation for global agriculture and investment in sustainable practices. Since 2012, QAFCO is an active member of the International Plant Nutrition Institute (IPNI) focused on nutrient stewardship research and education, world food security, environmental concerns, and related issues. As part of this commitment, we will extend the identiﬁcation, documentation and actions to mitigate HSE impacts in the use of our products. PR 2 Total number of incidents of Fully No non-compliance Principle 1 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR 3 Type of product and Fully pp. 30-31 Principle 8 service information required by procedures and percentage of signiﬁcant products and services subject to such information requirements PR 4 Total number of incidents of Fully No non-compliance Principle 8 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Developing Sustainably 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY Level of UNGC Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure and reasons for omission principles PR 5 Practices related to Fully Page 3 and 30-31 No Speciﬁc customer satisfaction, Requirement including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR 6 Programs for adherence to Not Muntajat is responsible to buy and distribute our No Speciﬁc laws, standards, and codes reported products. Requirement related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR 7 Total number of incidents of Not Muntajat is managing marketing issues at QAFCO No Speciﬁc non-compliance with reported The Company is not directly responsible Requirement regulations and codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR 8 Total number of Not Muntajat is managing marketing issues at QAFCO Principle 1 substantiated complaints reported The Company is not directly responsible regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR 9 Monetary value of Fully No non-compliance No Speciﬁc signiﬁcant ﬁnes for Requirement non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 79 www.qafco.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 | QATAR FERTILISER COMPANY REPORT Acronyms CENG Chair in Energy Systems RC Responsible Care CEO Chief Executive Ofﬁcer RCA Root Cause Analysis CFC Chloroﬂurocarbons REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and CIPS Chartered Institute of Purchaising & Supply Restriction of Chemicals CO2 Carbon Dioxide ROI Return of Investment EC Economic RoSPA Royal Society for Prevention of Accidents EMS Environmental Management System SCC Stress Corrosion Cracking EN Environment SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction EPAS Employee Performance Appraisal System SDIR Sustainable Development Industry Reporting ERP Enterprise Resource Planning SIS Safety Information System FCR Gas Recirculation Technique SNCR Selective Non Catalytic Reduction GHG Greenhouse Gases SO Society GJ Giga Joules SVA Security Vulnerability Assessment GPCA Gulf Petrochemical and Chemical Association TAFE Technical and Further Education GRI Global Reporting Initiative TAMUQ QAFCO-Texas A&M Qatar Chemistry Conference HACCP Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point TPP Trainee Preparation Program HFC Hydrochloroﬂuorocarbon TREM Transport Emergency HR Human Rights TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate HRSG Heat Recovery Steam Generator UFC Urea Formaldehyde Concentrate HSE Health, Safety and Environment UNGC United Nations Global Compact HWTC Hazardous Waste Treatment Center IFA International Fertiliser Association IPNI International Plant Nutrition Institute ISO International Organization for Standarization IT Information Technology KPI Key Performance Indicator LA Labor Practices and Decent Work LHV Lower Heating Value LOC Loss of Containment MDEA Methyl diethanolamine MIC Mesaieed Industrial City MoE Ministry of Environment MORR Management of Occupational Road Risk MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet MT metric tonnes MWh MegaWatts hour NG Natural Gas Nm3 Normal Cubic Meter OHSE Occupational, Health, Safety and Environment PIMS Process Information Management System (PIMS) PR Product responsibility PSA Pressure Swing Absorbers QAFCO Qatar Fertiliser Company QAR Qatari Riyal QASEC QAFCO Safety and Environment Committee QMC Qatar Melamine Company QNDS Qatar National Development Strategy QNSD Qatar National Sport Day QNV Qatar National Vision QU Qatar University RAM EI Reliability and Maintainability Efﬁciency Index Developing Sustainably 80 For feedback on the report please contact: Mr. Hamad Ahmed Al-Marwani Main Ofﬁce Telephone: (+974) 4422 8888 P.O. Box: 50001, Mesaieed, Qatar Facsimile: (+974) 4477 0347 Telephone: (+974) 4422 8888 P.O. Box: 50001, Mesaieed, Qatar Facsimile: (+974) 4477 0347 E-mail: hmarwani@qafco.com.qa E-mail: admin@qafco.com.qa www.qafco.com
