COP 2014 GLOBAL COMPACT BIG BJARKE INGELS GROUP OUR INTRODUCTION Historically the field of architecture has been dominated by two opposing extremes. On one side an avant-garde of wild ideas, often so detached from We offer our reality that they fail to become something other than eccentric curiosities. On the other side there are well-organized corporate consultants that own in-house build predictable and boring boxes of high standard. Architecture seems entrenched between two equally unfertile fronts: either naively utopian or lecture series petrifyingly pragmatic. ‘BIG Picture’ Rather than choosing one over the other, BIG operates in the fertile overlap between the two opposites. A pragmatic utopian architecture that takes on the creation of socially, economically and environmentally perfect places as and continuing a practical objective. In the big picture, architecture is the art and science of ensuring that our cities and buildings fit with the way we want to live our education lives. Architecture is not about building monuments, but about creating possibilities for human life. programs ‘BIG At BIG we have always incorporated sustainable initiatives into our projects. School’ to ensure In almost every instance these initiatives are not discretionary or additive in nature, but constitute the formative acts around which subsequent design we continuously solutions are conceived. Interior and exterior finishes are often comprised entirely of self-finishing materials which require little or no maintenance. Our buildings are usually sited to optimize solar orientation and many integrate improve. inventive day-lighting measures through the use of atria, light wells, light monitors or skylights. OUR COMMITMENT At BIG, architecture is not about building monuments, but about creating possibilities for human life. We are pleased to reaffirm our unwavering support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this our fifth annual Communication on Progress, we describe our continued actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We hold ourselves to the high standards set by the Global Compact, and remain committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders. In 2014, we, the 8 Partners of BIG, sign this document to assure the United Nations that we are committed to the coninuous respect for the human race and to the integrity of its environment. Bjarke Ingels Sheela Maini Søgaard Thomas Christoffersen Jakob Lange Founding Partner CEO, Partner Partner Partner David Zahle Andreas Klok Pedersen Finn Nørkjær Kai-Uwe Bergmann Partner Partner Partner Partner COPENHAGEN HARBOR BATHS EXTENDS PUBLIC SPACE INTO THE WATERS OF THE CITY INTRODUCTION Historically, the field of architecture has been dominated by two opposing Architecture extremes: on one side, the avant-garde of wild ideas, often so detached from reality that they fail to become something other than eccentric curiosities; on the other side, well-organized corporate consultants that build predictable is not about and boring boxes of high standard. Architecture seems entrenched between two equally unfertile fronts: either naively utopian or petrifyingly pragmatic. building Rather than choosing one over the other, BIG operates in the fertile overlap monuments, but between the two opposites. A pragmatic utopian architecture that takes on the creation of socially, economically and environmentally perfect places as a about creating practical objective. Buildings are never stand-alone entities. Instead, they are part of a larger network, a campus tied together by rich public spaces and the possibilities for complex urban context. The vast majority of BIG’s projects have a large public space component, which has meant that they play a transformative role in the cities where they are located. In the big picture, architecture is the art and human life. science of ensuring that our cities and buildings fit with the way we want to live our lives. GAMMEL HELLERUP MULTI-USE HALL & GYMNASIUM IN DENMARK OUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY BIG firmly believes that human rights are indisputable universal truths. We are unwavering in our determination to, as far as we are able, provide all humans the rights and freedoms they wish to enjoy. BIG will never voluntarily be complicit in human rights abuses, and instead always seek to uphold the rights and freedoms of all, contributing where our reach allows. We have also declined a number of prominent projects in countries and regions that we deemed questionable in terms of their attitude toward human rights. During the initial meeting with a potential client in Saudi Arabia, it became apparent that if BIG were to accept the job, our architects would be required to provide designs severely discriminatory toward women. As a company that is led by a female CEO and strives for equality between our male and female employees, we found this unacceptable and immediately declined this opportunity to work in Riyadh. We will not be involved with any activity that contributes to restricting the freedom of women or hindering the basic human rights of women for any reasion, cultural or religious. Our ongoing goal has not changed from the previous year – we continue to work to ensure that human rights are developed and supported in the designs of our projects. BIG continues to give students from across the globe the opportunity to work as architects on our projects. As part of this teaching process, BIG invites internal and external experts to lecture on a variety of areas. BIG will always seek to uphold the rights and freedoms of all, contributing where our reach allows. FOUNDING PARTNER BJARKE INGELS WITH IAN GILLESPIE OF WESTBANK, SID LANDBOLT AND PETE DUPUIS OF WORLD HOUSING PLATINUM PARTNERSHIP WITH WORLD HOUSING In April 2014, Westbank, developer of BIG’s Vancouver House residential tower, announced its partnership with World Housing. World Housing is “The social Canada’s first Community Contribution Company and is a social venture that endeavors to build and gift homes to those in need. The Platinum Partnership change created with Westbank means that for every Vancouver House condominium purchased, World Housing will build one home for an impoverished family living in a Third World landfill community. This partnership a one-for-one for these families commitment is the first such commitment to World Housing by a developer. is truly lifeThrough the Platinum Partnership, 395 homes will be built and gifted to families currently living in a Cambodian slum; 2,200 people will have a roof changing.” over their heads. Typical World Housing homes are metal-insulated structures that rest on elevated supports to protect from the elements, and are Pete Dupuis, World equipped with electricity and a rainwater collection system to provide fresh water. “The vision of World Housing and its founders mirrors our own goal Housing co-founder of affecting positive change in communities,” said Westbank President Ian Gillespie, “Westbank has always put strong emphasis on social responsibility. Through this initiative, we hope to set a new norm in residential development and inspire buyers.” BIG is pleased to work with developers like Westbank who balance their goals with a sensitivity to, and caring for, persons and families destabilized by financial hardships. This Platinum Partnership with World Housing and Westbank is a direct statement of BIG’s commitment to social responsibility. OUR LABOUR RIGHTS POLICY BIG’s greatest asset is its employees. At BIG, we take employee satisfaction as seriously as we do architectural design. The larger we grow as a company, the more we strive to create a workplace that encourages input, dialog, interaction, and collaboration across the cobweb of relations of BIG’s flat hierarchy. The Global Compact’s principles relating to labor rights are considered literally and so followed. BIG opposes any form of forced and compulsory labour, condemns child labour, effectively recognizes the right to collective bargaining, and does not practice discrimination of any kind. Our ongoing goal is to ensure the health, happiness, and satisfaction of our employees, and we also continue to encourage feedback from all employees and aim to better integrate our employees into the countries in which they are employed as we branch out from our home base in Copenhagen into the rest of the world. LABOUR LAW IN DENMARK As a company headquartered in Copenhagen, BIG follows Danish labour laws which are known for its labour-friendly employment terms on salary, working hours, overtime pay, holidays, pension, notice periods, etc. The average working week in Denmark should not exceed 48 hours, with 37.5 hours being the average. Every full-time employee is entitled to 30 days’ annual leave on the basis of 2.5 days for each month worked the previous year. A pregnant employee is entitled to absence from work from 4 weeks before the expected birth, and each childbirth gives the parents a legal right to 52 weeks maternity pay from the government. The unions which exist in the Danish architecture industry are extremely strong, and should employees choose to join any of these, this choice is respected. However, it is not actually necessary for employees to become members of any such unions to benefit from collective bargaining. BIG is a member of Danske Arkitekt Virksomheder, the Union of Danish Architect Companies and is therefore bound to implement the benefits negotiated by the architects’ unions for architects. NO FORCED LABOR There is neither forced nor compulsory labour at BIG, and we do not condone or tolerate this within our own office or in the offices of our collaborators. Should any managing partner be informed that employees are forced to work, the situation will be solved with swiftness and seriousness. We neither The epitome of seek out companies that employ forced labour, nor do we condone this type of behavior towards our colleagues or collaborators. In countries where BIG’s philosophy this could be an issue, or may even be prevalent, and where we are able to influence the construction process, forced labour of any kind will not be of hedonistic tolerated whether the collaborators are from the private or public sector. sustainability ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR is the creation BIG is not involved in any projects which make use of child labor, nor will we ever seek to be. The epitome of BIG’s philosophy of hedonistic sustainability of situations in is the opposite of children forced into a situation of labor. Hedonistic sustainability is about creating tolerable situations in which all peoples may which all peoples live happily for the longest period of time. BIG will never tolerate child labor and will always support all efforts to abolish it. may live happily WORKPLACE SAFETY for the longest BIG is an architecture studio, so in addition to the facilities of an average period of time. office, BIG also houses workshops fully equipped with the most advanced laser cutters, wood cutters, and tools and materials necessary to produce architectural models. Needless to say, we have strict guidelines for the use of the model workshops and take extreme precautions to ensure the safety of anyone handling said tools and machinery. All employees are given a workshop orientation with the workshop manager, covering basic safety guidelines and proper workshop protocol to ensure the workshop is a safe place to work for all. Good ventilation is provided for the spray painting and foam cutting areas. The office first aid supplies are kept on an easily accessible and clearly visible shelf, and is regularly checked and restocked. A GREAT PLACE TO WORK At BIG, one of our most important goals is to keep our employees happy at all times. BIG maintains an employee benefits program called “Great Place We offer our to Work,” which includes opportunities for employee development (such as training courses for architects in addition to our ongoing BIG Picture own in-house lecture series), a periodically updated book of discounts for gyms, swimming pools and restaurants, etc., and extra budget allocated to team events and lecture series activities outside of the workplace, just to name a few. In 2014, the program continues to expand to include benefits such as an in-office flu shot clinic. ‘BIG Picture’ All BIG employees, regardless of position held or field of expertise, are given a voice – a voice that will be heard and valued. Employees are more aware and continuing of their importance to the company by being encouraged to communicate with the management regarding all areas of the growing company, and to education contribute ideas and guidance when the company associates itself with unions or standards in countries with which they are themselves familiar. program ‘BIG We have also established an intern evaluation system, which allows interns, who are typically at BIG on a short-term basis (6 months), to discover their School’ to ensure strengths and weaknesses following the completion of projects as part of their architectural education. we continuously ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION improve. BIG upholds this principle by choosing to not practice discrimination of any kind. All employees are chosen on their talents and skills alone, as well as the requirements for the project. We follow the employment and labor laws of the countries in which our employees are employed. BIG has a zero-tolerance policy with regard to discrimination in or outside of the workplace. Beyond discrimination is bullying and harassment of colleagues – this is an issue that is not taken lightly. The BIG personnel handbook states that bullying is a practice which is greatly denounced at in or outside of the workplace and will not be tolerated. AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM BIG’s policy of affirmative action insures that applicants are employed without regard to their religion or national origin. We have established an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Manager at BIG, whose responsibility We come from is to set and maintain an internal audit and reporting system to allow for effective measurement of BIG’s EEO programs. In 2013, BIG developed a 25+ home written Affirmative Action Program which sets forth the policies, practices, and procedures that BIG is committed to in order to ensure that its policy countries to of non-discrimination and affirmative action for qualified individuals is accomplished. Our Affirmative Action Program is communicated to all work in one of employees via employee handbooks and is posted on bulletin boards located throughout our facilities and office work areas. our three offices DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS ENTERPRISES and thus enrich BIG’s philosophy of an inclusive and proactive design process also extends our office culture to how we assemble our project teams; BIG regularly works with consultants from various fields, such as civil engineering, landscape, and historic with their own. preservation, who are registered as disadvantaged business enterprises. These include Minorityor Woman-Owned Business Enterprises (M/WBE), Local Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (LDBE), Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (VSOB), and other such classifications. BIG supports the goals of Request for Qualifications/Proposals offerors to include disadvantaged enterprises, and, as a respondent to these RFP/Qs, BIG composes teams to meet and even exceed these goals. AMAGER BAKKE WASTE-TO-ENERGY PLANT IS CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY On March 14, 2013, BIG celebrated the groundbreaking of the Amager Bakke Waste-to-Energy Plant (formerly known as Amagerforbrændingen). Located in an industrial area near the city centre, the new Waste-to-Energy BIG takes the plant will be an exemplary model in the field of waste management and energy production as well as an architectural landmark in the cityscape industrial of Copenhagen when completed in 2017. The project is the single largest environmental initiative in Denmark and replaces the adjacent outdated architectural Amagerforbraending plant, integrating the latest technologies in waste treatment and environmental performance. Amager Resource Center is the typology and recipient of the 2012 MIPIM AR Future Projects Award. Thinking beyond the industrial architecture scale, BIG also constructs building transforms it... to the highest sustainability standards. BIG’s approach to sustainability is rooted in the Danish tradition of energy conservation which goes back offering a new decades as the country had to provide for many with only limited resources. We are currently building projects seeking certification in LEED, Green Mark, breed of wasteMinergie, German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB), and Passive House Standards. Our designs have received several sustainability awards including to-energy plant. the Scandinavian Green Roof Award for our recent 8 House residential development in Copenhagen. On the smallest of scales and on a daily basis, BIG follows the “reduce, reuse MIPIM Future Award and recycle” principles in the office, and its large windows allow for minimal Jury consumption of electricity for light and air conditioning, especially during the summer. When making architecture models, we save material by optimizing the space on a block of foam or wood, and reuse leftover material whenever possible. Leftover material that cannot be reused is systematically recycled according to type—wood, paper, foam, plexi and other plastics. AMAGER WASTE-TO-ENERGY PLANT, CURRENTLY IN CONSTRUCTION ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS We have always incorporated sustainable initiatives into our projects by thinking outside the box. The general perception of sustainability is an idea of a moral code: How much of our existing quality of life are we prepared to sacrifice to afford being sustainable? It is the perception that it has to hurt to be good and that a sustainable life means doing less than a normal life. But we are looking at how sustainable cities, or sustainable buildings, can increase the quality of life; we look for ways of designing cities and buildings as double ecosystems that are both ecologically and economically profitable, and where the outcome doesn’t force people to alter their lifestyles to have a better conscience. People can live exactly the way they want, or even better, because the world and the city are designed in such a way. Essentially it is to approach the question of sustainability not as a moral dilemma but as a design challenge. We continue to strive for what we call “hedonistic sustainability,” which is sustainability that improves quality of life for everyone while minimizing the impact on the surrounding environment. HISTORIC PRESERVATION We are also familiar with the various agencies that oversee landmarks and registered buildings, including the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA). For our current work on the Smithsonian Institution’s South Campus Master Plan, we have been presenting to the National Capital Planning Commission, the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts, and the National Parks Service. For the Danish Maritime Museum, we worked closely with UNESCO and the local governmental agencies throughout the process to ensure that our design met all the different agency expectations. We suggested a flexible and staged construction process in two phases that would be the least disruptive to local traffic patterns and the visitors to the Castle and the surrounding historic area. The Danish Maritime Museum is a testament to incorporating forward looking architecture in a World Heritage context that is to be preserved for future generations. THE BIG U WILL PROTECT AND REVITALIZE LOWER MANHATTAN THE BIG U: POST-HURRICANE SANDY REBUILDING In June 2014, United States Secretary for Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Shaun Donavan announced the award of $335 million to The BIG U “These winning to ensure that the integrity, ambition, and innovation of the proposal is carried through implementation. The BIG U originated as a response to the proposals Rebuild By Design competition, launched in 2013 by Secretary Donavan; the competition asked architects, landscape architects, engineers and urban are truly designers to come up with proposals that would help revitalise communities affected by the hurricane that struck the east coast in October 2012. BIG transformative and 9 other design teams were slected out of 148 applicatss to spend three months studying the region and building relationships with local and serve as stakeholders. The winning designs focus on four areas: coastal communities; high-density vurban environments; ecological and waterbody networks; and the unknown and unexpected. blueprints for The BIG U has received broad political support; New York Senator Charles how we can Schumer has written, “The BIG U expands the range of panning and policy ideas... to address ways we might achieve the shared vision for a more safeguard the resilient, equitable and just city.” BIG has also received letters of support from New York City Housing Authority, Manhattan Community Board 3, Alliance for region” Downtown New York, Friends of the High Line, National Park Service, Hudson River Park Trust, The Battery Conservancy, and The Council of the City of New Shaun Donovan, York District 1. US Secretary for The BIG U was recognized in 2014 by the HOLCIM Foundation Silver Prize and Housing and Urban the American Planning Association NY Metro Chapter, which awarded BIG the William H. Whyte Award for Creativity and Ingenuity in Planning. Development For more information on the Rebuild by Design initiative, visit: www. rebuildbydesign.org BIG PARTNER KAI-UWE BERGMANN (SECOND FROM RIGHT) RECEIVES THE HOLCIM SILVER PRIZE IN TORONTO HOLCIM FOUNDATION FOR SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION In September 2014, the Holcim Foundation’s jury recognized The BIG U for its The jury “ingenious solution in an age marked by climate change and rising global sea levels,” awarding BIG the Silver Award. Founded in 2003 to raise awareness recognized of the important role of architecture, engineering, urban planning, and construction, the Holcim Foundation created the Holcim Award to promote The BIG U and develop ideas and projects that demonstrate an innovative response to the technological, environmental, socioeconomic, and cultural issues with a Holcim affecting building and construction today and in the future. The selection of BIG and The BIG U for this internationally-recognized award Silver Prize for speaks not only to the pressing importance of the project a strategy to protect New York City from the devastating effects of another hurricane the project’s like Sandy but to the way in which BIG approached the project: from the beginning and through to now, The BIG U continues to be a communitysensitive minded and driven design, and is a direct reflection of the meetings and workshops with the community, government representatives, and blend of hard stakeholders to ensure that all voices are heard and integrated into the final design. infrastructure A total of $2 million USD in prize money was awarded to recipients of the Holcim award; BIG will use its share of the prize to continue work on The BIG and local U, ensuring that the best design intentions are realized and the hard work in creating a resilient New York City continues. community needs. SHENZHEN ENERGY MANSION: SUSTAINABILITY & DESIGN At BIG, we have always incorporated sustainable initiatives into our projects. In almost every instance these initiatives are not discretionary or additive in nature, but constitute the formative acts around which subsequent design solutions are conceived. Our buildings are usually sited to optimize solar orientation and many integrate inventive day-lighting measures through the use of atria, light wells, light monitors or skylights. One such building is the Shenzhen Energy Mansion (SEM), which is currently under construction in Shenzhen, China. UNINTERRUPTED VIEW IN ALL DIRECTIONS SEM is an economically efficient solution for a flexible, functional, and wellilluminated workspace for dense population of professionals. Conceived in response to the Shenzhen Energy Company’s need for a 96,000 M2 office building, the new construction directly addresses the issue of increased demands for modern conveniences in the contemporary workplace, such as air conditioning and electricity-powered lighting, with sensitivity to the environmental consequences of such a building. SEM will rise 200 meters into the skyline and become a new landmark in the city. The façade is a folded skin that shades the offices from direct sunlight FACADE PROVIDES and integrates solar thermal panels to reduce the overall energy consumption SOLAR SHADING of the building. The new building is a departure from the traditional glass curtain wall façade of typical office buildings today, which have a low insulation level and leave offices overheated by direct sunlight, resulting in a wastefull and excessively air conditioned environment. By folding the façade, SEM achieves a structure with closed and open parts that insulate while blocking direct sunlight and are outfitted with solar panels that power the air conditioning and dehumidifier. The folded wall also reflects direct sunlight between interior panels which not only increase the efficiency of the solar thermal panels, but light the interior workspace as well. SEM will appear as a classic shape with an organic pattern, and through GLASS DOUBLES AS REFLECTOR FOR SOLAR PANELS its form and its function stand as the new model for the environmentallyresponsible 21st century skyscraper and energy headquarters. WEST 57TH STREET, COMPLETION IN 2015 ANTI-CORRUPTION BIG is a company that values transparency and does not tolerate any form of corruption. We are determined to maintain the highest standards of integrity Our goal is and work ethics among our staff and across all areas of activity. We therefore maintain a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption in all its forms. Internally, unwavering: we hold a BIG office-wide meeting once a month, during which Bjarke Ingels, founder of BIG, and the CEO report the status of the firm to all employees BIG neither and give answers to any questions that are raised. subscribes to Externally, when submitting to Requests for Qualifications (RFQs) or Requests for Proposals (RFPs), we always inform the client if there is any nor encourages potential conflict of interest and make sure that the collaborators on our team do so as well. When choosing projects to pursue, BIG also makes any form of sure that our collaborators and clients are not involved in any activites that suggest corruption. We will not give or accept bribery in any form, and we corruption. will not use deception, trickery or breach of confidence to gain an unfair or dishonest advantage. BIG will not participate in corruption; BIG will not contribute to corruption; BIG will not support corruption. OUR INTRODUCTION Historically the field of architecture has been dominated by two opposing extremes. On one side an avant-garde of wild ideas, often so detached from We offer our reality that they fail to become something other than eccentric curiosities. On the other side there are well-organized corporate consultants that own in-house build predictable and boring boxes of high standard. Architecture seems entrenched between two equally unfertile fronts: either naively utopian or lecture series petrifyingly pragmatic. ‘BIG Picture’ Rather than choosing one over the other, BIG operates in the fertile overlap between the two opposites. A pragmatic utopian architecture that takes on the creation of socially, economically and environmentally perfect places as and continuing a practical objective. In the big picture, architecture is the art and science of ensuring that our cities and buildings fit with the way we want to live our education lives. Architecture is not about building monuments, but about creating possibilities for human life. programs ‘BIG At BIG we have always incorporated sustainable initiatives into our projects. School’ to ensure In almost every instance these initiatives are not discretionary or additive in nature, but constitute the formative acts around which subsequent design big cph we continuously solutions are conceived. Interior and exterior finishes are often comprised KLØVERBLADSGADE 56 entirely of self-finishing materials which require little or no maintenance. Our buildings are2500 VALBY usually sited to optimize solar orientation and many integrate improve. Danmark measures through the use of atria, light wells, light inventive day-lighting T: +45 7221 7227 monitors or skylights. F: +45 3512 7227 big nyc 601 w. 26th st. suite 1255 new york ny 10001 usa T: +1 347 549 4141
