Corporate social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 Developing sustainable healthcare & care services in Scandinavia 1 Contents About Aleris 4 From the CEO 5 From the Board 6 History 8 Aleris Our social responsibility 12 Company management and finance 14 Innovation 16 Quality 18 Employees and working environment 20 Ethics and anti-corruption, human rights, equality and diversity 22 Environment and climate Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 2 About Aleris 3 From the CEO Liselott Kilaas I am proud to present Aleris’ first report on corporate social responsibility. In this report we describe how Aleris is working on topics such as ethics, the environment and human rights. We also want to address social responsibility Liselott Kilaas has been CEO of Aleris within healthcare and care in a wider context. since 2013, and of Aleris Norway and Denmark since 2006. Corporate social responsibility is partnership with the Norwegian employment and support activities an integral part of Aleris’ activities, Red Cross, and since 2013 with the for young people in care are just a but only now have we been able to Danish Red Cross. The focus is on few examples of public-private demonstrate this work internally and activities that support healthcare partnerships in which both parties externally. One of the aims of this and care. Our partnership with the benefit from each other’s expertise, report is to identify what is being Norwegian Red Cross has produced experience and needs. done, and raise awareness of the results such as the first aid app, work on corporate social which provides fast access to basic To help us better integrate corporate responsibility in all three countries. first aid skills wherever you are and social responsibility throughout the almost 100,000 people have already entire organisation, in 2013 Aleris Corporate social responsibility within downloaded the app. joined the United Nations Global Aleris has several dimensions. Since Compact. The Global Compact is the safeguarding healthcare and care In addition, we have funded world’s largest corporate social services in the future requires traineeships through the Stella Red responsibility initiative and has innovative and different thinking, we Cross Women’s Centre in Norway, defined ten principles in the areas have also defined innovation within and held a first aid course in of human rights, the environment, services as corporate social Denmark. In 2014 we will support anti-corruption and labour responsibility. Through research, the non-profit organisation Hand in standards. Aleris supports these development and innovation, we Hand Sweden, which has a presence principles and is looking forward to want to help to further develop in India and Africa. Hand in Hand’s working long-term to implement healthcare and care services so they activities include education in health, them in our strategy and day-to-day are sustainable and equipped to entrepreneurship, job creation, health operations. This report marks the meet increased needs in the information programs and efforts to beginning of this work. community. prevent child labor. I hope this report helps all Aleris Another dimension are the initiatives A third dimension are all the excellent employees gain inspiration from one that are separate from our projects Aleris operates in another and inspire others to find day-to-day operations. Since 2007 conjunction with local resources. ways to integrate corporate social we have had a long-term Initiatives for getting people into responsibility into everyday life. Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 4 From the Board Helena Saxon Corporate social responsibility is a key aspect of value creation in a business. Since Aleris was established in 2005, the importance of corporate social responsibility has gradually increased, in terms of both management strategy and the work in the various parts of Helena Saxon represents Investor on the Board of Aleris. the company. Aleris has grown, developing an there is a high standard of quality in a highly valued healthcare and care extensive range of services, and healthcare and care services in company that both patients and is now a major contributor to the Scandinavia. We also know that the users, owners and employees want healthcare and care sector in sector in the coming years will need to be part of and continuously use Scandinavia. As a company grows, so to be developed through services from. do the demands and expectations for innovation, investment, exchange of professional management, leadership ideas and healthy competition within and administration of the company. the sector. The Board’s mission is to influence Aleris to prioritise wisely and to Growing numbers of elderly people influence the direction in which the and a shortage of skilled manpower organisation should develop. will increase pressure on services and require us to think differently. The Board has always been clear that Aleris should be an organisation that We must always try to identify those does more than what is expected areas of an organisation where it is of a company in this sector. Quality, possible to make improvements. ethics and values have been an The complexities of healthcare and overriding priority in all our work. care ensure that the development This makes corporate social of these services will be a long-term responsibility a natural and important process, changes must be controlled aspect of Aleris’s work. and gradual. The work of developing Aleris is A clear strategy for corporate social conducted with great respect and responsibility contributes to good deference to the tradition, risk management and added value as experience and expertise of we progress towards our overriding healthcare in Scandinavia, where objective: working together to create 5 History 2005 Aleris is established through a merger 2009 of CarePartner and ISS Health Care, Båthöjden Plaza outside Stockholm owned by EQT. From the outset the becomes the first elderly care unit business operates in Sweden, built and owned by Aleris. Aleris Norway and Denmark. Aleris acquires also takes its first steps into primary the Norwegian company, Ungplan. healthcare services in Sweden. 2006 2010 Aleris acquires Norwegian Investor becomes new owner of companies Omnia and Axess. Aleris. Through its commitment Through the acquisition of Medilab and long-term view, Investor clearly Kliniska Laboratorier, Aleris offers the demonstrates that it wishes to build full range of diagnostics services in up a healthcare business of the Sweden. The acquisition of highest quality. Nackageriatriken extends the portfolio within healthcare and care. 2011 Aleris is growing rapidly within the 2007 health sector in both Denmark and Norwegian company BOI is acquired, Sweden: Proxima becomes part of launching Aleris’s adult psychiatric the company, bringing on board its activities in Norway. portfolio of specialist healthcare services in Nacka, Motala 2008 and Ängelholm and primary Aleris enters the specialist healthcare healthcare services in Stockholm, sector in Denmark through the Uppsala and Östergötland, as well as acquisition of Danske rehabilitation. Through the Privathospitaler, which consists of acquisition of Privathospitalet five hospitals. Aleris now runs Hamlet, which operates in hospitals and medical centres in all Greater Copenhagen and Århus, three Nordic countries. The Aleris becomes the largest private acquisition of Sophiahemmet’s x-ray hospital operator in Denmark. activities improves the company´s position within radiology in Stockholm. Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 6 Aleris AlerisGroup Group2005-2013 2005-2013MSEK MSEK 8000 6 975 7000 6 732 6000 5 135 5000 4 120 3 881 4000 Revenue Total Group 3 310 2 801 Net EBITDA 3000 2 512 1 754 2000 1000 220 232 251 279 356 307 412 333 307 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2012 Aleris takes over the running of the specialist care services at Bollnäs Hospital, which becomes Aleris’ first accident and emergency hospital. In Sweden, home care services also expand through the acquisition of Södermalm’s home care services. Aleris’s second elderly care unit is inaugurated. 2013 Aleris expands its elderly care service, taking over several nursing homes in Norway and Sweden. In Sweden, Aleris opens its third nursing home and commences building in Simrishamn and Halmstad. 2014 Since its inception, Aleris has grown and expanded its service portfolio significantly through acquisitions, organic growth and new contracts and agreements. In an effort to bring together and represent the new Aleris, the company changes its appearance, logo and profile. 7 Aleris The name Aleris comes from the Latin “alere”, which means to provide nursing and care, healing and nourishment. With around 8,500 employees across 350 units in Norway, Sweden and Denmark, Aleris is one of Scandinavia’s leading private healthcare and care service companies. The company is highly diverse and includes hospitals, medical centres, home care services, diagnostics, child welfare, mental healthcare, care for the elderly and facilities for the disabled. Its services are used by the public sector, businesses, insurance companies and private individuals. Since its inception in 2005, Aleris has acquired around 30 companies, and had a turnover of around SEK 7 billion in 2013. Aleris is a company with high ethical standards. Consideration, professionalism, commitment and innovation are our values and characterise everything we do. We organise our services around the needs of our customers, as quality and service are prerequisites for the organisations delivery. We wish to both contribute to and be an integral part of the public healthcare and care services wherever they are needed. Long-term corporate governance with Investor Aleris is owned by Investor AB, a Swedish company with almost a century of experience in the development and corporate governance of major companies. Investor is listed on the Swedish Stock Exchange. Investor is committed to long-term perspective and accountability, believing that corporate social responsibility is a key aspect of value creation in the companies it invests in. Through the work with the various company boards,, Investor encourages its companies to operate in a responsible and ethical manner, and be leading players within corporate social responsibility in their sectors. Read more about Aleris www.aleris.no www.aleris.dk www.aleris.se Read more about Investor www.investorab.com Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 8 New look A major survey conducted by Aleris in 2012 showed that Aleris’ values and working methods are, largely, aligned to users and clients’ wishes. The survey also showed that awareness of Aleris could be improved in Norway, Sweden and Denmark. As part of the effort to better define the organisation, we have changed the appearance, profile and logo in 2014. The name and trademark Aleris mean that we work according to the same values, quality objectives and ethical guidelines wherever you encounter us. 9 The app you want Aleris and the Red Cross: The first aid app everyone around you Aleris and the Norwegian Red Cross to have have developed a first aid app anyone can download free to their mobile First aid saves lives. Aleris and the Red Cross phone. The first aid app shows what encourage you to learn more about first aid. to do in various emergency situations, and can locate you through a GPS function if necessary. There is also a quiz where you can test your basic first aid skills and a list of international emergency numbers. The first aid app received an honourable mention in the 2013 CSR Awards organised by CSR Norway. To date, almost 100,000 people have downloaded the app. The app was nominated for innovation in the 2014 Prize and Award “SPOT”. Read more and watch the video on the first aid app www.rodekors.no/forsthjelpsapp/ www.youtube.com/watch?v=CdY8ZvjrKY Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 10 Our social responsibility 11 Company management and finance Principles management. Our long-term owner Delivering and developing good and developer, Investor, provides quality, sustainable healthcare and financial security, and solid care services that our clients and business operations allow us to fulfil customers choose to use requires our values. Any surplus is used to good financial management and invest in personnel, infrastructure, governance. research, development and innovation so that we can improve The management of the company is and develop our services. just as committed to improving minor details as it is to the The prioritisation of corporate social improvement of major systems. Our responsibility is anchored in philosophy is that something good executive management and in our can always be better, and we seek corporate governance model. to learn not just from ourselves but from others. Objectives Aleris aim is to continue growing and Challenges and opportunities developing, we want to create value Aleris wants to show that it is in society by playing a central role in possible to operate excellent healthcare and care services in the healthcare and care services on a Scandinavian countries. Financial sound financial basis. We strive for a security allows us to achieve our flexible organisation that can adapt ambitions for operational and quickly readjust to the diverse predictability and stability, and to be a and evolving needs of our clients and driving force for research, Global Compact users. With operations in the three development and innovation within Scandinavian countries that are our areas of activity. In 2013, Aleris joined the Global developing in different ways, we have Compact – the UN’s corporate social a unique opportunity to learn from By improving logistics and efficiency, responsibility network. our experiences in all countries. we want to show that it is possible to increase capacity while maintaining Read more about Global Compact’s Status our standards of quality, safety and ten principles Aleris is currently in a good financial satisfaction among users and www.gcnordic.net position, with sound financial employees. Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 12 I Aleris and collaboration with Aleris and Save the Children: Aleris and music therapy in public authorities Group discussions for unchild welfare: accompanied underage In 2013 Aleris-Hamlet Hospitals in asylum seekers The entertainment group Denmark entered into a historic new “Kom Nærmere” (Come Closer) partnership with Region Sjælland, In Sweden, Save the Children and The entertainment group “Kom involving the region and a consortium Aleris have developed a model for Nærmere” was set up in 2003 on an of several operators. conducting supportive group initiative from Aleris Ungplan in discussions for unaccompanied Norway. The idea was to create a It is the first time that such a underage asylum seekers. The venue where young people in the partnership agreement has been majority of these children and young child welfare system could tell their entered into between a region and people have a difficult psychosocial stories in a different way. private operators on the provision of situation and have experienced a healthcare and care services. number of serious incidents. In our The efforts of politicians, experience, this kind of support is professionals, musicians and not least The agreement also enables important to these children’s overall the young people themselves, have Aleris-Hamlet Hospitals to contribute health and development. turned “Kom Nærmere” into a major to the development of innovative standalone collective project. solutions in the partnership. The discussions take place on six occasions at the young person’s In 2013 the entertainment group residence, together with personnel. celebrated its 10th anniversary in the The model is based on Fana Cultural Centre, and received trauma-informed care, which is a the Bergens Tidende award of NOK framework for understanding vulner50,000. Aleris is considering starting able children with an emphasis on the up “Kom Nærmere” projects in several importance of their experiences from towns and cities. early childhood. Trauma-informed care is based on safety, understanding and good relations which help improve the child’s ability to control reactions and difficult emotions. 13 Innovation Principles basis from other skilled private Innovative thinking is one of Aleris’ operators. This contributes to core values. This means that at all necessary innovation within the areas times we should adapt our of our activity. operations to the changing needs of the population, and that we are Status innovative in the design and Through development and operation operation of our services. Healthcare of new diagnostic and treatment and care services in Scandinavia have forms, research, professional and I always been, and will continue to be financial support for innovation, a public responsibility. Aleris contributes to innovation in logistics and service within all our But no sector develops optimally areas of activity. In all three countries, Aleris collaborates on quality The Aleris Research and without competition, and this also applies within the healthcare and improvement in Development Fund care sector. Through innovation and various networks of public and competition in the right areas, private private healthcare and care service The Aleris Research and Development contributors can also help to improve operators. Aleris contributes to the Fund was established in 2013 the quality of the public healthcare training of healthcare and care following a desire to strengthen and care services. personnel in all three countries. internal R&D at Aleris. A sum of SEK 10 million has been allocated in the Challenges and opportunities Objectives period 2013-2016. The aim of the The healthcare and care services are Aleris will continue to be an fund is to support patient clinical growing steadily, as is the need for innovative contributor to and an research and development through them. People are living longer and integral part of public healthcare and projects aimed at improving the healthcare and care services are care services in Scandinavia. We want treatment, nursing and care. becoming increasingly advanced to more actively share knowledge and specialised. There are stricter between Aleris and public sector The fund will also support Aleris’s requirements for quality and safety, authorities in all three countries. We values and goals. The fund is and service users have higher want to use IT technology to a managed by a fund committee expectations and greater rights to a greater degree in healthcare and appointed by the CEO, with wider range of services than care, and achieve greater representation from all business areas previously. Aleris believes that the collaboration with public sector and all countries in which Aleris quality and availability of healthcare authorities on research and operates. and care services improves when development. parts of the services are undertaken There has been great interest in by private operators. For example, Healthcare professionals are becomseeking support from the fund. the private sector is able to quickly ing a scarce resource and this trend Following a selection process in establish new services where the is expected to continue in the future. which projects were ranked according public sector requires more time, and Aleris must focus on creativity and to factors such as patient benefit and can therefore complement the innovation within the service sector scientific level, a total of 16 projects public provision with specialised in order to help improve healthcare have been granted money from the services when so required. Aleris and care services and maintain it´s fund in 2013. experiences competition on a daily position as an attractive employer. Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 14 I I Research at Aleris Helse: Research at Aleris-Hamlet Research at Aleris Innovation in hospital services Hospitals: Shorter Specialistvård Sabbatsberg convalescence after knee (Aleris Specialist Care 1. Breast centre with response on the day: At the new Breast Centre in Oslo, surgery Sabbatsberg): Avoiding women with a lump in their breast are surgery for women with able to have all necessary In 2009, doctors at the Anaesthesia adenomyosis examinations in one day and get Department of the Aleris-Hamlet immediate results from examinations Hospitals in Copenhagen developed a Doctors at Aleris Specialistvård by skilled specialists. The fast new method for treating pain Sabbatsberg have received support diagnostic examination ensures that following surgery of the knee where from the Aleris Research and women do not have to worry unneca new artificial knee joint had been Development Fund for research into essarily and are treated more quickly if inserted. With the new method, adenomyosis, a disease which they are diagnosed. known as adductor canal blockade, causes severe pain and bleeding a local anaesthetic is administered during menstruation. There are 2. Competence centre for prostate to the nerves in the operated knee currently no statistics on the number cancer: Aleris has Northern Europe’s via an injection in the middle of the of women suffering from best equipment for the diagnosis thigh. With this placement of the local adenomyosis, but research shows that of prostate cancer with integrated anaesthetic, which takes place using the disease is more common than MRI and ultrasound diagnosis of the ultrasound guidance, the muscle previously thought. Many are prostate gland. This provides the controlling nerves are only slightly undiagnosed and are not most accurate biopsy possible and anaesthetised, while the receiving adequate treatment. Today, enables fast and reliable diagnosis. pain-sensitive nerve fibres are for women who are affected, The competence centre consists of completely anaesthetised. The treatment involves surgical removal of a multidisciplinary team of urologist, muscle function is thus almost fully the uterus, a major surgical oncologist, radiologist and nuclear preserved and the patient is able to procedure with a risk of medicine. walk on the operated leg just a few complications and a long hours after surgery. convalescence. In a study, doctors 3. Clinical research in surgery for at Aleris will investigate the effect of morbid obesity: The obesity clinic at Together with the Anaesthesia treating the disease with drugs rather Aleris has published a study based Department of the Main Ortho Centre than surgery. The study is a on efficiency improvement in its own at Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen, collaboration with the Karolinska hospitals from 2005-2010. While the doctors later researched the value of University Hospital. The support from time required for the actual surgery is this method for patients and hospitals, the Aleris Research and Development the same, the processes before and given that patients can be discharged Fund enables gynaecologists treating after surgery are significantly reduced after only a few days. The research the affected women to carry out the due to more efficient organisation: the was published in international study simultaneously, allowing the time from the start of anaesthesia to journals and the method is now study to be carried out in significantly the start of the operation is reduced widely used both nationally and less time than at a university hospital. from 23 to 6 minutes per operation. internationally. The doctors have Today there is no alternative to Non-surgical time in the operating just received support from the Aleris surgery for these women. If the study theatre is reduced from 43 to 15 Research and Development Fund to shows what the Aleris gynaecologists minutes per operation. This frees up improve the method, with the aim of are hoping, it could mean a time so that surgeons can carry out identifying the lowest effective dose revolution in the treatment of women more operations per day. of the anaesthetic. with adenomyosis. 15 Quality Principles making us entirely dependent on and accreditation in accordance with All treatment and follow-up of good quality and excellent the Danish Quality Model (DDKM). patients and clients within healthcare efficiency in order to be chosen: If We also chart the satisfaction of our and care is associated with a certain we are not good enough, we will clients in all countries. amount of risk, requiring strict not get patients or public sector standards for quality, health and contracts. If we are not efficient, we At a Scandinavian level, each month safety and the environment. While will not be a financially sustainable the management reviews patients’ Aleris consistently achieves high business, the latter being a perceived quality at all our hospitals scores for all quality indicators, a key prerequisite for operating and the and medical centres. All units also element of our quality assurance ability to develop new, good quality report comparable numbers of work is that we can always improve. services. complications every month, and We are open minded to our potential complaints are registered and for improvement and we must learn Status reported on an ongoing basis in from our mistakes. Quality assurance and improvement all units. The quality control results are anchored in the company’s provide a good basis for identifying Quality in our organisation is executive management. This ensures where and how we can improve the therefore subject to continuous that quality is prioritised and coordiquality of our control and monitoring via internal nated across and units in the three services. and external audits and inspections, regions, and enables us to improve deviation management and quality quality across the organisation as a Objectives surveys. whole. Aleris will strive to enhance quality in healthcare and care through Challenges and opportunities In addition to reporting on all quality closer cooperation with public sector Aleris provides services to patients requirements from the authorities in authorities on quality objectives and and clients with treatment and three countries, Aleris has quality indicators, involvement in support needs ranging from the implemented specific systems for research and development and a simple and uncomplicated to measuring aspects such as patient, continuous focus on discrepancies extensive and complex. Common resident and user satisfaction, and areas for improvement in our to all our users, whether they are employee satisfaction, complications own operations. We continue our patients or clients is that they actively and complaints. efforts to measure the satisfaction of choose to use Aleris. users and clients in all our activities. Our businesses were among the first Meanwhile, treatment, nursing and in the healthcare and care sector to care options are growing steadily, initiate ISO-certified quality systems Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 16 I Measurement of patient Aleris and the Red Cross: satisfaction: HappyOrNot Training Danes in first aid In addition to ongoing written patient Would you be able to save someone surveys, in June 2013 Aleris who collapsed in front of you on the introduced the HappyOrNot concept street with cardiac arrest? Everyone at all Aleris centres in Norway, Sweden should ask themselves this and Denmark. question – and if the answer is no, we hope that you will enrol on a first aid HappyOrNot is a newly developed course. This is the goal of AlerisFinnish concept that measures Hamlet Hospitals’ collaboration with customer satisfaction. The exits of our the Danish Red Cross. The Red Cross hospitals and receptions are equipped holds its First Aider of the Year event with monitors on which patients and to celebrate one everyday hero, users can choose from four assessreceives a prize of DKK 10,000, who ments of how satisfied they are with in 2013 this was donated by the their visit to Aleris. This better enables Aleris-Hamlet Hospitals. The prize is us to obtain a continuous overview of given to an individual who has saved patient satisfaction, compare the a life by administering first aid. Aleris is departments and carry out on the judging panel for First Aider of comparisons between our various the Year in 2013 and 2014. hospitals. Each unit has a unique location number and is equipped with Read more about our work with the a SIM card, which sends the results Red Cross overnight to a centrally controlled www.aleris.dk/vi-tilbyder/aleris-hamsystem. let-hospitaler/patient/om-aleris-hamlet/samarbejdspartnere/rode-kors/ Read more about HappyOrNot www.happy-or-not.com/ 17 Employees and working environment Principles with many other sectors. It is Objectives Our 8,500 employees represent therefore important to work Our long-term overall objective is Aleris’s most important resource. systematically on various measures in to continue to be an attractive and Along with good leadership, order to keep absenteeism down. valued employer within our various employee development and our fields. We should have a good approach to employment is essential Status working environment and an to create a good working Our key HR tools include the inclusive workplace in which our environment and a futureannual leadersip and employee employees are proud and committed oriented company. Skilled and surveys. With response rates of to their job. satisfied employees are essential in around 70%, the results are order to provide good services. consistently good, indicating that The employees must have the most people are satisfied, but also opportunity to participate, influence We focus on wellbeing and on vary in how the employees perceive and develop their skills. We will building motivation and optimism the working environment and leadercontribute to encourage inclusion about the future together with our ship in the various departments and and diversity among our employees, users and our patients. Meeting the businesses. focus upon capacity and continuity treatment and care needs of those in leadership and, where necessary, who approach us gives them the best Most people feel respected by their actively work to reduce absence due possible conditions for being active line manager and 85% are aware of to illness. in work, studies and other activities. Aleris’s values. Challenges and opportunities Because of feedback in the survey, We believe ownership and short all employees now have a greater decision paths are factors that help opportunity to monitor the quarterly to attract, develop and retain presentations of financial results. competent employees at Aleris. A Scandinavia-wide leadership A flexible environment also enables development programme has also the organisation to quickly adapt to been drawn up for managers at changing tasks and needs. Aleris. The aim is to provide specialist knowledge of what leadership Many jobs in the healthcare and requires and work on what is care sector are demanding with high expected of them in terms of workloads, and absence due to competence, motivation skills and sickness is generally high compared other abilities. Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 18 Aleris Care: Job rotation for Aleris Ungplan & BOI and NHO: Aleris Ungplan & BOI and the employees Rings in the water Church City Mission: Children’s Centre in Brazil In Denmark, Aleris aims to include Rings in the water (Ringer i vannet) is a vulnerable people on the job market recruitment strategy on behalf of the The Children’s Centre in Norway is a in our care operations, and ensure Confederation of Norwegian solidarity project organised under the that our work can be adapted for our Enterprise (NHO) in Norway. The aim Church City Mission (Kirkens employees when they need it. is to get people who have dropped Bymisjon) in Bergen. The Children’s out of the workforce for various Centre works to improve living Aleris in Gribskov has received an reasons into ordinary jobs. Aleris was conditions for poor children in the award from the local employment one of the first companies to sign a city of Porto Nacional in the state of council for being the best business to national Rings in the water Tocantins in Brazil. Through the local introduce job rotation. agreement. partner organisation, Comsaúde, more than 500 children and young In 2013, Aleris trained and qualified 22 In November 2013, the labour people are able to participate in long-term unemployed people and market enterprise Mindus various activities within health, 14 former temporary workers in awarded the Brobyggerprisen (the education and culture in which they Denmark. 90% of the temporary Bridge Builder Award) to the Mandals are given the opportunity to actively workers have since secured a division of Aleris Ungplan & BOI for improve their own situation. permanent connection within the job taking responsibility for getting market. unemployed people into Aleris has chosen the Children’s employment. Aleris Ungplan & BOI’s Centre for its solidarity project and is division in Southern Norway runs one of the project’s oldest and most various services for young people important partners. We renewed our based on Mandal and Marnardal. support agreement in 2014, helping to ensure the continued operation of the Children’s Centre. 19 Ethics and anti-corruption, human rights, equality and diversity Principles achieve a successful treatment We want to work with public sector Aleris’s ethical guidelines apply to all programme. authorities to ensure that as many employees and all those who people as possible have equal access perform tasks for us in any way and Due to the significant amounts to the most appropriate healthcare as a purchaser, Aleris imposes spent on products and services each and care services when they need stringent requirements on year we have strict requirements them. In 2014 we will be visiting subcontractors. In all our work we to ensure that satisfactory control selected subcontractors to check strive to safeguard the interests of procedures are in place vis à vis our conditions against the written our patients, customers and users in subcontractors. documentation we have received. the best possible manner. Status Read more about Aleris’s ethics and We feel that equality and diversity in Aleris is made up of around 70% values employment help to improve women and 30% men and there is a creativity and innovation, and are good gender balance in the Group www.aleris.no/Om/Om-Aleris/Etikk/ essential in order to achieve the management team. www.aleris.se/Om/Om-Aleris/ company’s goals and visions. Vara-varderingar/ Everyone should feel welcome at For major purchases, we require www.aleris.dk/om/om-aleris/ Aleris. written documentation on the vores-vardier/ subcontractor’s standards relating to Challenges and opportunities the work environment, Aleris has a particular responsibility to anti-corruption, ethics and human safeguard patient and user rights and rights. Until now, Aleris has not the privacy of those who come to us carried out its own research into as patients may be unable to clearly whether this has been complied judge what is best for them. Within with, but we are now becoming child welfare, substance abuse and more active in this area. mental healthcare, we occasionally provide care services that the user Objectives does not wish to receive, but judge Aleris contributes to ethical dialogue this to be the best professional and cooperation with individual solution for the individual. stakeholders as well as community representatives. We want to increase Employee diversity is important the proportion of men in Aleris as a within psychiatric care, where whole, and strive for gender balance different backgrounds, ethnic origins in those parts of the operation where and education among employees are there is a high predominance of essential to achieving good either men or women. relationships with the users and Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 20 Aleris Care: Equality in home Aleris Care: Language teaching Aleris and training of care for personnel in care for the healthcare and care personnel elderly Equality projects in the City of In Denmark, Aleris-Hamlet Hospitals Stockholm, funded by the Swedish The 250 employees at the is the only private hospital involved in Association of Local Authorities and Lambertseter Retirement and Nursing the formal specialist training of Regions (SKL), have attracted interest Home in Oslo include representatives orthopaedic surgeons in Aarhus and and involvement of over 30 nationalities. In the spring Copenhagen. The training of 2010 we started in-house training programme has been operating for Aleris Södermalm’s home care in reading, writing and computer skills several years, and has received operation was invited to participate in (Basic competence in working life), positive feedback from both the SKL’s equality initiative. supported by the National Agency for doctors involved and from public Lifelong Learning (VOX) and taught sector authorities. The project is still ongoing and has by the Oslo Adult Education Centre resulted in the “Equal home care” Skullerud. 45 employees divided into In Norway, Aleris Helse is funding a course, which is 8 hours and is now 3 groups participated in the first 30 part-time professorship at the Faculty a mandatory part of Södermalm’s week course, and due to high of Medicine at the University of Oslo. Home Care School. Thanks to the demand the project continued for As part of this, Aleris is participating experience gained from the two further periods. in a total of six studies. Aleris also has project, Aleris is able to train nursing students in practice in mental employees across Aleris Care in Aleris has very positive experiences of care. equality. this project. Following the course, 32 of the participants passed both In Sweden, the Aleris Specialist Care The project suggests that improving written and oral Norwegian Level 3. Elisabeth Hospital has started equality in home care improves the Aleris has sought additional funds to specialising in shoulder surgery in quality of the services. enable other employees to do the collaboration with Skåne University same. Hospital and DePuy Mitek (Johnson & Johnson). The training programme The course has resulted in a is called Shoulder Academy and is significant improvement in aimed at orthopaedic specialists with communication at work, allowing a special interest in the shoulder. Aleris to better utilise the skills of its Aleris Specialist Care Elisabeth multicultural employees. Employees Hospital performs nearly 10% of are able to contribute more and are planned shoulder surgeries carried better integrated into society, and out in Sweden. conversation is now easier with residents, relatives and colleagues when at work. 21 Environment and climate Principles certification scheme for the An integral part of corporate social organisation as a whole. responsibility is the consideration of the climate and environmental Objectives impact our business has on Aleris will raise environmental society. Aleris is continuously awareness and contribute to working towards its goal of sustainable social development by identifying and implementing continuously working to minimise measures to reduce the company’s negative environmental impact, negative impact on the environment comply with the environmental laws and environmental management and requirements affecting our is a priority throughout the entire business, and evaluate and company. continually improve our environmental work. Examples of environmental Challenges and opportunities management at Aleris The company’s operations have a Our main environmental focus in only a limited direct impact on the 2014 is on continued reduction of Healthcare environment, the main car and electricity usage, and environmental impact comes from increased use of waste separation. The hospital activities of Aleris Helse emissions relating to transportation, We will continue to closely monitor (Norway) and the majority of the as Aleris is a large, geographically developments in certification activities of Aleris Diagnostics distributed organisation. We solutions. The long-term aim is for (Sweden) are environmentally certified therefore focus on how we can best all businesses in all three countries to in accordance with ISO 14001. reduce the use of electricity and have an environmental management fuel to minimise our environmental system and be certified in ISO 14001 is the internationally footprint. accordance with an appropriate recognised general environmental environmental management system. management standard for organisations in all industries. It was Status developed by the International Our patients and customers are Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) made aware of our efforts to and is based on two concepts: reduce the environmental impact we continuous improvement and are responsible for. Such initiatives regulatory compliance. include the recycling and effective use of paper, the use of video and In Denmark, all Aleris-Hamlet teleconferencing to reduce Hospitals are accredited by The emissions from transportation and Danish Quality Model (DDKM), which where this is not possible we use enensures that businesses comply with ergy efficient transportation and low the environmental considerations emission vehicles. Due to the rapid covered by DDKM. development and evolving requirements and standards, we have not yet implemented a cross-border environmental Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 22 Whistleblowing: Opportunity for anonymous notification In order to avoid offences and other improprieties and facilitate a safer and better workplace, Aleris wishes to be informed of any such improprieties in the company as quickly as possible. An external warning system has been set up for the Group, called the Whistleblower system, in which employees can report any improprieties in the workplace. The scheme complements the opportunities for notification through normal reporting paths. An independent external party (Ethos International) handles the notifications, and employees are able to report anonymously. In Sweden, in early 2014, Aleris adopted a policy of “protection of sources” providing the same rights as public employees. In practice, protection of sources already applies, but the policy has been adopted to further reinforce and emphasise this. Read more about Ethos International www.ethosinternational.se/ 23 www.aleris.no www.aleris.se www.aleris.dk Social responsibility in healthcare & care services 2014 24
