PREFACE PAGE 2 TOPDANMARK IN BRIEF PAGE 3 CSR POLICY PAGE 4 STRUCTURE AND CONTENTS PAGE 5 GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE 5 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MANAGEMENT  PAGE 6 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND ADVICE  PAGE 14 CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMER MATTERS PAGE 22 COMPANY CULTURE PAGE 30 RELATIONS AND DIALOGUE PAGE 36 ABOUT THE REPORT PAGE 42 SOCIAL ACCOUNTING PAGE 43 52227-2013 Photo: Colourbox CSR REPORT 2013 2013 — CSR REPORT Preface It is a pleasure to present Topdanmark’s fifth CSR report, which describes our work with CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) in 2013. Photo: Claus Bjørn Larsen For Topdanmark CSR is also business responsibility, and therefore when working with CSR we place emphasis on how we can contribute to the Danish society and sustainable development, as a non-life would like to briefly draw your attention to insurance and pension fund company. some of them. Our products and services ensure financial For insurance policies covering workers’ and social security for customers when compensation, liability and loss of earnings damage has occurred or their working life potential we have intensified our efforts has ended. Focusing on, among other things, for the claimants. This means extra help to loss prevention, loss limitation and resource maintain labour market attachment. consumption, it is our goal to contribute and act responsibly for the benefit of our We have been engaged in a network focusing customers and the society we are part of. on environment-friendly transport to and from work, which was one of the winners of a We made considerable efforts to help our nation-wide competition. customers when two storms hit Denmark in October and Denmark in 2013. Thanks to our In 2013 Topdanmark’s solar cell system reliable and competent claims emergency produced 12% of electricity for the head group, including customer-oriented office in Ballerup, and the overall carbon employees, we were accessible and able to emission reduction was just below 300 help our customers quickly and efficiently tonnes. Together with the local senior high and in this way limit the size of consequential school, we have prepared teaching material damage. on solar cell energy, which is available for senior high schools. Topdanmark has joined UN’s Global Compact, which provides the overall setting and is Topdanmark employees have also been a source of inspiration for Topdanmark’s mentors for young school pupils in the CSR work. We have supported UN Global Municipality of Ballerup. Compact since 2010 and will continue our commitment in the future. Therefore, this I hope you enjoy reading the CSR report! report is also the annual progress report for Global Compact. Yours sincerely, The past year offered us a number of Christian Sagild, CEO activities described in this report. Here I 2 Tilbage til oversigt Topdanmark in brief Topdanmark’s principal task is to help Our customers and market share those people who have shown confidence Topdanmark has three business sectors in in us by letting us manage their insurance non-life insurance. Number of people who policies or pension schemes. The essence have chosen to be insured with us: of our products is to help, care for, pay compensation and provide security. }} Personal customers: Around every fourth person in Denmark Facts about Topdanmark }} Corporate customers: Around every sixth }} Nation-wide, Danish non-life, life and business owner pension fund business }} Agricultural customers: Around every }} Head office in Ballerup second farmer }} Non-life insurance for more than 100 years This makes Topdanmark the second largest }} Pension fund and life insurance business Danish non-life insurance company with a for more than 40 years market share of 18%. }} Listed on the stock exchange since 1985 Topdanmark has two business sectors in life and included in the OMXC20 index insurance and pension fund business: }} Most important brands: }} Personal customers }} Corporate customers We are the sixth largest life insurance company in Denmark and have a market Our objectives share of about 3%. Topdanmark’s objectives are to: }} carry out nation-wide, Danish non-life Our employees The total number of Topdanmark employees insurance, life insurance and pension fund is around 2,700. 1,500 of them work at the business head office in Ballerup, while around 600 }} be attractive to customers by being an work at a number of major offices and sales independent and pre-eminent insurance centres all over Denmark. Furthermore we group have 600 field employees including certified }} ensure that shareholders achieve a insurance sales people and loss adjusters. long-term, competitive and stable return Read more about the Topdanmark Group. WWW  3 2013 — CSR REPORT Topdanmark’s CSR policy In 2013 Topdanmark formulated a new CSR }} to be aware of and work on business policy which describes its approach to CSR, dilemmas in relation to CSR either at a objectives, strategy points, organisation and trade level or in own business reporting. }} to create and maintain good relations with stakeholders and initiate a dialogue about CRS objective CSR, when considered relevant Topdanmark’s CSR objective is to support its business goals and strategies. }} to be an active and dedicated company in local communities and Danish society in On this basis it has been decided that general Topdanmark’s CSR strategy is: }} to develop and improve customer service Specific CSR work by, among other things, addressing The CSR work includes the preparation and consumer matters such as ensuring easily implementation of relevant policies and understood product information, fair and specific initiatives decided on the basis of, good claims handling, transparent price, among other factors: easy access to complaint recourse and a }} Risk. Where does Topdanmark risk not fair complaints process meet the principles under UN’s Global Compact, thus risking the incurrence of }} to integrate loss prevention and loss financial losses and damage to reputation? limitation into products and services in order to limit the number and size of }} Opportunities. How can Topdanmark incidents of injury and damage to people, increase the financial and social value for buildings and environment customers, employees and shareholders while contributing to sustainable }} to integrate the consideration for development in society? environment, labour and human rights and anti-corruption in the business and in relation to alliance partners Read Topdanmark’s full CSR policy. WWW Photo: Topdanmark 4 Tilbage til oversigt Structure and contents of the report The contents of the 2013 CSR report are Additionally, each section contains an based on Topdanmark’s CSR policy. It has assessment and the current state as been divided into a number of main sections: compared to 2012, if relevant: }} Responsible business management Green: Improvement in relation to 2012 results }} Sustainable products and advice }} Customers and consumer matters Yellow: No change in relation to }} Company culture 2012 results }} Relations and dialogue Red: Deterioration in relation to 2012 results Each section states the goal for the area, if defined, a description of the main activity, Read more about the report on page 42, for the results for the year and the attachment example about the criteria for the contents to Global Compact if the goal is supported by of the report and the data collection. one or more principles. If Principle 1 or 2 are supported, the specific human right(s) will be See summary of the report. WWW shown in brackets. Global Compact principles A business supporting UN’s Global Compact should: 1. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. support effective abolition of child labour 6. eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery You can read more about UN’s Global Compact here. WWW  5 2013 — CSR REPORT Responsible business management It is Topdanmark’s duty to create value for Topdanmark has no separate policy for the our shareholders. In this value creation we respect for human rights. It is expected to are responsible for: be prepared in 2014. But internationally recognised human rights were integrated }} observing national legislation in several of Topdanmark’s activities in 2013, for example in working with diversity }} meeting recommendations for Corporate policy (see page 34), which supports the Governance right of non-discrimination, one of the 32 }} meeting the expectations of the UN Global internationally recognised human rights. Compact Most of the other activities described in In CSR terms it is our primary focus to ensure this report also support the Global Compact that Topdanmark meets the ten Global Principles, which is stated in each section. Compact principles. This means that we must minimise and prevent negative influence on Read about Topdanmark’s WWW internationally recognised labour and human whistleblower scheme. rights, environment and anti-corruption in all our internal and external activities. It Read about our Corporate also implies that we must work actively to Governance work. WWW promote the ten principles. This responsibility is ensured by developing and implementing relevant policies, processes and routines for our internal operations, our products and our alliance partners. At the same time special initiatives are implemented, as needed. Areas of focus in 2013 In 2013 focus concentrated primarily on three policies and the relevant activities: }} Environmental policy }} Policy for responsible investment }} Policy and target figures for the gender composition of Topdanmark’s Board of Directors 6 Tilbage til oversigt Climate and environment policy Topdanmark integrates the consideration for Topdanmark’s loss prevention work also climate and environment in its business in contributes to the positive impact on climate various ways. Activities in our own operations and environment, as for example building fires and business are given priority as this is emit large amounts of CO2 and create waste. where we have most influence on impacting the environmental footprint. Furthermore, Annually a report is made to the CDP (Carbon we work continually to integrate the Disclosure Project), an internationally consideration for climate and environment recognised environment reporting initiative. in our co-operation with suppliers and other stakeholders. And we participate in projects Global Compact. The climate and and networks on climate and environment environment policy supports principles 7, primarily in the local area, when relevant. 8 and 9. We integrate climate and environment into operations Topdanmark has a defined climate and environment strategy for its business operations. It comprises goals for: }} Reduction of carbon emission }} Reduction of paper consumption }} Waste sorting }} Office procurements and agreement The strategy does not include goals for water consumption as the consumption is low and not expected to reduce further. Reduction of carbon emission The principal sources of Topdanmark’s carbon emissions are heating and electricity consumption as well as the use of private and company cars for business purposes. Of these three sources we are primarily able to reduce the electricity consumption and the use of cars for business purposes. Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 Assessment of 2013 10% reduction Operation of solar cell system Carbon emissions per Satisfactory development. of relative carbon employee were 2.4 The goal was acchived as the Implementation of energy emission (carbon tonnes. relative carbon emissions has management system and emission per declined 17 % from 2011 to subsequent regulation of The absolute carbon employee) in 2013. electricity consumption emissions was 5980 2014 from 2011 tonnes. The absolute carbon emission IT optimisation and reduction emissions has declined as well of electricity consumption See details in carbon with 13 % compared to 2011 emission accounts on Implementation of online figures. page 8 meetings  7 2013 — CSR REPORT Topdanmark has one of the largest solar cell systems in the North Topdanmark has one of the largest solar represents carbon savings of around 300 cell systems in North, inaugurated in August tonnes and financial savings of DKK 1.5m on 2012. The system is placed on the roof electricity purchases. of our head office in Ballerup. The goal is that it should produce 15% of the annual Read more about the system. WWW electricity consumption. In 2013 the electricity production was Read about how knowledge and reports on 745,454 kWh representing 12% of the the solar cell system are included in senior overall power consumption of our head high school teaching on page 40. office, which is very close to the goal. It Carbon emission accounts List of carbon emissions in 2011-2013 (tonnes) 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 Heating consumption — natural gas 863 963 983 Driving in company cars 700 706 718 Scope 2 Heating consumption — district heating 110 116 111 Electricity consumption 3228 2435 2092 Scope 3 Use of own car for business purposes 1976 1976 2076 Total absolute carbon emissions 6877 6196 5980 Total carbon emissions per full-time employee 2.9 2.6 2.4 Note. Figures for electricity consumption in 2011 and 2012 have been adjusted as compared to the previous reports in order to reflect the emission factor used in the Climate Compass in 2013. This also means a change in the total absolute carbon emission and the relative carbon emission as compared to previous reports. The increase in carbon emisssion from the use of own cars for business purposes is due to a higher number of certified insurance sales people. Waste sorting Topdanmark has worked with waste sorting at our head office in Ballerup since 2009. We separate, e.g., glass, cardboard, paper, plastic bottles and other waste for incineration. Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 Assessment of 2013 60% proportion Improvement of 45% waste for The result is satisfactory of total waste for processes for waste recycling No data in 2012 and recycling sorting therefore no standard of reference 8 Tilbage til oversigt Reduction of paper Since 2010 Topdanmark has worked systematically to digitalise communication with customers, among other things by using “e-Boks” and e-mail for customer letters and other documentation. This gives a significant reduction of paper consumption. Assessment Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 of 2013 Continued }} Expansion of digital 119 tonnes of reduction communication with paper of paper customers (2012:155 tonnes) consumption }} 1.5m documents sent out by per number of e-Boks customers }} About 50% of our customers have registered with e-Boks Office procurements and agreements Topdanmark focuses on climate and environment when procuring office supplies and entering into supply agreements. We endeavour to buy office articles which are swan-labelled (cleaning products, paper and printed matter), FSC-labelled (paper and wood) flower-labelled (paper and toner) or are organic (wine gifts) and to make agreements with suppliers who give priority to the consideration for climate and environment. Assessment Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 of 2013 Continued integration Environment has Agreement with a taxi of environmental been included as a company with goals for matters when standard parameter reduction of their carbon procuring office when negotiating emission equipment a number of agreements Agreement with swan-labelled dry-cleaners Carbon Disclosure Project Since 2010 Topdanmark has reported to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), an internationally recognised environment reporting initiative. A company is awarded points for the actual reporting and for the transparency of the reporting. Goal Results for 2013 Assessment of 2013 70 points (65 points in 2012) 61 points The decline in points was due to a change in the method of calculating the points.  9 2013 — CSR REPORT Focus on sustainable employee transport The Danes’ favourite mode of transport is the EU Climate Commissioner, was on the panel car, and this is also true for Topdanmark’s of judges. employees. However, we would like to inspire our employees to also use other forms of Its participation in the network has, among transport thus contributing to limiting traffic other things, made it possible for Topdancongestion on the roads and reducing carbon mark to implement relevant campaigns and emission. share experience and ideas with the participating businesses in the local area. Therefore, in 2013 we focused on making sustainable forms of transport more available Survey shows progress for employees and visitors in order to make it A survey of employees’ transport habits in easier to vary the form of transport instead 2011 and 2013 shows progress to more susof only going by car. tainable transport: Most of the initiatives were implemented at }} More employees use bicycles and the head office in Ballerup as most of our emcollective transport for medium-length ployees work there. Moreover, Topdanmark has participated in a local network on just distances (5-25 km). 8% increase environment-friendly forms of transport. }} Fewer employees go by car. The share of commuter trips by car has declined 11% Topdanmark participated in winner }} 6% decline in number of kilometres driven project Since 2011 Topdanmark has participated in a per employee commercial network, Formel M, which works }} 8 % decline in carbon emission per to reduce traffic congestion and carbon emisemployee sion through environment-friendly transport. The network is co-ordinated by the MunicipalThe survey also shows that the employees ity of Ballerup. appreciate the bicycle initiatives, particularly the bicycle service during working hours The Formel M network, which was established in seven municipalities with around 70 busiWatch this brief video cut on the nesses involved, was in 2013 selected as one of nine winners of a country-wide campaign winner project and Topdanmark’s WWW on sustainable switch-over. Connie Hedegard, many bicycle initiatives (in Danish). 10 Tilbage til oversigt Outline of initiatives 2013 Free participation in the ”We cycle to work” campaign (VCTA) 244 employees participated Free bike check for VCTA participants 151 employees made use of the offer Bicycle service done during working hours by a socio-economic 380 registered employees – a 90% increase business, Cykelven (Cycle Friend) from 2012 Covered and locked bicycle shed and pneumatic bicycle pump 206 stalls – fully used Discount on bicycles, bicycle wear and accessories 70 bicycles were bought Opportunity to test electric bicycle Three employees have tested it Charging station for electric cars and marked parking space for No data employees and visitors Campaign on collective transport and commuter check 300 employees participated Opportunity for commuter card for collective transport through gross 50 cards bought pay scheme Arrangement giving opportunity to test an electric car 75 employees participated The initiatives will continue in 2014 and information campaigns will also focus on electric cars and electric bicycles.  11 2013 — CSR REPORT Policy for responsible investment As part of Topdanmark’s ordinary operations Topdanmark’s policy for responsible we invest, for example, insurance reserves investment comprises funds managed and pension customers’ savings, until the by Topdanmark Kapitalforvaltning (asset funds are paid as compensation, pension management). It is intended to ensure the payments or the like. highest possible return while also ensuring Topdanmark is aware that these investments that the value creation does not violate may involve the risk that those companies internationally recognised standards and in which it invests violates internationally principles or international conventions recognised conventions and standards for adopted by Denmark. labour and human rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. To deal with Global Compact. The policy supports all this risk Topdanmark has prepared policies the principles. and procedures for our investments. Assessment Goal Activities in 2013 Resultater of 2013 The investment return is Regular screening and See under created taking into account assessment of the portfolio of ”Activities in Global Compact and the positions which conflict with 2013” CSR policy our CSR policy Participation in ”active ownership” in relation to two companies Read the entire policy for responsible investment. WWW Policy and target figures for the gender composition of the Board of Directors. Topdanmark wants a board of directors women elected at the AGM and two elected composed of the best qualified people. by employees on the Board. Topdanmark’s Board of Directors comprises six members elected at the AGM and three elected by the employees. The Board’s goal is that the Board members elected at the Global Compact. The policy AGM comprise a minimum of two persons supports Principle 1 (The right of of each gender by 2017. This goal has been non-discrimination) and Principle 6. met as on 24 January 2014 there are two 12 Tilbage til oversigt Photo: Colourbox  13 2013 — CSR REPORT Sustainable products and advice Topdanmark’s core business is by nature mean far more than finances alone, both beneficial to society contributing to a for the individual customer and society as a sustainable society. Our products, services whole. Therefore, Topdanmark gives priority and advice ensure financial security for to the integration of loss prevention and customers in the event of accidents, damage limitation in our business. and illness. But often damage and illness Loss prevention and loss limitation Customers benefit from loss prevention and }} reduces Topdanmark’s payments of loss limitation because it: compensation, which helps keep down insurance premiums }} contributes to customers avoiding }} contributes positively to society as it may personal injuries and illness or damage to contribute to reducing the number of sick their house and home notes and early retirement pensions }} contributes to customers being able to limit the consequence of the damage This is the reason why Topdanmark incurred integrates loss prevention and loss limitation }} contributes to SME customers avoiding in relevant areas of its business. This is / limiting both injury to employees and responsible and sustainable business. damage to their production facilities Read Topdanmark’s entire policy for loss prevention and loss limitation. WWW Moreover society and Topdanmark’s business benefit from prevention and loss limitation because it: }} has a positive effect on climate and Global Compact. Loss prevention and environment as damage repair, e.g. in loss limitation support Principle 2 (the respect of building fires which require right of work and the right of physical large amounts of water, emit a lot of CO2 and mental health) and Principles 7 and and create waste 8. 14 Tilbage til oversigt Communication through website, newsletters, press Prevention releases and social products media Co-operation across the industry and with public institutions Discount opportunity How Topdanmark Customer advice when buying before, during and optional loss works on loss after the damage prevention prevention and and illness products limitation Element of improving Claims the claims trend emergency for customers with group in the event a lot of damage of storm and and injuries rainstorm Customer required to implement loss prevention measures when the policy is written and in the event of previous damage Photo: Topdanmark  15 2013 — CSR REPORT Safe buildings, animals and employees at agricultural customers’ sites Topdanmark is the market leader in insuring developed with a cattle breeder on Western farms, and therefore it is natural also to be Funen the market leader in loss prevention. For this purpose we have developed an overall In 2014 a website with a virtual Top Farm concept, Safe Farm, which concentrates will be established, which will be accessible all loss prevention measures. This makes from Safe Topdanmark. The goal is to life safer for the farmer, his employees communicate loss prevention to a large and animals by preventing, e.g., fire, water group of customers. damage and theft. Furthermore, targeted loss prevention In 2012 all the loss prevention measures measures will be implemented by using, e.g., of Safe Farm were implemented at a pig origin analyses with relevant agricultural breeding farm in Jutland. It was called Top customers, if applicable by financing specific Farm and was the first one of its kind in measures. Denmark. In 2013 another Top Farm was Assessment Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 of 2013 Expanding the loss Top Farm Jutland was Increased interest for prevention work taken into use for training Topdanmark’s loss through the Safe Farm and demonstration prevention product, concept Safe Farm, and a small Establishment of Top increase in sales Farm Funen Expanding the loss Start-up of origin analysis No results yet — prevention work in in order to efficiently general ensure prevention of large-scale losses Easy access to information on prevention In 2013 the websites Safe Topdanmark and in sales and claims situations. We refer to Safe Danske Forsikring were introduced. specific content which fits each customer’s Here customers and other interested persons current situation. One example is the could find checklists and videos giving good October and December storms in 2013 when advice on how to prevent and limit losses. customers were referred to prevention of future storm damage. The websites are a tool which makes it WWW easy for our employees to integrate loss Sikkert Topdanmark (in Danish). prevention in their day-to-day work and in the dialogue with customers, for example, Sikkert Danske Forsikring (in Danish). WWW 16 Tilbage til oversigt Focus on large-scale claims creates value for SME customers Topdanmark insures SME and industrial In the event of large-scale claims businesses, for example, hotels and Topdanmark’s loss adjusters work with our restaurants. Also here we wish to be the team of risk engineers in order to help the market leader in loss prevention. Therefore, customer as best and soon as possible to in the dialogue with customers focus is avoid further damage and re-establish their concentrated on loss prevention within, e.g., normal everyday life. fire, theft, storm and rainstorm claims. In 2014 advice on loss prevention will Generally, large-scale claims are assessed continue to be developed particularly on a continuous basis, like hotel fire, and focusing on re-inspection and the provision we analyse claims trends in society in of risk advice to existing customers. general in order to target and improve our advisory services on loss prevention to SME customers. Assessment Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 of 2013 Expanding the loss Improved procedure Improved handling and prevention and for large-claims advice in the event of advisory work in handling and risk large-scale claims, e.g., general advice Munkebjerg Hotel and Dansk træemballage A/S (Danish Wood Packaging ltd) In 2014 the two websites will be further improved, e.g., by using video cuts, and focus Photo: Topdanmark will be concentrated on further integration of the information in customer contact.  17 2013 — CSR REPORT Job retention — here we make a difference A serious consequence for people who are }} For society as a whole it contributes to hit by illness or seriously injured could be reducing the amount of long-term sick that they lose labour market attachment or leave, reduced hours jobs and early perhaps eventually accept early retirement. retirements }} For Topdanmark it means customers With an efficient and pro-active effort in who feel well-helped and limitations in claims handling of selected and relevant payments of compensation customers, Topdanmark contributes to giving injured persons greater opportunity to Topdanmark’s social worker return to the labour market instead of ”only” coordinates efforts receiving insurance payment and perhaps The core of the efforts is a flexible and taking early retirement. individually planned process based on the individual life situations and challenges. Topdanmark’s efforts benefit on a For many people the most important help broad scale is that Topdanmark’s claims handler and Topdanmark’s pro-active efforts benefit social worker gather and coordinate all the many parties: threads between the many parties involved. Additionally, we work with a large number }} For customers it means help to enable of relevant professional groups, called upon them to become fit for work and thus help as required. We consider it important to to return to labour market begin our efforts as early as possible as this }} For businesses it means help to get their improves the opportunity for the customer to employees back maintain labour market attachment. }} For municipalities it supplements their efforts to ensure that citizens return to the labour market Facts Pro-active claims handling is available Pro-active claims handling is only available for customers covered by the following for customers when Topdanmark considers insurance policies: it relevant. Therefore, it is not a service the • Loss of earnings potential insurance customer has a right to receive. • Workers’ compensation insurance • Liability insurance Read what Inge Amelung, principal of Bernstorffsminde Efterskole (continuation school) tells us about the help the school got in 2013. 18 Tilbage til oversigt See how Topdanmark works with its proactive efforts Click on the customer and in Lawyer the outer circle. Family and network Early effort focusing on current situation Job centre Advice and special efforts Customer Health focus system Individual and flexible process Employee Coordination of meetings organisation with the parties involved Employer Data for 2013 Number of customer cases Percentage of the total where pro-active claims number of customer cases handling was used Loss of earnings potential 117 33 % insurance 1) Workers’ compensation 74 <3 % insurance 1) 257 cases in progress at 31 December 2012 2) 163 cases in progress at 31 December 2012 As shown in the table above, pro-active insurance, which is due to there being far claims handling is used more often in cases more cases under the first-mentioned where relating to loss of earnings potential than it makes sense to make an extra effort is in cases relating to the other two types of relevant.  19 2013 — CSR REPORT Case story: Marie Louise got help to find a suitable job Marie Louise was 39 when she fell and broke Motivation and a new perspective her left ankle. She reported sick, had surgery was the way forward and then started rehabilitation. Each case is individually assessed and the efforts are aligned. In Marie Louise’s ”Before my fall I had a job as a kitchen case it was found that she needed to work assistant. It was a reduced hours job as I with motivation and skills and also needed suffered from a bad back and a virus on assistance for her meetings with the job the balance nerve. I was doing fine but was centre. fired because of spending cuts,” says Marie Louise. ”I had five interviews with a social worker, which gave me another perspective of The future was not promising my chances. I recovered motivation and Marie Louise’s injury was covered by a succeeded in finding out what skills I possess liability insurance policy, and Topdanmark and what types of jobs I am able to cope got involved in her case when we paid with,” says Marie Louise. compensation for pain and injury. It was a success In the dialogue with Marie Louise it became Together they found a work experience place obvious that she would not be able to for Marie Louise at a suitable workplace perform a job as a kitchen assistant in the with realistic duties. The work experience future. But there was more than that. period has been replaced by a permanent job – part-time – and the scope of which Marie ”My own opinion was that actually I was not Louise is able to cope with. The process with able to return to labour market because of Topdanmark’s social worker took only three my bad back and now the injured ankle. I months. visualized myself just sitting in my sofa,” says Marie Louise. ”It was an enormous help to me to get a competent social worker. Without her Extra efforts needed help I would probably not have recovered Topdanmark’s opinion was a bit different. motivation. And I would certainly not have We thought that Marie Louise still possessed been able to keep track of my meetings good skills which could be used positively. with the job centre and experience a good The perspective was not early retirement process, ” says Marie Louise. pension. But extra efforts were needed to help Marie Louise – and quickly. Therefore Marie Louise was offered a process with one of Topdanmark’s social workers, which she accepted. 20 Tilbage til oversigt Photo: Colourbox  21 2013 — CSR REPORT Customers and consumer matters Topdanmark receives around 2.3m telephone Therefore we have great responsibility calls and treats around 300,000 claims towards our customers, and we take it annually. The contact with customers is the seriously. We work continually to: main focus of Topdanmark’s daily work. }} improve our customer service to make customers feel ”well-helped” All customers should feel well-helped, and }} ensure easily understood product Topdanmark has high ambitions for customer information and transparent price service. This applies to both sales and claims structures situations – and to contact in general. In all processes and contacts we think ”outside in”. }} ensure fair and effective claims handling This means that we focus on the customer’s }} easy complaint recourse and a fair need for information and services – for complaints process example in a claims situation. It is Topdanmark’s wish that customers The customer and consumer perspective is perceive they are listened to, that they have key in relation to CSR because products and confidence in Topdanmark and that they get services relate to the customer’s financial a clear view of the situation in their contact and social security, and because insurance with us. and pension products could be complicated and difficult to understand for the customer. Goals and results for all business sectors in Topdanmark Goal Activities in 2013 Results for Assessment of 2013 2013 50% of all customers Customer interviews and 43.3 % An increase of 4.3pp which is recommends us to others individual follow-up on highly satisfactory (ambassador customers) selected customers Maximum 5% unsatisfied Change in processes and 6.0 % A decline of just under 1pp customers organisational structure which is satisfactory Improvement of our This is the third year in a row website showing a decline Improvement of the ”customer internet file” Increase in personal 78.7 % 3pp increase from 2012 customer satisfaction in This is the third year in a row the EPSI survey showing an increase in this survey 22 Tilbage til oversigt Photo: Claus Boesen/Mediapress Topdanmark receives around 2.3m telephone calls and treats around 300,000 claims annually. The contact with customers is the main focus of Topdanmark’s daily work. Results for 2011 2013 (as a percentage) – all business sectors 2011 2012 2013 Ambassador customers 37.0 39.0 43.3 Unsatisfied customers 7.7 6.8 6.0 EPSI survey 73.7 75.7 78.7  23 2013 — CSR REPORT Dialogue with customers makes all the difference During the last ten years Topdanmark has we are able to give consumers more detailed improved the dialogue with customers on our information on each product providing a better service. Around 60,000 customer interviews basis for them to make their decisions in the are made annually, when the customers purchase process. The new presentations are requested to assess the service they and forms make it easier for consumers to have received. We are also in dialogue with understand what types of damage will be customers on Facebook and Trustpilot. covered by the individual polices. Customers’ input is used to improve processes and employee performance. The new product presentations will be ready in 2014. In 2013 we specifically worked to improve our customer service in claims situations Information and accessibility on digital and other points of contact. The training of platforms employees with new tasks ensured that all An increasing number of customers request customer-oriented employees feel competent digital communication. Therefore, Topdanmark to receive customers. constantly works to continue to develop digital solutions to, e.g., improve our websites. We More easily understandable have introduced a mobile version of http:// information provides a better basis for www2.topdanmark.dk/ enabling customers information to use their mobile phones to, e.g., easily and In 2013 Topdanmark initiated a restructuring intuitively notify of claims. of the product presentations which are available on the websites. This means that 24 Tilbage til oversigt In 2013 we implemented significant comprehend prices of insurance products. It improvements of the digital customer files ”My can also be difficult to compare prices as the Topdanmark” and ”My Danske Forsikring”. Now, products of the various companies may vary for example, customers are given a better view in cover and price, particularly for personal of their total engagement with Topdanmark, customers. e.g., if they have both personal and SME policies. It has also been possible to see details Topdanmark focuses keenly on showing the of selected insurance products, notify claims price and contents of the products as clearly as and get a current state of claims in process. possible, for example by continually improving product information, as referred to above. At About 50% of Topdanmark’s customers have the same time Topdanmark participates in the registered with e-Boks It is still possible for insurance and pension industry’s two digital those customers who do not want to use tools, which make it easy for consumers to the digital solutions to receive letters and compare prices: conditions by ordinary mail. }} Forsikringsguiden (the insurance guide) produced in cooperation with the Danish In 2013 we also launched loss prevention Consumer Council sites giving customers easy access to relevant }} Facts on pension information – read reference on page 16. Industry portals provide a view of We regularly deliver data to both systems in prices and conditions order to give consumers accurate and current It can be difficult to understand and knowledge of products and prices.  25 2013 — CSR REPORT Customer complaints are taken seriously Topdanmark handles around 300,000 claims Goal Activities i annually. As products and insurance conditions may seem complicated, it is inevitable that *Topdanmark’s share More resour we receive customer complaints about the of complaints in the customer co compensation or service they have received. Insurance Appeals Board department Typically, an insurance policy is bought must not exceed our long before it is used, and in certain cases market share for the type Assessment the compensation or the help given in a of product concerned statistics claims situation do not meet the customer’s expectations. Of course, our customers have the right to complain. This is a common consumer right which we support. We ensure our customers receive information about complaint recourse and an efficient complaints process. The number of complaints sent to Topdanmark’s customer complaints department and complaints passed on to the Insurance Appeals Board represent under one per thousand of the total number of claims notifications. To reduce the number of Assessment complaints submitted to and appeals Source of improvement in the Board – subject to the cases in orde communication and claims handling market share not having improve pro Topdanmark is aware that customer complaints increased communicati may reflect our inability to communicate the customer let terms and conditions on which our policies are based. Therefore we constantly work to improve our information material for customers in order to ensure control and transparency. Based on the complaints the working processes for claims handling are evaluated to ensure as few errors as possible. Read more about Topdanmark’s approach to complaints and our claims handling. * Topdanmark’s share of complaints in th WWW ** Assessment of 2012 has been included the report was closed 26 Tilbage til oversigt n 2013 Results for 2013 Assessment of 2013 Assessment of 2012** ces in the The result for the full It is expected that the The goal was met for all mplaints year 2013 was not goal for 2013 has been types of products except: available when this report met }} Accident insurance was closed where the share of of complaints complaints is slightly However, there is a trend higher than market towards fewer complaints share. However, there being submitted to the was an improvement Appeals Board – see table from 2011 on page 28 }} Individual pension schemes where the share of complaints is also slightly higher than market share of customer Unchanged market share, It is expected that the There was a significant board in general goal for 2013 has been decline from 2011 in r to met the share of complaints cesses and The result for the full in house, motor and on, e.g. year 2013 was not contents and travel ters available when this report insurance, while there was closed were more complaints in change of ownership However, there is a trend insurance towards fewer complaints being submitted to the For the other types of Appeals Board – see table products there were only on page 28 small deviations from 2011 e Insurance Appeals Board and its market share are available on www.ankeforsikring.dk in this report as it was not shown in the 2012 CSR report due to the lack of data for the year when  27 2013 — CSR REPORT Mediation as solution model With dialogue and understanding person, the mediator, conducts the process Topdanmark helps its customers with their ensuring that everybody is heard and works claims. If, after the decision of an appeals toward finding a solution. board case, we continue to disagree with a customer, we will, as an alternative to legal In the event of legal proceedings, proceedings, assess whether the case could Topdanmark will also generally participate in be solved by mediation. This was introduced legal mediation, where a judge by mediating in 2013. between the parties tries to find a solution to the case. Mediation can be used to solve conflicts if the parties involved are prepared to use dialogue and negotiations to find a solution which everybody could live with. An independent Statistics of decisions submitted to the Insurance Appeals Board 2011 2012 2013* Number of decisions 242 232 99 Board agreed with 183 (76 %) 187 (81 %) 85 (86 %) Topdanmark Board partially 59 45 14 agreed with Topdanmark * Figures for 2013 cover the period from 1 January 2013 up to and including 21 October 2013 The figures cover both Topdanmark Forsikring and Danske Forsikring, which is a brand under Topdanmark . The figures do not include decisions which the Appeals Board has not considered. Source: www.ankeforsikring.dk 28 Tilbage til oversigt Photo: Colourbox  29 2013 — CSR REPORT Company culture Topdanmark’s many competent employees the Executive Board and the employees are our most important resource for success This is ensured by, among other things, a as a responsible company. On the basis work committee with representatives from of strong management values, an open three employee organisations (see box) employee culture with room for diversity and and Topdanmark’s Executive Board. The a well-established management system it is committee is charged with treating and our goal that the employees: discussing work-related and organisational }} feel competent to do their jobs problems. }} feel motivated to do their best }} feel that cooperation with management is characterised by mutual confidence Global Compact. The activities support Principle 2: The right of physical and Topdanmark considers it important to mental health. have a good and close dialogue between Everyday job satisfaction is important It is important that Topdanmark’s employees feel good in their everyday life in order to In order to ensure job satisfaction in the have the energy to act responsibly and do workplace we also conduct a job satisfaction their very best. Therefore, Topdanmark survey among all employees every two has set up a ”Satisfaction Committee” with years. The results are evaluated by each representatives from HR and the three department. The most recent job satisfaction organisations which regularly assess which survey was conducted in February 2013 – in activities would be of benefit to employees’ tabel to the right. physical and mental satisfaction with their job. See activities in 2013 in tabel to the right. Health gives energy Since 2011 focus has concentrated on and leisure. We believe this contributes to health. The goal is to inspire employees preventing lifestyle illnesses and stress and to develop healthy habits which ensure at the same time it contributes to reducing they have a lot of energy for both work absence due to illness. 30 Tilbage til oversigt Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 Assessment of 2013 Various offers related See page 11 to cycling – read more under ”Focus on sustainable employee transport” on page 10 and 11 Discount on bicycle No data wear and other sportswear Jogging in Ballerup 25 participants DHL run Around 700 employees participated in Copenhagen., Odense, Århus and It is believed that all Ålborg the various offers and Inspiring to healthy life activities have been well style Mindfulness course in 200 participants in received Ballerup, Viby, Herning Ballerup and Ålborg 45 in Viby 23 in Herning 22 in Ålborg Trays removed No specific figures, from the canteen to but it is believed encourage employees that less food is to only eat what is eaten necessary Less waste of food Better fruit scheme at More fruit has Topdanmark’s head been eaten than office previously Fruit scheme all over the country Ensuring job satisfaction Job satisfaction Job satisfaction 75 The result is higher than in the workplace survey (+2) that of the labour market in general High job satisfaction, Follow-up on the Loyalty: 83 (+2) i.e. between 70 and 80 results of the survey points in Ennova’s job satisfaction survey  31 2013 — CSR REPORT Photo: Tommy Verting Around 700 employees participated in DHL in Copenhagen, Odense, Århus and Ålborg in 2013. Prevention for our employees through own products Topdanmark’s life insurance offers a In 2013 a pilot project on “telecare” wide range of products focusing on loss was implemented among Topdanmark’s prevention and health for all types of employees in the life and pension. The businesses. Among them, selected products employees have the opportunity to get are also available for Topdanmark’s own advice by phone from social or healthcare employees, for example: personnel in the event of their own or their }} Anonymous telephone advice on stress children’s illness. The pilot project will run management until October 2014. }} Health insurance }} Individual and pro-active treatment of illness and injuries read more on page 19. Three employee organisations represent the employees The three employee organisations are: agreements with Topdanmark and are }} The Association of Certified Insurance represented in the company’s ”Work Sales Representatives Committee”. In 2013 representatives of the Staff Association and the Association }} The Staff Association (member of of senior salaried employees were elected the Organisation of Danish Insurance to Topdanmark’s Board of Directors as Employees) members elected by employees. }} The Association of senior salaried employees Read more about Topdanmark as workplace, HR policies, skills development, employment The employee organisations make, conditions etc. (in Danish). WWW among other things, collective bargaining 32 Tilbage til oversigt Indicators of employee relations 2011 2012 2013 Full-time employees 2,337 2,388 2,476 Part-time employees 262 254 245 Total number of employees 2,599 2,642 2,721 Employees under a temporary 14 15 60 contract 1) Employees on collective 2,533 2,577 2,653 agreement terms The staff numbers do not include paid-by-the-hour employees, e.g., student assistants 1) The number covers employees who have a resignation date (excluding apprentices). The growth in 2013 was due to the employment of extra staff to handle the claims caused by the two storms in October and December 2013. Indicators of job satisfaction Unit 2011 2012 2013 Absence due to illness 1) % 3.1 3.0 2.9 Employee turnover 2) % 9.8 8.7 8.9 Cases of discrimination Antal 0 1 0 Employees working reduced hours Antal 14 14 11 Skills development of employees 3) Kr. 37 mio. 45 mio. 41.5 mio. 1) The figure means that on the average each employee was sick 2.9% of overall working hours in 2013. The figure covers all employees. 2) Definition: Employees who have left the company either voluntarily, have been dismissed, have retired or otherwise resigned. 3) The amount does not include payroll costs but solely payment of training activities. Photo: Claus Boesen/Mediapress Also in 2014 there will be a number of activities and offers for employees, e.g., an offer of a health check.  33 2013 — CSR REPORT Topdanmark wants diversity Topdanmark works to maintain and develop Women in management openness in our company culture to counter As an element of encouraging diversity in the any form of discrimination due to gender, company Topdanmark has focused on women race, colour, nationality, social and ethnic in management since 2011 This was due to origin, religion, beliefs, political opinion, only 10% women being in top management disability, age and sexual orientation. We (level 1 executives), which we wanted to believe that diversity provides business value change in order to improve diversity and and that it is important that all employees management development in general. We have equal access to executive positions at have therefore implemented various efforts. all levels. Global Compact. The activities The Board of Directors adopted a diversity support Principle 1 (The right of policy in 2013. Read the policy here. WWW non-discrimination) and Principle 6. Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 Assessment of 2013 At least one female 23 vacant executive The absence of women candidate for a job positions, of which 17 for the six interviews interview for an female candidates for was due to very few executive position an interview female applicants for at all three levels Mentor scheme for 2012 31 vacant some of these positions (see below) female employees. executive positions, or their professional Nine women have of which 24 female competences not being participated candidates for an as good as those of the interview male applicants Meeting held after See details in table on hours page 35 Both genders must On 31 Dec. 2013 the The goal was met in be represented by distribution was: 2013 at least 40% in 42% women and management (all 58% men levels) (2012: 41% women and 59% men) Of 23 executive vacancies advertised in The mentor scheme for female employees 2013, 11 were filled by women. The total will continue until mid-2014, when it will be percentage of women at all three levels decided whether Topdanmark will continue to increased from 41% to 42%, while the have activities to help the representation of percentage at level 1 increased from 10% to women in management. 15%. All things considered, it is a satisfactory development towards ensuring more women in Topdanmark’s management. 34 Tilbage til oversigt Read what Søren Pahl, Topdanmark’s HR Director, says about the mentor scheme for female employees. Read the report from 2012 about women in management at Topdanmark (in Danish). WWW Number of executives in Topdanmark by level and gender (excluding Executive Board) 2011 2012 2013 Men Women Percentage Men Women Percentage Men Women Percentage women women women Executives 18 2 10 18 2 10 17 3 15 level 1 Executives 34 22 39 36 27 43 34 25 42 level 2 Executives 89 66 43 88 71 45 92 77 46 level 3 Total 141 90 39 142 100 41 143 105 42 Level 1: reference to Executive Board Level 2: reference to level 1 executives Level 3: reference to level 2 executives Photo: Claus Boesen/Mediapress  35 2013 — CSR REPORT Relations and dialogue Topdanmark has many stakeholders, both We give priority to: internal and external, who play an important }} cooperation with suppliers and other role in our business. The dialogue with a alliance partners large number of alliance partners is one of }} cooperation with the Danish Insurance the factors which ensures the operation, Association, Forsikring & Pension strengthening and growth of our business. }} contributions to training in the insurance At the same time we wish to be in dialogue and pension industry with and contribute to the society we }} cooperation on training and environment are part of. As a large Danish company in the local area Topdanmark is in possession of knowledge }} humanitarian projects where employees and various competences, particularly can contribute and make a difference within the insurance and pension industry. We would be happy to make this knowledge and professional expertise available, where Read also about Topdanmark’s participation relevant, to solve social challenges, together in local cooperation on environment-friendly with other players where relevant. transport on 10. Suppliers and alliance partners Confidence and reliability is the core of As a Global Compact signatory we recooperation with all of Topdanmark’s supcommend all our alliance partners to comply pliers and alliance partners, who total several with the ten principles for human rights, thousands. When customers make a claim labour standards, the environment and antithey may freely choose the service mechanic. corruption. However, we do not accept mechanics who, as far as we know, do not comply with the We also work with relevant suppliers on loss relevant legislation or otherwise behave irprevention and loss limitation, which support responsibly or conflict with our CSR policy. several of the Global Compact principles – see paragrah on page 14. Topdanmark’s products are primarily sold by our own certified insurance sales representaGlobal Compact. The activity supports all tives or over the telephone. But we have also the principles. made distribution agreements with a number of alliance partners, of which Danske Bank and ”home” are our most significant distribution partners. 36 Tilbage til oversigt Results for Assessment Goal Activities in 2013 2013 of 2013 Integrating the Prepared CSR request to suppliers and See under Global Compact alliance partners ”Activities” principles in cooperation with Initiated process for risk assessment and our suppliers, collection of CSR-related information from where relevant relevant alliance partners Established a view of significant suppliers and alliance partners enabling us to make regular risk assessment In 2014 we will continue to work on integrating the Global Compact principles together with our suppliers, e.g., by including a CSR request in our basis for agreements. Insurance industry cooperation The core business of the insurance and focusing on prevention initiatives in respect pension industry is closely related to the of weather-related damage. Among other work done by the state and municipalities to projects the climate group works with the ensure the Danish welfare and security of one below. All Danish municipalities are society. In this context the Danish Insurance under an obligation to prepare a plan for Association, Forsikring & Pension, is an climate adaptation which includes a plan important player. Topdanmark gives priority for how to handle large floods caused by to being active in the insurance association, rainstorms. e.g., to contribute to solving social problems in areas where the insurance industry has This requires, for example, an investigation relevant knowledge and experience. and analysis of where in the municipalities rainstorms may potentially cause most Therefore, representatives of Topdanmark damage. For this purpose we have made participate in working groups on loss anonymised data on rainstorm damage prevention, loss limitation, contributions to available to 70 municipalities in Denmark. climate protection and rainstorm problems in the municipalities. This work often involves Topdanmark’s CEO new chairman cooperating with municipalities, public Topdanmark has a particularly strong institutions and other players. commitment to Forsikring & Pension as our CEO, Christian Sagild, was elected chairman Contribution to climate protection in of its Board of Directors in 2013. the municipalities Topdanmark is active in the climate group  37 2013 — CSR REPORT Training in the insurance industry As a large non-life and life insurance company of the industry. Therefore we have specific in Denmark and co-owner of the Danish activities focusing on the apprentices’ job Insurance Academy, the insurance industry’s satisfaction and personal development to own educational institution, we wish to ensure support them in their training. the continuous availability of a highly skilled and qualified workforce. Therefore, every year Experienced employees of Topdanmark we employ a number of finance apprentices and also teach courses at the Danish Insurance finance trainees who are also a source of new Academy, contributing to making the teaching knowledge and inspiration. meaningful and relevant for the students. It is important for us to ensure that all Global Compact. The activity supports apprentices successfully complete their Principle 1 (The right to education). education enabling them to meet the demands Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 Assessment of 2013 Contributing to Employment of Finance apprentices: 24 new The decline in FE and training in the apprentices and apprentices (2012: 24) FBT was not due to industry trainees a wish to reduce the Finance economists (FE) 4 intake of candidates but new apprentices (2012: 5) due to a decline in the Finance bachelors as number of candidates trainees (FBT) 9 new apprentices (2012: 14) Of the 18 finance apprentices who completed their training at Topdanmark in 2013, all 18 were permanently employed after completed training. Photo: Claus Boesen/Mediapress 38 Tilbage til oversigt Local cooperation on training and environment Mentor schemes for school pupils The mentor scheme will continue in 2014 with Topdanmark employees participate in three mentors. a mentor project run by the national association, Talentspejderne (Talent Read more about Talentspejderne WWW Spotters), together with a number of (in Danish). municipalities, the Municipality of Ballerup being one of them The employees act as Global Compact. The activity supports mentors for young pupils who need a helping Principle 1 (The right to education). hand to identify personal and professional competences and to find out what educational path to choose. The employees spend partly work time and partly spare time Read what Tom Thinggaard on this scheme. Pedersen, project manager at Talentspejderne, says: Assessment Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 of 2013 Contributing Participation in Conclusion of one mentor scheme to training in mentor scheme under started in 2012 the industry Talentspejderne Topdanmark employee appointed Start-up of three new as senior mentor who contributes mentor schemes, against to teaching new mentors in the only one in 2012 municipality of Ballerup  39 2013 — CSR REPORT Photo: Topdanmark Cooperation on environment and solar cells Topdanmark has one of the largest solar cell Teaching material on the solar cell systems in the North on the roof of its head system office in Ballerup. We have started working Furthermore, together with the same senior with the local senior high school, Borupgaard high school we have prepared teaching Gymnasium, which includes knowledge and material on our solar cell system to be production data of the solar cell system in used in senior high schools and other youth physical sciences teaching. education settings in the subjects of physical sciences, natural geography and social The work comprises several elements: studies. }} Presentation of solar cell system by Topdanmark representatives to 170 The teaching material can be downloaded for students free on our website (in Danish). WWW }} Guided tours for the students on Topdanmark’s solar cell system }} The students write ”prize essays” in which Read what Thomas they include data of Topdanmark’s system Jørgensen, headmaster }} Two winner essays are selected and of Borupgaard uploaded on Topdanmark’s website Gymnasium, says about the cooperation The cooperation will continue in 2014. Assessment of Goal Activities in 2013 Results for 2013 2013 Contributing to Working with local See under ”Activities” training in the local senior high school area 40 Tilbage til oversigt Humanitarian projects where employees make a difference Employees and Topdanmark contribute to Global Compact. The activities support Doctors without Borders Principle 1 (one of them being The right Since 1996 Topdanmark and its employees of physical and mental health). have supported Doctors without Borders. Employees pay voluntary contributions and Topdanmark pays a corresponding amount. In 2013 an arrangement was held with Doctors without Borders at the head office in Ballerup. Furthermore there was a special campaign to collect money for the victims of the typhoon in the Philippines. 2011 2012 2013 Number of registered employees 109 106 Total amount in DKK 166.200 166.520 165.520 Collection for the Philippines in 84.500 DKK Blood is donated during working hours Topdanmark’s employees donate blood to the as, for example, patients with cancer can go Danish Blood Bank three times a year. home to their families to celebrate Christmas if they receive blood just before the Christmas In December 2013 a record was set with 157 holidays. employees donating blood, which was much appreciated by the Blood Bank. In the run-up Read also about the employees’ efforts in the to Christmas there is a special need for blood mentor scheme on page 39. 2011 2012 2013 Number of registered 139 120 148 employees (in average per year)  41 2013 — CSR REPORT About the Report This is Topdanmark’s annual CSR Report. It Indicators is also our Completion of Progress report The indicators for working conditions for the UN Global Compact, and thereby in Topdanmark have been based on the it constitutes our statutory report on internationally recognised reporting system, Corporate Social Responsibility (see section Global Reporting Initiative. Data have 132 of Executive Order on Financial Reports primarily been collected from our central for Insurance Companies and Lateral Pension HR salary system and data dependability is Funds). considered to be high. It covers the financial year 2013. The report See table of indicators on page 33 and 35. applies to all subsidiaries of Topdanmark. It is Topdanmark’s fifth CSR Report. In the future Carbon emission accounts we will also prepare one annual CSR report Topdanmark prepares annual carbon for the financial year. emission accounts in accordance with the guidelines of the Climate Compass, an Objectives and target group application developed by the Danish Business The CSR report has been prepared to create Authority to calculate carbon emissions. transparency about our business and its We have chosen to include the following impact on climate and environment, people elements in the carbon emission accounts and finance. which we consider to be the principal sources of our carbon emissions. It is relevant to a wide group of stakeholders: existing and potential employees, customers, }} Heating consumption shareholders, alliance partners, suppliers and media, NGOs and civil society. }} Electricity consumption }} Driving in company cars The report is published on www.topdanmark. }} Use of own car for business purposes com – in both Danish and English. The consumption of heating and electricity Contents of the report has been restricted to the head office and The contents of the report have been based the office in Viby and does not include other on the following criteria: sales centres. This is due to two factors: we have no reliable data on the heating and }} Topdanmark’s CSR policy and strategy electricity consumption in our sales centres }} Regulatory requirements and this consumption represents only about }} Expectations from Global Compact 5% of the overall consumption. }} Relevance and interest for target groups }} Best practice in the industry 42 Tilbage til oversigt Social Data collection and data quality for carbon emissions accounts accounting The head office consumption of heating and electricity was collected from consumption Since 2011 Topdanmark has prepared reports made available by suppliers while the ”social accounts” which is a calculation Viby office consumption was read manually. of our tax payments. By operating Electricity produced by our solar cell system a profitable business Topdanmark is registered by our energy management contributes significant, annual amounts system. Data dependability is considered to to Danish national funds through direct be high for all data. corporation taxes and indirect taxes. In March 2014 we will again prepare social Data on driving in company cars (leased accounts for the year 2013, which will cars) are collected from the registration of be available on our website. fuel consumption (litres of petrol or diesel). WWW Data dependability is considered to be good. See our social accounts for 2012. Data on use of own car for business purposes are collected from HR’s registration of mileage allowance. The number of kilometres driven is calculated on the basis of the mileage allowances paid. Data dependability is considered to be low. See carbon emission accounts on page 8. Contact If you have any questions or comments on the report, please contact Pernille Fogh Christensen, who is responsible for CSR. If you want a dialogue with us on our CSR efforts, you are also welcome to contact us. Tel: +45 4474 4089 (direct) e-mail: pfi@topdanmark.dk CSR Manager Pernille Fogh Christensen Photo: Topdanmark  43
