Communications on Progress 2013 Contents 03 About Ooredoo Maldives 04 Message from CEO 05 Ooredoo – A Community company that cares and connects 07 Global Compact Principles 08 Human Rights Principles 10 Labour Principles 11 Environment Principles 12 Anti-corruption Principles Ooredoo Maldives became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in February 2013 and this report is the first Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period for this report is February 2013 till February 2014. About Ooredoo Maldives Ooredoo Maldives formerly known as Wataniya Telecom Maldives is a member of Ooredoo Group. Ooredoo Maldives launched its service in the Maldives on 1 August 2005. The company provides a wide range of leading-edge wireless voice and data services, delivered with high quality, designed to cater to the demands of today’s discerning customer. Ooredoo is guided by its vision of enriching people’s lives and its belief that it can stimulate human growth by leveraging communications to help people achieve their full potential. Ooredoo made history by launching the first ever and fastest ever 4G Network in the Maldives on 28 April 2013. 03 Message from CEO Welcome to Ooredoo’s first COP Report. I am pleased to confirm that Ooredoo Maldives reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Ooredoo became a signatory of United Nations Global Compact in February 28, 2013 and I am pleased to present the first Communications on Progress (COP) Report for Ooredoo Maldives. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Haroon Shahul Hameed Chief Executive Officer 04 Ooredoo A Community Company that Cares and Connects For many years at Ooredoo, we’ve worked We have been an active partner within the with community groups and charities across community, sharing ideas, experiences and Maldives, working to be a good corporate assistance with colleagues, customers, schools citizen and trying to focus on the issues that and charitable organisations. mean the most for the people of Maldives. Education Encouraging innovation, we were the first ICT industry in the country. to introduce mLearning, the innovative and We also support a wide range of school events interactive learning tool that provides education and educational projects in small communities anywhere; first in partnership with University of across the country. Colombo; Sri Lanka and now with Mandhu For Ooredoo employees, the Educational College in Maldives. We continue to invest in Assistance Program Scheme was introduced to the Maldives’ first Wataniya ICT Incubator, a enable our employees to develop their career joint project with the Communications Authority path with fully sponsored higher education of Maldives and National Centre for Information opportunities. Technology to further the development of the 05 Social Welfare One of initiative which is close to our hearts Ooredoo continues to support the National are our visits to local orphanage in Villimale’ Drug Abuse Helpline 1410 since its inception. accompanied by staffs with gifts and various The ‘1410’ helpline was initiated as part of the donations.We have also supported the Old Age UNODC – supported project ‘Strengthening Home in K.Guraidhoo with communications the national response to prevent drug abuse in solutions that helped residents connect with the Maldives’ which was implemented by the their loved ones. Government of Maldives. Environmental Issues In helping to protect our planet, we were the to cut down on paper waste, and we join first company in Maldives to introduce the major companies around the world every year modern Single Radio Access Network (RAN) to celebrate Environment Day and Earth Hour, equipment which helps save 54% in electricity turning off our lights and non-essential systems consumption and 80% in carbon footprint. at our headquarters and all outlets. We also have e-billing service which lets us Sports We actively support a wide range of competitive futsal in the most anticipated sporting activities, including launching corporate futsal challenge. We also support ‘Wataniya Masrace’ night fishing reality the T-Rex Basketball Club and their youth TV show held every Ramadan since 2009 development programmes under the T-Rex which revolutionized night fishing into a Sports Academy which encourages young competitive sport across the country. As the girls and boys to develop their sporting skills. exclusive sponsor for the Cup Maldives Futsal Various programmes and sporting events have Tournament for the past three years, we have also been held in the islands. encouraged young men and women to play 06 Global Compact Principles Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 07 United Nations Global Compact – Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Principle 2 Business should support and respect the Business should ensure that they are not protection of internationally proclaimed complicit in human rights abuses. human rights. Maldives being a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we support and acknowledge the principles of United Nations Global Compact and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Health & Safety At Ooredoo we’re committed to our that are likely to result health and safety employee’s health and safety and expect concerns. The Company issues personal all employees to take appropriate protective equipment and have safety work actions and promptly report incidents instructions for all hazards activities. Annual First AID Trainings and Maritime Trainings were conducted to relevant staffs. No accidents at work were reported during the reporting period. 08 Fair Treatment & Workplace without Harassment Our policies and procedures are designed to of any form in the work environment and ensure that everyone is treated fairly and in does not accept retaliation or retribution consistent manner, in the context of assigning against any employee who has lodged such work, remuneration, career development or a complaint. other employment related matters. The Company policy prohibits harassment No cases were reported regarding any form of workplace harassment and unfair treatment during the reporting period. Medical Insurance & Retirement Benefits Ooredoo provides its permanent employees The insurance scheme has been in place and their immediate family with medical care. since 2005.Ooredoo has also established Employees are enrolled in the company’s the national pension scheme since 2009 and medical insurance scheme on completion of contributes 7% to the employee pension fund probation period. as required by law. All staffs are given medical insurance and registered with retirement benefit fund. 09 United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of The effective abolition of child labour. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect Principle 4 of employment and occupation. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Equal Opportunity to all Applicants and employees shall have equal Maldives is a signatory to the United opportunities in employment, training, or Declaration of Human Rights, and Ooredoo promotion irrespective of their race, colour, complies with all local laws and regulations marital status, parental status, ancestry, and respect the culture, values and human source of income, religion, gender, age, rights throughout our operations. national origin or handicap. No reports were filed in regard to discrimination or Human Right abuse. 10 United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles Principle 7 Principle 9 Business should support a precautionary Business should encourage the development approach to environmental challenges. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We help to protect our planet by implementing the activities in our business. Saving Energy with Environmentally Friendly technology We were the first company in Maldives to introduce Single RAN which helps us to save 54% in electricity consumption and 80% in carbon footprint. During the year 2013, 43% of our sites have been modernized with Single RAN equipment which has led to a reduction in electricity expenditure by more than 86%. Cut-down on paper waste We provide e-bill service to all our customers which let us to cut down on paper waste without any additional charge; more than 64% of our customers use e-bill service. Reduce Energy consumption at work place All employees are encouraged to switch off lights, air conditions, computers and laptops at the end of the day. Employees are reminded to minimize paper printing and encouraged to reuse paper. 11 United Nations Global CompactAnti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have various policies’ in relate to corruption which includes. 1. Suppliers Employees must interact with suppliers or vendors with honesty and integrity. Decisions to purchase products and services shall be based on the company’s interest, taking into account factors such as quality, price, performance, suitability, and reliability. Employees who are required to engage in dealings with regard to purchasing of assets, items and equipment’s or obtaining services from suppliers, vendors and service providers should avoid conflict of interest or appearance of any conflict of interest. 2. Conflict of Interest Employees shall not practice any business or trade, which is in conflict with their duties, or with the Company’s interest or which may cause the employee to have direct or indirect interest in any contracts or works related to the Company’s activities or to which the Company is a party. The Company policy requires that employees avoid any situation that creates a conflict of interest between the employee’s own interest and that of the Company. Employees shall ensure that their activities during and after office hours do not conflict with their duties or with the company’s interest. The employee should inform the management in case any activity or situation creates a conflict of interest. It is the responsibility of the employee to declare their business interest that may or may not create any conflict of interest. Internal Audits were conducted in regard to anti-corruption and bribery with no cases reported during the reporting period. 12 Connect with us, OoredooMaldives T:929 | E: 929@ooredoo.mv | ooredoo.mv
