OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Executive Chairman’s CSR Statement 2 OP-Pohjola Group in Brief 3 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Megatrends, Risks and Opportunities in the Financial Sector 6 OP-Pohjola's Mission and Strategy 8 Materiality in OP-Pohjola Group's Corporate Social Responsibility 9 Management of Corporate Social Responsibility 11 OP-Pohjola Corporate Social Responsibility Programme 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Local Presence and Society 16 Stakeholder Responsibility 18 Responsible Products and Services 22 Ethical Business 26 Environmental Responsibility 28 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data GRI Perfomance Indicators 31 GRI Reporting Principles 43 GRI Content Index 46 Global Compact Reporting 56 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 “In the least, I expect transparent, open, understandable and comparable reporting on CSR.” (External stakeholder, materiality assessment) OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Executive Chairman’s CSR Statement Executive Chairman’s CSR Statement The foundation of OP-Pohjola Group’s operation is customer owner2013 was successful for us also in terms of CSR matters. Our ship. In accordance with our basic mission, we promote the sustainfinancial performance is good, and our market position became able prosperity, well-being and security of our owner-members, even better. At the same time, we were able to maintain our capital customers and operating regions through our local presence. Our adequacy at a good level, 17,3 Core Tier 1. We also made progress values, that is, people-first approach, responsibility and prospering in terms of the targets we had set ourselves in the corporate social together, guide our decision-making. We operate in the long term. responsibility programme. Our social responsibility has been entered as an integral part of OP-Pohjola Group breaths the same air as Finland, and as a OP-Pohjola Group’s strategy. It guides our business so that we take major national player, we have a large influence on Finnish life and the responsibility aspect into consideration in product and service wellbeing. This is a heavy responsibility and therefore our Group development and in how we go about financing, investment and must be strong and live up to its expectations. Since the beginning non-life insurance matters. We will invest in active, open and of the financial crisis, that is, during the last five years, the corpotransparent communication and stakeholder engagement. rate loan stock in the euro area has shrunk by 9 per cent. In the meantime, however, the Finnish corporate loan stock has gone up We are one of Finland’s biggest employers. Our principle is that by an impressive 19%. OP-Pohjola Group accounts for two thirds of responsibility as an employer can only be achieved in the long that increase. This is one clear indication of our will to contribute to run if we have our finances in balance. We have faith in Finnish Finland’s wellbeing. expertise. We consider it a matter of honour to pull our weight in financing public services. We are one of the biggest payers of In 2013, we invested a record amount, almost 150 million corporate income tax. euros, on product and service development. OP Mobile’s growth into becoming the primary point of access for private banking Responsibility is not just big words, it also requires action. In the customers is ongoing. Users value our mobile services very highly, context of corporate social responsibility (CSR), we aim to pioneer and the innovative Pivo service is a forerunner in smart wallets. in the financial sector in Finland. We were among the first to With Omasairaala hospital, we are leading the way in the developmake our corporate social responsibility report using the new G4 ment of health care processes. requirements of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) that were updated in 2013. Our work is made easier by the recent materiality analysis Our Helsinki premises, the Vallila 2015 office building project, is be felt all the way to the customers. The new situation requires which confirms that we have focused on the right issues in our CSR proceeding according to plans and has already been awarded its banks to have much bigger economic buffers. Even though the programme. OP-Pohjola Group’s CSR cornerstones consist of our first LEED certificate. We are also making a donation to the new operating environment is changing, we must ensure that we work role in Finnish society and in the creation of local wellbeing, ethical children’s hospital in Helsinki. It is a major project and an investcost-effectively while adjusting to future challenges in the financial business practices, responsible products and services as well as ment that will provide many jobs for years to come. sector. We intend to be fully operational in any eventuality in order responsibility for stakeholders and the environment. that we can do our part in keeping Finland’s financing and payment The instability of our operating environment goes on, and system and insurance market running and that we can ensure our We have adopted a Code of Business Ethics that applies to the economic growth is expected to be modest. At the same time, the customers the services they require. entire personnel. UN’s Global Compact initiative and the internafinancial sector is undergoing radical changes. Low interest rates tional agreements to which we are signatories require us to follow and slow growth, structural changes, taxation and tighter and Reijo Karhinen a set of common rules. tighter regulation have an effect on operations, and the effects can President and CEO 2 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 OP-Pohjola Group in Brief OP-Pohjola Group in Brief OP-Pohjola Group is Finland’s largest financial services group. It Group Member Banks OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative provides its customers with the best loyalty benefits and the most extensive and diversified range of banking, investment and insurA Group member cooperative bank is owned by its customers. It OP-Pohjola Central Cooperative is the central institution of ance services. The Group has three business segments: Banking, is an independent, local deposit bank engaged in retail banking the amalgamation of the cooperative banks. The cooperative’s Non-life Insurance, and Wealth Management. within its region. Its operations rest on a customer-oriented members are the amalgamation’s deposit banks and other credit approach. In terms of their corporate form, they are cooperatives institutions. By virtue of Laki talletuspankkien yhteenliittymästä The Group is made up of some 180 independent member coopwhere each owner-member has one, equal vote. Thanks to this, (Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks), the central institution erative banks and OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative which Group member banks cannot be purchased and decision-making has both the right to control its credit institutions and the obligathey own, including its subsidiaries and closely related companies. powers remain with the owner-members. tion to supervise their operations. Group’s operations are based on the cooperative principle – cooperation and sharing the fruits of success with everyone. OP-PohjoThe operation of Group member banks is based on profitability. OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative carries out control and la’s mission is to promote the sustainable prosperity, safety and The member banks offer high-quality and competitive banking supervision duties from its position at the head of the financial and wellbeing of its owner-members, customers and operating and insurance services to their customers. Rather than focusing insurance conglomerate formed by OP-Pohjola Group. It also acts regions. Our long-term customer-centred approach also enables on short-term profits, Group member banks aim at continuous as the Group’s strategic owner institution. continuous renewal. We develop our services and products to meet success together with its customers. Operating profit is used for our customers’ needs. the benefit of owner-members: for the development of products, OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative’s mission is to create the services and benefits. basis for OP-Pohjola Group’s unity and success. Its task is to supervise and steer the Group’s business in line with the jointly agreed strategy. OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative also analyses the operating environment and gathers information on changes in the industry. It is in charge of the Group’s corporate image, reputation and brands. 1.4 million owner-members some 180 Group member banks OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Pohjola OP Life Aurum Helsinki OP OP Mortgage OP Process OP Fund OP Card Assurance Investment OP-Services Ltd Management Bank plc Bank Plc Bank Services Ltd Company Plc Company Ltd Insurance Ltd Company Ltd OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 3 OP-Pohjola Group in Brief Pohjola Bank plc OP-Services Ltd Pohjola Bank plc is the most important subsidiary of OP-Pohjola OP-Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of OP-Pohjola Group Group Central Cooperative. Pohjola is a listed financial services Central Cooperative, provides the basis for OP-Pohjola Group’s group providing banking, non-life insurance and asset managesuccess by developing and producing all of the services needed ment services. For Finnish and global corporate customers, Pohjola by the Group. It is in close cooperation with other Group compaprovides comprehensive finance, investment, cash management nies and is in charge of development and production services and non-life insurance services. For private customers, Pohjola that support the Group’s business processes. The ultimate goal of provides non-life insurance and asset management services. OP-Services is to make the daily lives of the Group’s customers easier and guarantee that they have access to the best products Acting as OP-Pohjola Group’s central bank, Pohjola manages the and services in the financial sector. Group’s liquidity and international operations. Pohjola’s A-shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and the number of shareholders is approximately 32,000. Pohjola Insurance Ltd is a Pohjola Bank plc subsidiary. It engages in non-life insurance operations in Finland, offering comprehensive insurance cover for private, corporate and institutional customers. Pohjola’s non-life insurance operations comprise not only Pohjola Insurance but also A-Insurance, Eurooppalainen Insurance Company, and Seesam company operating in the Baltic countries. 4 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group • Megatrends, Risks and Opportunities in the Financial Sector • OP-Pohjola’s Mission and Strategy • Materiality in OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility • Management of Corporate Social Responsibility • OP-Pohjola Corporate Social Responsibility Programme OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 5 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an essential part of The demographic changes that are taking place, especially in OP-Pohjola Group’s operations and strategy. It is founded on coopthe Western world, arise from rising life expectancy and ageing erative ideals, our values, our financial solvency and our capable populations. Meanwhile, population growth is accelerating and risk management. Our CSR measures encompass economic, social urbanisation continues around the world. The financial sector’s and environmental responsibility. Our aim is to be a pioneer in CSR role in safeguarding welfare and providing services for the elderly within our sector in Finland. is becoming emphasised. Megatrends, Risks and Opportunities in Digitalisation is generating a diversity of information at an accelthe Financial Sector erating pace. Financial services must be available to customers independently of time and place. New e-services are increasThe financial sector is shaped by diverse megatrends, which are ingly important, and new technology is harnessed for improved drivers of change coming from outside the industry. Megatrends customer experiences. are broad currents recognisable as phenomena or series of phenomena, which have a recognisable direction based on past The rebalancing of the economy requires structural reforms. developments, and which can be expected to continue going in the Efforts to reduce indebtedness and improve fiscal adjustment are same direction. Megatrends usually spread widely and affect the slowing down economic growth in many Western countries. The society, the economy, politics, the environment and technology. financial and capital markets remain uncertain. At the same time, They influence the focal points of OP-Pohjola’s strategy and international regulation and supervision of the financial sector are CSR Programme, and therefore they are regularly re-evaluated. increasing, and the sector must adjust to the new atmosphere. OP-Pohjola updated its views on megatrends in 2013. The major Capital adequacy, funding structures and liquidity are being reinmegatrends in 2013 were globalisation, demographic changes, forced. Increasing attention is paid to consumer protection. digitisation, economic rebalancing, increased regulation and supervision, and an emphasis on sustainable development. All Sustainable development is related to the major global challenges these change trends are closely connected to CSR efforts. caused by scant natural resources, efficient use of them, and climate change. All operators are expected to act more transparGlobalisation brings societies, economies and operators closer ently and responsibly. Increasing attention is paid to reputation and closer to each other. The financial sector is expected to display risk, also in the financial sector. Meanwhile, the emphasis on increasing sensitivity in its reactions, adaptability and internasustainable development is creating opportunities for responsible tional service competence. The trend also emphasises the need financial products and services. for responsibility in OP-Pohjola’s supply chain and international investment decisions, among other functions. 6 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group OP-Pohjola’s value chain Product and service production Funding Investing assets and lending MEGATREND: Globalisation MEGATREND: Demographic changes € Skillful risk management Electronic services and (responsible evaluation, ensuring responsibility of partners Assessment of the capital adequacy) responsibility of investment objects Inclusive design of products and services OP-POHJOLA’S MISSION IS TO PROMOTE THE Product innovation, SUSTAINABLE PROSPERITY, SAFETY AND Sales and marketing of responsible WELLBEING OF THEIR OWNER-MEMBERS, products and services products CUSTOMERS AND OPERATING REGIONS. and services MEGATREND: Sustainable development Product responsibility, financial literacy and responsible marketing MEGATREND: Digitalisation MEGATREND: Use of products and services Economic stabilisation Functioning payment transfer and non-life insurance infrastructure (channels, accessibility, data security) OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 7 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Mission and Strategy of OP-Pohjola is a responsible employer that supports staff developOP-Pohjola Group ment and wellbeing. The Group bears its portion of responsibility for the functionality of the Finnish financing and payment transacOP-Pohjola’s mission is to promote the sustainable prosperity, tion system, and for the Finnish insurance market. OP-Pohjola safety and wellbeing of its owner-members, customers and focuses on the development of responsible products and services, operating regions. OP-Pohjola’s values are responsibility, a peopleand engages in ongoing efforts to improve responsible financing, first approach and prospering together. In line with these values, investment and non-life insurance practices. OP-Pohjola operates locally, regionally and nationally, as an ethically responsible company. Additionally, the company strives to conduct active, open and transparent communications and stakeholder relations, and According to our strategy, corporate social responsibility is an to promote its customers’ financial literacy. OP-Pohjola’s social essential part of OP-Pohjola Group’s operations. Our CSR is objective is to arrange responsible services in welfare, security and founded on cooperative ideals, our values, our financial solvency accommodation which generate sustainable financial performance and our capable risk management. CSR activities take economic, in Finland. social and environmental responsibility into consideration. Our aim is to be a pioneer in CSR within our sector in Finland. 8 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Materiality in CSR at OP-Pohjola survey: the role OP-Pohjola plays in the Finnish society; responThe respondents to the stakeholder survey supported OP-Pohjosible products and services; responsibility for stakeholders; and la’s philosophy of developing CSR as an indelible part of business OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report environmental responsibility. operations. According to stakeholders’ views, the significance of contains the material issues related to the major financial, social electronic banking and insurance services has grown as a part of and environmental impacts of the Group’s operations and those Based on the stakeholders’ responses, the most important aspects responsibility. Similarly, there is a greater emphasis than before on which may have significance on the decisions and choices of the of CSR at OP-Pohjola are the confidentiality and protection of the role of good corporate governance practice in the fulfilment of Group’s stakeholders. The purpose of CSR reporting is to increase customer data, development of staff competence, extensive CSR. the Group’s openness and transparency, and thereby to improve its e-services in banking and insurance, competent risk assessstakeholders’ opportunities for operational evaluation and deciment, fair remuneration and compensation policies and financial In setting the prioritisation of the various aspects of its CSR sion-making. The material aspects of CSR at OP-Pohjola Group solvency. Other aspects of CSR rated as material were good Programme, besides the stakeholder survey, OP-Pohjola took into are emphasised in the Group’s CSR Programme. corporate governance practice, recognition of responsibility in the account its strategy and CSR policies. Based on this materiality choice of partners and subcontractors, continued development of assessment, OP-Pohjola has chosen its most critical CSR aspects OP-Pohjola updated its CSR materiality assessment in 2013 to e-services in banking and insurance, and equal opportunities. and reports their data and key figures in accordance with the GRI correspond to the new GRI G4 Guidelines. The previous materiality G4 Guidelines. These aspects are listed in the GRI content index. assessment was from 2011 and it resulted in the Group defining Further matters that were rated as important were assessing the the most important spheres of influence and measures related to level of responsibility of all investments, actively fighting finanits CSR. The materiality assessment was also used to find out the cial crime and misdeeds, ensuring the operational reliability of stakeholders’ expectations regarding responsibility, and to analyse financial infrastructures, the carbon footprint of OP-Pohjola’s own the impacts on business of CSR actions. operations, responsible marketing, including CSR risks in risk management, and responsible product innovations that support The materiality assessment started with a revision of the main customers at various stages in their lives. The conclusions of our aspects of CSR at OP-Pohjola, and by identifying the changes own materiality assessment are supported by the survey Yritysten in the Group’s operating environment which have affected CSR. maine ja vastuullisuus 2013 (“Corporate Reputation and ResponParticular attention was paid to the aspects of CSR which are sibility 2013”) conducted by TNS Gallup (November 2013), where critical in terms of OP-Pohjola’s operations, products, services and the greater public cited products and services as the most critical corporate relations. Extensive impacts were identified throughout aspect of reputation and responsibility for OP-Pohjola, followed the value chain. A stakeholder survey was conducted in September by financial responsibility. Environmental responsibility was rated 2013 to assess the significance of the aspects which had been as less of a priority in the financial sector. All in all, the survey identified. The online survey was answered by representatives confirmed OP-Pohjola’s image as one of the leading financial of private and corporate customers, administration, personnel, sector operators in Finland within CSR. investors, subcontractors and other external stakeholders. There were 437 responses. CSR was subdivided into four aspects in the OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 9 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group OP-Pohjola’s materiality matrix 5 ■ OP-Pohjola Group’s role in Finnish society 1 ■ Responsible products and services 2 4 3 ■ Stakeholder responsibility 5 4 8 7 6 ■ Environmental Materiality, external stakeholders 10 9 13 12 11 responsibility 16 15 14 18 19 17 20 23 21 22 3 2 3 4 5 Materiality, internal stakeholders 1. Customer data confidentiality and privacy 11. Assessing responsibility of all investment vehicles 20. Promotion of equality protection 12. Active prevention of corporate/white-collar crime 21. Specific responsibility-oriented investment 2. Transparency and clarity of communications and misconduct products 3. Extensive online banking and insurance services 13. Reliability of financial infrastructure 22. Accident/loss prevention by Non-life Insurance 4. OP-Pohjola Group’s capital adequacy 14. OP-Pohjola’s carbon footprint/climate impact 23. Assessing environmental risks and impacts 5. Employee skill development 15. Responsible marketing in financing and insurance decisions 6. Competent risk management 16. Consideration of corporate social responsibility 7. Good corporate governance practice risks in risk management 8. Consideration of corporate social responsibility 17. Product innovations for customers’ various in selecting partners and suppliers stages of life 9. Fair remuneration policy 18. Profit sharing with customers and shareholders 10. Continuous improvement of electronic banking 19. Eco-friendly products and services and insurance services 10 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Management of Corporate together with personnel, following statutory procedures for Monitoring the Code of Business Ethics Social Responsibility employer-employee negotiations. The Group’s Code of Business Ethics applies to all of the personnel CSR at OP-Pohjola Group is based on cooperative ideals, financial The Annual Report of OP-Pohjola Group lists the main positions and management. If any examples of continuous or significant solvency and capable risk management. Strategic CSR manageof trust and Pohjola shareholdings of Executive Board members. violations of good business practice are observed, the Group ment is the responsibility of the Executive Board of OP-Pohjola Additionally, the shareholdings of persons included in the public Supervisory Board cautions the Board of the organisation in quesGroup Central Cooperative. The aim is that CSR management will insider register can be checked in public registers. tion. be a close-knit part of operational management. On the Group Central Cooperative Executive Board, CSR comes under the Chief Major new products, services and operating models or significant In accordance with the Group’s Code of Business Ethics, in intraCommunications Officer’s remit. Decisions on ethical matters are changes to existing ones are, when necessary, assessed by the group conflicts the Chief Audit Executive can be notified confidenmade by the Executive Board. Executive Board, which ultimately decides on whether they should tially of any violations. be adopted. The Group’s operational activities are guided by the OP-Pohjola CSR Programme. Operational responsibility for practical CSR The Executive Board is informed of significant realised risks as measures lies with the Boards of Directors and Executive Boards a part of monthly risk reviews. Risk maps, updated annually, are of the organisations belonging to the Group, in accordance with used to identify the critical risks affecting operations, including their own decision-making processes. Since the start of 2013, the environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) risks. These CSR Programme has come under the operations of the Corporate maps are used to conduct an analysis on the basis of which the Identity and Communication steering group. executive management are informed of critical phenomena. CSR management is evaluated as a part of business operations, OP-Pohjola Group’s corporate governance is based on Finnish and therefore the CSR KPIs are business indicators. As a conselegislation, the Finnish Corporate Governance Code and the quence of such an evaluation, some of the Group’s operating Group’s own corporate governance recommendations. CSR comes policies were updated in 2013, and the need for new policies was under these corporate governance principles. reviewed. Read more about our corporate governance principles at our In the Group’s cooperative banks, it is the duty of the Managing websites (op.fi and pohjola.fi). Director to have guidelines defined by the Central Cooperative – among them, those for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP-Pohjola In the case of possible disputes, customers are asked to contact the Group – approved by the bank’s Board of Directors. The Group’s FINE advisory committee of the financial industry, whose members organisations are recommended to process these guidelines comprehensively represent the industry’s stakeholders. OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 11 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group OP-Pohjola Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility Programme in 2013 Responsibility Programme Local presence and society Environment The OP-Pohjola Corporate Social Responsibility Programme was • Green Office activities continued in • OP-Pohjola is involved in a pro bono first formulated based on a materiality assessment conducted in youth programme of the President of the cooperative banks. 2011, when key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets were the Republic of Finland. • The carbon footprint and other • The cooperative banks take part in a environmental impacts of the set for the Group’s CSR Programme and cooperative activities. The wide variety of local projects, including demolition of the Vallila property are materiality assessment was updated in the autumn of 2013, and the Me & My City event, initiatives for being measured and tracked. The A youth employment, and events related building of the Vallila block was granted the results of the assessment were used to set measures for 2014 to financial literacy. a gold-level LEED rating. and to review the CSR KPIs and targets. The KPIs were revised in • OP-Pohjola donated one million euros • OP-Pohjola achieved 79 points in for the construction of a new children’s Responsibility the CDP survey. 2013, setting targets for 2014 and 2016. hospital. People-first • The cooperative banks continued filling approach in CSR workbooks as a tool for their efforts in CSR. Prospering together Ethical business • Training on good business practices Responsible products and was given within OP-Pohjola Group. services • OP-Pohjola updated its guidelines • OP-Pohjola incorporated CSR in its for handling conflicts of interest. product and service development Stakeholder responsibility • CSR was included as a more integral model. • OP-Pohjola carried out a CSR part of the cooperative banks’ • The Pohjola Asset Management materiality assessment. The previous annual planning. responsible investment policy was one had been done in 2011. • OP-Pohjola has monitored changes updated. • OP-Pohjola set a model for in the OECD Guidelines and the • A decision was made to improve occupational welfare. Equator Principles. the responsible financing and non• Representative Assembly elections life insurance operating models. were carried out simultaneously • Work began on the OPKK CSR in 62 cooperative banks. workbook. • Updating of procurement contracts is under way at OP-Pohjola. 12 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group Objectives KPIs of Corporate Social Responsibility Programme 2011 2012 2013 2014 2016 Local presence and society Capital Adequacy Ratio under the Act on the Supervi1.80 1.90 1.90 1.6 1.6 sion of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates Customer service performance reliability (%) 99.78 99.96 99.97 99.89 99.89 Funding local projects (EUR mill.) 3.3 3.1 2.6* Stakeholder responsibility Bonuses to owner-members (EUR mill.)¹ 163 173 182 ¹ Bonuses accumulated Pohjola Bank plc's dividend payout ratio (%)² 60 51 50** ≥ 50 ≥ 50 ² Dividend policy: dividend payout ratio at least 50%, provided that Core Tier 1 ratio remains at least 10%. The Executive Average retirement age³ 61.5 61.5 61.6 Board, which acts as the Board of Directors of OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative, Pohjola Bank plc’s parent instituJob satisfaction (scale 1–5) 3.9 3.9 3.9 tion, has proposed on 6 January 2014 to the Board of Directors Share of member banks with Representative Assem71 78 83*** of Pohjola Bank plc that Pohjola Group’s dividend payout ratio be decreased from 50% to 30% as of dividend distribution for bly of all member banks (%) the financial year 2014 until the CET1 ratio reaches the new target of 15%. Pohjola Bank plc’s Board of Directors will assess Responsible products and services the proposals before the Annual General Meeting of 20 March Private customers' eBills (1,000 pcs) 2,955 4,981 13,200 22,000 30,000 2014. ³ Does not include Seesam insurance companies Corporate customers' eBills (1,000 pcs) 5,519 7,388 9,200 25,000 32,000 4 Hospital opened in 2013. Omasairaala hospital: quicker treatment period (days) 4 43**** 5 6 A minor specification was added in 2013: the respondents were told that on a scale 0-1, 5=neutral. In addition, the score Ethical business for banking and insurance activities is reported separately. Recommended by private customers5 ***** 58.0 * In 2013, a decision was made to donate EUR 1 million to the Banking services 73 new Childrens’ hospital. The payment is spread over 20132017. Insurance services 54 ** Proposal of the Board of Directors. Recommended by corporate customers (Net Pro31 32 *** The first simultaneous election of Representative Assemmoter Score) 6 blies were held in 62 Group cooperative banks in the autumn of 2013. OP-Pohjola’s Supervisory Board has set the target of Banking services 38 90% for 2017. Insurance services 12 ****Average of the treatment and recovery period (= total disability period) for three so-called standard operations in Environment bodily injuries under statutory workers’ compensation insurance treated with the relevant standard operation. Carbon footprint of the Group's own operations (tons of 34,847 32,743 35,003 ****** -1% -5% from the ***** No comparable history information from 2011. CO2) previous year ****** Scope 1 and 2. The reported increase in the carbon Number of employees in Green Offices 2,550 2,815 2,493 3,000 5,000 footprint of OP-Pohjola’s own activities was largely due to a more extensive data compilation on member banks’ property. OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 13 Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola Group International Commitments OP-Pohjola has actively followed the development of guidelines for the financial sector as part of the OECD Guidelines for MultiBesides applicable laws and regulations, OP-Pohjola Group is national Enterprises. The OECD guidelines comprise voluntary committed to abiding by international agreements related to its CSR principles and standards, as well as instructions for applying operations. At the end of 2011, OP-Pohjola signed the Global legislation to international business operations. Compact, which binds the Group to ten United Nations principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and antiAs in previous years, in 2013 OP-Pohjola responded to the CDP corruption. The Global Compact principles have been integrated survey, which gathers information from large corporations on their into the Group’s new supplier contracts and online training for actions to combat climate change and reduce greenhouse gases. personnel in business ethics and CSR, observing the Global CDP is used to draw the attention of companies to their environCompact, was launched. mental responsibility. In 2013, OP-Pohjola’s score in the survey was 79/100, which was above the average. OP Fund Management Company and Pohjola Asset Management were among Finland’s first asset management companies to sign the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in 2009. Since then, they have developed responsible investment practices with even greater determination, and participated in wider development efforts in the sector. Both companies are also founding members of Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum (FINSIF). OP-Pohjola Group is also involved in the Corporate Social Responsibility working group of the Federation of Finnish Financial Services, in Finnish Business & Society (FiBS) and the Corporate Social Responsibility and Co-operative Affairs Working Group of the European Association of Co-operative Banks (EACB). OP Fund Management Company is a partner of the Finnish Association for Nature Conservation, and OP-Pohjola is a WWF partner. 14 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Corporate Social Responsibility Programme • Local Presence and Society • Stakeholder Responsibility • Responsible Products and Services • Ethical Business Operations • Environmental Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Corporate Social Responsibility Programme OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Local Presence and Society of 2016. OP-Pohjola Group is actively preparing for these regulacomprises five themes, with KPIs for each theme and targets for tory changes. each KPI. One of OP-Pohjola’s values is ‘prospering together’. In line with this, the Group takes active part in developing local and regional More details on the current and forecast capital adequacy of the Local Presence and Society focuses on the Group’s local and vitality. The objective is to build long-term trust in the Group’s local Group are given in OP-Pohjola Group financial statements, which regional operations, and on OP-Pohjola’s status in Finland’s finanrelations with diverse stakeholders. The Group boasts Finland’s can be found on the website op.fi. cial infrastructure. largest network of banking and insurance services. This means that customers have equal access to services, wherever they live. The Group’s basic lending principles remained unchanged in 2013. Stakeholder Responsibility encompasses measures and dialogue The weaker economic climate did not affect the number of nonrelated to diverse stakeholders, as well as other matters affecting OP-Pohjola Group operates from about 500 locations around the performing loans and credit losses, which remained low. employee and customer satisfaction. It also covers transparent and country and is therefore well placed to engage with local commuclear communications and marketing. nities. The Group also offers a wide range of electronic banking Finnish direct debits will come to an end at the end of January and insurance services. 2014, as part of the transfer to the Single Euro Payments Area Responsible Products and Services covers responsible investment, (SEPA). As a replacement for the service, OP-Pohjola has recomdevelopment of a responsible lending process, improvement of Responsibility for Finnish Infrastructure mended that its customers take into use efficient and environthe responsible non-life insurance model, and the responsibility mentally friendly e-invoices. A supplementary service offered by of banking and insurance services. The responsibilities here are The purpose of risk and capital adequacy management is to secure OP-Pohjola is a new direct payment, which allows for automation social, economic and environmental. the risk-bearing capacity of OP-Pohjola Group and its organisaof bill payments even for those who do not use online banking. tions, and to ensure that the Group’s ability to operate is not OP-Pohjola also accepts e-invoice and direct payment orders on Ethical Business comprises the Code of Business Ethics, as well as jeopardised over the long term. The Group’s capital adequacy is paper in order to assist with the fundraising practices of charities other guidelines and how they are observed in the Group. strong, measured both under the Act on Supervision of Financial and the banking practices of senior citizens. and Insurance Conglomerates (RAVA) and in accordance with the Environment deals with the environmental impacts of the Group’s Act on Financial Institutions. Development of Transaction Channels own operations. The recent financial crisis led to the capital adequacy regulations Responsibility at OP-Pohjola involves the development of transacfor banks in the European Union being tightened in an effort to tion channels so that they meet customers’ evolving needs. The improve the quality of their capital base, to increase capital buffers, Group continues actively to develop e-services that make everyday to reduce the cyclic nature of capital requirements, to decrease life easier for its customers. During 2013, the Group made avail“Decisions made by Finnish banks’ indebtedness and to set quantitative limits to liquidity able a secure online chat facility through which customers can risk. These changes will take effect in 2014–2019. The solvency discuss matters such as mortgages with a bank representative banks have a major impact on regulations of the insurance sector are changing, too. Changes in from home over the internet. Customers can book an appointment the possibilities available for the insurance sector’s Solvency II regulations aim to improve the on the internet to meet either at a bank branch, by telephone or companies to develop their quality of insurance companies’ capital base, improve their risk online, or contact the bank through the online chat system. operations.” management, increase the risk-based solvency requirements and harmonise insurance sector solvency requirements in Europe. Today, most of the daily business done with customers takes (Corporate customer, materiality assessment) EU-level regulations will be implemented in stages from the start place electronically. This is why OP-Pohjola expanded its selec16 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme tion of mobile services in 2013. Customers have widely adopted and other operators in the financial sector to prevent abuse related For its part, Seesam insurance company has for several years the use of new smartphone applications, and it continues to grow. to electronic services, and to speed up the handling of abuse cases. supported a traffic safety campaign in the Baltic region, within In late 2013, mobile services already accounted for one fifth of which those who drive during the Midsummer holiday pledge to e-services, and their rapid growth is expected to continue. At the The additional confirmation function adopted in 2011 for online stay sober and to look out for their friends. In 2013 more than end of the year, an English-language version of the mobile banking payments was developed further in 2013. This is a security solu2,000 people took part in the pledge. application was released. tion that offers customers enhanced security against any malware that may have infected their computers. In 2013 OP-Pohjola In 2013, OP-Pohjola and three other banks took part in an initiaThe Pivo mobile wallet was launched in the autumn of 2013 as improved its ability to detect misuse of the OP online service, and tive of the President of Finland with the aim of helping young the result of hundreds of customer interviews and surveys. Pivo is to report on these cases to the authorities and to customers. people manage their daily finances. The project has been running a smartphone app that helps users understand their finances and in the Helsinki, Riihimäki, Joensuu, Jyväskylä and Oulu regions. make use of diverse discounts in everyday shopping. It provides Local Projects Local youth workers have gathered together young people from easy but secure access to the user’s bank balance and a shorttheir own areas, who have been able to meet with bank repreterm financial forecast, simply with the entry of a pass code. In the National, local and regional projects and events involving various sentatives to discuss basic financial management matters. The future, Pivo will also make it possible to shop and pay by smartstakeholders form an integral part of OP-Pohjola Group’s CSR feedback from the young people has been good and the bank phone. Pivo has proven its worth to customers from the very start: Programme. The long-term objective for these is to fulfil the volunteers have been enthusiastic about participating in the valuit is used much more frequently than our other e-services – daily Group’s mission in collaboration with stakeholders. able work. by many users. OP-Pohjola Group has made a partnership agreement with a Financial Literacy The roll-out of the new facility and service model for Osuuspankki charity that is running the campaign to build a new children’s bank branches began in 2013 with two branches, Helsingin OP hospital in Helsinki. Along with this agreement, OP-Pohjola will OP-Pohjola has a focus on promoting financial literacy and knowlPankki in Tapiola and Tampereen Seudun OP in Hervanta. The contribute one million euros towards the construction of the edge of banking and insurance matters in Finland. The Group first experiences of the new premises have been very positive. The hospital. The amount of this contribution will be increased through has conducted surveys on Finns’ financial literacy during several objective of the new service model is to take the different kinds of various actions together with personnel, customers and other consecutive years, including 2013. The survey found that ordinary customer groups that visit the branch better into account. stakeholder groups, as well as the support charity until 2017. citizens feel that their own bank is the primary place to turn to when they have questions about their finances. For young people, Ensuring Data Protection The member banks organise local events and projects across the family and friends were also important in this respect. The groups country. Decisions on these activities are made locally. The largest found to be most active in following financial matters were senior OP-Pohjola pays particular attention to the operational reliability cooperative banks took part in the Me & My City event, which is citizens and the self-employed. of electronic banking and insurance services. The Group predica study module on work, society and entrepreneurship for sixthtively and actively evaluates and develops security solutions for graders. As in previous years, the cooperative banks also contribThe member banks hold local events for young and elderly citielectronic customer services, and systematically works to improve uted to projects seeking employment opportunities for young zens, as well as events related to various financial topics for private data security. people, and supported diverse local cultural events, clubs and and corporate customers. Start Days enterprise start-up events, societies. For example, 579 adolescents participated in the course for example, have been held around Finland for many years. During 2013 OP-Pohjola continued to enhance the security of Driver’s Licence for Working Life (Ajokortti työelämään) organised The events are arranged by the member banks in collaboration its services and the ability to react to potential cyber attacks. The together by the group’s member banks and the 4H youth unions. with Pohjola Insurance. Their target group are those considering Group also further increased its collaboration with the authorities starting up or buying a business. Cooperation with educational OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme institutions forms an important aspect of the work to maintain Stakeholder Responsibility There is too little talk about financial literacy. This cooperation takes the form of theses, the role of our individual student visits, work experience places and recruitment fairs. In Stakeholder engagement is deeply embedded into OP-Pohjola’s addition, the member banks have organised small-scale local cooperative business model. OP-Pohjola has identified its major products and services as a events related to teaching financial skills and financial literacy to stakeholder – those parties who have the greatest impact on the tool for implementing CSR. young people and senior citizens. Group’s operations and whose actions the Group in turn influOur service range is a tool for ences. OP-Pohjola conducts continuous, open dialogue with its our customers to implement The banks also held events with various financial themes, for stakeholders. private customers and companies. Pohjola Bank in collaboration their own sustainable with local cooperative banks held investor strategy events, which One of the main principles of stakeholder engagement is development. attracted nearly 10,000 customers from various parts of Finland to interact with stakeholders in order to identify aspects in (Personnel, materiality assessment) in 2013. Besides giving market reviews, these events focused on OP-­Pohjola’s CSR which require development. The CSR materiality interpreting economic development signals and explaining terms assessment involved a comprehensive set of representatives from related to the European debt crisis. the major stakeholder groups. The stakeholder’s expectations with regard to CSR were particularly related to customer data confiCustomer magazines play a significant role in promoting financial dentiality and protection. Other matters pointed out by the stakeliteracy. OP-Pohjola magazine is Finland’s third most read magaholders are presented in the section discussing the materiality zine (KMT, spring 2013) and its aim is to speak about banking assessment. and insurance matters in clear terms to its more than 1.4 million readers. OP-Pohjola publishes the Chydenius magazine, whose An important element of stakeholder engagement lies in various mission is to provoke social discussion and present the views of projects and events throughout Finland. In addition to major prominent opinion leaders. OP-Pohjola Group also has other nationwide projects, OP-Pohjola organises numerous local customer magazines for specific target groups. The Group aims projects and events. The Group actively conducts dialogues in and to use its own website and social media (such as Facebook and with the media. Twitter) to increase interaction with customers and as a tool in communicating on financial issues. The stakeholders recognised as being of major importance are listed in the following table. 18 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme OP-Pohjola’s Stakeholders Owner-Members and Shareholders HUMAN RESOURCES LOCAL AND REGIONAL NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS Every customer of a cooperative bank can become an ownerThe 2013 employee survey showed COMMUNITIES During 2013, OP-Pohjola met with various The local member banks organise a member of their own bank. At year-end 2013, there were 1.4 a good performance especially in job NGOs to discuss e.g. some of the investments variety of stakeholder events in their million owner-members. Owner-members can participate in the satisfaction, occupational welfare and of OP Fund Management Company and also local communities. bank’s administration and decision-making. Owner-members leadership. responded to a survey on so-called land The personnel considers the fulfilIn relation to the Vallila project, an seizure. have excellent opportunities to have their say through the service ment of equal opportunities to be event was held for local residents’ asnetwork, a feedback system and the member banks’ administraparticularly important, and this is sociations in January, before demolitions. In accordance with the principles of cooperative business, tion began. OP-Pohjola meets with all the unions of salathe cooperative banks distribute OP bonuses to their ownermonitored separately. ried employees twice a year. members, in proportion to their rate of involvement in the bank’s operations. Bonus customers receive benefits, such as discounts INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS MEDIA SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES on the daily financial services package and insurance premiums. OP-Pohjola is a member of working According to the PR Barometer 2013, The member banks give regular presentaDuring 2013 a total of EUR 182 million (2012: EUR 173 million) groups of the EACB and the Federawhich surveys journalists, OP-Pohjola tions on financial matters to local children and was paid out in bonuses. tion of Finnish Financial Services (FK), is among the top five Finnish compaadolescents. and takes part in the operations of nies with regard to handling of media Co-operation has been made with universiOP-Pohjola Group member banks own a significant portion of FIBS and FINSIF. OP-Pohjola comrelations and image. The journalists ties around Finland for example in the form the listed Group company Pohjola Bank plc, and, like other sharemented on the European Union’s had particular praise for the comof lectures or visits, joint research projects, holders, they receive a dividend from the bank’s profits. ConseNon-Financial Reporting directive ments given by OP-Pohjola’s experts internships and final theses. proposal as part of the CSR activities quently, the banks’ owner-members also benefit from Pohjola and for their general attitude towards of FK and EACB. the media. One of the improveBank’s profit sharing. In 2013, dividends paid by Pohjola Bank to In addition, OP-Pohjola participates ments called for by the respondents its shareholders amounted to EUR 145 million. in the work of IIF (The Institute of was more active contacts and better International Finance) and its various information provided online. Representative Assembly working groups. In cooperative banks, the highest decision-making body is the AUTHORITIES AND CUSTOMERS, OWNER-MEMBERS REPRESENTATIVE ASSEMBLY Representative Assembly or, in the absence of such an assembly, DECIONS-MAKERS AND INVESTORS AND ADMINISTRATION the Cooperative Meeting. In OP-Pohjola, the aim is for at least OP-Pohjola carries out close dialogue The Group continuously collects its Simultaneous Representative Assembly electhe largest member banks to have a Representative Assembly. An with the authorities, and looks after customers’ views through a feedtions were carried out at 62 member banks. assembly is a more democratic alternative, particularly if a bank its stakeholders’ interests. back system, and owner-members Dialogue with the administrative bodies is has thousands or even tens of thousands of owner-members. are invited to take part in the banks’ conducted via an administrative newsletadministrations. Customers have the ter. The training selection for administrative Autumn 2013 saw the first simultaneous Representative Assembly opportunity to take part in product personnel will be updated during 2014 upon elections in 62 member banks, resulting in the election of almost and service development through a their own request. 2,000 representative members. There were more than 5,000 customer community. candidates for the posts, i.e. over 2.5 times as many candidates OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme as there were positions. There were more than 900,000 ownersees to the proper organisation of the bank’s management and advancement and competence development opportunities for members with a right to vote, meaning around two thirds of all the operations. To achieve continued success, the Board of Directors personnel within the Group. owner-members. An online election engine was in place to assist also ensures that the bank’s business operations are systematic, in finding the right candidate, and votes could be cast online or by efficient and profitable, adaptable to changes in the operating An extensive project to develop occupational well-being began at mail. The internet was a popular choice, with 22% voting via the OP environment and well-managed in terms of risks. OP-Pohjola in autumn 2012. As part of this project, most of the online service. The voters also contributed to fundraising efforts Group’s companies and organisations insured its personnel under for the new children’s hospital: because the voter turnout in the Members of the banks’ Boards of Directors have the opportunity to extensive health insurance as of 1 January 2013. By late 2013, 62 banks averaged 34 per cent, OP-Pohjola donated an extra EUR participate in training involving an in-depth discussion of cooperaover 90 per cent of the Group’s personnel were insured. The insur20,000 to the hospital. tive banks’ operations and objectives. Members of the Boards of ance supports work ability and encourages all personnel to look Directors and Supervisory Boards are also able to take OP-Pohjoafter their well-being. The focus of occupational health care has Currently, already 82.5 per cent of owner-members belong to la’s online courses on cooperative and banking operations, as well shifted even further towards preventive action. In addition, superbanks that have a Representative Assembly. The target is to raise as other topics. An electronic newsletter is sent to the member visors are trained to identify risks related to work ability. this figure to 90 per cent by 2017. Among the duties of the Reprebanks’ administrative members. This is a quick way of communisentative Assembly is adoption of the bank’s financial statements cating about topical issues. OP-Pohjola has undergone a major reorganisation during 2012– and balance sheet, as well as election of the Supervisory Board, 2013, as a continuation of the restructuring of OP-Pohjola Group which in turn elects the Board of Directors. The Representative In 2013, and extensive development program was launched for Central Cooperative Consolidated, which began in 2010. Current Assembly is also a stepping stone to other administrative duties the members of administration at the group’s member banks. Its challenges in the operating environment and growing regulation in within the bank. Moreover, assembly members are provided with objective is to create a systematic programme for the development the financial sector require higher capital adequacy and profitability training in banking operations and financial matters. of expertise in various administrative positions. Thus, administrain future years. The Group’s aim has been to increase the effitive positions at OP-Pohjola become a unique vantage point, an ciency and centralisation of functions, and eliminate redundancy. Engagement of Administration opportunity to enhance one’s expertise and lay a career path into In conjunction with the restructuring, during 2013 around 500 various administrative positions within the Group. employees were moved through business transfers to the employ At OP-Pohjola, administration refers to the members of the of partners that provide services for OP-Pohjola Group. Seven of Supervisory Boards and Boards of Directors of the group’s Human Resources OP-Pohjola Group’s member banks conducted personnel negomember banks as well as the members of the Supervisory Board tiations during the year with the aim of streamlining operations of the Central Cooperative, while members of the representative OP-Pohjola aims to be the financial sector’s most attractive due to low interest rate level, increased regulation in the financial assembly are not deemed part of administration. The Supervisory employer, and one of the most desirable employers amongst sector and changes in customer behaviour. Board oversees the Board of Directors and managing director in major Finnish companies. The Group wants to turn staff compethe management of the cooperative bank and elects the Board of tence and continuous renewal throughout the career path into a OP-Pohjola monitors job satisfaction and occupational well-being Directors. It also approves the bank’s principles of capital adequacy success factor for itself. with an employee survey and a personnel pulse. On the basis of management. The Supervisory Board confirms the bylaws of the the survey results, operations are developed at work community, bank, which deal with matters of far-reaching and fundamental In accordance with the OP-Pohjola 2012 strategy, the focus of company and Group level. OP-Pohjola conducted a group-level importance, as well as deciding on the division of duties between development in 2013–2015 will be on developing management survey in September 2013. All in all, 7,599 people responded to the managing director and Board of Directors. The Supervisory skills, supervisory work, the governance of the cooperative banks, the survey (response rate 83%), comprising 4,035 people at the Board elects the Board of Directors and, upon a proposal by the and occupational well-being. Additional efforts will be made in Central Cooperative, and 3,355 at member banks and 228 at OPKK Board of Directors, the managing director. The Board of Direcperformance management, enhancing remuneration systems branches. The overall average score was 3.83 (on a scale of 1–5). tors is the central decision-making body in a cooperative bank. It and increasing internal mobility. This is to ensure diverse career 20 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme The overall result was at a solid level, despite the major reforms nising the business needs of their own areas and formulating and acquires extensive packages of services. In the autumn 2013, during the year. Especially good results were achieved in employee targets and actions plans accordingly. ICT Services outsourced 496 of its personnel and transferred its job satisfaction, occupational well-being and leadership. The application development and maintenance to Accenture and CGI. biggest positive changes compared to the previous year took place In OP-Pohjola Group, purchase contracts and orders must be This ICT services transformation plan is a continuation of the in the expediency of work facilities, gender equality and leadership based on group-level framework agreements made by the Group’s efficiency-enhancement programme launched within OP-Pohjola work. procurement functions wherever applicable. These agreements Group Central Cooperative Consolidated in autumn 2012 and require that suppliers comply with OP-Pohjola Group’s good busiit forms an important part of the efforts to improve the Group’s Particular weight is put on the fulfilment of equal opportunities, ness practices and with the Global Compact, as well as with all the future competitiveness. and this is also monitored separately in addition to the employee applicable laws and regulations. survey. An extensive equality survey is conducted at least every OP-Pohjola Group develops its supply chain audit methods as part three years, and implementation of the company-specific annual Insurance compensation partnerships have transferred to a of its overall governance procedures. Because CSR is integrated plans is monitored annually. centralised operating model in relation to moisture surveys, into daily operations, the fulfilment of environmental and social demolition work and post-loss damage prevention. The network responsibility policies and related risks are assessed within ordiThe main objective of the equality plan is to support the funcof building construction partners is being expanded nationnary business processes. In line with procurement guidelines, all tioning of a fair and equal workplace, and to promote structural wide, and only companies rated as Reliable Partners by Suomen new and updated contracts now include principles from the Global changes among diverse personnel groups to make the proportions Tilaajavastuu Oy are used for damage repairs. The Group’s car Compact as well as CSR principles recognised within OP-Pohjola of women and men as equal as possible. Equality planning also dealerships operate according to the standards and best pracGroup. allows for changes in personnel structure to be supported through tices of the sector, complying with environmental regulations. management training choices, for example, by ensuring there are Customers needing a replacement car are recommended to rent a The supplier management risk survey includes assessment of enough potential women on management and executive career low-emission vehicle. the supplier’s CSR risks, on the basis of which an action plan for tracks. reducing and managing said risks may be made. In 2013, there were around 22,000 suppliers providing products Supply Chain and services to OP-Pohjola Group, while the Group’s indirect total purchases totalled some EUR 570 million. Finnish suppliers OP-Pohjola’s centralised procurement function supports the accounted for around 99 % of this. OP-Pohjola’s procurement chain procurement of the Group’s various operators by offering expert is focused around Finland and Finnish services, in particular. This assistance on acquiring products, services and related rights. The keeps the CSR risk level low in procurement. supply chain also includes a network of partners offered by the non-life insurance provider to its customers. Apart from this, the As part of the reorganisation carried out in late 2012, the ICT Group’s functions look after their own fundraising and investmentProcurement function, previously belonging to the ICT Services, related acquisitions. was merged into the central procurement function and cooperation was increased with the partner administration of Pohjola The aim is to ensure that the acquired products, services and Insurance. The role of centralised procurement in relation to the rights are cost-effective, reliable and ethical, and that suppliers business functions was clarified, particularly in the Central Coopare managed professionally to the benefit of OP-Pohjola and its erative. With the reorganisation, the role of OP-Services is shifting customers. There are five category groups with the task of recogfrom a service provider to a service integrator, which outsources OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Responsible Products and Services customers digitised their insurance mailings (from around 12,000 and receipts. In future, Pivo will also allow for secure payments of in 2012). The number of paper appendices decreased by over 1.3 purchases by smartphone. OP-Pohjola invests heavily in the development of responsible million and the number of paper pages by 10 million compared products and services, through continuous improvement of its to the previous year thanks to digitisation and efforts to shorten Responsible Investment operating models in the areas of responsible investment, financing and reduce printed materials. The use of the online claims service and insurance. In product and service development, the aim is to doubled during 2013, which also significantly reduced paper mailResponsible investment is an integral part of normal investment ensure responsible operations throughout the value chain, from outs. Currently around half of insurance customers use the online activities for OP-Pohjola. The Group believes that paying attention to the perspective of both environmental and social responsibility. service for making claims. the sustainability of investment targets and encouraging companies During 2013, CSR criteria were incorporated into the product and to carry out increasingly sustainable operations will help in the fulfilservice development operating model. One objective of product The prior growth in the use of online bank statements and ment of long-term business and investment objectives. development is for products to be easy to use and understand. e-invoices continued. Most of OP-Pohjola Group’s customers have Products must be user-friendly and take account of the individual opted to receive online statements instead of paper statements. OP-Pohjola Group’s wealth management units – OP Fund needs of customers of all ages living in different areas. In 2013, a good 300,000 fewer paper statements were sent out Management Company and Pohjola Asset Management – have to customers than in 2012, and by the end of the year only 33 signed the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment In 2013 OP-Pohjola adopted new ways of listening to its per cent of online banking customers received statements on (UNPRI) and work to develop responsible investment accordingly. customers’ views and engaging them in the development of paper. During the year, customers received around 13.2 million At Pohjola Asset Management, responsible investment comprises services and products through the electronic customer community e-invoices in the OP online service (2012: approx. 13 million), positive and negative screening, tracking of international standPaja. Services are extensively tested on various customer groups and by the end of 2013, 61 per cent of active online banking ards, and active ownership together with OP Fund Management. at different stages of development. customers received their bills in the form of e-invoices. Electronic invoicing increases billing efficiency and saves time for companies. OP Fund Management has outsourced the portfolio management One particular area of development is the provision of compreFor this reason, e-invoicing is offered as a fixed part of the basic of the investment funds it manages, with Pohjola Asset Managehensive services electronically. E-services increase efficiency for payment transaction service. During 2013, the Group’s corporate ment taking care of most of them. At OP Fund Management, both the customer and OP-Pohjola and may reduce environmental customers sent a total of around 9.2 million e-invoices. responsible investment means taking CSR matters into account impact. They are also equally accessible to customers in the whole in the choice of portfolio manager and implementing active and country. OP-Pohjola recommends using the e-invoice service as a replaceresponsible ownership policies. ment for the Finnish direct debit system, which will be terminated Development of E-Services in January 2014. Throughout the year, customers were offered an easy way to transfer from direct debit to e-invoices. “OP-Pohjola should take CSR into OP-Pohjola actively promotes the electronic availability and account in its investment activities usability of its services because there are many benefits to be There was lively debate around mobile payments and mobile gained from e-services. The Group’s stakeholders consider management of daily financial matters in 2013. Mobile services and require that investees consider the development of e-services to be a crucial aspect of CSR at make it possible to serve customers as close as possible to the environmental and social values, and OP-Pohjola. customers. Pivo will bring together all the services needed by monitor actively that the investees live consumers at the time of purchase in one mobile app, including up to these ideals.” In 2013, active efforts were made to replace paper insurance polia bank balance display, a personal financial forecast, informacies with electronic ones, and during the year more than 200,000 tion on nearby shops and services, benefits, discount coupons (Customer, materiality assessment) 22 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Responsible investment process The procedures for responsible investment were revised in 2013. Consequently, processes were defined for monitoring investees’ violations of international standards, and for responding to such cases. The decision was made to exclude companies producing OP-Pohjola Group Engagement anti-personnel mines and cluster weapons from actively managed Pohjola Asset • Meetings with companies funds. Management • Dialogue with companies During 2013 Pohjola Asset Management again conducted its own Responsible • Investors’ joint projects ESG survey, gathering information among other things on board investment remuneration in Finnish listed companies. Additionally OP-Pohjola’s stockbrokerage and analysis unit, Pohjola Investment Banking, included ESG themes in its stock analysis for three years. Pohjola Investment Banking’s responsibility analysis currently covers all Information acquisition, including Reporting to UNPRI companies in the OMX Helsinki 25 Index, excluding Pohjola Bank. responsibility perspective During 2013 the stock analysis organised more than 100 investor • Meetings with companies meetings with Finnish listed companies, with extensive discussions on responsibility matters and related indicators. The same applied • Research to investor meetings with European listed companies arranged in collaboration with the European Securities Network (ESN). As usual, Pohjola Asset Management and OP Fund ManageMonitoring of international norms ment took part in the Carbon Disclosure Project and the Water • GES Investment Service Disclosure Project during 2013. The purpose of these projects is to encourage businesses all over the world to pay attention to the environmental impacts and reporting of their operations and to seek solutions to matters related to climate change and Investment decisions OP Fund Management Company water consumption. As in earlier years, Pohjola Asset Manage• Positions • Owner engagement ment and OP Fund Management took part in the operations of FINSIF in 2013. The purpose of this forum is to increase awareness of responsible investment in Finland. OP Fund Management and Pohjola Asset Management are two of the forum’s founding members. Pohjola Property Management Ltd, as part of the Pohjola Wealth Management segment, is also committed to the principles of responsible investment and observes them in its real estate asset OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme management. In the maintenance of its directly owned properties others in the sector. Good agency practice focuses around taking appearance or worsening of financial difficulties, and for managing and in its new investments, the company places an emphasis on into account the overall interests of customers, whether they are situations of insolvency. Customers who fall into financial difficulenergy efficiency and waste management together with a technical selling or buying. ties are advised to contact their bank as soon as possible, because manager. During 2012 the company initiated a project for further early intervention usually means that there are more potential developing the recognition and utilisation of ESG factors in propOP-Pohjola Group operates within private financing with a farmeasures available for fixing the situation. erty asset management. ranging approach, striving to form sustainable customer relations. Credit is only given after thorough analysis of the customer’s OP-Pohjola Group has formulated guidelines for early detection Pohjola Property Management is a widely recognised international debt repayment ability. Loans are dimensioned according to the and fixing of customers’ credit problems. Temporary repayment operator in indirect property investments. The company’s experts customer’s payment ability in such a way that financial buffers issues are approached in an understanding manner, striving to actively use their influence in order to make ESG factors be noted are in place in case of interest rate rises and small surprises. assist the customer through difficult times by reorganising loans by the boards and investment committees of various target funds Topics discussed through concrete example calculations with the – for example by granting repayment-free periods or extending and companies. In new investments, the company does its best customer include the impact of an increase in interest rates on the loan period. However, if the financial difficulties appear to be to negotiate the inclusion of ESG factors in the target fund or loan servicing costs and the loan period. OP-Pohjola Group does permanent, the problem is not ignored and the customer’s difficulcompany’s investment activity from the initial agreement stage. its best to ensure consumer protection by avoiding excessive credit, ties are not worsened by providing inappropriate payment period The company also strives to agree on regular ESG reporting with also by applying the crediting recommendations of the Financial changes or additional loans. If the fulfilment of loan obligations the target funds and companies. As part of its indirect property Supervisory Authority. requires the sale of collateral property, customers are usually portfolio, Pohjola Property Management administers two funds of offered the opportunity to sell it voluntarily first. funds in the form of limited partnerships, which invest in Europe. OP-Pohjola’s extensive selection of products and services forms Quarterly reports are sent to fund investors on the fulfilment of a solid basis for comprehensive solutions that take into account Financing for Corporate Customers ESG requirements in the underlying property funds . This is done the credit applicant’s best financial interests and safety. Compreby agreement with the investors in the fund’s investment docuhensive financing options mean that customers can consolidate The finance industry bears significant indirect social responsimentation. Additionally, Pohjola Property Management reports all their loans to OP-Pohjola Group, which makes it easier for bility. In line with the Global Compact, OP-Pohjola is committed separately on the sustainability of its direct property investments. them to manage their finances. When negotiating new loans, to promoting respect for human rights and fundamental values customers are offered the most suitable financing option for them, at work, as well as environmental protection and anti-corruption Responsible Banking Services on clear and reasonable terms. When credit is given, customers activities. OP-Pohjola’s ethical principles and codes of financing are as a rule told of ways to protect themselves against unforeincorporate social and environmental responsibility, which act as Financing for Private Customers seen life circumstances and interest rate rises with specifically yardsticks in the making of financing decisions. designed products. Customers also have access to the services of OP-Pohjola Group’s good business practices and ethical lending the Group’s nationwide real estate agency OP-Kiinteistökeskus, Recognising and analysing the environmental impacts of financed principles govern activities also in the provision of financing to and this makes it exceptionally easy for those planning to change projects is also important from the perspective of risk manageprivate customers. Economic and social responsibility are emphahomes to ensure the overall financial success of the process in ment. The likelihood of environmental risks varies depending on sised in these activities. Regulations related to good lending advance. factors such as the project to be financed, the geographical locapractices and the recommendations of the Financial Supervisory tion of the business and the sector. It is crucial for the evaluation Authority are observed in lending and in related instructions. Young people in particular need help in financial literacy. The to recognise potential risks in major projects and risky sectors. At The OP-Kiinteistökeskus real estate brokerage chain, in turn, is Op.fi service contains plenty of information on applying for and OP-Pohjola, evaluating recognised environmental risks is a part committed to good agency practices and to developing these with managing loans. The website also has advice for preventing the of the ordinary creditworthiness analysis. Besides making its own 24 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme analysis, the company will when necessary require evaluations the customer’s risk management and safety and the prevention Companies are offered both statutory and voluntary insurances, from independent experts of the environmental risks or the more of damages. OP-Pohjola maps potential risks and security issues as well as related services for managing personnel accidents and extensive corporate social responsibility of a business or project. together with the customer, optimising insurance solutions indihealth risks. We support the well-being of corporate customers’ The recognised risks affect the credit decision and, where applividually for each customer. personnel by offering concrete tools for improving management, cable, loan terms. increasing job satisfaction and enhancing the company’s image as During 2013, Pohjola launched a risk management method for an employer, for example. A Responsible Financing working group was established at corporate customers, which helps companies improve their secuOP-Pohjola in 2012. On the group’s request, the loan terms rity processes comprehensively and in new ways. For example, the The Omasairaala day surgery centre opened in Helsinki in early applied in OP-Pohjola’s corporate financing were revised, and new risk management method allows for security observations to 2013. The centre focuses on the examination and treatment of suggested changes were implemented in some financing agreebe made on a mobile basis. Also in 2013, Pohjola presented one orthopaedic illnesses and injuries. Omasairaala has succeeded in ments in 2013. The changes emphasise the responsibility of the national and 18 regional Security Awards to corporate customers shortening the treatment chain, i.e. the total duration of incapacity debtor in cases such as compliance with environmental legislathat had developed security and risk management in a responto work, significantly ever since it started operating. Quick access to tion and permits applicable to the business or with specific terms sible manner within their companies. With the help of an external proper treatment and rehabilitation and swift recovery are imporset for the case in question. The changes improved the bank’s partner, in 2013 the Group’s insurance functions drew attention to tant not only for the patient but also for the employer and the ability to evaluate lending responsibility by increasing the debtor’s the maintenance of electrical installations and equipment in busisociety as a whole. information provision obligations (e.g. environmental reporting) nesses, on farms and among public bodies. The identification of and by linking these to the terms on which the loan is obtained critical safety deficiencies in churches of high cultural and historical Another objective is to identify risks in work ability and on this or cancelled. The Group is currently evaluating to what extent it value, followed by repairs carried out by a partner, has prevented basis to focus on reducing these risks and thereby increasing should implement the changes in all of its loan agreements. extensive damages. business productivity. Omasairaala aims to provide a peerless customer experience. This is measured with a net recommendaOP-Pohjola’s corporate financing is based on long-term customer In 2013, the Group launched the Kotiturvapalvelu (Safe Home tion index which can be followed in real time on the Omasairaala relationships, with a geographical emphasis on local areas. Service) for private customers. The service improves home safety website. Omasairaala strives to care for injuries as quickly as OP-Pohjola has considered joining the Equator Principles for by offering tools for the prevention or early detection of fires, possible after an accident. In October 2013 the centre opened an project financing, but has not done it so far due to the small break-ins and water leaks. In 2014, a similar service will be accident station which is open during evenings and weekends. number of projects that are covered by the principles. The Group launched for business customers and tools and methods will be is closely following the development of the Equator Principles, developed for customers to evaluate their own risks and to identify however, and will reconsider the matter when potential new tools for improving their safety. projects arise. OP-Pohjola is also focusing on new ways of ensuring the wellResponsible Insurance Services being of private customers and of the employees of corporate customers. In 2013 the Group launched a unique package of prodThe duty of an insurance company is to ensure that customers are ucts for private customers which foster health and well-being and sufficiently aware of their risks, and that possible damage does not promote recovery. We offer our customers even more extensive pose insurmountable financial difficulties to the party suffering treatment for the benefit of their health and well-being. We want the loss. A non-life insurance company covers risks which are too to protect our customers’ lives from birth to old age, so we are large for the customer to bear. It is also responsible for promoting giving up upper age limits for insurance policies almost entirely. OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Ethical Business Operations methods for ensuring that OP-Pohjola Group complies with legisrisks included in a new product under development, evaluating the lation, official regulations and instructions, and the principles of scope of potential risks and planning the controls and measures OP-Pohjola Group builds long-term customer relationships based ethical sustainability in all its operations. that are needed for managing these risks. Risk assessment must on mutual trust. Customer confidence is the prerequisite for always be carried out before deciding to take a new product into successful operations in the financial sector. Bolstered by strong Anyone who notices practices that violate these principles can use or, in large-scale projects, before product development begins. professional skills, the Group bears responsibility for the high discuss it with their line manager, with HR or with Compliance. quality, expertise and reliability of its services, as well as for the Confidential messages can also be sent on the matter to the Major new products, services and operating models or significant security of its services and products. Group’s Chief Audit Executive. Situations of actual or suspected changes to existing ones are, when necessary, assessed by the conflicts of interest should be reported to both line manager and Executive Board, which ultimately decides on whether they should Code of Business Ethics the Operational Risk and Compliance function or only to the latter, be adopted. The Executive Board is informed of significant realised in which case the matter is handled with anonymity for the person risks (including CSR risks) as a part of monthly risk reviews. Risk The principles of corporate social responsibility are summarised in making the report. maps are updated each year, identifying the main risks applicable OP-Pohjola in a Code of Business Ethics, approved by the Supervito operations. When necessary, this includes CSR risks. These sory Board of OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated. Risk Management maps are used to conduct an analysis on the basis of which the The code provides an ethical foundation for all those employed executive management are informed of critical phenomena. In by OP-Pohjola, whatever their role, position or location. These Risk-taking is an inherent part of banking and insurance opera2013 the Executive Board was informed of reputation-related risk shared principles rely heavily on the Group’s values, and form a tions. At OP-Pohjola Group, the purpose of risk management is to effects within the scope of CSR. significant part of CSR. As of early 2014, the code is published on identify the threats and opportunities affecting the Group’s operaOP-­Pohjola’s website op.fi. tions. The primary objective of risk management is to secure the Regulation of the financial sector sets strict requirements for risk-bearing capacity of all entities within the Group and to ensure business operations. As operational risks increase, it is extremely An online course on the Code of Business Ethics was launched that they are not exposed to excessive risk that may endanger the important to identify and assess these risks and to ensure suffitowards the end of 2012, with the aim of ensuring the adoption profitability, solvency or continuity of the entity’s operations, or cient, functional control and management measures are in place. of the code throughout the Group. The course was provided in those of the entire OP-Pohjola Group. In its operations, OP-Pohjola takes into account compliance risk seven languages to make sure that almost every single OP-Pohjola as a part of operational risk. The aim of compliance risk manageemployee was able to take it in his or her mother tongue. By the The effectiveness of the risk and solvency management efforts ment is to ensure that all operations comply with external regulaend of 2013, 80 per cent of Group employees had completed the of the Group and its organisations is evaluated in an annually tions and internal procedures, and that customer relationships are online course and committed to following the code. Continuous updated ICAAP report. Internal audits are conducted each year to appropriately handled. training is provided in order to enhance employees’ professional examine the state of internal controls and solvency. The ability of expertise, giving a wide range of training opportunities in various the top management to assess the effectiveness of risk manageAt OP-Pohjola Group, compliance with instructions and regulaareas of banking and insurance, including insider regulations, ment operations is continuously developed. tions is an integral part of daily operations, and its importance will ethics, data security and legislation. only increase in future. OP-Pohjola complies with industry regulaIn making decisions applying to new products, decision-makers tions, good banking, insurance and real estate agency practices, OP-Pohjola Group is committed to good banking and insurance must always have access to an assessment of the risks related to and good stock market practices. In addition, the Group adheres practices. This requires the application of customer due diligence the product, approved by the risk management function of the to several acts, as well as regulations and guidelines issued by and awareness of each customer’s financial standing to the necesCentral Cooperative. The risk assessment process is the responsupervisory authorities. Prevention of money laundering and sary extent. In 2012 the Group implemented a guide to Handling sibility of the business or service unit or organisation that has terrorist financing is a statutory obligation (Act on Preventing and Conflicts of Interest at OP-Pohjola Group. The instructions describe developed the product. Risk assessment refers to identifying the Clearing Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, 503/2008) 26 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme for all those operating in the financial sector in Finland. OP-Pohjola respondents grade their main bank and insurance company on “Linking CSR to Group sees to it that its employees are aware of the obligations set a scale of 1–5. The survey was responded to by 9,725 private corporate strategy, out under legislation, to the extent necessary for the performance customers in 2013. of their duties. risk management and Among corporate customers, measurements of recommendation operations should be In 2013 OP-Pohjola implemented a policy of requiring compliance willingness are taken annually using Net Promoter Score (NPS) the focus.” approval for investments into so-called tax-efficient regions, which surveys. NPS is based on a recommendation question graded on a may legally be used to avoid multiple taxation in international scale of 0–10. Responses to the survey were received from 1,353 (Investor, materiality assessment) investments. Particular attention is paid to responsible investment SMEs in 2013. principles, the Global Compact and the OECD guidelines when investing in offshore areas. Responsible Marketing The Operational Risk and Compliance function bears overall OP-Pohjola is committed to responsible marketing and advertising. responsibility for providing advice on ethical principles. The funcThe Group complies with marketing legislation and the self-regution operates independently of the business areas. Every employee lation guidelines of international organisations, including those of of OP-Pohjola Group must comply with the following instructions the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). OP-Pohjola also approved by the Group: Good Business Practices and Handling abides by the marketing guidelines of the Consumer Agency and Conflicts of Interest at OP-Pohjola Group. More details on these the Financial Supervisory Authority . In marketing, OP-Pohjola instructions and their approval can be found in the Annual Report. aims to provide all information on products and services that may The Operational Risk and Compliance function offers advice on the be of importance to customers when making decisions. Marketing application of the instructions. All requests for advice are handled directed at children and young people is highly restricted. confidentially, but they cannot be made anonymously. Statistics OP-Pohjola takes account of this group’s general inexperience and have not been compiled on the total number of requests coming in limited legal capacity. or on satisfaction with the services. Customer Satisfaction OP-Pohjola treats its customers according to good business practices, equally and professionally. Customer satisfaction is monitored through a customer satisfaction survey conducted on a regular basis. Feedback from customers is important and all feedback and complaints are taken seriously. OP-Pohjola continuously monitors how many customers would be prepared to recommend the Group as a service provider. For OP-Pohjola Group’s private customers, the recommendation rate is followed using a continuous tracking survey. In the survey, OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Environmental Responsibility Renovation of Offices and Work Methods The key in CSR for a financial supermarket is OP-Pohjola’s operations have direct and indirect environmental The Central Cooperative’s offices in Vallila, Helsinki, are being renoimpacts, and the Group is committed to taking account of these. vated between 2012 and 2015. After the changes, the personnel to decline to finance or It is important for OP-Pohjola to raise environmental awareness of the Central Cooperative will all work on the same block and insure projects that ruin among its customers, offering products and services that allow there will be no more travel between two workspaces as of 2015. the environment, even if the Group to mitigate the environmental effects of the entire value Within the project, OP-Pohjola is creating a workplace of the they produce significant chain. E-services and document digitisation play a central role in future, emphasising interpersonal interaction, technological possithis. bilities and attention to corporate social responsibility. financial gain. (Member of administration, OP-Pohjola systematically develops its environmental manageTo reduced the carbon footprint of its own operations, OP-Pohjola materiality assessment) ment practices and strives to promote solutions that cause less has taken into use the LEED environmental classification system harm to the environment, such as telecommuting and video granted by the U.S. Green Building Council as proof of the enviconferencing. OP-Pohjola’s largest offices have the Green Office ronmental efficiency of buildings. LEED certification was applied environmental system run by WWF Finland, which aims to reduce for two of the block’s buildings in 2013; applications for the other the environmental impacts of energy consumption, waste producfive buildings will be made in the next few years. The A building of tion and paper use in offices, and to promote environmental the block received gold-level LEED certification in October 2013, awareness among personnel. The objective is to extend the use of and Vääksy 2 in January 2014. Green Office within the whole Group. The central location of the block in Helsinki gives good opportuniThe Group’s Vallila offices have LEED certificates, in addition to ties in terms of public transport use. After the completion of the which the Omasairaala renovation project was carried out in Vallila 2015 project, there will also be even better opportunities for accordance with LEED requirements. For example, the energy commuting by bicycle, as the block will contain 900 bicycle parking consumption of all the major consumption points in the surgical spaces. centre (e.g. magnetic resonance imaging, ventilation machine and refrigeration machine) is measured separately. Lighting and material choices as well as the cleaning plan have also been made following LEED requirements. OP-Pohjola Group’s carbon footprint for 2013 was approx. 42,924 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (41,582 CO2t in 2012). Of the carbon footprint, approximately 74 (73) per cent was caused by electricity and heating in offices, 11.5 (10.5) per cent by transport and 7 (8) per cent by paper use. The error margin of the calculation is 11.5 (13.6) per cent. The Group’s objective is to reduce its carbon footprint each year. 28 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data GRI Corporate Responsibility Data • GRI Performance Indicators • GRI Reporting Principles • GRI Content Index • Global Compact Reporting OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 29 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data GRI Corporate Responsibility Data OP-Pohjola Group’s sustainability reporting has been implemented GRI Content Index The CSR aspects identified as material for OP-Pohjola are by integrating it with the Group’s annual reporting. The Corporate described in the materiality assessment and the GRI Content Social Responsibility Report has been prepared in compliance The GRI content index shows where, in OP-Pohjola Group’s annual Index. OP-Pohjola’s operations, products, services and business with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting report, the disclosures referred to in the GRI Guidelines can be relations involve many significant economic, social and environGuidelines. Besides new GRI-G4 Guidelines, consideration was found. Standard disclosures are mainly presented in the corpomental impacts. OP-Pohjola Group as a whole has major direct also taken of the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement. rate responsibility section. In addition, standard disclosures are and indirect economic impacts on both the Finnish society as a OP-Pohjola Group’s sustainability reporting also encompasses included in the following sections: OP-Pohjola Group in 2013, whole, and on local households. information required by the United Nations Global Compact, with Business Operations, and Structure and Governance. The GRI regard to the promotion of principles related to human rights, content index has been prepared in accordance with the guidelines The main environmental impacts caused by OP-Pohjola arise from labour, the environment and anti-corruption activities. provided by the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement. energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and the use of products and services. With responsible products and services, OP-Pohjola Group’s GRI reporting contains all information and OP-Pohjola can influence environmental impacts arising outside indicators, identified by a materiality assessment as being signifiof the scope of its own operations, which are often significantly cant to stakeholders and the Group’s business operations. larger than those caused directly by the Group. The environmental impacts of companies that supply the Group with goods and The GRI Content Index can be found at the end of the report. services may also be significant, and this is why environmental requirements set for suppliers play an important role in CSR Management Approaches management. At OP-Pohjola, corporate social responsibility management takes With regard to social responsibility, some of the major impacts are place as part of ordinary operational management. The purpose related to personnel and working conditions, because OP-Pohjola of OP-Pohjola Group’s CSR Programme is to direct and coordinate is a large employer. The Group’s human resource manageactions related to CSR and to collect results on the main areas of ment practices cover all the CSR aspects identified as material. CSR at the group level. OP-Pohjola’s own operations do not involve any direct human rights risks or impacts of significance. 30 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data GRI Performance Indicators 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 EC3 Coverage of defined benefit pension plan in excess of 71 -6 -4 G4-LA6 Percentage of sick days of regular working hours (only 3.5 3.6 3.6 obligations (EUR mill.)¹ in Finland) EC6 Percentage of local suppliers 97 98 99 G4-LA9 Percentage of training expenses of the payroll bill (only 2.5 2.5 2.0 in Finland) G4-10 Number of company employees 13,229 13,290 11,983 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor90* 87 88 Permanently employed 12,213 12,468 11,241 mance and career development reviews Employed for fixed term 1,016 822 742 G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees by gender G4-10 Number of employees Male 27 27 26 Full-time 12,149 12,176 11,047 Female 73 73 74 Part-time 1,080 1,114 936 G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees by age group G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered bycollective .. 92% 91% Under 30 years 17% 16% 15% bargaining agreements 30–39 years 21% 25% 27% G4-54 Difference between highest and median annual earn.. .. 22* ings (only in Finland) 40–49 years 25% 23% 21% G4-55 Change in highest and median annual earnings (only in .. .. 0.9%* over 49 years 37% 36% 37% Finland) G4-LA12 Breakdown of employees by employee category G4-LA1 New employee hires .. .. 1.445* Management 2% 4% 4% G4-LA1 Terminated work relationships 2.720* Supervisors 11% 10% 10% G4-LA1 Terminated permanent work relationships .. .. 1.643* Experts 27% 30% 28% G4-LA1 Turnover of permanent employees 6.4 6.1 9.8** Employees 60% 56% 58% G4-LA3 Return to work rate after parental leave (only in .. .. 97%* G4-LA12 Average age of staff 43.0 43.1 43.2 Finland) EN3 Energy consumption (GJ)² 162,229 205,900 179,483 G4-LA3 Retention rate after parental leave (only in Finland) .. .. 94%* EN15 and 16 Greenhouse gas emissions (tons) 46,369 41,519 42,924 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal .. .. 88%* joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety ¹ OP-Pohjola Group’s Financial Statement, Note 39, Provisions and other liabilities programs ² Contains: Electricity consumed by office premises in OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated’s use, and by data centres within the Haaga and Teollisuuskatu premises, and heating energy consumed by office premises in OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated’s use. * These indicators have not been reported before 2013, so no comparison data is available. ** Excluding business transfers OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 31 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Indirectly, such impacts may arise from the supply chain or from Impacts related to personnel and working conditions are led Responsible Products and Services the operations of investees and financed parties. The major social through strategic HR alignments an OP-Pohjola’s HR Policy. Some impacts are related to active fighting of financial crime and abuses, of the practical management tools are OP-Pohjola’s Principles of Responsible products and services are one of the focus areas of including corruption, and removal of anti-competitive behaviour. Good Management, the remuneration system and policy, a common OP-Pohjola Group’s corporate social responsibility, and responsiThe main CSR impact of OP-Pohjola’s products and services is equal opportunities framework plan, and the OP Academy. bility is therefore a critical aspect of product and service developrelated to the confidentiality of customer data and to data security. ment. Many financial services, such as insurance or financial or risk Product and service information and marketing practices may also OP-Pohjola is committed to responsible marketing and advertising. management tools, are responsible in their very nature. Additionally comprise significant social impacts. The Group complies with marketing legislation and the self-reguOP-Pohjola actively offers electronic products and services which lation guidelines of international organisations, including those of are beneficial in terms of efficiency and environment. Responsibility OP-Pohjola Group’s management approaches mostly cover actions the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). It also adheres to the is also an indivisible part of the Group’s investment operations. related to CSR management. One of the advantages of this intemarketing guidelines of the Finnish Consumer Agency. Continuous grated approach is that CSR issues are linked to existing managetraining is provided to enhance employees’ professional expertise, Product Portfolio ment processes. The management approaches of corporate social giving a wide range of training opportunities in various areas of responsibility in OP-Pohjola Group comprise the following elements: banking and insurance, including insider regulations, ethics, data Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by sector (FS6) security and legislation. The Group’s product portfolio is composed of various financial sector • OP-Pohjola’s CSR Policies products and services. The distribution of the product portfolio is • UN Global Compact principles GRI Aspects in the Financial Sector shown in detail in Note59 (Segment reporting) to the Consolidated • Code of Business Ethics Financial Statements. • OP-Pohjola’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme The GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement specifies and provides guidance on special issues related to the sustainability Monetary value of products and services designed The main management approaches are defined in OP-Pohjola’s reporting of banks and insurance companies, including a responto deliver a specific social benefit for each business corporate governance principles. OP-Pohjola’s operations are sible product and service portfolio and responsible investment and line broken down by purpose (FS7) guided by good banking and insurance practices. We comply with ownership. With regard to the product and service portfolio, responOP-Pohjola actively offers young first-time property buyers laws, standards and regulations and adhere to the principles of sibility refers to the reporting organisation’s activities and initiatives state-subsidised housing loans (ASP) with favourable terms and honest and fair operations everywhere. The Operational Risk and aimed at developing and marketing products and services that meet conditions. These ASP loans help young people in buying their Compliance function oversees risks and compliance related to CSR. responsibility criteria. first home and at the same time teach them about responsible financial management and target-oriented savings. In 2013, a total OP-Pohjola’s products and services may lead to economic, social Particular attention is paid to products and services that generate of 29,144 new ASP accounts were opened in Finland, of which and environmental impacts. At OP-Pohjola Group, corporate benefits related to social responsibility or environmental impacts, OP-Pohjola accounted for 46 per cent. financing is guided by ethical principles and guidelines for lending. and thereby reduce any negative economic, social or environmental OP Fund Management Company Ltd and Pohjola Asset Manageimpacts caused by the value chain. A further objective is to describe Pohjola Bank has in its use EUR 170 million in funding from the ment have signed the UN Principles for Responsible Investment. the share of such products and services in the existing product and Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB), which is mostly service portfolio, as well as how the organisation promotes new intended for social housing provision. In its own operations, OP-Pohjola develops the management of sustainable product innovations in the financial sector. significant CSR aspects by adopting Green Office systems and following LEED requirements. 32 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Total value of products designed to deliver a Responsible Investment specific environmental benefit (FS8) Pohjola Bank has a loan agreement with the Nordic Investment Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s Bank (NIB) whose purpose is to transmit funding to corporate and portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on NGO customers of Pohjola Bank for investments into specified environmental or social issue (FS10) and Voting policies (FS12) initiatives that increase energy efficiency and reduce negative enviActive ownership is an integral part of responsible investment. ronmental impacts. The credit facility totals EUR 30 million. OP Fund Management Company exercises the voting rights of the mutual funds it manages in accordance with the ownership policy In June 2013, the Group signed a deal with the European Investapproved by the company’s Board of Directors. The Group does ment Bank for a EUR 100 million loan programme, within whose its best to discuss grievances directly with the companies prior to scope funding may be granted on special terms to SMEs in relation AGMs, so that it will be possible to support the board’s proposal if to functions such as waste management, energy production, health it comes to voting. Pohjola Asset Management contributes to the care services or waterworks. practical implementation of OP Fund Management Company’s ownership policy by actively participating in general meetings of Auditing Finnish companies, in particular, under the authorisation of OP Fund Management Company. In 2013 OP Fund Management attended 46 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Annual General Meetings or Extraordinary General Meeting. Addiimplementation of environmental and social policies tionally, representatives of OP Fund Management were appointed to and risk assessment procedures (FS9) the nomination committees of 2 companies in 2013. OP-Pohjola Group develops its CSR audit methods as part of its overall management approaches. Because CSR is integrated into One of the most important ways for OP-Pohjola to obtain informadaily operations, the fulfilment of environmental and social respontion on and assess the responsibility of companies to invest in, are sibility policies and related risks are assessed within ordinary busimeetings with the companies’ executives. At year-end 2013, the ness processes. Compliance with CSR procedures is evaluated for OP-funds managed by Pohjola Asset Management contained shares instance when assessing credit risk, approving new products, busifrom 54 Finnish listed companies. Pohjola Asset Management ness models and systems, and monitoring business ethics. In line discussed issues related to environmental and social responsibility with our procurement guidelines, we require CSR compliance with with 19 per cent of these during the year. our contractual partners. CSR risks and compliance are assessed as a part of supplier risk assessment. Pohjola Asset Management and OP Fund Management also have different ways of influencing companies. If their investments include Pohjola Asset Management’s portfolio managers regularly meet companies with violations of international standards or other operwith the managements of Finnish, European and Russian investations which are not responsible or in line with the investor’s longment targets as part of their ordinary investment activities. Typically term interests, Pohjola Asset Management and OP Fund Managemeetings with Finnish investees take place at least once a year, and ment may encourage or pressure them to address the situation. European and Russian investees are also met with regularly. Meetings with parties from other markets are less frequent. At the meetings, regular discussions are conducted on the companies’ CSR. OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 33 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative infrastructures. At the end of 2013, the total value of these funds Pohjola Asset Management and OP Fund Management’s investenvironmental or social screening (FS11) was EUR 160.3 million or 3,3 per cent of OP Fund Management’s ments twice a year for any violations. This screening applies to all equity fund capital. direct equity and business loan investments managed by Pohjola Positive Screening Asset Management, which at the year-end 2013 totalled EUR OP Fund Management Company and Pohjola Asset Management Negative Screening 11.4 billion in value, i.e. 32 per cent of all the assets managed by encourage their investees and partners to operate responsibly and Pohjola Asset Management will not make active direct investPohjola Asset Management. in line with international standards. Primarily, the most attractive ments in companies that produce anti-personnel mines or cluster investment targets in any fund are issuers whose operations are weapons as banned by the Ottawa (1997) and Oslo (2012) TreaEconomic Responsibility irreproachable in relation to international ethical standards. ties. Companies that violate international standards may also be removed from the lists of potential investment targets if they do Economic responsibility encompasses both the economic sustainPositive screening is particularly visible in the OP-Climate and not change their operations despite attempts to influence them. ability of operations and taking account of the wider economic OP-Clean Water funds. The OP-Climate Fund portfolio includes impacts on society and the company’s stakeholders. In the financompanies that will be in a good position when societies and busiIn 2013, OP Fund Management Company and Pohjola Asset cial sector, economic responsibility is of key importance, since nesses adapt their energy solutions and use of materials towards Management initiated collaboration with the Swedish company responsibility for customers and the role of companies as capital lower-carbon alternatives. OP-Clean Water, in turn, invests in GES Investment Service for the purposes of negative screening. and insurance providers are emphasised during difficult economic companies operating sustainably in the water resource manageGES Investment Service produces continuous analyses of the times. ment field, especially within development of water-saving techfulfilment of international standards by investment targets, for use nology, pollution prevention and construction of reliable water by investors. Additionally, GES Investment Service checks all of In accordance with its mission, OP-Pohjola creates local, regional and national prosperity and stability. The Group contributes to regional vitality and builds long-term trust in local communities. OP-Climate and OP-Clean Water Fund’s share of the capital invested in all equity funds OP-Pohjola generates long-term financial prosperity for its stake%* holders. Direct economic effects on stakeholders are indicated in the following table: “Direct Economic Value generated and distributed to stakeholders”. 3.3 * OP-Clean Water Fund was launched Economic impacts in November 2012 Economic Impacts (G4-EC1, G4-EC8, G4-FS13) Economic impacts are created by direct cash flows, such as bonus 1.7 1.5 payments to customers, purchases from suppliers and service providers, employee compensation, tax payments to the state and municipalities, and support for community activities. OP-Pohjola Group’s goal is to offer its owner-members the financial sector’s best loyalty benefits. OP-Pohjola has Finland’s largest network of banking and non-life insurance services. This network seeks 2011 2012 2013 to ensure that customers have equal opportunities to carry out 34 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders for Nature Conservation, earmarking it for the rehabilitation of EUR mill. 2011 2012 2013 rivers in Ostrobothnia. This sum totalled EUR 6,000 in 2013. The estimated number of hours spent on pro bono work in OP-Pohjola Direct economic added value created Group in 2013 was 200. a) Income Customers 2 059 2 271 2 428 Breakdown of economic value added Economic impacts on stakeholders may also be indirect. Such b) Purchases Suppliers 547 575 639 indirect impacts are created through contributions to local and c) Personnel costs Personnel 696 749 753 regional economic vitality, as well social contributions. Examples of indirect economic impacts are: d) Returns to owner-members Owners 176 192 193 e) Income tax for the period* Government 107 149 133 • Employment (creation of new jobs, work placements, summer f) Donations and other community investNon-profit organisa3 3 3 jobs, apprenticeship training); ments tions • Procurement (purchases from local suppliers and service Business development 549 633 808 providers); * Income tax for the period includes income tax for the financial year. Income tax in the income statement also • Investments (properties, maintenance, local infrastructure and includes changes in deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised in future financial years. building projects); • Financing (financing for start-ups, local financing, ethical lending criteria by sector); transactions. The Group’s cooperative banks and their offices further develop its purchasing policy by, for example, applying • Tax payments (income tax, bank tax, local taxes, property taxes, across Finland enable effective interaction with customers and the ≈more detailed guidelines to the assessment of supplier and other taxes). local community. The Group’s member banks had 485 branches service provider responsibility. at the end of 2013, as well as some 1,570 Otto ATMs (shared Risks and opportunities due to climate change (G4-EC2) between Finland’s banks) around the country. OP-Pohjola Group is a major employer in many municipalities As a financial sector operator, OP-Pohjola and its products and and, consequently, a driver of the regions’ purchasing power. The services have a relatively minor impact on climate change. EnviThe number of branches fell by 35 during the year. Primarily the member banks are often some of the largest taxpayers in their ronmental risks, on the other hand, including climate risks, can Group closed down lesser-used branches which were located local municipalities, and OP-Pohjola Group as a whole is one of the have direct impacts on OP-Pohjola’s operations, as well as indirect either close to another branch or in a sparsely populated area. The major taxpayers in Finland. OP-Pohjola also paid EUR 46 million impacts through effects on customers and stakeholders. number of ATMs fell by around 20. Decisions to close down ATMs in bank levy and EUR 29.3 million in contribution to the Deposit are mostly based on usage statistics, but in order to guarantee the Guarantee Fund. Regulations aiming to combat climate change may raise the cost coverage of the network, no machines are closed down which are of energy consumption for both OP-Pohjola and for its manufaclocated over 20 kilometres away from the next ATM, regardless of OP-Pohjola Group directs economic benefits towards non-profit turing-related customers, for whom energy prices can be a crucial their usage. organisations through support, donations and sponsorship. element in terms of profitability and solvency. It also increases pressure on OP-Pohjola to make energy savings in its own operaOP-Pohjola Group is a significant purchaser of Finnish goods In 2013, OP-Pohjola decided to donate over EUR 1 million to the tions. and services. In 2013, Finnish suppliers of goods and services construction of a new children’s hospital. Also during the year, the accounted for 99 per cent of the value of purchases made by Group donated the subscription fees attributable to the charity the Group’s centralised procurement. OP-Pohjola Group aims to portions of the OP-Clean Water fund to the Finnish Association OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 35 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Physical site risks related to increasingly common extreme Coverage of the organisation’s defined around EUR 2,000 in grants from diverse educational institutions weather phenomena are particularly significant for the insurance benefit plan obligations (G4-EC3) for the purpose of customer service personnel training. sector, where increasing environmental risks form a part of the At OP-Pohjola Group, retirement benefits are determined by insurance choice and pricing models and the preventive consulting pension legislation and OP-Pohjola Group’s own pension plans. Environmental Responsibility related to site inspections. Extreme weather is also an operational Statutory pension cover for OP-Pohjola’s employees is arranged risk included in OP-Pohjola’s own continuity planning. through pension insurance taken out with OP Bank Group Pension Carbon Footprint, Greenhouse Emissions Intensity Fund or insurance companies. A few companies within OP-Pohjola and Reduction Measures (G4-EN6, EN15–19) Concerns related to climate change may pose reputation risks if Group have provided supplementary pension cover for their The operations of OP-Pohjola Group have both direct and indirect any conflicts with climate change prevention efforts should be employees through OP Bank Group Pension Fund or an insurance environmental impacts. The Group aims to reduce the environidentified in the operations of OP-Pohjola or even those of its partcompany. Further information is presented in OP-Pohjola’s Finanmental impacts of its operations with regard to energy, waste ners or customers. On the other hand, the general improvement in cial Statements, note 39 Provisions and other liabilities. and materials, and to systematically develop its environmental environmental awareness is bringing new business opportunities, management practices. Additionally, OP-Pohjola is an indirect for example in the form of investment products that emphasise Financial assistance received from the government (EC4) opinion leader in encouraging customers to take environmental environmental responsibility, and diverse property insurances Pohjola Insurance received approximately EUR 21,000 in de miniimpacts into account when making financing, insurance and that provide cover from the increasingly common phenomenon of mise subsidies from the Centre for Economic Development, Transinvestment decisions, and in recommending the use of e-services flooding, when the government’s flood compensation ceases as of port and the Environment for the purpose of labour recruitment and electronic documents. the beginning of 2014. training. OP-Pohjola’s telephone and web services also received Total greenhouse gas emissions Energy consumption tonne MWh ■ Heating: 46,369 ■ Scope 1 7 OP-Pohjola Group 41,582 42,924 ■ Scope 2 4,093 Central Coopera11,520 ■ Scope 3 1 8,383 7,921 333 5,236 tive Consolidated 4,829 buildings 32,817 32,007 ■ Electricity: 30,741 OP-Pohjola Group Central Coopera33,492 tive Consolidated 24,633 28,344 buildings ■ Electricity consumed by cen2,032 2,003 2,996 15,269 19,609 16,276 tralised server computer systems 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 ■ Fuels: OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated buildings 36 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data During 2013, the energy efficiency, waste management and consumption per person) was 38 GJ. The change in electricity indoor air conditions of the Vääksyntie 2 property in the Vallila consumption was largely attributable to the Vallila 2015 property block were improved in order to fulfil the requirements of LEED development project, in which old premises in the Vallila block have certification. An energy inspection was carried out on the property, been renovated or demolished to create new, more efficient buildwhich identified actions such as optimisation of HVAC equipment ings. and modernisation of lighting systems which would cause a saving of 508 GJ in energy consumption or around EUR 17,000 in costs OP-Pohjola pays attention to the indirect emissions from its and approx. 109 CO2 tn in emissions. During the year, 184 GJ of operations, based on electricity and heating purchased for the these savings were already implemented (46 CO2 tn). offices and data centres used by its large Helsinki properties and the member banks. New parts of the Vallila block were connected to the district cooling network, which reduced annual air conditioning needs by The large Helsinki properties are connected to the district heating around 11,681 GJ compared to the previous year’s consumption. network so their fuel management and energy production are the According to the emission factor of the electricity used in the Vallila responsibility of the power companies. Indirect energy consumpblock in 2013, these savings are equivalent to 555 tn CO2. tion in these properties totalled 546,097 GJ. Testing of a back-up generator for the Lapinmäentie property used around 1,200 litres The use of video conferencing equipment spread quickly at of fuel. OP-Pohjola in 2013. One-to-one instant messaging was by far the most common tool, but more than 50,000 voice or video meetAn energy tracking system to be commissioned in 2014 will, if ings between three or more people were also held, representing possible, also include a system for identifying and reporting on a sharp growth during the year. The reduction of travel for meetconsumption peaks. ings significantly improves work efficiency and reduces transport emissions. Other greenhouse emissions caused by indirect energy consumption (G4-EN17) OP-Pohjola Group’s carbon footprint (Scopes 1 + 2 + 3) in 2013 Out of the emissions listed in the GHG protocol’s Scope 3 for calcutotalled approximately 42,924 tonnes carbon dioxide, i.e. 3.5 lating the carbon footprint, OP-Pohjola Group takes into account tonnes per person. The greenhouse gas emissions of OP-Pohjola’s business travel, purchased transports and paper use. The Group own operations (Scope 1+2) totalled 35,003 CO2e-tonnes or 2.9 has instructions to be applied to business travel by personnel. tonnes per person. Business travel caused emissions of 3,378 tn CO2 in 2013 (2012: 3,880 tn CO2). The Group has made investments in video and Energy Consumption (G4-EN3), Energy Intensity (G4-EN5) online conferencing technology to reduce business travel. Its travel The total electricity consumption of OP-Pohjola Group’s biggest guidelines state that trains or buses must be favoured in travel properties in Helsinki (Vääksyntie 2 and 4, Elimäenkatu 5, within Finland. Transports run or managed by OP-Pohjola Group Elimäenkatu 15, Lapinmäentie and Hiomotie) was 169,971 GJ in caused 12.8 tonnes (2012: 22.1 tn CO2) and paper consumption 2013 (199,174 GJ in 2012). The energy intensity (i.e. total energy 2,884 tonnes (2012: 3,304 t CO2) of CO2 emissions in 2013. OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 37 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Social Responsibility Employees by contract type Employees by country Employment % % Personnel structure (G4-10, G4-LA1, G4-LA12) ■ Finland The number of employees of OP-Pohjola Group fell by 1,307 6 ■ Permanent 1 1 1 ■ Estonia ■ Fixed-term in 2013. At the year-end the Group employed 11,983 persons ■ Latvia (2012: 13,290). Of these, 94 (94) per cent were in permanent ■ Lithuania employment, while 6 (6) per cent had temporary contracts. In Finland, there were 11,609 employees, in Estonia 134, in Latvia 118, in Lithuania 120 and in Russia two employees. 97 94 The turnover of permanent personnel excluding business transfers was 9.8 (6.1) per cent, a figure greatly influenced by the results of the employee negotiations of autumn 2012 and the subsequent streamlining-related redundancies. Additionally, 541 employees were transferred from the Group into the employ of partners as a consequence of business transfers. OP-Pohjola wants to provide equal working opportunities for Employees by employment type Employees by gender all employees. In 2013, 74 per cent (73) of the personnel were women and 26 (27) per cent were men. The average age at the % % end of 2013 was 43.2 years (43.1). The average age of those retiring in 2013 was 61.6 (61.5), and they had been in the Group’s service for an average of 34.5 (34.0*) years. 8 ■ Full-time ■ Men ■ Part-time 26 ■ Women * The comparative figure for 2012 was revised due to an adjustment of the ) calculation method. 92 74 38 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Employees by age group Employees by personnel group and gender % % 15 ■ Under 30 yrs ■ Men ■ 30−39 yrs Management 76 24 ■ Women ■ 40−49 yrs Supervisors 37 ■ Over 49 yrs and team 41 59 leaders Experts 46 54 27 Salaried employees 11 89 All 26 74 21 Employees by personnel group Governing bodies by gender Governing bodies by age group % % % 4 ■ Salaried ■ Men 2 ■ Under 30 yrs 10 employees ■ Women ■ 30–39 yrs 10 ■ Experts 65 ■ 40–49 yrs ■ Supervisors and 35 ■ Over 49 yrs team leaders ■ Management 22 28 58 66 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 39 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Labour/Management Relations (G4-LA4, G4-11) tions relating to the duration of employment or executive The Executive Chairman and CEO’s retirement age is 62. The other OP-Pohjola abides by local legislation in all its operations. In contracts. Board members, deputy member and the Chief Audit Executive Finland, the main regulations concerning corporate reorganisaretire at 63. Pension benefits are determined in accordance with tions are found in the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings. OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative’s Supervisory Board shall pension laws and OP-Pohjola Group’s own pension plans. According to the Act, in cases of business transfer, staff repredecide on salaries and other emoluments and benefits payable sentatives must be given one week’s notice. Written proposals for to OP-Pohjola Group’s Executive Chairman, who also acts as The Executive Chairman and CEO is covered by OP Bank Group personnel negotiations must be submitted to staff representatives OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative’s CEO, and to other Pension Foundation’s supplementary pension scheme. Pension five days prior to the start of negotiations. members and deputy member of OP-Pohjola Group Central accrued under the supplementary pension scheme may begin to Cooperative’s Executive Board and to the Chief Audit Executive. A be paid out as a paid-up pension before the old-age pension, if In Finland, 94% (92) per cent of OP-Pohjola personnel are covered written executive contract, approved by the Supervisory Board, employment with OP-Pohjola Group terminates. by universally binding collective labour agreements. No binding stipulates the terms and conditions governing each Executive collective agreements exist in the sector in the Baltic region. Board member’s, deputy member’s and the Chief Audit Executive’s Supplementary pension for the other Executive Board member, employment. deputy member and the Chief Audit Executive (8 persons) have Remuneration been arranged through OP Life Assurance Company Ltd. In addiOP-Pohjola Group’s Executive Chairman and CEO received tion, one Executive Board member is covered by OP Bank Group Remuneration Policies for the Highest Governance EUR 779,659 in salary, EUR 27,856 in fringe benefits and EUR Pension Foundation’s supplementary pension scheme. Body and Senior Executives (G4-51) 669,761 in bonuses under short-term and long-term schemes, The remuneration of the Executive Board consists of a fixed i.e. a total of EUR 1,477,276. Other Executive Board members, Incentive Schemes (G4-52) monthly salary, a variable salary portion and benefits. OP-Pohjola deputy member and the Chief Audit Executive received EUR Remuneration and rewards at OP-Pohjola Group follow the Group’s scheme for variable remuneration comprises short-term 2,089,277 in salary, EUR 94,462 in fringe benefits and EUR Group’s remuneration principles. These principles are posted on company-specific incentives and long-term Group-wide incen1,178,749 in bonuses under the short-term and long-term the Group’s intranet and are therefore available to all personnel. tives. The long-term scheme for the entire OP-Pohjola Group schemes, i.e. a total of EUR 3,362,488. Remuneration systems based on the principles are in place to consists of a management incentive scheme and a personnel fund support the fulfilment of the Group’s strategy, taking into account for other staff. Salaries and bonuses include the amount of the performancethe special nature of its areas of operation. OP-Pohjola sets based bonuses for 2011 and 2012 and paid in 2013. A total of great store by the equality and transparency of its remuneraThe management incentive scheme consists of consecutive threeEUR 220,498 of the performance-based bonuses earned by the tion systems, and employees and employee representatives are year performance periods, the first of which was 2011–13. Those Executive Chairman and Executive Board members in 2012 has actively engaged in the development of practices. persons included in the scheme will be entitled to receive a certain been deferred to be paid in three instalments in 2014–2016. This number of Pohjola Bank plc Series A shares, if OP-Pohjola Group deferment is based on the procedures in accordance with Decree There are joint objectives for long-term remuneration of executive reaches the strategy-based targets set for the respective perfor(1372/2010) of the Ministry of Finance on remuneration schemes management and personnel. Short-term remuneration is decided mance period. The bonus based on the scheme will be paid out in credit institutions and investment firms (Valtiovarainministeriön on within each company, but the terms of the system are the to the beneficiary in terms of shares and cash and in three instalasetus luottolaitosten ja sijoituspalveluyritysten palkitsemisjärjestsame, and known to all employees. OP-Pohjola has taken signifiments in 2015–2017 after the performance period, provided that elmistä). A description of the procedures can be found in Note 57 cant steps towards ensuring the uniformity of all its remunerathe Group’s capital adequacy is higher than the internal minimum “Variable remuneration” to OP-Pohjola Group’s IFRS Financial tion systems Group-wide. Remuneration systems must be in line requirements on the payout date. Bonus payout includes condiStatements 2013. with proper, effective risk management, and payment of rewards should be based on performance figures, capital adequacy and any 40 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data changes in risk exposure. The tightened regulations in the financial Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Education sector also emphasise the importance of linking remuneration not provided to temporary or part-time employees, to risk management, in addition to engaging and incentivising by significant locations of operation (G4-LA2) Competence Development (G4-LA10) personnel. The fringe benefits of the Central Cooperative are the same for Competence development is one of the strategic areas of focus for all personnel, regardless of their employment contract, meaning OP-Pohjola Group, and personnel are given good opportunities for When remuneration schemes are being planned, the HR Managethat temporary and/or part-time personnel are offered the same training and development. Future competence needs are explored ment of the parent company in the Central Cooperative Consolibenefits as full-time and/or permanent personnel. The member during annual planning. Competence management is supported dated formulates policies, directions and principles for used in banks decide independently on the benefits they offer, while through development plans drawn up during performance decision-making. New remuneration systems and changes to following the benefit model provided by the Central Cooperative to reviews. The OP Academy supports the fulfilment of the strategy existing systems, principles or alignments are handled by the a reasonable degree. by offering a comprehensive selection of training events for people remuneration committee in question and presented for decisionin various positions. making to the appropriate board of directors. Once the principles Health and safety topics covered in formal and policies have been decided on, HR Services is in charge of agreements with trade unions (G4-LA8) As a major employer in the financial sector, OP-Pohjola offers its developing and implementing the system. The use of external OP-Pohjola is a unionised employer. The Group companies apply employees ample opportunities to develop their skills by transferconsultants is limited and does not apply to decision-making – three collective labour agreements: the collective agreement ring from one position to another. Other development techniques, only, for example, to interpreting regulations. The use of consultfor the finance industry in banking operations, the collective such as mentoring and coaching, are also used in competence ants is specified when presenting policies, alignments or principles agreement for the insurance industry in insurance operations, development, and attention is paid to target-oriented on-the-job for decision-making. and the collective agreement for the medical services industry learning. at Omasairaala. As a large-scale financial sector employer, How Stakeholders’ Views are Sought and OP-Pohjola plays a major role in developing the industry. The Employees are encouraged to make use of the diverse compeTaken into Account (G4-53) collective agreements for the finance and insurance industries tence development methods available in the Group. The strategy OP-Pohjola Group’s remuneration principles and policies are were updated based on negotiations that ended on 25 October demands that support be provided for internal personnel mobility discussed by the Supervisory Board of OP-Pohjola Group Central 2013. Both negotiations led to an agreement to initiate a review in future. Employee performance reviews also play an important Cooperative or, depending on the issue, by the chairs of the of a potential finance sector labour market project. This project, role in training and education. Supervisory Board or an appropriate remuneration committee, chaired by a representative of OP-Pohjola Group, has as its examining the application and the systems and evaluating their aim increasing occupational well-being among financial sector Performance Reviews (G4-LA11) suitability. For systems applying to the whole Group, the decisions personnel while improving productivity and competitiveness in the Performance and career development reviews are conducted with are made by the Supervisory Board or OP-Pohjola Group Remusector. all OP-Pohjola Group employees in Finland and overseas. neration Committee. The Group Remuneration Committee and the Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Committee consist either Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Society entirely or partly of owner-members and their compositions are to men by employee category, by significant diverse, so the views of stakeholders are extensively reflected in locations of operation (G4-LA13) Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks the work of the committees and the board. Within the member Equal treatment is a key principle in OP-Pohjola’s personnel related to corruption and the significant risks identified (G4-SO3) banks, remuneration-related decisions are ultimately made by the administration and salary policy. OP-Pohjola seeks to pay the The organisations of OP-Pohjola Group apply a guideline entitled Board of Directors, which also consists of owner-members. same salary for the same jobs. Procedures for Managing Operational Risk. The Central Cooperative formulates a risk analysis plan indicating which entities are to OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 41 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data be analysed. If necessary, the entities to be analysed can be agreed The guidelines concerning conflicts of interests must be handled Product Responsibility with the Group’s member organisations. In 2013, the Group by each organisation and its employees on a regular basis, and included nearly 300 entities for analysis. whenever a new person receives job orientation. A compulsory Type of product and service information required by the online course for all employees of the Group was implemented to organization’s procedures for product and service information These entities update their operational risk analyses annually ensure familiarisation with the guidelines at all levels. and labelling, and percentage of significant products and service based on the procedural guidelines. The risk analyses are based categories subject to such information requirements (G4-PR3) on the organisations’ self-evaluations concerning operational Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken (G4-SO5) OP-Pohjola Group complies with legislation which requires that risks and their management. In line with the analysis process, In 2013, two cases were resolved in which persons involved in customers be informed of certain terms, properties or risks related each organisation identifies and evaluates the most important the Administration of an OP Bank were accused of offences taking to a product or service. This notification obligation applies to all risks affecting its operations. To assist in identification, the Group place outside the bank. In one of the cases the person in question three business areas of the Group: banking, non-life insurance and has a shared risk library which lists diverse risks subdivided into resigned from the board of the bank, while the other person was asset management. seven risk categories. The Internal Abuse category includes the risk deemed innocent by verdict of the Court of Appeal. Giving and Receiving Bribes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches Total value of political contributions by country of customer privacy and losses of customer data (G4-PR8) Bribery was only recognised as a material operational risk in the and recipient/beneficiary (G4-SO6) During 2013, OP-Pohjola Group was made aware of 10 breaches Pohjola Group’s banking operations within the St. Petersburg The Code of Business Ethics unequivocally states that OP-Pohjola of customers’ privacy. These were situations in which customers delegation of the International Partnerships organisation. Group does not support political parties or organisation, and that were shown other customers’ data due for instance to a mailing the Group will not participate in funding individual candidates’ error or other mistake, or to a customer mistakenly logging in to a In line with the process, the recognised risks are analysed for campaigns. web service with another customer’s codes. The cases caused no typical effect, likelihood, maximum effect and effect on reputation. financial damages. Controls, i.e. various ways of reducing the likelihood of realisation Monetary value of significant fines and total number and mitigating the effects of the risk, are also evaluated. Finally of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Programmes related to compliance with laws, standards the overall risk level is determined, taking into account the aforewith laws and regulations (G4-SO8) and voluntary principles of marketing communications (incl. mentioned analyses and controls. In OP-Pohjola Group as a whole, One case: a corporate fine of EUR 15,000 and a personal fine of advertising, sales promotion and sponsorship materials more than 3,000 risks were identified of which less than one per EUR 5,320. An entrepreneur subcontracted for the demolition of (G4-PR7) and Procedures related to responsible development cent were deemed critical in terms of overall risk level. Most of a liquidation property neglected to fulfil statutory waste disposal and sale of financial services and products (FS15) these risks were related to the continuity of operations. duties. As the parties commissioning the work, the bank and the The financial sector is closely regulated and therefore OP-Pohjola CEO of the bank were sentenced to pay fines for environmental complies in all of its operations with laws, standards and voluntary Communication and training on anti-corruption damages. The verdict is not yet valid by law. principles. The Group complies in its marketing with marketing policies and procedures (G4-SO4) legislation and the self-regulation guidelines of international The guideline for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP-Pohjola organisations, including those of the International Chamber of Group is intended to prevent cases of corruption. All of the Group’s Commerce (ICC). The Group also abides by the marketing guidemember organisations are responsible for applying the guidelines of the Consumer Agency and the Financial Supervisory lines internally. Each and every executive and employee within Authority. OP-Pohjola Group received no reprimands related to its the institutions must know the guidelines. Every manager is in marketing communications. charge of supervising compliance with the guidelines, with the CEO and board of each organisation having ultimate responsibility. 42 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data GRI Reporting Principles that were considered were ones which may affect stakeholders’ Entities Included (G4-20, G4-21) decisions or choices. In order to rate the priority of its CSR aspects, OP-Pohjola Group’s sustainability reporting is mainly performed This report is OP-Pohjola Group’s third Corporate Social ResponOP-Pohjola carried out a stakeholder survey in 2013, whose within the same boundaries as the Group’s financial reporting. The sibility Report prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting results are presented in conjunction with the materiality assessKPIs and GRI indicators of the CSR Programme are calculated and Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. OP-Pohjola enhanced its CSR reporting ment. Additionally, the significance of the aspects was internally are presented in accordance with the accounting principles. The during 2013 by adopting the new GRI G4 Guidelines. Reporting evaluated in relation to the Group’s strategy and business funcboundary applied to environmental responsibility data is different, at OP-Pohjola fulfils the most extensive recommendations for the tions. Based on this evaluation, the aspects were put in order of as these data is based on information from the Group’s facilities Financial Services Sector Supplement of the GRI Guidelines (i.e. “in priority and the main areas of emphasis of CSR efforts and the management services. Detailed energy consumption data is availaccordance, comprehensive”). central content of the CSR report were determined. The Execuable on the premises of the Central Cooperative, while the member tive Board of the OP-Pohjola Group has checked and approved the banks’ data is based on a survey of a representative sample. Any The Group’s GRI report also meets the reporting obligations outcomes of the materiality assessment. OP-Pohjola’s material deviations or limitations in the boundary are reported next to the related to the UN Global Compact and the promotion of human CSR aspects are presented in the GRI Content Index and listed applicable data. rights, labour, environmental and anti-corruption policies in below. OP-Pohjola’s business. Numerical data is presented for the reporting period and comparIdentified material aspects (G4-19) ative data for at least two previous financial years. For indicators OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report In the process for defining materiality the following GRI-aspects for which no comparative data is available from previous financial includes the data for 2013, in accordance with the Group’s strucwere identified as material for OP-Pohjola’s reporting: years, only the data for the reporting period is presented in the ture and financial reporting principles. The CSR Report is divided report. into three parts. Corporate Social Responsibility at OP-Pohjola • Financial service specific: Product portfolio, Auditing and Active Group explores corporate responsibility from the perspective of ownership. KPI Calculation Principles business and strategy. It describes the areas of focus, measures • Economic: Economic performance and Indirect economic and leadership related to OP-Pohjola Group’s CSR Programme impacts. The “Capital adequacy ratio under the Act on Supervision of based on the principle of materiality. The section on the Corpo• Environmental: Energy, Emissions, Products and services and Financial and Insurance Conglomerates” was calculated by rate Social Responsibility Programme presents the content, most Supplier environmental assessment. dividing OP-Pohjola Group’s total capital resources by the recent measures and targets of the areas of emphasis within CSR • Labour practices and decent work: Employment, Labour/ minimum amount of capital resources. The figures came from the at OP-Pohjola. The section on GRI within CSR presents the main management relations, Occupational health and safety, Training OP-Pohjola Group’s consolidated financial statements. aspects identified based on the materiality assessment, with KPIs and education, Diversity and equal opportunity, Equal remuin accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. The Executive Board neration for women and men, Supplier assessment for labour Customer service performance reliability refers to the availability of of OP-Pohjola Group has approved the content of this report and practices and Labour practice grievance mechanisms. essential banking and insurance business systems. The availability assumes liability for it. • Human rights: Non-discrimination, Supplier human rights of business services is reported monthly, by providing the uptime assessments and Human rights grievance mechanisms. percentage compared to the total minutes measured during that Definition of Materiality (G4-18) • Society: Local communities, Anti-corruption, Public policy, month. The annual figure is the average of the monthly figures. OP-Pohjola determines the content of its CSR report based on Anti-competitive behaviour, Compliance, Supplier assessments the reporting principles in the GRI G4 Guidelines. In identifying for impacts on society and Grievance mechanisms for impacts The figures for “Support for local projects” were derived from the material aspects of CSR, the most significant economic, social on society. accounting records by taking into account donations, awards and and environmental impacts of OP-Pohjola’s operations, products, • Product responsibility: Product and service labelling, Marketing sponsorship. Sponsorship classified as sports advertising was services business relations were taken into account. Other aspects communications, Customer privacy and Compliance. OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 43 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data manually removed from the data. Support for local projects does company on a scale of 1–5. Those responding that they are “fairly Financial Reporting not include the Baltic operations. certain” or “completely certain” to recommend the company are (G4-EC1, G4-EC3, G4-EC4 and G4-EC9) counted as recommenders, while those who are “fairly unlikely” Bonuses to owner-members includes bonuses accrued in 2013 or “completely unlikely” are deducted from the figure. The survey Data on economic responsibility are based on figures audited for by the cooperative banks’ owner-members and Helsinki OP Bank received responses from 9,725 private customers in 2013. the consolidated IFRS financial statements of OP-Pohjola Group Plc’s bonus customers. for 2013. Among corporate customers, measurements of recommendation The percentage of owner-members belonging to banks with willingness are done annually using Net Promoter Score (NPS) The proportion of Finnish suppliers of goods and services is a Representative Assembly was calculated based on the total surveys. NPS is based on a recommendation question graded on calculated from purchase data entered in a Group-level purchase number of approved members of the cooperative banks on a scale of 0–10. The NPS figure is obtained by deducting those accounting system, and refers to suppliers with a Finnish business 31/12/2013. Banks with a Representative Assembly are those who are dissatisfied (score of 0–6) from the number of those who ID. whose rules of procedure include regulations applying to a Repreare likely to recommend the services (score of 9–10). The survey sentative Assembly. received responses from 1,353 SMEs in 2013. Social Reporting Job satisfaction is derived from an annual employee survey whose The Group’s carbon footprint figure includes the Group’s direct Personnel data were gathered from the SAP Personnel system 12 questions are collated to form a job satisfaction index. In 2013, greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) and the Group’s indirect and from the Baltic Seesam insurance companies. Unless otherthe survey applied to 7,599 employees from OP-Pohjola Group emissions resulting from the generation of electricity and heat wise stated, the figures apply to the whole OP-Pohjola Group. Central Cooperative Consolidated and 3,355 employees from purchased from other entities (Scope 2). The calculations are cooperative banks across Finland. The structure of the employee explained in more detail in the GRI reporting principles. The calcuG4-10. The number of employees is reported for the entire survey changed in 2011, so the previous figures are not compalations do not include the Baltic operations. OP-Pohjola Group, broken down by employment type, employrable. ment contract, age and country. The number of employees working in Green Office-labelled offices The average retirement age is an average of the ages of retired is calculated on the basis of the numbers reported by the offices G4-11. The percentage of total employees covered by collecpersonnel on the day of their retirement. The figure does not concerned. tive bargaining agreements is reported for the entire OP-Pohjola include Seesam insurance companies. Group. GRI indicators specific to the financial sector (FS) The numbers of e-invoices received by private customers and sent G4-54. The ratio between the highest and average salaries apply and received by corporate customers (excluding printing services) In relation to the GRI indicators specific to the financial sector, the to Finland. are gathered monthly using a service statistics system. information is based on figures provided by business units, the accuracy of which has been internally assured. G4-55. The ratio between the highest and average salaries apply Pohjola Bank’s dividend payout ratio is the total dividends paid to Finland. divided by the net earnings for the period. G4-LA1. New and terminated employment contracts are reported For OP-Pohjola Group’s private customers, the recommendation for the entire OP-Pohjola Group. The figures do not include rate is followed using a continuous OP-Pohjola tracking study. internal personnel turnover (when employees change jobs within In the survey, respondents grade their main bank and insurance 44 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data the Group).The personnel turnover for permanent personnel does Environmental Reporting GRI Level Check / External Assurance (G4-33) not include business transfers. Energy and climate (G4-EN4 and G4-EN16) According to the Group’s own assessment, CSR reporting at G4-LA3. The return to work and retention rates after parental OP-Pohjola’s carbon footprint was calculated in accordance with OP-Pohjola fulfils the most extensive recommendations for the leave figures apply to Finland. the Greenhouse Gas Protocol developed by the World Resources Financial Services Sector Supplement of the GRI Guidelines (i.e. Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Develop“in accordance, comprehensive”). In line with this level, OP-Pohjola G4-LA5. The percentage of the total workforce represented in ment. The following emission sources were taken into account, in reports on those corporate responsibility data and indicators that formal joint management–worker health and safety committees line with the division of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol; are material to its operations, in such a manner as to provide an that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety adequate and balanced account of the Group’s corporate social programs are reported for the entire OP-Pohjola Group. The • Direct greenhouse gas emissions from the Group’s operations responsibility and its impacts. employee turnover rate for permanent personnel excludes busi(Scope 1 – must be included): fuel consumption of emergency ness transfers. power systems and vehicles owned by the Group (incl. vehicles The report has not been externally assured. The correctness of the of the Group’s leasing company); presented data has been assured internally. GRI has checked that G4-LA6. The proportion of sickness absences out of regular man• Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of electhe materiality assessment corresponds to the GRI G4 Guidelines. years applies to Finland. tricity and heat purchased from other entities (Scope 2 – must This check applied to the materiality of social responsibility aspects be included): electricity and heat on office premises used by (G4-17–23) and the descriptions of data and processes related to G4-LA9. The training costs in relation to total salary apply to OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative Consolidated including stakeholder engagement (G4-24–27). Based on the check by GRI, Finland. the Vallila 2015 project (excl. the Omasairaala hospital) and the the OP-Pohjola Corporate Social Responsibility Report for 2013 member banks; complies with the principles for content definition of the GRI G4 G4-LA11. The percentage of employees receiving regular perfor• Other indirect emissions (Scope 3 – inclusion is voluntary): Guidelines. mance and career development reviews are reported for the entire waste and wastewater, electricity consumption in a server OP-Pohjola Group. Employees who joined the Group after the room located on a service provider’s premises, business travel, period covered by the previous performance and career developpurchased transport and mailing, lifecycle emissions of paper ment reviews were excluded from the calculations. consumption. G4-LA12. The breakdown of employees per employee category The following were left out of calculations: specific impacts of the according to gender and age group is reported for the entire Vallila 2015 project, Omasairaala,energy consumption in holiday OP-Pohjola Group. properties, in the Kuusiniementie housing corporation and on rented premises for ATMs; overseas operations; commuting; and The following are included in administration broken down by age business travel by train, bus and local transport. Insufficient emisand gender: members of the Representative Assembly and Supersion factor data is available for any material consumption other visory Board, chairman and deputy chairman of the Supervisory than office paper. Board, members of the Board of Directors, chairman and vice chairman of the Board of Directors, and deputy members of the Energy consumption is reported for OP-Pohjola Group’s largest Board of Directors. properties in Helsinki (Vääksyntie 2 and 4, Elimäenkatu 5 and 15, Lapinmäentie and Hiomotie), because accurate electricity consumption data is available for these. OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 45 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data GRI Content Index Fully reported Partly reported Not reported External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO’s Statement 2 G4-2 Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 6 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the Organization 3–4 G4-4 Primary Brands, Products and Services 3–4 G4-5 Location of the Organization’s Headquarters 3–4 G4-6 Number of Countries where the Organization Operates, and Names of Countries where 3–4 Either the Organization has Significant Operations or That are Specifically Relevant to the Sustainability Topics Covered in the Report G4-7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form 3–4 G4-8 Market areas 3–4 G4-9 Scale of the Organization 3–4 G4-10 Total Number of Employees by Employment Contract, Employment Type, Region and Gender 38 G4-11 Percentage of Total Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements 40 G4-12 Organization’s Supply Chain 21 G4-13 Significant Changes during the Reporting Period Regarding the Organization’s Size, Structure, Highlights 2013 OP-Pohjola Group Annual Report Ownership, or its Supply Chain 2013 > Year 2013 > Highlights 2013 21 G4-14 Whether and How the Precautionary Approach or Principle is Addressed by the Organization 26–27 G4-15 Externally Developed Economic, Environmental and Social Charters, Principles, or Other 14 Initiatives to Which the Organization Subscribes or Which It Endorses G4-16 Memberships of Associations and National or International Advocacy Organizations 14 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities Included in the Organization’s Consolidated Financial Statements Financial statements, note 55 OP-Pohjola Group Annual Report 2013 > Financial statements > OP-Pohjola Group's IFRS Financial Statements 2013 > Notes to OP-Pohjola Group Financial Statements > Note 55. Holdings in other companies G4-18 Process for Defining the Report Content 9, 43 46 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation G4-19 Material Aspects 43 G4-20 List of Entities or Groups of Entities Within the Organization for Which the Aspects Are Material 43 G4-21 List of Entities or Groups of Entities Outside of the Organization for Which the Aspects Are 43 Material G4-22 Effect of any Restatements of Information Provided in Previous Reports, and the Reasons for No restatements Such Restatements G4-23 Significant Changes from Previous Reporting Periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries No restatements Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of Stakeholder Groups Engaged by the Organization 18–21 G4-25 Basis for Identification and Selection of Stakeholders with whom to Engage 18–21 G4-26 Organization’s Approach to Stakeholder Engagement 18–21 G4-27 Key Topics and Concerns that Have Been Raised through Stakeholder Engagement 18–21 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period 1 Jan–31 Dec 2013 G4-29 Date of Most Recent Previous Report 1 March 2013 G4-30 Reporting Cycle Annually G4-31 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report or its Contents viestinta@op.fi G4-32 GRI Content Index 46–55 G4-33 Policy and Current Practice with Regard to Seeking External Assurance 45 Governance Governance Structure and Composition G4-34 Governance Structure, Including Committees Corporate Goverance Principles OP-Pohjola Group > OP-Pohjola Group > Corporate Governance > Corporate Governance Principles G4-35 Division of responsibilities Corporate Goverance Principles G4-36 Positions with Responsibility Corporate Goverance Principles G4-37 Processes for Consultation with Stakeholders Corporate Goverance Principles G4-38 Members of the Board of Directors Corporate Goverance Principles G4-39 Status of the Chair of the Highest Governance Body Corporate Goverance Principles G4-40 Election of the Board of Directors Corporate Goverance Principles OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 47 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation G4-41 Processes to Ensure Conflicts of Interest are Avoided and Managed Corporate Goverance Principles Highest Governance Body’s Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy G4-42 Highest Governance Body’s Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy Corporate Goverance Principles OP-Pohjola Group > OP-Pohjola Group > Corporate Governance > Corporate Governance Principles Highest Governance Body’s Competencies and Performance Evaluation G4-43 Highest Governance Body’s Collective Knowledge Corporate Goverance Principles OP-Pohjola Group > OP-Pohjola Group > Corporate Governance > Corporate Governance Principles G4-44 Evaluation of the Highest Governance Body’s Performance Corporate Goverance Principles Highest Governance Body’s Role in Risk Management G4-45 Highest Governance Body’s Role in the Identification and Management of Risk 26–27 G4-46 Highest Governance Body’s Role in Reviewing the Effectiveness of the Organization’s Risk 26–27 Management G4-47 Frequency of Risk Reviews 26–27 Board’s Role in CSR Reporting G4-48 Highest Committee or Position that Formally Reviews and Approves the Organization’s 43 Sustainability Report Highest Governance Body’s Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Social Performance G4-49 Process for Communicating Critical Concerns 26–27 G4-50 Nature and Total Number of Critical Concerns that Were Communicated 26–27 Remuneration and Incentives G4-51 Remuneration Policies for the Highest Governance Body and Senior Executives 40 G4-52 Incentive schemes 40–41 G4-53 How Stakeholders’ Views are Sought and Taken into Account 41 G4-54 Ratio of the Annual Total Compensation for the Organization’s Highest-Paid Individual and the 31 Median for All Employees G4-55 Percentage Increase in Total Compensation for the Organization’s Highest-Paid Individual and 31 the Median for All Employees Business Ethics G4-56 Ethics and Integrity 8, 26 G4-57 Internal and External Mechanisms for Seeking Advice on Ethical and Lawful Behaviour 26 48 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation G4-58 Internal and External Mechanisms for Reporting Concerns about Unethical or Unlawful Behaviour 26 Disclosures on Management Approach Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) 11 Aspect-Specific Disclosures on Management Approach Product and Service Impact FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 22–25 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 22–25 FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and 22–25 social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social 26–27 policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks 22–25 and opportunities Product and Service Labelling FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 42, 27 Operational KPIs Product and Service Impact Aspect: Product Portfolio Identified Material Aspect FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and 22–25 by sector 32–33 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each 22–25, 32 Examples of products and serbusiness line broken down by purpose vices delivering social benefit. FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit 22–25 for each business line broken down by purpose 32 Aspect: Auditing Identified Material Aspect FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social 33 policies and risk assessment procedures Aspect: Active ownership Identified Material Aspect FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the 33 reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issue OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 49 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 34 FS12 Voting policy(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting 33 organization holds the right to vote or advises on voting Economic Responsibility Aspect: Economic performance Identified Material Aspect G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 34–35 FSSS: Value generated by the organization’s community investment programs and breakdown of community investment by theme G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to 34–35 climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 34–35 Financial statements, note 39 OP-Pohjola Group Annual Report 2013 > Financial statements > OP-Pohjola Group's IFRS Financial Statements 2013 > Notes to OP-Pohjola Group Financial Statements > Note 39. Provisions and other liabilities G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from the government 34–35 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Identified Material Aspect G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and service provided primarily for public 17 Local projects, investments in benefit through commercial, in-kind of pro-bono engagement an active Finnish payment traffic system. G4-EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 34–35 Aspect: Procurement Practices Identified Material Aspect G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 21 Environmental Responsibility Aspect: Energy Identified Material Aspect G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 36–37 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Data not collected G4-EN5 Energy intensity 37 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 36–37 50 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation G4-EN7 Reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP-Pohjola's operations Aspect: Emissions Identified Material Aspect G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 36–37 FSSS: Greenhouse gas emissions relating to business travel and courier services G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) 36–37 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) 36–37 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 36–37 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 36–37 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP-Pohjola's operations G4-EN21 Nitrogen oxide (NOx), Sulphur oxide (SOx) and other significant air emissions Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP-Pohjola's operations Aspect: Products and services Identified Material Aspect G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 22 G4-EN28 Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP-Pohjola's operations Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Identified Material Aspect G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 21 Included in risk assessments in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions 21 Included in risk assessments taken in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. Social Responsibility Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment Identified Material Aspect OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 51 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender 38–39 Personnel structure, turnover and region is not reported for the period by gender, age or region due to incomplete data available. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 41 employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 31 Aspect: Labour/Management Relations Identified Material Aspect G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified 40 in collective agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Identified Material Aspect G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and 31 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 31 The report presents the relative number of work-related ­fatalities, by region and by gender proportion of sick days to regular annual working time in Finland. Other G4-LA6 performance figures were not collected. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation OP-Pohjola Group's business does not include positions with a recognised high incidence or risk of specific diseases. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 41 Aspect: Education Identified Material Aspect G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 31 Training expenses relative to total wage sum in Finland. Specific G4-LA9 performance figures were not collected. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability 41 of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by 31 gender and by employee category Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity Identified Material Aspect G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 38–39 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Identified Material Aspect 52 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant 41 The ratio women’s wages to locations of operation men’s wages under collective bargaining agreements in finance and insurance sectors was calculated according to G4 specifications. The information was not disclosed. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices Identified Material Aspect G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria 21 Included in risk assessments in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and 21 Included in risk assessments actions taken in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms Identified Material Aspect G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal No cases in 2013 grievance mechanisms Human Rights Aspect: Non-discrimination Identified Material Aspect G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken One allegation inspected Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Identified Material Aspect G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 21 Included in risk assessments in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions 21 Included in risk assessments taken in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Identified Material Aspect G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal No cases in 2013 grievance mechanisms Society OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 53 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation Aspect: Local Communities Identified Material Aspect G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Not reported, because the figure assessments, and development programs is not applicable to OP-Pohjola's operations G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Not reported, because the figure is not applicable to OP-Pohjola's operations FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 34–35 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 22–25 Aspect: Anti-Corruption Identified Material Aspect G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the 41–42 significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 41–42 Training on prevention of misbehaviour. Training on Code of Business Ethics. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 41–42 Aspect: Public Policy Identified Material Aspect G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 41–42 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behaviour Identified Material Aspect G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly No cases in 2013 practices and their outcomes Aspect: Compliance Identified Material Aspect G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non41–42 compliance with laws and regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Identified Material Aspect G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 21 Included in risk assessments in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions 21 Included in risk assessments taken in supplier management and procurement agreements, when necessary. Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Identified Material Aspect 54 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data External GRI CONTENT Page Coverage assurance Explanation G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal No cases in 2013 grievance mechanisms Product Responsibility Aspect: Product and Service Labelling Identified Material Aspect G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product 42 and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning No cases in 2013 product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 27 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 17–18 Aspect: Marketing Communications Identified Material Aspect G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not reported because the figure is not applicable to OP-Pohjola's operations. The indirect impacts of operations are included in the business process descriptions. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning No cases in 2013 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Aspect: Customer privacy Identified Material Aspect G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses 42 of customer data Aspect: Compliance Identified Material Aspect G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning No cases in 2013 the provision and use of products and services OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 55 GRI Corporate Responsibility Data Global Compact Reporting Additional information Page Additional information Page Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 Principle 7: Businesses should support a Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 respect the protection of internationally Statement precautionary approach to environmental Statement proclaimed human rights challenges Code of Business Ethics 26-27 Risk Management 26-27 Supply Chain 21 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 initiatives to promote greater environmental Statement Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 responsibility are not complicit in human rights abuses Statement Environmental Responsibility 28 Code of Business Ethics 26-27 Responsible Products and Services 22-25 Supply Chain 21 Supply Chain 21 Labour Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 development and diffusion of environmentally Statement freedom of association and the effective Statement friendly technologies recognition of the right to collective bargaining Environmental Responsibility 28 Code of Business Ethics 26-27 Responsible Products and Services 22-25 Labour/Management Relations 40 Supply Chain 21 Supply Chain 21 Anti-Corruption Principle 4: Businesses should uphold Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 the elimination of all forms of forced and Statement Principle 10: Businesses should work against Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 compulsory labour corruption in all its forms, including extortion Statement and bribery Code of Business Ethics 26-27 Code of Business Ethics 26-27 Supply Chain 21 Society 38 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 effective abolition of child labour Statement Code of Business Ethics 26-27 Supply Chain 21 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the Executive Chairman’s CSR 2 elimination of discrimination in respect of Statement employment and occupation Code of Business Ethics 26-27 Supply Chain 21 GRI Index G4-HR3 53 56 OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Contact Information Contact Information Contact persons for CSR issues: Carina Geber-Teir Chief Communications Officer, Executive Board member Stina Suominen Senior Vice President, Sustainability and Brands Tiina Junttila Communications Manager, Sustainability and Brands Ilkka Korhonen Development Manager, Financial Communications and CSR Reporting Inquiries and other contacts: viestinta (at) op.fi OP-Pohjola Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 57 http://www.op-pohjola-annualreport.fi/2013/en
