Republic of Belarus Sector: Production of natural dairy and juice products Reporting period: 2014 Socially responsible business General Director’s Foreword…………………………...............3 About the company..……………………...…………………………..4 UN Global Compact…………..…………………………………..…12 Human Rights…..……………………………………...…………..…13 Labor Relations……………..………………………………...……..18 Environmental Protection .……………………………………..28 Anti-corruption Measures..……….…………………………….33 2 Dear colleagues and partners! The Savushkin Product Company gladly presents its annual report concerning its achievements in the area of social responsibility. The year of 2014 was not an easy one (as usual) for the company. It brought a lot of advantages, as well as some drawbacks. However, we are engaged in a noble business, providing people with natural milk products. This milk production business is one of the most stable. People will always drink milk, regardless of their age, sex, welfare or economic situation in the world. And we are honored to carry out our mission to provide health and joy to our customers. Our products are well known and popular, not only in Belarus, but in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Moldova, the UAE, Jordan, the European Union, and other near and distant countries. The principles of corporate social responsibility always help us to achieve our goals. Alexander Savchits, General Director, Savushkin Product OJSC 3 Savushkin Product OJSC is a young and dynamic company leading the milk industry in the Republic of Belarus. The company includes hi-tech production plants in Brest, Pinsk, Stolin and Kamenets. The branch locations in Pinsk, Stolin and Kamenets specialize in cheeses, while the sites in Brest make whole milk products and juices. In 2013, Savushkin Product started the construction of its fifth plant in Brest. The new site consists of whole milk production areas, a modern, multi-level logistical center for 6500 pallets, and an administration block. This plant will become fully operational in 2015, but the first workshops are already being brought into service. In 2014, a new production area for farmer’s cheese and soft cheese was commissioned. The success of this investment project is vital, and not only for the company: the site provides new jobs in the region. It also increases the country’s efficiency and export potential, greatly strengthening the positive image of the country in the global market. 4 Ninety collective farms in the Brest region, encompassing 308 milk farms, supply Savushkin Product OJSC with raw milk. The company processes approximately 40% of all of the milk in the region. It is worth mentioning that 80% of the milk that is used in production is firstand extra-class milk, which is crucial for high-quality milk products. Considering the fact that the quality of the products depends greatly upon the quality of raw milk, the Savushkin Product Company closely cooperates with milk farms to increase yields, milk quality and animalstock productivity. In order to achieve these goals, the company implements a long-term strategy for milk-farm development. A special agricultural development department of the company coordinates these activities. Within the first 10 months of 2014, the milk flow from the farms reached 105.2% of the amount received during the same period of the previous year. The Savushkin Product Company invested 117 billion BYR (13 million USD) into the farms’ development within the first 10 months of 2014. This money was spent on refrigerators, pasteurization machines, filters, cleaning and disinfection agents for laboratories, calf-milk replacers, oilseed meal, seeds, technical maintenance, etc. 5 More than 486 thousand tons of raw milk was processed by Savushkin Product during the first 10 months of 2014. The total average daily flow of processed milk reaches 1800 tons. The company makes more than 200 products, including a broad range of whole milk, cheese and butter, as well as natural juices, nectars and fruit drinks. There are four milk brands in the portfolio of the company (“Savushkin”, “Brest-Litovsk”, “Optimal”, and “Laskovoe Leto”) and one juice brand (“Na100yaschy”). We are constantly developing our product range. Savushkin Product manufactures a functional nutrition product series as well. The Institute of Physiology of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus included “Optimal” yoghurts enriched with bifidus bacteria, “Nezhny” soft farmer’s cheese and “Savushkin” dessert curd (based upon “Nezhny”), kefir products with probiotics and lactulose, as well as “Savushkin” ultra-pasteurized milk, in the series. The results of the Institute of Physiology’s study scientifically prove the functional nutritional properties of these products. 6 Savushkin Product OJSC conforms to the highest world standards in its management and technical infrastructure. The plant is 99% automated. We use the latest generation of production equipment. Regular re-equipment and the introduction of state-of-art production processes are our investment policy. In order to keep all of the healthy properties and nutrients of whole cow milk, we employ the deep processing of raw milk. This also helps us to increase our production efficiency. The 100% processing of cheese thrustings and curd whey illustrates that well. The amount of investments during the first 10 months of 2014 has exceeded 515 billion BYR (58 million USD). Some modern, hi-tech equipment was purchased and installed: a Tetra Top complex line, a tunnel refrigerator ultra-pasteurization Tetra module, a new system of filters, columns for cheese production, a cheese cutting line, a milk pasteurization block, a water purification and de-ironing station, and other systems. 7 The Savushkin Product Company takes responsibility for the quality of its products. We try to provide our consumers with the best food. This is why the company made the decision to develop and introduce international management standards. Savushkin Product has implemented the STB ISO 9001-2009 national quality management standard, a quality management and product safety system based upon HACCP principles, the ISO 14001 environmental management system, and a health and labor protection system in accordance with OHSAS 18001, as well as food-product-safety management practices in accordance with the FSSC 22000 international scheme. The company strictly controls incoming raw milk before processing. A modern, highperformance laboratory makes it possible to perform 200 tests of raw milk per hour. The milk is tested for pH, purity, density, its mass fraction of fat and proteins, residual antibiotics (ßstar test), microtoxins, pesticides and pathogenic bacteria. Radiological control is also obligatory. Milk is not accepted for production in the event of any deviations. 8 The specialists of the company constantly work on improving all quality parameters – from production technologies to client satisfaction standards and logistics. Savushkin Product OJSC utilizes the most modern equipment and the highest level of industrial standards to make safe, high-quality food. The laboratories strictly control not only the raw materials, but also the packaging and all levels of the technological process. They also test prepared products for their compliance with the required physical and chemical properties. Having studied the experience of the leading enterprises of European countries, the company modified its system of hygiene control. The following sectors of the Laboratory Control Department of Savushkin Product provide inspections of the quality and safety of both raw materials and prepared products, taking into consideration the potential risks and critical control points: Incoming Technical and Microbiological Control Control Chemical Control Sector Sector Sector Control of all raw material Quality control during the Microbiological-value control safety: milk, fruit and technological processes, as well and sanitary and hygiene berries, ferments, as prepared-product control, inspections stabilizers and packaging storage conditions and transportation inspections 9 The high quality and perfect taste of our products are well known, not only in Belarus, but in many foreign countries, too. Today, Savushkin Product OJSC unquestionably occupies the leading position in the milk industry of the country. The company implements a multi-directional export policy. Savushkin Product regularly ships whole milk, cheese, juices and drinks to the 75 regions of Russia, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, the UAE, Singapore, Jordan, the European Union and other near and distant countries. The company possesses a permanent export license issued by the EU Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health (SCFCAH), which strengthens its position in the European market. Since July 2013, the company has regularly shipped whole milk to European countries. This is a significant achievement, proving our compliance with the most demanding European standards. The local retail network is also very important to Savushkin Product. The company has six trade branches in the country situated in Minsk, Gomel, Mogilev, Vitebsk, Grodno and Pinsk. Our trade representatives work in all of the significant district centers. The international activities of the company are supported by many partners. 10 The high quality and perfect taste of our products have been recognized many times by consumers and professional experts. The company has won more than 450 high national and international awards, including the Government Award for Achievements in the Area of Quality, the CIS Award for Quality of Products and Services, the “National Legacy” Brand, etc. In 2014, the milk products of Savushkin Product were the first and only ones among those of Belarusian milk factories to be recognized at the International Degustation Contest Superior Taste Award (Belgium). The chefs of the most established international associations assessed the quality of many famous world brands. Two golden stars (the Delicious Taste Award) were given to “Brest-Litovsk Extra-Aged” cheese, “Savushkin Hutorok” farmer’s cheese and “Savushkin Slivochny” yogurt. This year, the company was recognized via the three highest prizes of the “People’s Brand” degustation contest in the “Traditional Milk Products”, “Yogurts” and “Hard Cheese” categories. Another six First Grade diplomas and a Grand Prix award in “Best Milk Products” were presented to the company at the “Product of the Year” competition. The highest level prizes were won at the “Best Product 2014” international competition, the “Champion of Taste” degustation contest, the WorldFood Moscow Exhibition, and other events. 11 In November 2006, The Savushkin Product Company joined the UN Global Compact International Initiative, which promotes the principles of social responsibility and creates a multi-cooperation platform for state, business, societal and international organizations. This agreement binds the business leaders to support and implement 10 business principles in the area of: Human rights; Labor relations; Environmental protection; Anti-corruption measures. 12 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Savushkin Product Company supports and promotes the human rights proclaimed in international law, as well as in national legislation. This helps the company to earn confidence and respect among our consumers, partners, employees and society in general. Our responsibility to consumers is one of our basic business principles. We actively study the tastes and preferences of consumers in order to modify our product range. We strive for perfection and constantly increase our expertise. Our consumers have the right and possibility to have complete and valid information regarding the activities and products of the company. Therefore, our specialists do a lot of informational work and build equal communications between the company, its partners and consumers. 13 Transparency Savushkin Product values its consumers. Every opinion matters and we are grateful to all of the people who share their views. There is a telephone hotline for the company, and the number is indicated on every package. Any person from any town in Belarus may make a free call and give us their opinion and advice, or ask any question concerning our products or the company itself. More than 560 calls were received during the first nine months of 2014. The practice of our transparent policy includes the annual Doors-Open Days. People from all over the country come to the sites of our plants to see how we make our products. More than 300 people visited Savushkin Product in 2014. In addition to such excursions, we organized a mini workshop with specialists of the company, showed our corporate film, and held a degustation exhibition of our products. 14 Savushkin Product regularly informs its consumers and society about our corporate life. We constantly update the corporate website, www.savushkin.by. We have also launched communities, groups and pages on social networks, such as Facebook, Twitter and Vkontakte, where any person can receive some useful and interesting information regarding our milk products and Savushkin Product activities. Reports about the most interesting events, interviews, and announcements about future plans are published in the Savushkin Info newspaper. Any employee can write material for the paper. In addition, we regularly present our materials in the national and regional mass media, including Second National Television (ONT); the Sovietskaya Belorussia, Komsomolskaya Pravda, Arguments and Facts, Antenna, Zarya, Brest Courier, Brestski Vestnik and Vecherni Brest newspapers; and news portals such as Tut.by, DairyNews.ru, Interfax.by and others. 15 Savushkin Product for National Healthcare The Savushkin Product Company does not only produce natural whole milk products. Our main strategy of development includes healthcare and the creation of an awareness of healthy nutrition, as well as the promotion of milk and milk-product consumption. We have launched a long-term project called “Savushkin Products for National Healthcare” in order to attract attention to the issues of healthy nutrition and milk consumption. Dozens of events were organized within this project. These events included all areas of our activities: a new range of “Optimal” yogurts and curds enriched with bifidus bacteria, confirmed to be beneficial to health by the Institute of Physiology of the Academy of Sciences; the introduction of new, safe packaging; public events such as round tables, workshops, lectures and degustation events, and the propagation of informational materials and leaflets in order to gather the leading experts in nutrition, healthcare, production and technologies; and a broad informational campaign regarding the role of milk products in healthy nutrition, as well as modern global trends in that field. The company annually takes part in the “Healthy Life Support” international fair. Thus, Savushkin Product OJSC supports national healthcare not only in words, but through its principles, activities and relations with our customers. 16 Charity Even during the hard times of a global crisis, Savushkin Product lends a helping hand to people in need. Within the first eight months of 2014, the company provided charitable assistance to more than 20 organizations and civic associations in the amount of 466 million rubles (54 000 USD). Among these organizations were the Brest Children Hospital, the Belarusian Society of the Disabled, the Chance Physical Culture and Sport Association, Oltush Secondary School, the Brest Hero Fortress SI Memorial Complex, Minsk Seminary, the Veda Correctional Development and Rehabilitation Center, the Brest City Emergency Hospital, Brest Technical University and others. Some social and charity events were organized at the Social Pedagogical Center of Brest. 17 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our policy in the area of labor relations, comfortable conditions for labor, healthcare and rest, the rights to a professional career and transparent payments is reflected in the Collective Agreement of Savushkin Product OJSC; Bonus Regulations for Managers, Specialists and Workers in Accordance with the Company’s Economic Results; Internal Labor Regulations; Appointment and Selection Regulations; Continuing Professional Education Standard; and Savushkin Product Professional Education Program. These documents are updated and modified every year. 18 Staff A total of 3,142 people are currently employed by the company. Their average age is 36 years. Sixty percent of the staff is employed on a contract basis. We have implemented a program for continuing professional education that allows any employee to gain new knowledge and build a career. Specialists of the company provide that training in accordance with an educational schedule. Lecturers and trainers from educational centers, universities and other organizations participate in other corporate trainings. In the process of recruitment, the company considers professional skills, and no discrimination based upon sex, age or other aspects is possible. Savushkin Product grants equal opportunities and provides equal treatment in employment. Approximately 2,000 people apply for employment every month, which demonstrates the positive image our enterprise projects in the labor market. Approximately 250 300 university and college students receive practical training at the company. In 2013 – 2014, we employed more than 130 young specialists. The company organizes “Best in Profession” contests in order to increase the professional level of our staff and to allow them to share their experience. 19 Labor Conditions Savushkin Product aims to create the most comfortable labor conditions for its employees. The Collective Agreement created by our company is considered one of the best in Belarus. The Collective Agreement dated March 1, 2013 – February 29, 2016 is now in force. The Collective Agreement of Savushkin Product OJSC is an important local act specifying the conditions for sustainable social and economic development, as well as the provision of additional social guarantees, compensations and bonuses for payment, employment, labor safety, industrial and environmental safety, medical care, sanatorium treatment and accommodations. The trade union of Savushkin Product includes 99.7% of the staff. The issues and progress of the company are highlighted during the meetings of trade union committees, and conferences and workshops are held for delegates from all departments and divisions. 20 The company is governed by the Labor Code of the Republic of Belarus, the Corporate Policy and the Articles of Association of Savushkin Product OJSC. According to these documents, the weekly schedule cannot exceed 40 hours. Flexible working schedules and accumulated working time accounts are implemented in the company to follow the yearly schedule balance specified by law. Annual paid vacation consists of at least 24 working days, with an additional 4 7 days added in the event of harmful labor conditions. Mothers or fathers that are raising three or more children can receive one additional day off per week upon appeal. All pregnant women upon the provision of a medical certificate are transferred to easy labor positions with the average wage of their primary position, and relieved from night shifts. Savushkin Product bans socially or economically unjustified job reductions or dismissals. The trade union committee is informed two months in advance regarding any changes to the production structure if such changes would involve job cuts or deteriorations in labor conditions. In the event of job cuts, employees and the employment service are advised in writing two months prior to such changes. 21 Healthcare and Labor Safety The company has developed and implemented a policy for healthcare and labor safety for the respective aims. In 2006, the company introduced a system of healthcare and labor safety management in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard (Certificate of Compliance dated November 10, 2006 by VERITAS Biuro – a world leading transnational technical agency in certification, inspections, supervision, expertise, consulting and training). The healthcare and labor safety management system creates the conditions for labor safety in general, labor safety in the workplace, and the prevention of accidents and hazards. Every division of the company has performed a risk and hazard assessment. Prevention measures are developed and implemented for every potential risk, which helps to avoid traumas. Savushkin Product has developed and implemented a procedure for identification and access to legislation concerning healthcare and labor safety and created a registry of legal acts and technical regulations. 22 A special organization approved by the Chief Engineer of Savushkin Product is contracted to perform the monitoring of labor conditions in accordance with industrial hazard control regulation. In the event that the monitoring results do not meet the specified criteria, a special plan of action is implemented. An industrial factor evaluation is made in accordance with the industrial control schedule at all working places, including all production and trading sites. During the first 10 months of 2014, the company spent 4 359 million BYR (406.4 thousand USD) for the following events in accordance with a plan for improvements in labor safety and conditions: Air conditioning was installed in the main production areas, laboratory, boiler and compressor rooms, laundry, fermentation area and so on; Supply and exhaust ventilation with an ice-water cooling system was installed in the workshops of the production branch in Pinsk; A lightning protection system was installed in the production site; Lifters were purchased for production sites, and so forth. In addition, the company takes other labor safety measures to improve labor conditions in accordance with the “Day of Environmental Protection and Labor Safety” protocol. 23 Workers are provided with personal protection equipment in accordance with the personal protection provision regulations approved by the General Director. Additional personal protection equipment is maintained centrally and provided where necessary. There is continual personal protection equipment quality control performed by a special commission in the company. During the first nine months of 2014, more than 230 million BYR (21.4 thousand USD) was spent for personal protection items. Labor safety training and knowledge control activities are regularly organized among the staff. Workers pass preliminary and periodic medical examinations related to harmful or hazardous factors of production. There is an annual labor safety measures contest. Staff from both the main and the auxiliary production sites take part in the contest. The winning team is awarded with wage bonuses. Savushkin Product not only provides good labor conditions, but also grants a significant social package. The trade union cooperates closely with the management of the company to create the most favorable labor and rest conditions for every person in the company. 24 Medical Care Healthcare is a matter of paramount importance to the company. The production sites in Brest and Stolin have their own medical stations, with all of the required equipment. During the first seven months of 2014, more than 690 million BYR (64 thousand USD) was spent for medications, drugs, dentistry materials, polyclinical examinations and so forth. There is a massage room with an underwater massage shower, a dental care room, a solarium and a sauna. All medical care provided to the staff in the medical stations is free. During the first six months of 2014, workers received 24 free sanatorium vouchers and five vouchers for the Mother and Child Resort at a 50% discount. In the summer, employees may receive vouchers for children’s health and sport camps with only a 10% payment. Persons who are raising children without a spouse, or families with three or more children receive these vouchers for free. A total of 95 children received rest in nine summer camps of the country during 2014. 25 Sports The trade union considers mass physical culture and sport activities an important part of social partnership, since health has both a social and economic aspect. Employees have an opportunity to attend swimming pools, gymnasiums, training rooms and skating rinks. Our sports teams participate annually in regional competitions and open events within the healthcare program. The workers regularly participate in tourism and sporting events. “Days of Health” for various divisions and units of the company are organized every year. Ten days of health were held in 2014 in all of the production and trade sites of Brest. More and more awards are being won by our staff. Just in 2014, a team from Savushkin Product took second place in the Brest City Five-Per-Side Soccer Championship, and third place in the Open Regional Five-Per-Side Soccer Tournament of the Brest Region. In the Stolin Industries Championship, our team took the second-place team prize, and in district tourism youth games, our staff won in darts, tug-of-war, orienteering and pneumatic rifle shooting. 26 Corporate Teambuilding The trade union also pays attention to teambuilding. The committee organizes visits to theatres and concerts by Belarusian artists, excursions, tourism and pilgrimage tours for employees. In 2014, workers went to the Pecherski Monastery of the Cave in Kiev, the Holy Trinity-St. Sergius Lavra, Pripyatski National Park, and the Pokrovski nunnery. Excursions to the Nesvizh and Mir castles, as well as a tour to Lviv, Novogrudok, Saint-Petersburg, the Silichy ski resort, and Santa Claus’s residence in Belovezhskaya Puscha were made. These cultural events are very popular among the employees and help to build team spirit. 27 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental protection is an important part of company activities. Savushkin Product OJSC cares about the environment and natural resources and strives for sustainable consumption. The aim of the environmental protection policy is minimal impact and the prevention of any negative effects to the environment. There is a Department of Labor safety and the Environment in the company that coordinates and controls the development and implementation of environmental measures, related local legal acts and environmental approvals. 28 Environmental Management System The environmental management system is a part of Savushkin The company has implemented an Product’s administration that is used for the development and environmental management system implementation of the environmental policy of the company certified annually for STB ISO 14001-2005 by and the management of environmental issues. Ecologiainvest RUE, and ISO 14001:2004 by The environmental management system requires an annual Biuro Veritas FLLC . analysis of environmental measures and progress in this area in order to minimize any environmental impact. Upon the grounds of a system efficiency analysis, the company develops measures Environmental compliance certificates: for more efficient environmental protection and issues • National № BY/112 06.01.074 00043 management. dated 08.04.2005, expiring 08.04.2017; • International № UA 227039 dated 10.11.2012, expiring 09.11.2015 29 Savushkin Product has implemented the Policy of environmental protection, healthcare and labor safety. The company undertakes the following obligations: To implement measures aimed at better labor To engage the employees of the company in activities conditions, a decrease in trauma and professional for environmental protection, healthcare, and labor diseases, and the prevention and minimization of safety; environmental impact; To improve employee qualifications through continuing To identify, evaluate, manage and minimize health and labor training in environmental protection, healthcare, and safety risks, as well as environmental issues ; labor safety; To analyze and improve environmental management To improve technological processes, implement energy system and healthcare and labor safety system efficiency, saving technologies, and use material and energy and provide all necessary resources to ensure functioning resources rationally. of the systems; To conduct an open dialogue with staff and the public on activities for environmental protection, healthcare, and labor safety; 30 Recycling Savushkin Product tries to recycle a maximum of its production waste. The waste is separated according to type and class of hazard and is accounted for in order to provide for safe placement or secondary usage as a resource. The following types of waste are recycled: clean cardboard, polyethylene, polystyrene (polystyrene strips, plastic package), PET-bottles, old tires, car batteries with electrolytes, synthetic and mineral oils, black and colored metal scratch and waste, cables, enameled wire, polyamide, wood and polypropylene. Fluorescent and mercury lamps, mercury thermometers and energy-saving fluorescent lamps are detoxified. All milk whey and buttermilk are fully recycled to increase production efficiency and have no negative environmental impact. 31 Atmospheric Emissions Within the reporting period, the enterprise issued an act concerning stationary emission sources, as well as draft limits for permissible emissions and an environmental passport. Every year, the company performs an analytical assessment of atmospheric emissions through cooperation with an approved, contracted organization, and in accordance with the analytical control program. No excess of the maximum allowed pollutant concentration values were found. Emissions of solid particles are purified by equipment that is checked every year for effectiveness. The technical report of the current year shows that the ventilation equipment is in good condition and purification is occurring in accordance with the specified parameters. The company has created an environmental protection plan that includes measures for air and water protection and waste management. We regularly instruct all workers in the environmental area and train them concerning STB ISO14001-2005 Requirements. Environmental Management System. In 2014, more than one hundred trees and bushes were planted on the territory of the enterprise. 32 Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Savushkin Product holds high ethical business standards, values its reputation, and uses open and humane methods. We believe in honest and transparent business practices and a moral business, and create these through long-term and stable relations with all stakeholders, based upon trust and the fulfillment of obligations. The company develops and supports a business culture based upon trust and fights all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery, as well as “black payments” to employees. Wages are paid through Belagroprombank, Belarusbank, BelVEB, and Alfa-Bank via electronic bank cards. We also concurrently increase the legal awareness and responsibility of staff. In 2014, we organized a meeting for interested employees with the prosecutor of the Brest Region, V. V. Savich. 33 The company strives for a transparent business and a strict following of national legislation concerning anti-corruption measures. Savushkin Product builds inner relations and public communications upon the principles of honesty and good will. Today, the company has business relations with many organizations in the country and abroad. We built these solely upon the basis of trust and mutual respect. A transparent system of partnership helps us to select the best companies upon the grounds of price and their quality ratio. Savushkin Product practices a tender system for purchases and services. All suppliers of packaging, fillers and equipment and other partners are chosen through tenders and comply with quality criteria established for their services and products. All payments are non-cash payments. Savushkin Product OJSC takes effective measures for the prevention of fraud by employees or third parties. Property and money are used for corporate aims and never for personal profit. 34 Contact person: Elena Babkina, PR Director Savushkin Product OJSC e-mail: elena@savushkin.by +375 17 394 92 97 +375 29 161 63 65 35
