CSR Report 2014 Corporate Social Responsibility Report A new frontier, a new lifestyle. Sekisui Chemical Group — produce a better world with creative technologies. Sekisui Chemical Group’s Philosophy for CSR Extolling a Company Principle calling for it to “Create social value while fulfilling stakeholder expectations,” Sekisui Chemical Group aims to contribute to society through its business activities. Our desire is to continue opening new horizons through prominence in technology and quality under our Group slogan “A new frontier, a new lifestyle,” to move toward building a better society with recognition, at all times, of what society demands. As globalization of our businesses advances and the stakeholders with whom we interact grow more diverse, we have prepared this CSR Report to communicate to stakeholders around the world the unchanging ideas and efforts of Sekisui Chemical Group. New Philosophy Revising the Company Creed of the “3S Principle” and Redefining Service it to Include the Existing Company Creed Creating value for society* through business The “3S Principle” Company Principle activities Shareholder Satisfaction Customer First Speed Contributing Together to Local Employee with Communities and the Self-Realization Business Transforming markets with all the power and Partners Environment vitality of a mighty waterfall Group Vision Through prominence in technology and quality, Sekisui Chemical Group will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the world and the earth’s environment, Superiority by continuing to open up new frontiers in residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions. Earning the trust of society* through prominence in technology and quality Management Strategies * Society: All of society as a whole, including the key stakeholders as Business-specific Strategies, Function-specific Strategies, CSR, etc. defined in our existing Company Principle: our “Customers,” “Shareholders,” “Employees,” “Business Partners,” and “Local Communities and the Environment.” Company Profile (As of March 31, 2014) Established: March 3, 1947 Domestic Subsidiaries: 117 Net Sales: 1,110.8 billion yen Capital: 100.002 billion yen Overseas Subsidiaries: 93 Operating Income: 82.5 billion yen Employees: 23,017 Affiliated Companies: 18 Net Income: 41.1 billion yen Main Evaluations from Society CSR in General ● Earned RobecoSAM Silver Class sustainability rating Environment ● Ranked 29th in Nikkei Environmental Management Ranking ● Earned selection to Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) ● Earned selection to CDP Japan 500 Climate Disclosure ● Earned selection to FTSE4Good Index Leadership Index (CDLI) ● Earned selection to Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel ● Earned selection to CDP Japan 500 Climate Performance EXCELLENCE indices Leadership Index (CPLI) ● Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible CS and Quality ● Ranked 28th in Nikkei Quality Management Ranking Investment Index Human Resources ● Ranked 49th in Nikkei Ranking of Best Companies to Work For ● Ranked 94th in Nikkei NICES ranking system ● Ranked 52nd in Nikkei Ranking of Companies that Fully ● Ranked 91st in Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Utilize Human Resources ● Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Diversity Management Selection 100 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 About Our Report CONTENTS ● The pages of this Report are structured in line with Sekisui Chemical Group’s concept of its Corporate Social Responsibility 3 Top Message (CSR) in terms of Three Prominences—in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources—along with Three Attitudes of 5 Our Company Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk Management, and Communication. Midterm Management Plan 7 ● This Report describes case studies on creation of value for society, customers, and the Group itself as a result of efforts to 9 CSR Midterm Plan deliver solutions to social issues through business activities. ● We have decided on the information that should be covered in 11 Management this Report through consideration of its importance both to society and to Sekisui Chemical Group, based on inputs Three Prominences Environment including surveys conducted within and outside the Group and independent review. 15 ● A separate Data Book has been established to ensure that the Report is both comprehensive and easy to read. Our Philosophy / Environment-Contributing Products / Climate ● Continuing efforts for which there was not enough room in the Change / Resource Efficiency / Chemical Substances / Biodiversity Report are covered on the Sekisui Chemical Group website. CS&Quality Information about Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is 23 ● disclosed publicly through this Report and the Annual Report, which reports financial information concerning the Group. To ensure the reliability of this Report, its environmental and Our Philosophy / Attractive Products and Services / Quality ● social reporting have been subjected to independent practitioner’s guarantee. ● The calculation criteria for the key performance indicators (KPIs) used in this Report are shown on p. 27-29 of the Data Book. 29 Human Resources Our Philosophy / Group Human Resources Capabilities / Human Guidelines Referred to Resources for Global Business / Diversity / Safety and Security ● This Report refers to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver. 4. A GRI Guidelines Business and CSR: Efforts of Division Companies comparison table is available on the Sekisui Chemical Group website. ● In preparing this Report, we also have referred to the Ministry of 39 Housing Company the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition). 43 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Scope of This Report Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of this Report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical 47 High Performance Plastics Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key Company roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2013-March 2014 Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Bases of CSR 51 Compliance The environmental and social information in this report has been subjected to an independent practitioner’s assurance for 53 Risk Management the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo Verified is used to indicate that each item of such subject information has been 54 Communication verified. Disclaimer 55 Environmental and Social Contributions Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections 59 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance and management plans and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted 60 History of Sekisui Chemical Group through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in connection with expansions in scope, revision of 60 Editors’ Notes calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 2 Top Message Further Advancing CSR Management as a Pillar of the New Midterm Management Plan Achieving the Goals of the Midterm Management Plan Amid Severe Changes in the Business Environment The midterm management plan GS21-SHINKA!, which started in 2009, when I took office as president, has reached completion. Looking back on the five years of that plan, they were a time of severe fluctuations in the business environment, from the slowdown that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers through the sluggish economy in Europe, the rising value of the yen on international currency markets, the Great East Japan Earthquake, new risks in China, and adapting to the change of government in Japan and the increase in consumption tax. However, Sekisui Chemical Group was able to achieve the goals of the midterm management plan while earning record profits through reforming its business models to adapt to such changing conditions. In the housing business, we strived to stay ahead of the competition at all times by promoting the use of homes that realize environmental performance, economic performance, and comfort. Measures such as introducing our Smart Power Station homes aiming for energy self-sufficiency through combining large-capacity solar power, storage cells, and HEMS systems enabled us to set a world record on number of solar-powered homes built. In the infrastructure business, by shifting to a value-chain-based business model we were the first in Japan to receive a contract to provide comprehensive management services to a local government for total solutions including infrastructure repair, renovation, and renewal. In addition, our acquisition of the pipe materials business of Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. gave us the top market share in the important resin pipes market. Overseas, in addition to enhancing our global supply structure in the automotive field through strengthening our production capacities for raw materials and products in order to meet booming demand and address foreign-exchange risks, we also constructed systems for developing the businesses of diagnostic reagents and testing equipment in the medical field in Europe and North America. Sekisui Chemical Group will continue to devote all its strengths to building a sustainable society, not just in Japan but on a global basis. Looking Back on the CSR Midterm Plan Sekisui Chemical Group has implemented CSR management in terms of Three Prominences—in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources—along with the Three Attitudes of Sincerity on which these are based: in Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication. 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 One of the main achievements of the CSR Midterm Plan approaches. Specifically, these refer to working toward has been the increase in sales of Environment-Contributing further permeation of CSR management in Sekisui Products. Sekisui Chemical Group refers to products that Chemical Group; sharing values and finding solutions to not only reflect environmental considerations but also can issues on a global basis; and increasing corporate value contribute to lessening society’s impacts on the through enhancing dialogue with stakeholders. environment as Environment-Contributing Products, and In addition, we will continue supporting the United we had set a target of a percentage of 40% or more of net Nations Global Compact as a platform for deploying CSR sales consisting of sales of Environment-Contributing management on a global basis. Products. In fiscal 2013, we were able to increase this percentage to 42%. We also have made progress on To Maintain a Strong Corporate Value for the Next 100 reducing our carbon-dioxide emissions in Japan, and the Years through CSR SHINKA CO2 emissions reduction benefits of The society of the future will need to address and find Environment-Contributing Products reached a level solutions for issues related to the maturation of global surpassing that of total emissions at the production stage. society. These include aging populations in developed At the same time, with the broadening of business countries, aging urban infrastructure, increasingly severe expansion overseas, our emissions of CO2 and waste weather, economic growth in Asia, and limits on resources. overseas are in an increasing trend. This is an issue we will We believe that under such conditions, there are numerous address in future efforts. social issues that we can help solve through our businesses. On the subject of major quality issues, unfortunately If we can build prominence in Japan, where many such some customers and related parties were greatly issues are coming to the forefront sooner than in other inconvenienced by serious product defects involving countries, then we also could build next-generation products manufactured and sold in the past. We will strive businesses that can contribute to the world. to prevent the reoccurrence of such cases through safety We intend to further intensify the global business measures during product design and thorough collection development we have carried out through now together of products from the market during product recalls. with accelerating our adaptation to the communities we serve around the world, to further advance localization of our Toward Further Permeation of CSR Management Along prominences and both contribute to society and expand our the Three Axes of Group, Global, and Communication business lines. We will do so by beginning reforms to our Through now, our CSR management efforts have been existing business models and aiming to create new focused on permeation and strengthening of CSR businesses and advance into new fields through co-creation management and on its global deployment. In Japan, CSR conducted within the Group and with outside parties. is addressed as part of deployment of business policies. For To do so, we will continue aiming to be a sustainable example, each division company and department company that can maintain its strong value for 100 years, as establishes and addresses its own CSR topics and priorities, we work to increase our corporate value through CSR all based on discussion and consideration in the CSR SHINKA by both contributing to society and growing our Committee and individual subcommittees. Overseas, the businesses through creating and growing sales of meetings of presidents of overseas companies and HR staff Environment-Contributing Products, developing human conferences have become firmly established as venues for resources and enlivening our organizations to support such identification of and deliberation on shared issues in each efforts, and continuing to deliver the quality specified by area, but amid the diversification and globalization of our customers, through improving both Basic and Attractive growing overseas businesses one could not necessarily Qualities. describe as adequate the sharing of Group concepts and values and permeation of CSR management overseas. The basic strategy of the new midterm management plan SHINKA!-Advance 2016 is SHINKA (evolution) in three business models, with CSR SHINKA serving as a foundation. We have identified three directions for evolving CSR in accordance with our business strategies aimed at growth Naofumi Negishi through further diversification and globalization of our President business models: the Group, Global, and Communication Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 4 Our Company Around the world, Sekisui Chemical Group conducts a diverse range of businesses that create value for society, through its three internal Division Companies. Housing Company Housing and Living Environment Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Housing Housing ● Steel Frame Modular Housing: Sekisui Heim Environmental Products Plastics ● Wood Frame Modular Housing: Sekisui Two-U Home Refurbishing ● Home maintenance, extension and remodeling Real Estate ● Brokerage services of quality homes ● Apartment rental management Sekisui Heim Sekisui Heim Modular baths (single-family residence) (apartments) Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Piping ● Water and sewer pipes, pipes for electricity, gas, Materials and telecommunications use ● Pipeline rehabilitation Decking materials Fire protection (FP) materials Building ● Building materials and equipment (rain gutters, Materials decking materials, insulation materials) ● Modular baths Performance ● PVC sheet, sleepers Materials High Performance Plastics Company Electronics ● Materials for mobile devices ● Optical and semiconductor materials Social Infrastructure ● LCD and display materials Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Automobiles ● Interlayer film Environmental Plastics and Products ● Molded automotive components transportation ● Expanded polypropylene interior materials Buildings and ● Fireproof materials infrastractures ● Functional resins ● Tapes for home construction use ● Plastic material for water storage Water and sewer pipes, SPR pipeline Cross-Wave plastic pipes for electricity, gas, and rehabilitation method material for water storage Life Sciences ● Diagnostic reagents system telecommunications use ● Medical devices Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Note: Figures current as of March 31, 2014 (consolidated basis) Europe Asia / Oceania Japan Americas (including China) (North, Central, South) Companies 33 Companies 35 Companies 82 Companies 17 Employees 1,432 Employees 2,994 Employees 17,047 Employees 1,544 Key: Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Headquarters Total 23,017 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Automobiles and Transportation Life Sciences Urban Infrastructure & High Performance High Performance Environmental Plastics Plastics Products PVC sheet for aircraft use FFU synthetic sleepers Cholestest cholesterol Coapresta 3000 blood diagnostic reagents coagulation analyzer Interlayer film Molded automotive components, expanded polypropylene interior materials Electronics High Performance Plastics Materials for mobile devices Conductive fine particles Optical protective films Display materials Double-faced tape /ITO film (plastic fine particles) Net Sales by Region Employees by Region Percentage of Net Sales from Overseas Other 0.9% Asia / Oceania 13.0% 30 (%) 23.4 Asia 9.4% 20 Europe 6.2% Europe 6.0% Americas (North, Central, South) 10 9.5 Japan Japan U.S. 7.0% 76.6% 6.7% 74.1% 0 2004 2013 (FY) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 6 Midterm Management Plan Pursuing SHINKA (Evolution) of Both Business Models and CSR Changes in the Business Environment Anticipated Over the Coming 10 Years ● Aging of society around the world ● Rising social security costs and pressure on public finances Society ● Concentration of population in urban areas and aging urban infrastructure ● Population growth in emerging markets Global ● Climate change, more severe weather Environment ● Degradation of ecosystems Politics, ● Asia drives global economic growth Economy ● Growing global economic ties Resources, ● Issues arising related to limits on various resources, including water, food, raw materials, and fuel Energy ● Diversification of energy sources Mid-to long-term Business Conditions Operating Income As society matures on a global basis, a variety of special ■ Housing Company ■ Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company issues will come to the forefront in the future. Sekisui ■ High Performance Plastics Company 1,000 (100 million yen) 1,000 Chemical Group will contribute to solutions for such issues through smart methods in terms of economics, resources, 800 825 and energy, based on the two foundations of creating 600 596 residential and social infrastructure and chemical solutions. 493 546 Based on this understanding, we have prepared a new 400 360 Midterm Management Plan for the three-year periods beginning with fiscal 2014. Under this plan, we will work to 200 achieve both contributions to society through our business 0 activities and growth as an enterprise, aiming to maintain a 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2016 (FY) strong Group value for the next 100 years. (Target) 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Framework of the New Midterm Management Plan SHINKA!-Advance 2016 (Fiscal 2014-2016) Three SHINKA business models 1 3 Core Business SHINKA Global SHINKA ➡ Change Stage1 ● Brush-up of existing businesses ● Reinforce expansion of ● Specialization of strategic existing businesses businesses and products ＋ Stage2 2 Frontier SHINKA ➡ Localization of ➡ “Co-creation” “prominent ● Pioneer new markets and new fields by internal and external business models” ● Accelerate adaptation to cooperation local communities M&A and Strategic Investment Monozukuri/Base Technology CSR SHINKA Basic Strategy of the New Midterm Management Plan The basic strategy of the new Midterm Management Plan Materials, Eco-friendly Materials for a comfortable ride, Materials SHINKA!-Advance 2016 (fiscal 2014-2016) is SHINKA (evolution) for mobile devices, and Diagnostic Reagent Systems. In Frontier in the three business models of core businesses, frontier SHINKA, we will move forward on creation of next-generation businesses, and global businesses, with CSR SHINKA serving as businesses through co-creation, utilizing means including joint a foundation. projects among division companies, alliances with outside In Core Business SHINKA, we will begin reforms to the parties, mergers and acquisitions, and industry-academy business models of existing businesses. Using the term partnerships. In Global SHINKA, together with strengthening “Growing 8 (G8)” to refer to businesses on which we should businesses in which globalization already has advanced, such focus particular efforts, we will aim to use these businesses to as interlayer films and foam, we will proceed with localization drive Group growth through intensive strategic investments of business models in areas such as housing in Thailand, pipe and other means. The G8 businesses are Remodeling, Home rehabilitation, and diagnostic reagent systems. Asset Management, Living/Social Infrastructure Stocks, We also will strive to further evolve the CSR management Overseas Water Infrastructure, Functional Infrastructure that supports this SHINKA in three business models. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 8 CSR Midterm Plan Promoting a New Midterm Plan Based on the Axes of Group, Global, and Communication Overview of the CSR Midterm Plan (Fiscal 2009-2013) Items FY2013 results Verified FY2013 targets Sales of EnvironmentContributing Products Percentage of net sales: 42% Percentage of net sales: 40% or more Environment Greenhouse-gas emissions reductions (production sites in Japan) Reduced 17.4% vs. FY2007 (Japan) Reduce 10% or more vs. FY2007 (Japan) Three Prominences Waste reduction Reduced 19.7% vs. FY2007 per unit of Reduce 25% or more vs. FY2007 per (production sites in Japan) output (Japan) unit of output (Japan) (Target revised from 40% reduction) Reduce external failure Reduced 66% (vs. FY2004) Reduce 68% (vs. FY2004) CS&Quality costs Major quality issues 1 incident 0 incidents Human Develop global talent Number of global talent employees: 300 Number of global talent employees: 300 employees Resources Opportunities for diverse human resources to thrive Percentage of women among new hires: 22% Percentage of women among new hires: 30% Item FY2013 results FY2013 targets Raise awareness and Matters discussed by Advisory Board: 8 Three Attitudes of Sincerity Compliance (FY2011-2013) Expand monitoring and expand use overseas deployment overseas S.C.A.N. system adopted (Japan, U.S., China) Take thorough steps to Organizations employing Increase number of organizations prevent trouble occurring risk-management activities: 112 conducting risk-management activities (100 organizations) Risk-management systems Disaster-prevention system utilization Risk Management (Japan) rate: 74% Enhance disaster-prevention systems Risk-management systems Site-specific risk management manuals Build systems for crisis management (overseas) developed at 104 sites (91%) overseas (by region) Disclosure & Selection to SRI indices Maintained selection to SRI indices Maintain selection to SRI indices Communication Overview of CSR Midterm Plan (Fiscal 2009-2013) Environment Balance between Under the Midterm Plan for the period through the end of Ecology and Economy fiscal 2013, we succeeded in increasing the CO2 emission reduction benefits of Environment-Contributing Products Three Prominences to a level surpassing that of total emissions at the producHuman Resources CS & Quality Encourage employees Deliver truly tion stage in Japan, as part of the environmental midterm to set their own goals impressive products positively and services plan. We also developed global talent employees for the globalization of our businesses and made progress on permeation of CSR management, chiefly in Japan, through adoption of the S.C.A.N. whistle-blowing program and further development of risk-management systems. At the same time, we were unable to completely eliminate serious quality issues and serious compliance Communication Risk Management issues, and issues such as external failure costs still need to be addressed. Overseas in particular, the increasing numbers of companies and employees are leading to increases in our environmental impact and in numbers of Compliance occupational accidents. These are issues that we will address in the next midterm plan. Three Attitudes of Sincerity 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Targets of the New CSR Midterm Plan (Fiscal 2014-2016) Key measures Targets Overall Further permeation of CSR management Deployment in business plans 1 Expand sales of Environment-Contributing Products ● Percentage of net sales: 50% or more Environment 2 Reduce environmental impact 1) Reduce greenhouse-gas emissions ● Identical targets in Japan and overseas ■ Maintain total volume (vs. FY2013) 2) Reduce waste ■ 12% reduction per unit of output (vs. FY2013) 3) Address water risks ■ Ascertain current conditions and draft countermeasures Three Prominences 3 Conserve natural environment ● 10-point improvement in Land-Use Report Card 1 Improve “Basic Qualities” ● Zero important quality issues CS&Quality ● Halve external failure costs (vs. FY2013) 2 Improve “Attractive Qualities” ● Increase customer satisfaction 1 Strengthen Group human resources ● Increase internal job postings by 30/year Human 2 Train global talent employees ● Number of global talent emplyees: 400 Resources 3 Promote diversity (women, elderly people, ● Percentage of women among new hires: 30% non-Japanese people, people with disabilities) ● Percentage of international hires: 20% 1 Prevent corruption and fraud ● Zero occurrences Compliance Three Attitudes of Sincerity 2 Prevent important compliance issues ● Zero occurrences 1 Thorough preventive measures ● Improve quality of risk-management activities Risk Management 2 Strengthen risk management systems (Japan) ● Disaster-prevention system utilization rate: 90% 3 Strengthen risk management systems (overseas) ● Site-specific risk management manuals developed at 100% of sites 1 Enhance dialogue with stakeholders ● Maintain selection to key SRI indices 2 Address human rights and supply chain initiatives Communication (child labor, discrimination) ● Promote CSR procurement globally 3 Promote social contribution activities ● Increase employee participation Outline of the New CSR Midterm Plan Under CSR SHINKA, the basis of the new Midterm Manageregard to prominence in CS & Quality, we will aim to deliver ment Plan (see p. 8), we will further advance CSR manageattractive products and services and the quality our ment in pursuit of greater vitality among our human customers require, through improving both “Basic Qualities” resources and the essence of Sekisui. We have identified and “Attractive Qualities.” With regard to prominence in three directions for CSR SHINKA: Group, Global, and Human Resources, we will increase the strengths of human Communication. These refer to working toward further resources throughout the entire Group, based on the three permeation of CSR management in the diversifying Sekisui axes of Group, Global, and Diversity policies. To do so, we Chemical Group, solving global issues based on shared will hire and train the human resources we need, deploy HR values, and increasing corporate value through enhancing policies across the entire Group, and work toward centraldialogue with stakeholders. ized management of Group HR data that supports these With regard to prominence in the Environment, we efforts, using information technology. have formulated a new midterm plan (see p. 16) under Furthermore, through making the degree of permewhich we will contribute to returns on natural capital ation of CSR management more visible, we will strive through Groupwide progress on expanding sales of toward the further permeation of CSR management within Environment-Contributing Products, lessening environmenthe Group, by sharing anew the Group recognition that CSR tal impact, and preserving the natural environment. With indicators are important topics of management. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 10 Management Increasing Corporate Value and Promoting CSR Management Group as a Whole CSR Management Structure The CSR Committee, with Participation by Top evaluation and compensation systems were discussed, Management and Employee Representatives based on the theme of training the next generation of As venues for deliberation on CSR management, we have management. In the Americas, efforts have been made to set up the CSR Committee and five subcommittees: the cut logistics costs through creating synergies and to share Environmental Subcommittee, the CS & Quality Subcommitvalues through policy management training and intercultee, the Human Resources Subcommittee, the Safety tural communication training for human-resources Subcommittee, and the Compliance Subcommittee. (See development. In Europe, together with distributing general Data Book, p. 23.) leaflets and newsletters on each company to employees, Chaired by the President, the CSR Committee’s membersurveys of employee understanding were conducted as ship also includes the president of each division company part of efforts to achieve internal brand permeation. We and three representatives of employees, all working to also sponsored a squash tournament to increase brand improve committee deliberations and measures. recognition overseas. In Japan, we are conducting CSR training for new CSR Efforts in Japan and Overseas Sekisui Chemical Group employees and new members of Reflecting its global business development, Sekisui management positions, based on the CSR training system. Chemical Group is proactively advancing CSR efforts Both in Japan and around the world, Sekisui Chemical overseas as well as in Japan. Group aims to ensure each individual member company Since fiscal 2010, we have held Presidents’ Meetings for fulfills its social responsibilities and to evolve Group overseas affiliates in the five territories of Europe, the management, through cooperation among companies that Americas, Asia / Oceania, China, and South Korea, to discuss have differing lines of business and learning together about matters such as issues in each area and solutions to them as best practices. well as creation of synergies. Moreover, discussion of the content of these Presidents’ Meetings with top manageIdentification of Key CSR Issues (Materialities) ment in Japan is incorporated into the schedule of the Together with the start of the new Midterm Management strategic plan meeting held in Japan in March of each year. Plan SHINKA!-Advance 2016, we have reviewed issues For example, to promote localization of management in related to CSR management efforts and identified key issues China based on Sekisui Chemical Group’s ways of thinking, (materialities). (See next page) Voice I had been given an opportunity to exchange opinions with Sekisui Chemical Headquarters and the presidents of Group companies in China I took part in the Presidents’ Meeting held in Beijing for Chinese subsidiaries. The Presidents’ Meeting is an opportunity to explain headquarters policies to local subsidiaries and to get corporate headquarters to understand the various issues faced by local subsidiaries. The meeting featured lively exchange of constructive opinions based on the shared goal of growing Sekisui Chemical Group. As a participant in the meeting, I sensed the enthusiasm General Manager, HR Administration of everybody there and was able to get a deep understanding of the Group’s policies and Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental philosophy. Technology Co., Ltd. I believe that our role as participants is to take back what we absorbed in this meeting Chu Ling to our own companies and ensure it permeates throughout our organization. 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 The Process of Identifying Key CSR Issues Step 1: Sort candidates for key CSR issues List used in assessing Candidates for key CSR issues were identified through considering global guidelines, SRI the importance of CSR issues surveys, and developments among other companies, and then analyzing the opinions and expectations of each stakeholder. These candidates and CSR issues already addressed were sorted into key CSR issues for the future. A: Importance to stakeholders Step 2: Assess the importance of candidates for key CSR issues The candidates for key CSR issues sorted in Step 1 were subjected to overall evaluation along Key CSR issues the two axes of their importance to stakeholders (A) and importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management (B). Along axis A, candidates were assessed from the perspectives of expectations of each stakeholder, world trends, and positive and negative impacts on the planet and society, while along axis B they were assessed from the perspectives of consistency with management policies and management strategies, correspondence to CSR issues, risk and reputation, and priories based on timeline. Step 3: Formulate of the CSR Midterm Plan B: Importance to Sekisui Chemical Following deliberation in the CSR Committee, key performance indicators (KPIs) were set by Group management the responsible departments for the identified key CSR issues. The CSR Midterm Plan was formulated after approval in the Committee. CSR Midterm Plan (See p. 10) Human Rights and Supply Chain Initiatives In light of the increases in production and procurement taking In addition to quality and delivery times, suppliers are requested place in developing countries, which involve high levels of to give consideration to the environment, comply with laws, human-rights risks, as globalization of its businesses advances, regulations, and societal norms, and ensure health and safety in Sekisui Chemical Group has revised its related policies. their own companies. Since 2007, we have been conducting surveys on CSR efforts targeting suppliers and working to ascertain the results. In fiscal 2014 we also has begun efforts to ■ Revision of the Basic Policy on Human Rights address conflict minerals. The need not to participate in human rights violations, as specified in the UN Global Compact and ISO 26000, has been added to the Sekisui Chemical Group’s Procurement Policy text on respect for human rights and prohibition of discrimination. http://www.sekisuichemical.com/about/suggestion/ (See Data Book, p. 25) ■ Lumber Procurement ■ Procurement Policy For structural lumber materials, which account for the bulk of Sekisui Chemical Group procures materials based on the five lumber used in homes, we use certified lumber such as that fundamental concepts of openness; fairness and equity; legal certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Such certified compliance; mutual trust; and consideration for the environment. lumber is procured lawfully from properly managed forests. R&D and Intellectual Property Initiatives ■ R&D ■ Intellectual Property Headquarters and each business section have R&D sections that Under the basic policy of securing business competitive strength work to increase the speed of technological development and through obtaining strong patents, we are striving to improve create outstanding technologies. quality and raise awareness in development through efforts The Invention Grand Prize has been established as one part of including evaluation and training of employees. efforts to ensure researchers and engineers receive the evaluations and treatment they deserve. The Invention Grand Prize establishes monetary rewards for inventors of inventions recognized to make major contributions to profits. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 12 Management Continuing Report: Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is to provide housing and the infrastructure essential to support living. Utilizing the characteristics of these businesses, we are carrying out a variety of activities to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. ■ Contributing to Restoring Homes through Subdivisions and Public Housing in Affected Areas Three years have passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake, and construction of public housing for disaster victims and supply of homes through bulk relocation for disaster-prevention purposes are fully underway. While the temporary housing constructed in Miyagi Prefecture continues to have a high occupancy rate of 85%, it appears likely that full-fledged removal and downsizing of such housing will begin in fiscal 2014. Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. provides information on Sekisui Heim homes to residents of temporary housing as well as holding seminars on prevention of fraud in partnership with the Miyagi Prefecture Police and publicizing and providing consulting services on public systems available to assist those faced with dual mortgages. It also has begun development of Cresvarole Hometown, a subdivision where it will build highly cost-effective homes and communities as part of its efforts to support earthquake recovery, utilizing the expertise it has Cresvarole Hometown built up through now in real-estate subdivision. In addition, its bid on the 44-unit public condominium project for disaster victims being conducted by the city of Higashimatsushima in Miyagi Prefecture has been accepted, thanks to its setting up a Reconstruction Promotion Office as a specialized section in 2014 and its work to receive orders from government and UR* for public housing projects in affected areas. It continues contributing to restoration of housing in affected areas, for example by beginning work on this project toward completion in about two years. *UR: Urban Renaissance Agency ■ Contributing to Affected Areas through Supplying Materials, Systems, and Construction for Recovery Since fiscal 2011, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company The inside of a sewer pipe prior has continually provided water and sewer pipe materials, housing materials, and to installation of a wastewater other supplies to assist in restoration of lifeline infrastructure in affected areas. heat reuse system Beginning in fiscal 2013, activities in affected areas shifted from recovery toward redevelopment of housing and industry infrastructure. Comprehensive efforts are underway through making the most of the value chain. Since the lack of construction workers is a major problem delaying restoration work, the local communities have increasing expectations for Sekisui Chemical Group’s contributions. Activities in the area of infrastructure development for agriculture and fisheries industries include reconstruction of a greenhouse complex in the towns of Watari and Yamamoto in Miyagi Prefecture, the largest strawberry-producing area in the Tohoku region; rehabilitation of agricultural water pipes; and reconstruction of an abalone farm. In construction of public housing for disaster After installation victims, use of prefabricated piping systems for water and drain pipes is helping of the system to speed up construction work. In addition, as a joint project with the city of Sendai, feasibility studies have begun on installation of Japan’s first system using wastewater heat, intended to use heat from public sewer pipes to supply hot water to the private sector. This system employs Sekisui’s exclusive technologies for rehabilitation of aged sewer pipes while also adding functions for putting their heat to use, and there are high expectations that Sendai will be the first place to put to use this technology for realizing a sustainable community. Sekisui Chemical Group also has developed its own general catalog of products and services available for the new type of agricultural management known as the “sixth industry” in Japan, involving facilities such as agricultural greenhouses and vegetable factories. Group companies in the region are acting together as one to contribute to the region’s revival. 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Governance To maximize corporate value, Sekisui Chemical Group has Respect for International Norms built its management structure based on a system of three division companies. Believing that increasing the Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and transparency and fairness of management and pursuing standards regarding CSR. It announced its support for the swift decision-making are important to continually increasing United Nations Global Compact* in March 2009. Since then, corporate value amid a changing business environment, it it has been advancing CSR efforts on a global basis. implements a variety of efforts related to corporate We also refer to ISO 26000, an international governance. social-responsibility guideline issued in November 2010, and the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Strengthening the Business Execution Function Guidelines revised in 2013 in enhancing internal efforts and Together with assigning to each division company operating in the editing of this CSR Report. officers specializing in business execution, an Executive Committee has been established to serve as the top decision-making body in each division company. As such, a * United Nations Global Compact broad range of authority has been transferred from the Board A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the of Directors to the Executive Committee. world pledge to comply with 10 principles on subjects such as The Board of Directors strives to achieve continual human rights, labor standards, the improvements in corporate value as an organization environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of responsible for decision on basic policies of Sekisui Chemical influence of their firms and participate in building a global Group’s management as well as high-level management framework for realizing sustainable decision-making and supervision of business execution. growth. Compliance Surpassing the Requirements of Japanese Law ● Appointment of external directors ● Operating officer system (term: one year) ● Early issue of notices of general meetings of shareholders ● Exercise of voting rights electronically in general meetings of shareholders ● Formulation of rules on corporate information disclosure Corporate Governance System Corporate Auditors (including External Corporate Auditors) Board of Directors External Directors Operating Officers President and CEO President President President Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Housing Company Environmental Products Headquarters Company Company Note: See the Corporate Governance Report for details. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 14 Environment Continuing to deliver outstanding values toward realization of a planet where biodiversity is maintained Our Philosophy Sekisui Chemical Group aims to realize a planet and society in which the air, water, and land provide a healthy environment for living creatures form an abundance of ecosystems, and human beings continue to live their lives and carry out economic activities using such natural capital* as resources, without loss of receptiveness. We intend to contribute to the survival of a planet in which biodiversity is maintained, by minimizing deterioration of natural capital in forms such as large-scale climate change, resource depletion, and damage to ecosystems. We will do so through implementing effective measures in response to the signs of rising greenhouse-gas emissions, overconsumption of resources, and increasing impacts on ecosystems. * Natural capital: A term that refers to the earth’s various resources such as soil, air, water, minerals, flora, and fauna that human beings are incapable of creating themselves. The Environmental Management Policies and Systems See ”Data Book,” p. 23, 24 Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 Sekisui Chemical Group uses the resources of the earth (natural capital) in various ways, including constructing plants and business sites on land and consumption of oil and lumber. We strive to give back the natural capital we use through three types of activities: provide Environment-Contributing Products; activities to lessen our environmental impact, including conservation of energy and other resources; and activities to preserve the natural environment. To realize these goals, we will continue to be an organization in which each employee has a high degree of environmental awareness. 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Long-Term Environmental Management Vision In fiscal 2013, Sekisui Chemical Group revised, from an enhanced global perspective, the long-term vision formulated in fiscal 2009 that makes clear our courses of action for environmental management, and newly established the “Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030.” Framework for Promoting Environmental Management Develop Environmentally Talented Human Resources Contribute to returns on natural capital Appreciation ● Environmental risk management (Managed using an integrated indicator* of degree of returns) ● Opportunities to put efforts into practice Reduce greenhouse-gas emissions Reduce other Action ● Generating results for the environment ( Achieve carbon negative) environmental impacts and society ● Basic knowledge, basic action skills ● Current situation, latest trends Expand and create Reduce environmental Conserve natural Awareness ● Recognizing the issues EnvironmentContributing impacts environment ● Environmental management knowledge Products and skills (EMS) Training step Program content We have developed a training program based on the three steps of awareness, action, and appreciation. This Improve ability to promote environmental activities program will be used to support growth toward the human resources ideal for 2030. The human resources we Develop environmentally aim to develop by 2030 are those capable of generating Enhance environmental talented human resources promotion systems results for society through devising and implementing on (See chart at right) their own activities to contribute to returns on natural capital toward realization of the Earth with maintained biodiversity. *Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index Roadmap to 2030 New Environmental Midterm Plan Sekisui Chemical Group has prepared a roadmap through Earth with maintained 2030 based on back-casting* from the new long-term vision. biodiversity As part of this roadmap, we have formulated the new environmental midterm plan Sekisui Environment Sustainability Plan: Take-Off (FY 2014-2016) as a successor to ● All products contribute to returns on environmental capital ● Contributing to returns on environmental capital through 2030 the Environment Top Runner Plan SHINKA! activities to lessen environmental impact Business sites play a leading role in promoting activities to Goal * Back-casting ● A method of considering steps that should be taken at present by envisioning contribute to returns on environmental capital a goal for the future and working backward to the present state. ● Promoting a new system based on a new indicator of contribution ● Lessening environmental impact: Measures implemented for focal points 2020 ● Conservation activities with high degrees of contribution become Accelerate Targets of Sekisui Environmental the normal state of affairs Qualitative improvements in greenbelts at overseas business sites Sustainability Plan: Take-Off ● ● Grow Environment-Contributing Products’ percentage of net sales to 50% or more ● Environment-Contributing Products’ percentage of net sales: 50% or more ● Progress on and management of environmental impact ● Promoting efforts to lessen environmental impact using the same using the same targets in Japan and overseas 2016 targets in Japan and overseas ● Ascertain environmental impacts other than ● Sekisui Environment Week: All business sites and all employees Take-Off greenhouse-gas emissions (e.g., water use, land use, take part atmospheric emissions) ● Qualitative improvements in green space at production sites in Japan ● Ascertain environmental impact (Scope 3) throughout the supply chain ● Environment-Contributing Products account for 42% of net sales ● Participation of all business sites and all employees in ● GHG emissions reductions in Japan: down 17.4% from FY2007 Through ● Start of Sekisui Environment Week Sekisui Environment Week 2013 ● Qualitative survey of green space at production sites in Japan Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 16 Environment Progress on the Environmental Midterm Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY2009-2013) Of the four key themes established by the Environmental Midterm Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY 2009-2013), targets were achieved on sales of Environment-Contributing Products, reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, and the Sekisui Eco Value Index (see Data Book, p. 9), but the targets for reducing volumes of wastes generated were not achieved. Ratio of sales of EnvironmentGreenhouse-gas emissions (Japan) Volumes of waste generated (Japan) Sekisui Eco Value Index Contributing Products Verified Verified Verified Verified 42% 433 43.7 33.9 3.1 321 Thousand tons-CO2 Thousand tons 15% Up Down Down 1.0 Up 2007 2013 27% 1990 2013 26% 2007 2013 22% 2007 2013 3.1times T OPICS First Sekisui Environment Week Activities Held In response to a proposal by children attending “the Global Children’s Eco Summit 2012*” held in August 2012, Sekisui Chemical Group has declared one week beginning August 1 each year to be Sekisui Environment Week. During this week, all employees will be given opportunities to take part in activities to contribute to the environment. During the first Sekisui Environment Week in fiscal 2013, 156 of the Group’s 199 business sites and affiliates worldwide took part in activities such as community cleanup activities and Community cleanup activities in Japan nature tours. In addition, mangrove trees were planted in Thailand, as an event symbolic of Sekisui Environment Week. This tree-planting activity, held for the third time since their start in fiscal 2011, welcomed 215 participants from eight Sekisui Chemical Group companies, including the president of Sekisui Chemical. * Global Children’s Eco Summit 2012 An environmental event held to mark the Company’s 65th anniversary. Children of Sekisui Chemical Group employees from around the world took part, announcing their environmental proposals for Sekisui Chemical as one part of the program. Planting mangrove trees in Thailand Expanding Certification of Environmental Management System In an effort to carry out environmental management effectively, we have developed our environmental management system (EMS) in accordance with the ISO 14001 international System for Environmental Consideration standard and are working to expand certification in Products of this system. As of March 2014, 57 business sites in Japan and 31 sites overseas had obtained Sekisui Chemical Group incorporates consideration for the certifications such as ISO 14001. The number of environment in three stages of its business activities: R&D, employees at these business sites represents 53% procurement, and manufacturing. For this purpose, we are of all Sekisui Chemical Group employees. implementing systems including Product Assessments for Environmental Impact, Green Procurement, and Prior Assessment of Capital Expenditure. (See Data Book, p. 10). Forms related to green procurement and other materials are available on the Sekisui Chemical website: http://www.sekisui.co.jp/company/suggestion/ 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Environment Three Environment-Contributing Products Prominences Contributing to Minimizing the Environmental Impacts of Our Stakeholders and Society through our Products and Businesses Environment The meaning of Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR is to contribute to a sustainable society through business. To contribute to minimizing the environmental impacts of society, it is essential that businesses create and promote widespread use of products that will make active contributions to the environment. In fiscal 2006 CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group established Environment-Contributing Product Standards calling for an even higher level of contribution to the environment than before, and since then it has managed such products through a certification system. (See Data Book, p. 10) ECO Requirements Products for Environment-Contributing High Environment-Contributing Products Development Environmental contribution level Environments Naural/social environments targeted*1 Human Scope of All customers/society-wide Certification Application: Application for certification contribution*2 Standards by Business Units Market penetration 50% or less Resources Screening: Screening by internal certification screening committee Level of A level above conventional Product contribution*3 products/systems Low *1 Excluding living environments Third Party Evaluation *2 Excluding Sekisui in-company operations External Advisory Board *3 Certification criteria established dependent on type of Business and contribution Certification CSR FY 2013 Performance Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to grow the ratio of sales of Environment-Contributing Products to total Housing consolidated net sales. In fiscal 2013, the final fiscal year of the midterm plan, strong sales of houses with solar energy Company generation systems and an increase in the lineup of Environment-Contributing Products led to growth in net sales of these products to 466.8 billion yen, achieving a ratio of 42% of total net sales, higher than the 40% target. Urban Infrastructure & External Advisory Board Environmental Products Company To increase the reliability and transparency of the Environment-Contributing Product certification system, in fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group established the External Advisory Board, with members from third party organizations. Sekisui Directions for the Future High Performance Chemical Directors and personnel responsible for environmental management of each Division Company and The benefits to society from use of Plastics Company Corporate Headquarters attend this meeting and receive a wide Environment-Contributing Products vary by range of advice and recommendations from these Advisors. product. They may include reductions in During fiscal 2013, the External Advisory Board met twice, greenhouse-gas emissions, conservation of providing opinions on individual Environment-Contributing resources, and preservation of biodiversity. Products. Advisors also provided recommendations including Sekisui Chemical Group is studying ways of studying courses of action such as considering the benefits and making products’ environmental contributions Bases of CSR value of products broadly from the perspective of natural more visible by quantifying them using a single capital when taking into account their life cycles, including index. We intend to ascertain progress on the supply chains. Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Vision 2030 (see p. 15-16) using this index. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 18 Environment Climate Change Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse-Gas Emissions Throughout the Supply Chain Sekisui Chemical Group strives to reduce greenhouseReducing Greenhouse-Gas Emissions gas emissions at each stage from purchase of raw Throughout the Product Life Cycle materials through development, production, shipping, and use. We ascertain emissions throughout ProcureR&D Production Shipping Use ment the entire supply chain, including not just our own business sites but also raw-material suppliers and use of products sold. Development of Promotion of Environment-Contributing Environment-Contributing Products Products Reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions FY 2013 Performance and Directions for the Future Activities at the Production Stage Having established the target for fiscal 2013 of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions generated at the production stage in Japan by at least 20% compared to the fiscal 1990 level, we have made progress in areas such as switching to processes that use less energy and switching fuel used from heavy oil to natural Greenhouse-Gas (Emissions from the Production Stage) Verified gas. In fiscal 2013, we realized a reduction of 600 (1,000 tons-CO2) 26% compared to the fiscal 1990 level, more than reaching our target. For production 433 452 443 459 sites overseas we established guidelines 400 419 365 calling for achieving in fiscal 2013 a reduc330 350 341 342 312 321 tion of at least 5% from fiscal 2008 in energy 200 consumption per unit of output. Under these 160 guidelines, each business site has set its own Japan targets and implemented activities to meet 0 Overseas them. 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) The new midterm plan taking effect Notes: beginning in fiscal 2014 establishes the shared Overseas data cover carbon-dioxide emissions only. global target of reducing energy consumption Overseas figures have increased since fiscal 2009 in connection with an increase in the number of overseas sites due to acquisitions, etc. per unit of output by 1% each year while Overseas data were collected on a calendar-year basis through fiscal 2011, and from maintaining total greenhouse-gas emissions April 1 through March 31 since fiscal 2012. at fiscal 2013 levels both in Japan and overseas. Efforts in Stages Other Than Production (in Japan) Verified Total greenhouse-gas emissions in fiscal 2013 Typical efforts Resulting reductions R&D 13,000 tons-CO2 Continued thorough energy management 34% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Shipping products 48,000 tons-CO2 Reduced emissions through use of joint shipping and 9% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 modal shifts Energy-conservation activities including regularly turning Offices 16,000 tons-CO2 off lights and using restraint in air-conditioner settings 15% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Estimated Supply Chain Emissions Verified (FY2013, not including emissions confined on business sites) (see Data Book, p. 12) Total greenhouse-gas emissions Breakdown Purchased goods and services; transportation and delivery; waste generated in operations; 3,216,000 tons-CO2 business travel; employee commuting; use and disposal of sold products; etc. 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Environment Three Resource Efficiency Prominences Pursuing the Three R’s (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) Throughout the Environment Development Product Life Cycle Reduce Sekisui Chemical Group aims to thoroughly reduce, reuse, and recycle Disposal Production throughout the product life cycle. In addition to Zero Waste Emissions Activities intended to reuse as resources all the waste it generates from 3R CS & Quality its business activities, it also is striving to preserve water resources. Recycle Reuse Use Construction Human FY 2013 Performance and Directions Resources for the Future Total Waste Generated (Production Facilities in Japan) Verified Reduction of Waste Generated 50 (1,000 tons) In fiscal 2013, our production sites in Japan achieved a 22% reduction in Business and 39.4 39.5 total waste generated vs. fiscal 2007 through continued efforts to improve 36.0 36.1 35.2 33.9 CSR the stability and efficiency of production. They also reduced waste per unit 25 of output by 20%. The new midterm plan sets a target of reducing waste per unit of output by 4% each year beginning in fiscal 2014. While new housing construction sites originally have generated low volumes of waste since they employ modular construction in which a high 0 percentage of modular units are factory-built, in fiscal 2013 continued 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Housing (FY) efforts such as reducing excess material use and reducing scrap and packaging materials succeeded in reducing total waste generated per Company home by 26% vs. fiscal 2000 for steel frame modular housing and by 45% over the same period for timber-framed modular housing. Voice Zero Waste Emissions Urban Infrastructure & We have carried out Zero Waste Emissions Activities, which We combined our forces Environmental together to achieve Products Company began in 1998, toward our goal under the Environmental Midterm Plan (see Data Book, p. 3) of achieving zero waste zero emissions emissions at all subject facilities by fiscal 2013. The percentages I am so excited that we of facilities that achieved this goal were 100% in Japan and 23% (my facility, Sekisui S-Lec High Performance overseas. America SSA) achieved In fiscal 2013, the Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant the Zero Emissions Plastics Company and Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. achieved zero waste emissions. Certificate. Everyone Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. worked so hard, each and every day. It’s more than Stephanie Johnson Conservation of Water Resources Zero Landfill. It’s a system Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to reduce water use through with checks & balances with a final scorecard. In the means including cyclic use of cooling water. Water intake for beginning it was difficult to understand the meaning Bases of CSR the entire Group in Japan in fiscal 2013 fell by 4% in and how to apply here in all areas. We as team pushed comparison with the fiscal 2007 level. (See Data Book, p. 13) through the barriers & drove past the obstacles. In We also began assessing the impact of wastewater from retrospect those issues were similar to “small speed production sites on flora and fauna. bumps” in the road. We hope to be a driving example for other US plants. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 20 Environment Chemical Substances Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control of Chemical Substances and Emissions Reductions While chemical substances make people’s lives more convenient, they also could have harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that consideration of product safety, occupational safety and health, and environmental impact through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of an enterprise. Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has set and worked toward its own targets for reducing discharge and transfer of chemical substances in addition to implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact*1 and the Green Procurement System*2. We also review periodically chemical substances that are candidates for control or regulation, in accordance with the establishment and amendment of relevant laws and regulations. System for Control of Chemical Substances throughout the Product Life Cycle Development Procurement Production Transportation Sale/Use Product Assessment Prior Assessment System System for Environmenof Capital Expenditure tal Impact*1 Green Procurement ● Check on safety Information Information ● Check on prohibited System*2 and environment Disclosure Disclosure substances ● Evaluation sheet ● Check on energy ● Issue of yellow ● Issue of safety ● Check on substances for procured products cards data sheets (SDS) prescribed by law Implementation of ● Legal description various preservation Formulation and activities implementation of the Formulation and Chemicals Management implementation of the Regulations Chemicals Management Regulations *1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact A system for assessment of the environmental impact of product development all the way from raw material procurement through manufacture, use, disposal, transport, and all other stages (see Data Book, p. 10). *2 Green Procurement System A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower levels of environmental impact when procuring them. Soil Surveying In fiscal 2011, we completed surveys of Reducing Emissions of all business sites for which they were planned. In the future, we will conduct Pollutants soil surveying at times such as when closing a business site or acquiring Aiming for the midterm plan’s target of a land for business-site use. reduction of at least 60% in domestic discharge of VOCs into the atmosphere in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2000, we were Preventing Air and Water Pollution able to achieve a 53% reduction. The new midterm plan taking effect beginning in fiscal Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory values under laws 2014 calls for maintaining discharge of VOCs at and ordinances for the various types of equipment it uses in connection fiscal 2013 levels both in Japan and overseas. with exhaust gases and drain water. We also strive to control discharge of In fiscal 2008 we ended all use of HCFCs. pollutants through appropriate maintenance and management, including periodic inspections. VOC Emissions Verified 2,936 tons Disposal and Storage of Devices Containing PCBs 1,373 tons Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of steadily, beginning with sites for which acceptance at PCB treatment facilities is available. Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs are managed strictly and 2000 2013 (FY) thoroughly, through means including locked storage and periodic inspection. 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Environment Three Biodiversity Prominences Assessing the Impact of Business Activities on Biodiversity In April 2008, Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items on biodiversity to its Environment Environmental Management Policy. Since then, it has strived to maintain biodiversity through both environmentally conscious business activities and deploying nature conservation activities around the world. Approach to Maintaining Biodiversity CS & Quality Environmentally conscious business Environmental Guidelines for Maintaining Management Policies Biodiversity (revised April 2008) (established March 2011) Nature conservation activities Human around the world Resources Declaration of Biodiversity and Action Policy by Nippon Keidanren*1 (March 2009) Assessment of Business Activities’ Impacts on Biodiversity Business and Aiming to achieve coexistence with diverse living creatures, Sekisui CSR Chemical Group has begun green space activities at its business sites. In fiscal 2013, we used Land-Use Report Card*2, a type of tool for assessment of biodiversity, to conduct biodiversity surveys at all production sites and laboratories in Japan. While the results included high scores for soil quality Housing and proper control of chemical substances, scores were low in areas such as measures to counter invasive species and rooftop landscaping. Under Company the new midterm plan that takes effect beginning in fiscal 2014, we will set Biodiversity survey quantitative targets taking Land-Use Report Card as an indicator and carry out related efforts while confirming progress through periodic assessment. Urban Infrastructure & *1 Nippon Keidanren (Japanese Business Federation) A comprehensive economic organization with a membership comprised of representative Environmental companies of Japan, nationwide industrial associations and regional economic organizations. *2 Land-Use Report Card A tool used to assess the level of efforts to preserve biodiversity. Products Company Example of Maintaining Biodiversity High Performance Sekisui Chemical Group has begun assessing Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET)* as a method of Plastics Company wastewater management at production sites, intended to prevent negative effects on and ensure the safety of the water environment for aquatic life in the places where wastewater River ecosystem survey flows. In fiscal 2013, assessment of WET was conducted at Sekisui Chemical’s Shiga-Minakuchi Plant and the Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant, confirming that wastewater at both business sites had levels that did not have any apparent negative effects on ecosystems. At the same time, surveys also were conducted of the habitat conditions of benthic Bases of CSR organisms and fish in the rivers where wastewater was released, identifying no changes in habitat conditions of dominant species between water upstream and downstream from the spots where wastewater was released from both plants. Examples of living creatures used in WET assessment: * Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET) fish (zebra fish) A test method to assess the toxicity of wastewater in bioresponse of fish, water fleas, and algae. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 22 CS Quality Pursuing quality always specified by customers, through maximizing the quality of human resources, products, and systems & Customers & Society Quality always specified by customers Use of Customer’s Use of Customer’s Feedback Feedback Summary of the Midterm Plan (FY2009-2013) Creating Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group has identified two key performance indicators for CS & Quality Management. One of these is Enhancing Basic Qualities external failure costs*1 and the other is the number of major quality issues*2. The Midterm Plan (fiscal 2009-2013) sets as goals for fiscal 2013 eliminating major quality issues and Research and Product Product design cutting external failure costs by 68% vs. fiscal 2004. Collecting development planning information In fiscal 2013, one major quality issue arose as a result of a ProductionResolving complaints Maximizing the quality of method design serious incident involving a portable toilet product produced and claims human resources, products, and systems Mass production and sold in the past. We decreased external failure costs by Construction, sales, service 66% from fiscal 2004. In the future, we will improve the quality Storage, Procurement, shipping Production outsourcing of our design review (DR) activities to prevent major quality issues. To do so, we will ensure thorough adherence to the “DR Implementation Guidelines” and “Design Change Guidelines” Our Philosophy throughout the entire Group. We aim to further cut external Since 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has failure costs through continuing to enhance groupwide employed CS management focused on quality-assurance systems and to deploy activities to reduce customer satisfaction (CS). In 2004 we began quality-related risks. *1 External failure costs CS & Quality Management focusing on Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints. products and services quality innovations in *2 Major quality issues Problems related to product and service quality that could cause significant all of our businesses. The aim is to constantly damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis. deliver value so that customers will choose our products and services repeatedly. Based on the motto “We consider customer feedback as the beginning of our manufacturExternal Failure Costs Verified Major Quality Issues Verified ing,” we improve the “Attractive Qualities” 100 (Indicator) 100 3 (Incidents) and “Basic Qualities” provided to customers 80 through improving the “Quality of People,” 60 59 60 2 2 2 “Quality of Products,” and “Quality of Systems.” 40 34 1 Sekisui Chemical Group is working 1 20 together to pursue quality that will always be 0 0 specified by customers. 2004 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 2011 2012 2013 (FY) The CS & Quality Management See “Data Book,” Policies and Systems p. 23, 24 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 CS & Quality Management Roadmap As a result of efforts to improve the FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Group’s “Quality of Systems” and “Quality of Products,” complaints from “Creation School,” a practical training project to improve product planning “Creation School” “Creation School” customers are in a decreasing trend. capabilities (held annually) At the same time, on the subject of “Quality of People” the assessment of Attractive Qualities Screening System, providing awards for and publicizing “The Story of Attractive Qualities” the degree of permeation of CS & successful efforts (held every three years) published on the intranet Attractive Quality Management among Qualities employees conducted in fiscal 2012 Employee CS & Quality Assessments, to check on and improve our customer-oriented Employee CS & Quality showed that some issues remained in organizational culture (held every two years) Assessments development of a CS & Quality culture. In fiscal 2013 we began “Wakuwaku Chaya” CS study sessions to raise awareness and learn about CS in an enjoyable atmosphere (held from time to time) holding “Wakuwaku Chaya” CS study sessions aiming to foster the spirit of Telephone service training, reflecting the way we value customer feedback (held from time to time) CS among employees, for example by doing their work vigorously and being Prepare for deployment Trial use of Development Groupwide deployment of Enhance of Development Guidelines Guidelines Development Guidelines aware of people’s feelings. We also basic development continue to hold various existing capabilities Developer training training and other programs related to the foundations of quality, while Assess the level of Trial use of Everyday Groupwide deployment of Enhance everyday management Management Guidelines Everyday Management Guidelines revising their content as needed. Basic basic Qualities manufacturing Considering the development of the capabilities Site leader training/quality-control technical skill training spirit of CS among employees in all sections, including development, Quality visualization project Monitoring manufacturing, and sales, to be an Improve quality important element of improving overseas Quality-control technical skill training (overseas), e-learning systems and, as a result improving the “Quality of Products,” we intend to “STAR 55 Bulletin” on CS & Quality Management activity case studies from within Sekisui Chemical Group (3-4 times/year) broaden and expand these activities Common Measures in the future. CS & Quality Seminars to think more deeply about CS & Quality based on case studies from outside the Group (3-4 times/year) T OPICS CS & Quality Seminar Held in North America A two-day Quality Leader Training Workshop was held in March 2014 in the Promoting Quality Education city of Houston, Texas. In this workshop, the first management-level joint training session held outside Japan, there were 30 participants consisting of Sekisui Chemical Group has rebuilt its quality managers responsible for quality and production, plant managers, and site managers from 11 sites across North America. education structure at each level to promote The first day of the workshop began with a tour of Sekisui Specialty the spread of quality education in all Chemicals America’s Pasadena Plant, followed by a lecture led by the workplaces, from office staff to job sites. The headquarters Quality Management Group, a seminar led by an outside new structure took effect beginning in fiscal auditor, and then group discussions among participants on the topic of 2013. It also employs QC certification* everyday management. These group discussions featured lively exchange effectively to measure levels of quality of opinions, with some groups even continuing their discussions beyond knowledge, and as of March 2014, over 2,000 the allotted time. On the second day, participants looked at case studies of members of the organization had attained QC improvements made by other business Certification. sites, presented the content of their group We will continue focusing our efforts on discussions, and then received individual human resources training to improve our guidance from the outside auditor. This “Quality of People.” workshop proved an excellent opportunity for deep discussions on issues and * QC Certification: A certification system conducted by the Japanese concerns in everyday site management. Standards Association and certified by the Japanese The workshop Society for Quality Control. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 24 CS&Quality Attractive Products and Services Advancing Development of Systems, Human Resources, and a Culture Enabling Creation of Attractive Qualities Based on the motto “We consider customer feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing,” Sekisui Chemical Group is working on building a customer-oriented, free and open-minded organizational culture to create “Attractive Qualities” that customers will continue to ask for by name. Support measures to increase sensitivity Provide outstanding products to attractive qualities filled with attractive qualities Practical training project to improve Provide awards for and product planning capabilities publicize successful efforts “Creation School” Attractive Qualities Screening System Think more deeply based on case studies from other companies Value customer feedback CS & Quality Seminars Telephone service training Customers Outstanding Outstanding human resources, products and Customer-oriented, free and open-minded products, and services organizational culture systems Study sessions to raise awareness and learn about CS in an enjoyable atmosphere “Wakuwaku Chaya” Check on and improve the customer-oriented organizational culture Employee CS & Quality Assessments Measures to Create Attractive Qualities Sekisui Chemical Group strives to improve the CS sensitivity of individual employees and to build an organizational culture focused on CS, to continue creating attractive qualities. “Wakuwaku Chaya” In order to create attractive qualities, Sekisui Chemical Group considers it vital to have a corporate culture in which employees can take part in lively discussions. For this reason, since fiscal 2013 we have held “Wakuwaku Chaya” activities at each facility as events in which employees can learn about CS in an enjoyable “Wakuwaku Chaya” CS study session atmosphere. These study sessions are intended to help participants acquire not just knowledge but awareness, through viewing video materials outlining advanced case studies from various industries and discussing with each other. In fiscal 2013 “Wakuwaku Chaya” were held 17 times in nine sections, with a total of 352 persons taking part. Comments from participants included “We were able to discuss many things that usually do not come up in conversation” and “Everybody should take part in these activities.” One section where the activities were conducted noted that afterward “Staff show a stronger attitude of acting on their own to contribute to the organization.” Voice The quality of internal communication has improved Holding the “Wakuwaku Chaya” has served as a good opportunity for employees from our general affairs, sales, production, and technology sections to think about things together. Through easygoing discussions on just what CS means, we raised awareness with each other and were able to identify what we should do as individuals. In the future we will aim to grow as an operating company with an General Affairs Department awareness of CS, rather than just a manufacturing plant, by incorporating the Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. concept of the customer as a central part of our internal communication. Hiroaki Yamauchi 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Prominences “Creation School” Environment This is a joint industry-academy training project aiming to make existing products more attractive. From its start in fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2013, a total of 68 trainees have taken part in this training. In recent years, “Creation School” has shifted from its original training session format to one of teams made up of members from the same businesses, in order to make the training better suited to the realities of businesses. In fiscal 2013, three teams (Housing, Research/Diagnostics, and Packaging Tape) took part. Each team made a presentation on product planning to top management. Some products planned in “Creation School” CS & Quality have been released to the market, and in a reporting meeting held in February 2014 graduates of the program presented case studies on such products. “Creation School” Voice Human Resources Putting hypothesis testing from the user’s point of view to use in development In “Creation School” we learned about methods of collecting information from sites, formulating hypotheses, and statistically testing them. The nursing-care bath developed using this method is a product that features steps that reduce by roughly 20% the effort Business and Research & Development Department needed to help a bather get out of the bath and handrails planned in “Creation School” to Sekisui Hometechno Co., Ltd. CSR help people who are able to walk on their own to get in and out of the bath in one (FY2011 “Creation School” graduate) continuous movement. We had confidence in the results of this design through thorough Aya Mikami consideration of methods of helping patients get into the bath by repeatedly discussing with nursing-care experts, creating mockups based on hypotheses aimed at developing solutions, and verifying movement together with caregivers. Today we have started incorporating such user testing into the development process. Housing In the future we plan to continue bringing quality products to market through hypothesis testing. Company CS & Quality Seminars Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Begun in fiscal 2001, these seminars, intended to raise awareness of CS & Quality, invite people from a variety of fields outside the Products Company company to give lectures. A total of 33 seminars have been held from the start of the program through the end of fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2013, lecturers invited to speak on the topics of attractive qualities and quality control gave three lectures at Sekisui Chemical’s High Performance Tokyo Headquarters and Kyoto Research & Development Laboratory, CS & Quality Seminar attended by 232 people in total. Plastics Company Telephone Service Training We have been conducting telephone service training, intended to improve the service level of contact points for inquiries, continuously since fiscal 2008. Bases of CSR In fiscal 2013, this training was conducted at 19 business sites including ones in Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company and High Performance Plastics Company in addition to Housing Company, with a Telephone Service Training total of 187 employees taking part. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 26 CS&Quality Quality Pursuing the “Three Zeros” of Complaints, Accidents, and Wastes Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing development that supports quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to higher costs arising from handling complaints or increased wastes, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three zeros” of complaints, accidents, and wastes. Basic Qualities = Secure the required quality Results of “Three Zeros” Activities Verified as promised to customers Complaint Number of Loss costs handling costs occupational injuries Decreased by Decreasing loss costs, or losses and waste arising from quality defects 47% reduction 14.8 % reduction 2.5 billion yen Zero complaints Zero accidents Zero wastes or defects (vs. FY2008) (vs. FY2008) (vs. FY2008) Field Manufacturing Development Quality Management Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality-control systems covering every process from production through product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality-assurance system, and in each process we promote controls on a daily basis following the PDCA* management cycle. In developing products and making improvements to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such as those of quality assurance and safety. Our business sites also made progress on becoming certified under the ISO 9001 standard, as the total number of Sekisui Chemical Group business sites and departments certified under this standard stood at 102 in fiscal 2013. The number of employees at these ISO 9001-certified business sites and departments represents 60.7% of all Sekisui Chemical Group employees. In fiscal 2014, we will continue to focus on development of quality-assurance systems suited to the globalization of business. * PDCA P = Plan (planning), D = Do (implementation, operation), C = Check (checkup, corrective action), A = Action (improvement, review) Raising Awareness of Quality through CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition As part of the CS & Quality seminars program (see p. 26), since fiscal 2011 the CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition has been held during Quality Month every November with the goal of raising the level of basic qualities throughout the entire Sekisui Chemical Group. Attendees in this seminar consist mainly of line managers from production sections. The seminar The third seminar, held in fiscal 2013, welcomed Noriyoshi Fukumaru, President of Fukumaru Management Techno Y.K., to lecture on the topic of “Maintenance and Improvement of Site Capabilities through Making Everyday Management More Visible.” Participants learned about the basic concept of the need for all related sections to act in an organized manner to create value for customers and the importance of management of everyday operations by all members of management to maintain and improve site capabilities, which are key to such organization. They also learned about methods (tools) for making everyday management more visible. Following the lecture, many participants commented in a forward-looking way, noting that they intended to put what they had learned into practice in their own workplaces. Plans call for these seminars to continue in fiscal 2014 as well. 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Group KAIZEN Activities on a Global Scale Group KAIZEN activities* are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups Three Prominences to address various topics such as improvements in quality and productivity and increasing operational efficiency, and to take on various subjects through policy management. These activities have a track record of more than 40 years. They are underway at numerous business sites in Japan and around the world, centered on production companies. Once a year, presentations are made by the representative group in each area — Japan, Americas, China, Europe, and Asia-Oceania — to Environment share information and help each other improve. In the 48th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting held in January 2014, a total of 20 representative groups (16 from Japan and four from other countries) made presentations, with Sekisui Chemical’s Shiga-Ritto Plant winning the gold prize. A group from overseas won a second-place silver prize, demonstrating the way progress is being made on global KAIZEN activities. * Group KAIZEN activities CS & Quality Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group activities before taking the form they have today. 48th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation Meeting Group Site Gold Prize Isshindotai Shiga-Ritto Plant Silver Prize SAP3 Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Human Hayabusa Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Resources Jia Gong Jing Ying Dui Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Business and Energy Saving Activity CSR Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting energy innovation activities under the slogan, “From Energy Conservation to Appropriate Energy Use.” The goal of these activities is not only to decrease energy consumption from current levels but to ensure that energy is used in appropriate (ideal) ways. They involve revising individual production processes down to the level of anticipated energy losses in the design stage, in pursuit of the minimal necessary level of energy consumption. As Housing a result, we have been able to cut energy consumption per unit of output at production Company sites in Japan by approximately 8% over the five-year period since fiscal 2009. Furthermore, in fiscal 2013 these activities began at six overseas business sites as well. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Design and Development Seminar Products Company The second Design and Development Seminar, begun in fiscal 2012, was held in fiscal 2013. This seminar consisted of two sessions, based on the topic of preventing quality problems before they arise. The first session, in which Megumu Oshima from Bosch High Performance Corporation lectured on the QuickDR preventive methods used at Nissan Motor, attracted 74 attendees. Plastics Company The second session consisted of group discussions by 45 development and production staff members on the subject of past quality problems, with professor emeritus Hiroshi Osada of Tokyo Institute of Technology, a Sekisui Chemical outside auditor, serving Design and Development Seminar as advisor. From an auditor’s point of view, Prof. Osada spoke of the use of statistical analysis methods and other means to improve Bases of CSR technical levels as well as the importance of building relations with the suppliers. These seminars will continue in fiscal 2014 as well. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 28 HResources Actively supporting individual prominence and self-realization, and creating an environment where people can thrive uman Our Philosophy To maintain a strong corporate value for the next 100 years by creating businesses for the next generation requires professional human resources who have their own unique skills. For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group is making progress on building rewarding workplaces where diverse human resources can thrive, based on its shared basic concepts concerning human resources. For the Human Resources and See “Data Book,” p. 23, 25 Human Rights Policies and Systems, Prominent Human Resources Professional human resources with their own unique skills Corporate Opportunities culture to take the Growth fostering individual initiative and learning and to challenge commitment growth oneself Rewarding workplaces where diverse human resources can thrive Employees are “precious assets bestowed on us by society” 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Concept of Human Resources Development Based on our concept of enabling human resources to perform and grow, Three approaches toward Sekisui Chemical Group supports employees’ independent career development realizing the HR ideal through providing a variety of opportunities for them to become prominent human resources. We are deploying measures to raise employee awareness and encourage employee growth on a daily basis from three approaches, to draw out the potential power of each of the Group’s diverse employees working in Japan and Group Global around the world. Diversity Overview of the Midterm Plan (Fiscal 2009-2013) and New Midterm Plan The midterm plan for the fiscal years 2009-2013 focused chiefly on examining and revising Sekisui Chemical’s HR systems identifying its approaches to sustainability and Group management. Based on these concepts, we have implemented measures in the areas of group management, global management, and diversity. In so doing, we achieved a degree of success in hiring and training women employees, in area-specific global training measures, and in creating career paths by which partner (temporary) employees could transfer to permanent, full-time status. Under the new Midterm Plan (Fiscal 2014-2016), we will make further progress on Group hiring, employment, and training measures, including global measures. Through identifying practical indicators of progress for each type of measure and cooperating with each Group member company, we will strive to build a corporate culture in which all diverse Group employees can work vigorously. Performance on Midterm Plan Efforts and Goals of New Midterm Plan New Midterm Plan (FY2014-2016) Measure Performance on Midterm Plan Verified (FY2009-2013) Goal Main Measures Group hires: 735 employees (FY2013) Group hires: 800 employees Strengthen the Sekisui brand in Hiring Group (including equity-method affiliates) (including equitymethod the employment market affiliates) Global hires (Sekisui Chemical nonconsolidated): Global hires (Sekisui Chemical Develop the market for new Global 9 employees (FY2013) nonconsolidated): 20 employees hires Women hires (Sekisui Chemical Women hires (Sekisui Chemical Enhance hiring seminars for Diversity nonconsolidated: 19 employees; Group hires; nonconsolidated: 30 employees; women 156 employees) (FY2013) Group: 210 employees) (including equity-method affiliates) (including equity-method affiliates) Internal job posting: 23 positions/year (FY2013) Internal job posting: 30 Adopt a Group HR system and Training Group positions/year (development of provide a broad range of core HR based on experience) experience Global talent employees: 300 employees (FY2013) Global talent employees: 400 Enhance the Global Trainee Global employees (FY2016) Program and area-specific training measures Women in managemet positions (Sekisui Women in management Link programs for training women Diversity Chemical nonconsolidated): 27 (FY2013) positions (Sekisui Chemical leaders with the HR system as a nonconsolidated): 50 (FY2016) whole System improvements Put temporary employees and Promote transfer to permanent, ● Transfer of temporary or part-time employees to senior employees to active use full-time status and revise the permanent, full-time status Senior Partners Program ● Rehire retired employees (Senior Partners Program) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 30 Human Resources Group Human-Resource Capabilities Securing and Training Human Resources Aiming for Sustainable Growth As it strives to empower Group human resources to achieve sustainable growth, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts to secure and train human resources. In the area of securing human resources, we are not only increasing numbers of new employees hired (see Data Book, p. 18) but also implementing hiring from a variety of perspectives, including global human resources and diverse human resources, to ensure an appropriate staffing structure. On the subject of training of human resources, we are implementing Groupwide efforts combining both training of human resources to play leadership roles in Group management and training of human resources to support manufacturing in the field. Training Systems to Support Our Businesses Sekisui Chemical Group is developing training systems for specific employee ranks and specific skills, to meet the needs of employees’ career plans. Training Business Leaders at an Early Stage Training Human Resources to Support the Workplace We have developed a consistent training system covering The human resources who will support the foundations of all stages from new hires to management positions, in order management in practical terms in the workplace must to systematically train business leaders to power Sekisui undergo self-growth as highly capable practitioners Chemical Group into the future. through accumulating experience over the long term and Based on the concept that the foundations of growth acquiring highly specialized knowledge and skills. Based on are the experience gained through everyday business this concept, Sekisui Chemical Group hires human activities and learning from such experience, we have resources who will support the workplace as full-time, developed a training system that links these two elements permanent employees and creates an environment in together. Through this system we will enhance each which they can demonstrate their abilities with peace of individual’s mastery of the skills required of business leaders, mind over the long term, as well as deploys the “Meister” by running through the cycle of growth through experiSystem to strengthen their abilities in the workplace. ence (see illustration below) from when a new hire joins the In the future as well, we will promote measures to company through the management level. strengthen training abilities in the workplace on a Groupwide basis. Outline of Training for Specific Employee Ranks Experience Learning Areas of Specialization Recognized Master Under the “Meister”* System (FY2013) Advanced Training sessions for specific employee ranks (advanced) Company Specialization Review on-the-job experience (past and present, self and others) Welding skills 4 Housing ● Intermediate 2 3 Urban Infrastructure & ● Assessment skills 1 Training sessions for specific employee ranks (intermediate) Plastic molding skills, extrusion molding skills Environmental Products ● 4 Review beginner period ● Construction equipment, design and 2 3 production skills Beginner 1 Training program over first three years of employment High Performance ● Raw materials design/assessment skills, Plastics chemical/mechanical analysis skills ● Fabrication skills, extrusion molding skills Cycle of Growth Through Experience * “Meister” A person able to play a leading role in companywide activities as a preeminent human resource in a technical area deemed key by the company. 1 2 3 4 Experience Introspection ConceptualiApplication zation Obtain practical Objectively reflect on Verbalize the content of Solidify the rules of experience under new the content of experience reflected on, thumb by applying conditions beyond experience and one’s in the form of hypotheses the hypotheses and the extent of one’s own actions and concepts, to build concepts to new own rules of thumb new rules of thumb circumstances 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Group Internal Job Posting Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group supports its employees’ willingness to take on challenges and their career plans by providing opportunities to thrive within the Group through posting job openings internally. Through Group internal job postings, any qualified employee can apply for jobs posted to Environment the intranet, without needing the approval of their superiors. In fiscal 2013, 23 job openings were posted internally and 23 employees began new careers inside Sekisui Chemical Group. CS & Quality FY 2013 Activities and Future Developments In fiscal 2013, Sekisui Chemical Group further expanded opportunities for business-leader training throughout the Group. Considering new personel in management positions at Group companies in Japan to be candiHuman dates for the business leaders of the future, we provided group training for all 200 personnel promoted to such positions during fiscal 2013. Resources This training raises awareness of Group management by bringing together leadership Training Programs for New Management Positions candidates from the Group in Japan to learn. Programs Content It also aims to help trainees to grow as leaders Celebration for new core Confirm of the future directions of Sekisui Chemical Group, of the next generation, equipped with broad Business and personnel (management) such as its midterm management plan and CSR management outline perspectives and advanced points of view, CSR through learning the skills they need starting Basic training on manageLearn the concepts of organizational management and the ment of subordinates basics of management by objectives for subordinates from the fundamentals. CSR training Share information on CSR concepts and the status of related efforts, and foster trainees’ awareness of their roles as leaders on the frontlines of CSR practice Management literacy Learn the basic skills needed for management (logical training (e-learning plus thinking, management strategy, organizational managegroup training) ment, marketing, accounting) Housing Company Voice Urban Infrastructure & I will act with an awareness of my role as a manager When I was promoted from the working level to the management level, the first Environmental Products Company word that came to mind was “responsibility,” as I thought about what would change and what was expected of me. By helping me understand the changes in my job responsibilities as I moved into management and to think about things anew from the perspective of a High Performance superior or a manager, this training showed me how becoming a manager means taking responsibility for the organization. By moving through the training topics and General Affairs Department Plastics Company group and class discussions, I also was able to see objectively what my strong and Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. weak points were. In the future I would like to improve my ways of seeing and Mitsue Fujino thinking about things in my everyday work and act with an awareness of my role as a manager. Another very valuable experience from this training was the way it enabled exchange of opinions among new managers from different sections and job types. Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 32 Human Resources Human Resources for Global Business Promoting Efforts to Train Human Resources to Contribute to Accelerating Business Development in Japan and Worldwide To achieve the SHINKA (“evolution”) of our business model, the human resource and organizations supporting such efforts must have vitality. Aiming to be a group of professional human resources with their own unique skills, Sekisui Chemical Group is both focusing its efforts on training human resources and promoting organizational development to maximize and utilize motivation toward growth. Accelerate Group Global Business Development Training Human Resources To Thrive on the Global Stage HR training in accordance Each year, Sekisui Chemical Group’s overseas net sales are growing as a with the situation in each area percentage of consolidated net sales. In fiscal 2013 this percentage Europe Americas reached 23.4%. The Group includes more than 120 production and Japan sales sites in total, located in approximately 30 countries. We believe that when each employee working in the Group around the world China ASEAN grows through his or her work and delivers quality products and services that meet the needs of each region, then it will lead to growth for the businesses of Sekisui Chemical Group as a whole. Based on this concept, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing HR Globalization of business training programs to enable each individual to demonstrate fully his or her own unique skills, in his or her own position. Training and HR measures are implemented in accordance with the situation in each Number of Employees Overseas Verified individual area: the Americas, Europe, China, and ASEAN. In fiscal 2013, we focused on leadership training in the Americas area. In the Europe area we began training on intercultural communication. In the China area, which includes 14 Group companies, we are making Overseas 26% progress on building an HR system based on shared ways of thinking. Voice FY 2013 I was able to learn a lot about leadership During fiscal year 2013 Sekisui America Corporation (SAC) has continued to invest in the development of human resources. One training session that I was fortunate enough to participate in was called “Leading Others”. In this program, SAC brought together various frontline managers from many of the North American Sekisui entities for a two day training session to focus of the key attributes to effective leadership. The training was a valuable reminder to be attentive of the distinction between Leadership and Management, and the important aspects in building teams, cultivating trust and motivating and coaching others. Additionally, the program provided a forum for the attendees to share their individual experiences and opinions regarding leadership, while at the same time learning from the training material which included supporting data for each of the training topics. XenoTech, LLC. Accounting / Finance Most importantly the training included a review of a 360 assessment of each individual and an opportunity to map out a plan to implement the new skills and Joe Saitta insights back at the office. Overall I believe this type of training will pay dividends for the companies of SAC as we all learn to lead at a higher level. 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Global Training of Japanese Employees Prominences International Recruiting Environment Sekisui Chemical Group aggressively hires human resources with experience living overseas, such as non-Japanese candidates and Japanese foreign exchange students. In particular, we have continued to hire large numbers of international students from Japan and local students at the Boston Career Forum*, one of the largest job fairs in the United States, where we have taken part since 2008. In addition, in 2013 we took part in a job fair in South Korea, which also led to some new hires. In hiring of new university graduates in Japan as well, we clearly identify Global CS & Quality Talent employees as one of the ideal types of human resources we seek to hire. In the The Boston Career Forum future as well, we will further advance international recruiting through development of new hiring markets. * Boston Career Forum A Japanese-English bilingual job fair begun in 1987. More than 5,000 people take part in this event each year. Human Global Employee System Number of Japanese Verified Resources A total of about 1,600 Group employees in Japan have signed up for the Employees as Global Talent Global Employee System intended to train Global Talent employees. Employees 400 These employees undergo training on different cultures and specialized 300 training as needed for overseas assignment. Through this system, we were able to reach our target of increasing the number of Japanese 149 employees immediately ready to serve overseas to 300 by fiscal 2013. Business and CSR Setting the new target of increasing the number of employees with 2009 2013 2016 (FY) experience on overseas assignment to 400 by fiscal 2016, we will (Target) advance measures to enable employees to build up real-world work experience overseas. Housing Company Opportunities to Thrive Global Trainee Program Sekisui Chemical Group has established the Global Trainee Program to enable participants to build up Urban Infrastructure & Environmental real-world experience overseas. This program sends applicants with sufficient levels of experience in specific positions such as sales, accounting, and development to actual positions at overseas affiliates. Products Company In fiscal 2013, we also implemented a program of accepting trainees from affiliates overseas for training in Japan and overseas assignment using a program offered by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. In the future, we will strive to enhance these systems so that greater numbers of employees from around the world can build up work experience overseas. High Performance Plastics Company Workplace Environment Since 1984, Sekisui Chemical Group has been conducting employee awareness surveys every few years. Since 2010, the subject of these surveys has expanded to include overseas affiliates and the surveys have been conducted every three years for employees including part-time and temporary employees. The fiscal Bases of CSR 2013 survey collected responses from roughly 70% of the approximately 27,000 subject employees. Results of the survey showed high levels of satisfaction in areas such as interpersonal relations, employees’ sense of accomplishment with their jobs, and company reputation, and results had improved from past surveys as well. At the same time, survey results on the newly introduced topic of engagement (rewarding work) showed a number of issues that need to be addressed. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 34 Human Resources Diversity Building Workplaces where Employees can Work Vigorously Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing efforts to promote diversity, centered on promoting women in the workplace and realizing a sound work-life balance. This is intended to respond to rapid globalization of business and diversification of market needs and to help employees realize personal self-fulfillment. We are striving to foster a corporate culture in which diverse human resources can do their work with vitality through continuing to enhance and expand relevant systems, hold training and seminars, and raise awareness via the intranet and Group bulletins. To promote diversity under the new midterm plan taking effect beginning in fiscal 2014 as well, we will continue efforts to promote opportunities for diverse human resources (including women, non-Japanese, elderly, and disabled employees) to thrive and supporting diverse ways of working (through a sound work-life balance and mental healthcare). Work-Life Balance Work-Life Balance Sekisui Chemical Group believes that achieving a sound work-life represents an Company effort to realize personal self-realization at the same time as sustained company growth. Our aim is to realize a cycle in which job enrichment and Create new value active acquisition of off-the-job experiences and values generate growth with Improvie skills and motivation added value. Efforts conducted in fiscal 2013 included implementing a system that Individual Society requires application in advance for overtime work, designation of no-overtime days, and campaigns to encourage employees to take paid leave, all intended Diverse experiences to ensure employees work appropriate hours and can enjoy varied ways of working. Furthermore, to ensure a thorough understanding of the basic Personal growth concepts involved, we conducted an e-learning program, designated a “Work-Life Balance Month,” provided a work-life balance check, and encouraged employees to list the things they would like to do. Future plans call for enhancing the “Work-Life Balance Month” and holding forums and other events on work-life balance, together with continuing these existing efforts. Support for Work-Life Balance: Long-Term Care and Childcare Support We provide proactive support to enable employees to fulfill both their work responsibilities and their other responsibilities depending on the stages of their lives. In fiscal 2013 we began holding long-term care support seminars, in which employees aged from their 20s through their 50s took part to learn about topics including long-term care insurance programs, support programs provided by the national government and the company, specific forms of long-term care based on case studies, how to use care supplies, and the costs of long-term care. We also continue to provide support for balancing work and childcare. In addition to development of various programs, we also are preparing guidebooks describing in easily understandable ways subjects such as how to choose a preschool, preparation for returning to work after childcare leave, and case studies of achieving a smooth work-life balance using the available programs. Another effort underway involves holding Long-term care support seminar lunch meetings with experienced working mothers. We also are actively encouraging men to take part in raising children by including in the guidebooks and on the intranet case studies of male employees balancing both work and childcare. 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Women’s Empowerment Three Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group continues a variety of efforts to enable highly motivated women employees to continue to work vigorously. As a result, we have achieved steady improvements in areas such as assignment of women to sales and plant technician positions as well as the percentage of women in management positions and the employee retention rate. Another result of these efforts is the contribution Environment to sales made by housing products planned and proposed by women, selected through collecting proposals from employees at large. In fiscal 2013, the high regard earned by these efforts resulted in our being the only chemical manufacturer selected to the Diversity Management Selection 100*. The new midterm plan taking effect beginning in fiscal 2014 sets a target for the number of female managers, as we further advance training of women for leadership positions. * Diversity Management Selection 100 CS & Quality Enterprises selected by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan for increasing corporate value through diversity. Trophy Voice I have been able to build up a new career Human In 2009, while working as a Housing Advisor at a model home Resources exhibition facility in Kyushu, I transferred to product planning in Housing Company at the Tokyo headquarters under internal job postings for women. I worked on product planning for a new type of bay window, reflecting customer tastes based on experience in my previous position. This new product even helped contribute to company sales. Today, I Training Division, General Affairs Business and have returned to Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd., where I am in CSR & Human Resources Department charge of hiring new graduates. I feel that I have been able to Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. achieve considerable growth over the past five years through Fumie Fujisaki experiencing various job duties. Housing Company Helping Young Employees to Thrive Pre-assignment training on the training of new women staff, provided for staff responsible for training and support of new women employees, and management seminars on women subordinates, provided for Urban Infrastructure & Environmental superiors, are intended as means of helping young women employees to thrive in the workplace. Already a total of 450 people have Products Company undergone these training programs, in which they learn about contemporary trends in society, the unique needs and values of women employees, and balancing work and life events. Superiors also review the process by which they themselves learned their jobs and High Performance Management seminar on women subordinates draft training plans for their women subordinates. Plastics Company Opportunities for Elderly Employees In fiscal 1993, Sekisui Chemical introduced a reemployment system for employees who Bases of CSR had reached mandatory retirement age, as an effort to ensure a more diverse workforce. Since fiscal 2006 this program has been expanding to Group companies as well. In fiscal 2013, a new program of training for employees aged 57 was introduced as an opportunity to think about their careers after retirement. This was the start of a new effort to enable motivated employees to remain in active employment through age 65. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 36 Human Resources Safety and Security Pursuing a Level of Zero Workplace Accidents through Risk Reduction by All Personnel, from Top Management to Individual Workplaces Constructing a work environment in which employees can work with safety and security is one of the most important subjects for management. Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing total safety (i.e., zero occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero extended sick leaves) activities based on five themes*. * Five themes Intrinsic safety of equipment, management using OHSMS, safety education of employees, risk prevention through KY activities and other initiatives, and auditing of health, safety, and accident prevention. Five Pillars of Occupational Health, Safety, For the Safety Policies and Accident-prevention Activities and Management Systems See “Data Book,” p. 23, 25 Management ● OHSMS Equipment Education and training New Midterm Plan (FY2014-2016) ● Intrinsic safety of equipment ● Education/training/ development efforts Midterm Goal: Fostering a Global Corporate Risk prevention Culture of Safety ● Risk assessment ● Risk detection (KY) efforts ● Prevention of risky acts ● Increasing each employee’s sensitivity to risks (HH) activities ● 5S activities ● Promoting risk-reduction efforts ● Workplace accidents: zero fatalities, zero residual difficulties, zero lost working days ● Zero severe equipment-related accidents such as Auditing ● Health, safety and accident-prevention auditing fires or explosions Fiscal 2013 Results and the New Midterm Plan Sites in Japan Focused measures conducted in fiscal 2013 proved effective. For example, cases of accidents in which employees got their arms, legs, or bodies caught in machinery were reduced through preventive activities such as enhancing the intrinsic safety of equipment. On the other hand, cases such as slips and trips due to causes such as inadequate checking of footholds increased. The new midterm plan calls for a focus on increasing sensitivity to risks. Safety Audits Second-party certification of OHSMS* is being conducted at sites in Japan, with 41 sites having been certified as of March 2014. Also, beginning in fiscal 2013 efforts are underway to raise the level of safety throughout the Group as a whole by verifying, from a multifaceted approach, the results of the periodic self-auditing and assessment that began in fiscal 2010 through assessing them in headquarters auditing as well. The safety investigations that began in fiscal 2010 at overseas sites had been conducted at a cumulative total of 62 sites through fiscal 2013. * OHSMS (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) Activities to manage occupational health and safety and reduce risks through implementing risk assessment for the workplace as a whole and running through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management cycle, based on occupational health and safety policies. 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Japan: Efforts at Production Sites Three Safety Conference Prominences The Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference was held in July 2013. A total of 200 employees and members of management took part in activities including the annual safety awards and introductions to examples of activities by sites with superior safety performance, resolving as a group to build a culture of zero Safety awards workplace accidents and reduce risks. Environment In addition, Mr. Noboru Furusawa, who has promoted safety activities at major automakers, lectured on activities to identify risks and the role of management in human-resources development. Countermeasures against Fires and Explosions Recent years have seen numerous fires and explosions Raising Young Employees’ Sensitivity to Risks occurring while responding to operational problems and Production sites in Housing Company have implemented the CS & Quality during regular repairs at Japanese chemical plants. Sekisui Safety Skills Competition since 2010. Since many cases of Chemical Group will continue its efforts to identify risks workplace accidents involve inexperienced employees, in related to internal plant equipment and facilities handling fiscal 2013 this program was conducted for employees in hazardous materials and make relevant improvements. In their first two years with the Company. addition, we are introducing at our business sites across Japan a program of drills to enable employees to be able to make the relevant judgments themselves at each step of the way from understanding of procedures through responding when Human Resources a situation worsens. Japan: Efforts at Construction Sites Safety Training Using a DVD on Construction-Site Business and Young employees examine the issues in the Case Studies Safety Skills Competition CSR Sekisui Chemical Group has produced a DVD providing easily understandable video introductions to accidents that have occurred at construction sites in home construction, pipe rehabilitation, and other Overseas: Efforts at Production Sites business activities. We distribute this DVD to business sites in Japan and around the world, with narration Occupational Safety Education Program: Safety Training Halls set up in Thailand Housing and subtitles in six languages. The DVD explains to operators the importance of following the rules in In the housing business in Thailand, Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Company their everyday work and to managers the importance Ltd. a company that produces modular units for housing, has of dialogue with operators. set up the occupational safety education program of Safety Training Halls for employees in its construction sections. This Urban Infrastructure & program will train personnel to be able to protect themselves by working safely at all times, through getting Environmental experience with the risks of various types of processing and lifting equipment. Products Company High Performance DVD introducing cases of accidents and covering measures in response to them Plastics Company Healthcare of Employees Sekisui Chemical Group provides stress check-ups and e-learning through the intranet as self-care methods for employees in the area of mental health. Counselors Bases of CSR also visit business sites to conduct mental health training for managers and provide counseling experiences. In addition, a survey of the state of health management at all business sites in Japan takes place in September of each year in cooperation with outside mentalhealth clinics and the Japan Industrial Counselors Association. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 38 H ousing To Realize Customers’ Ideal Homes and Lifestyles Company Company Vision / Midterm Plan From a Home Builder to a Company Creating Residential Environment Amid advancing changes to the business environment such as the contraction of the new housing market, a shortage of workers for construction sites, energy-related issues, rising consumption tax, and an aging population, the Housing Company will aim to grow over the long term from its traditional status as a home builder to a company creating residential environment through delivering both homes (its products) and lifestyle solutions (its services). Under the Midterm Management Plan for the period through fiscal 2016, the first step in this process, the Housing Company will advance the evolution of its business model, reforming its business portfolio into one consisting of the five business areas of housing, remodeling, real estate, residential services, and overseas businesses. In the housing business, it will employ a strategy of being the top player in the field of smart houses and pursue price performance. In the remodeling business, it will enhance efforts to approach customers whose homes are ripe for remodeling and propose smart-house solutions. In the real estate business, it will enhance its management of rental properties and sale of existing properties, while in the business of residential services it will move forward with full-scale startup of the businesses of serviced senior residences and long-term care. In its overseas businesses, the Company will accelerate growth through strengthening its sales capabilities, cutting costs, and promoting a structure under which it handles construction work itself. Business Portfolio Field Housing Living environment Overseas Housing Single-family Core Condominiums, apartments Remodeling Real estate Growth Residential services Serviced senior residences, long-term care, Nurturing general remodeling, interior / exterior Overseas and Creation 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Overview Three Aiming for Evolution in Circulation Prominences Businesses through the Growth and Fusion of the Business Portfolio Environment Circulation business model Housing Smart houses Brand communication Building serviced residences* The top player Homes with consideration for ReHeim in smart houses senior residents Remodeling CS & Quality Condominiums, apartments SumStock Remodeling Managing serviced residences* SumStock Real estate Support for seniors Smart repairs Top position for SumStock Branding of Residential Remodeling rental properties Services Human Owner support Senior support STREAM External sales (general) services Resources * Serviced residences: Serviced senior residences Expertise in serving seniors Remodeling for seniors Business and CSR Remodeling The Housing Company helps customers whose homes are ready for remodeling to make their homes into smart houses through proposing solutions in areas such as solar power generation systems and storage cells in addition to kitchens, prefablicated bathrooms, and other plumbing areas. Housing Company Remodeling Housing As a pioneer in modular housing, where 80% of a Urban Infrastructure & home is produced in factories, the Housing Company delivers Sekisui Heim and Sekisui Two-U Residential Services Environmental homes featuring both high quality and high The Housing Company will cost-performance. It provides comfortable, develop business models eco-friendly living through products and services fusing buildings and services Products Company including solar power generation systems, the as it launches the full-scale Smart Heim Navi home energy management start of its serviced senior system (HEMS), the e-Pocket large-capacity storage residences and long-term care High Performance cell system, and its own proprietary Kaiteki Airy and businesses. Air Workshop ventilation and air-conditioning Serviced senior residence Plastics Company systems. Overseas Together with building homes Real Estate suited to the needs of the local The Housing Company will expand its sales of market in Thailand, in the Bases of CSR existing homes and the rental properties it future the Housing Company manages, as well as advancing into the residential will use its Thai operations as a asset management business. base plant for Asia to supply homes, parts, and materials to nearby countries. A local model in Thailand Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 40 Housing Company Focus on Driving Evolution in Housing through Pursuit of Advancement S T E P 1 Social issues Selling homes equipped with solar power generation systems Concern about global warming In 1997, Sekisui Chemical Group was the first in the industry to develop Rising demand for electricity homes equipped with solar power generation systems. These have in the home accompanying massively reduced residents’ home utility costs by using unique rooftop technological advances and the systems to install large-capacity solar cells and putting highly airtight, highly thermally insulated structures to maximum use. aging population STEP 2 Making progress on reducing home utility costs to zero In 2003, we developed the Zero-Utility-Cost House combining high-performance fully electrified appliances and fixtures with high airtightness and thermal insulation along with solar power generation systems. Furthermore, we also began offering customers energy conservation consulting services through making power consumption visible. Combination of these products and services has helped numerous customers to cut their home utility costs to zero. Social issues S T E P 3 Rising uncertainty and Toward energy-independent homes that combine together the costs in the electricity three elements of creation, conservation, and storage of energy supply since the Great Our combination of solar power generation East Japan Earthquake systems, consulting-based HEMS, and stationary large-capacity lithium-ion storage cells enables energy independence in the home. This makes it possible not only to cut home utility costs to zero but also to cut the energy balance to zero through placing no impacts on the environment and to eliminate uncertainties in electricity supply. Smart Power Station Creating Electricity Using Storing Electricity Electricity Wisely 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Prominences Creating Value Environment through Our Main Businesses Striving to Balance Ecology and Economy at a High Level The Housing Company’s idea of a Smart House is one that uses a solar power generation system to create CS & Quality energy efficiently, stores energy efficiently in storage cells, and uses energy efficiently through HEMS, so that its residents can live in safety, comfort, and peace of mind. The number of such homes it builds is rising steadily, thanks to their strong reputation for cutting CO2 emissions and home electricity charges. As of the end of fiscal 2013, the number of these homes had reached 142,996 and Sekisui Chemical Group was recognized with the Guinness World RecordTM for most solar-powered homes built. In response to rising awareness of environmental issues such as climate change and resource depletion in addition to uncertainties in the electric power supply due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, how best to use energy has become an important topic. As it promotes its strategy of Human becoming the top player in smart houses, the Housing Company is actively contributing to society in the areas of the environment and energy. Resources Value for Society Business and CO2 emission reductions (cumulative) Reductions in electricity charges (cumulative) 250 (Thousand tons) 20 (JPY billion) 200 CSR 15 150 10 100 50 5 Housing Company 0 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Calculations based on: 1) 950 kWh/year generated per 1-kW solar-panel system Urban Infrastructure & 2) 23 yen/kWh unit price of electricity Value for the Group Environmental Number of solar homes built (cumulative) Net sales of the housing business 150,000 (Homes) 4,000 (JPY 100 million) Products Company 142,996 3,485 3,223 3,337 3,000 2,924 3,010 High Performance 100,000 2,000 70,000 Plastics Company 50,000 45,000 1,000 30,000 0 Sale of homes equipped with solar-power generation systems begins 0 1997 2003 2005 2009 2013 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Bases of CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 42 Company Vision / Midterm Plan Aiming to Be the Leader in Stock Management of Living and Social Infrastructure The business environment of the future is expected to be one of growth in the building stock market, including renewal of social infrastructure, and expectations of accelerating growth in the emerging markets of Southeast Asia, while new housing starts and new public projects decrease in developed markets as their populations and numbers of households shrink. For this reason, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company will continue reforms aiming to make it the leading firm in building stock management of residential and social infrastructure. Under the new Midterm Management Plan for the period through fiscal 2016, the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company will focus on repair, rehabilitation, and renewal as it shifts its management resources from general-purpose products and services toward the stock business, aiming to be an engineering contractor in the building stock field. It will strengthen the structure of its value-chain business from surveying and diagnostics through design, products, construction, and maintenance and management in areas such as water and sewage, electricity, telecommunications, and gas. At the same time, it also will strengthen efforts to enhance the earnings foundations of its overseas businesses and train the human resources to carry out this series of business reforms. Midterm Vision Leveraging Value-Chain Businesses to Be an Engineering Contractor in the Building Stock Field Solutions in the Building Stock Field Urban Repairs Rehabilitation Renewal Improvements Remodeling Renovation PPS Lining Method SPR Method Urban No-Dig Method DLC Sheet Method Omega Liner Method Trick Method Lift-In Method Marurino (Refilled Phenovaboard Insulation Method) Remodeling Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Contributing to building safe, comfortable infrastructure and water environments 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Overview Prominences The Pipe Rehabilitation Business: Environment Playing a Central Role in Growth Areas The pipe rehabilitation business is one of the key businesses in the building stock field. The aging of social infrastructure in developed countries is becoming a pressing social issue around the world in recent years. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company is striving to deliver solutions to this issue through the pipe rehabilitation business. Through products such as Eslon Pipe, the first PVC pipes successfully mass-produced in Japan, and the SPR method that makes CS & Quality it possible to rehabilitate pipes without excavating roads, it is actively developing new businesses for the future as a member of Sekisui Chemical Group, a group that continues making contributions to the infrastructure field. Human Resources SPR method Example of road subsidence Developing Tools to Open Up the Building Stock Field Business and Summer: cool Winter: warm Renewable Energy Utilization Business CSR This business puts renewable energy to use in areas such as air-conditioning, water heating, and road defrosting through means such as wastewater heat recovery systems that combine heat recovery functions with the pipe rehabilitation technologies used on Wastewater heat aged sewer pipes and systems using underground heat that employ the difference in temperature between underground and the Housing outside air. Wastewater heat recovery system Company Water Purification Business Water treatment With our high-performance membrane filtration membrane Unit systems, which contribute to reuse of water and wastewater/purification treatment, we deliver Urban Infrastructure & Environmental increased water and sewer processing capacity Module and advanced treatment of industrial wastewater. Products Company Apartment Renovation Business Membrane filtration system In addition to full renovation of facilities not readily apparent to Comprehensive Contracting Business the eye, in areas such as heat (Public-Private Partnership) High Performance (insulation), noise (soundproofing), We deliver comprehensive solutions for pipe asset Plastics Company and water (pipes), we also deliver management. comprehensive support services Maintenance An exclusively-owned area after such as surveys and diagnostics, Marurino renovation large-scale repairs, and periodic Repair and • Preventive Diagnostics inspections. reconstruction maintenance work • Keeping annual Bases of CSR Distinguishing features of expenditure down Sekisui Chemical Group’s services Research Planning and design to extend useful life Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 44 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Focus on One-Stop Solutions for Efficient Pipe Rehabilitation S T E P 1 The SPR method with no need for excavating roads The SPR method inserts hard vinyl-chloride belts inside worn sewer pipes and wraps Social issues them in a spiral form to form a new interior for Frequent incidents of the pipes. It combines the new pipe wall with the old sewer pipe by filling in the space road subsidence due to aging between the two using a special mortar. Traffic congestion and noise Compared to standard methods that require excavation, this method greatly reduces the from excavation work amount of waste generated and does not Earth and other require blocking off roads. industrial wastes from excavation S T E P 2 Shifting to value-chain-focused businesses from a manufacturer to a renewal solutions company While we started by simply selling materials, we have since transformed our business model. Our lines of business have expanded to include everything from research and diagnostics to design, construction, and maintenance, making it possible to deliver renewal solutions suited to users’ needs along with total quality assurance. Research and Design Sale of Construction Maintenance diagnostics materials ST E P 3 Social issues Swelling costs to Beginning comprehensive management services to contribute to cutting local governments’ costs local governments Local governments face tough financial circumstances, and improving the cost-efficiency of sewer pipe management has become a pressing issue. However, Sekisui Chemical Group is capable of delivering effective methods that promise to cut total life-cycle costs, through comprehensive subcontracting services. 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Prominences Creating Value through Our Main Contributing to Solutions to Infrastructure Environment Businesses Issues in Developed Countries with Demonstrated Technologies CS & Quality Since we first began supplying the SPR method in 1986, it has demonstrated its performance in a variety of locations, used on a total of 840 km*1 of pipe. In addition, through 2013 the SPR method has resulted in a cumulative decrease of 9.14 million tons*2 in waste. This technology has earned a strong reputation for the way it supports the safety of underground infrastructure, winning a number of prizes including the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in the First Monodzukuri Nippon Grand Awards, the 59th Okochi Memorial Prize, and a 2013 Good Design Award. These results are reflected in the sales of our pipe rehabilitation business. As developed countries are expected to face the need for large-scale investment in renovation of social infrastructure in Human the future, how to keep costs down to lessen the burden on the taxpayer will become a major concern. The Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company aims to contribute to solving such issues around the world through its Resources high-quality technologies and service. *1 According to a survey by the Japan Sewage Pipe Renewal Method Association *2 According to a Sekisui Chemical survey Value for Society Business and Waste reductions from using Example of cost savings through the SPR method (cumulative total) comprehensive contracting CSR Costs to local government 5,000 (Thousand tons) Project costs Administrative costs 4,000 Surveying/ Individual Maintenance Construction Design planning Business Public ordering contracting contracting costs contracting contracting administration employee costs costs costs costs costs 3,000 Housing 2,000 Company Business Public Comprehensive adminemployee contracting Research/planning through maintenance istration costs 20-30% savings 1,000 costs 0 Urban Infrastructure & 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Returned to residents Environmental Value for the Group Products Company Net sales of Sekisui Chemical Group’s Enhancing the promotion structure for the SPR method pipe rehabilitation business High Performance 300 (JPY100 million) 292 268 Tokyo Metropolitan Sewerage Service Corporation Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Adachi Construction & Industry Co., Ltd. 232 223 1987 Plastics Company Establishment of the SPR Method Study Group 200 206 182 1989 Establishment of the Japan Sewage Pipe Renewal Method Association 108 Membership: 100 41 companies Bases of CSR 0 2013 Spreads nationwide 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 10 branches Membership: 668 companies Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 46 H igh Performance Plastics Company Four New Strategic Fields and Growth Areas AT: Building and Field IT: Electronics Automobiles and MD: Life Science Industries Infrastructure Transportation Products for various uses (resin, foam, etc.) Core Sanitary Building and materials FPD materials Automotive infrastructure materials materials Medical materials Growth Materials Materials Functional Diagnostic for mobile for a infrareagent Packing devices comfortable structure systems Containers ride materials Agriculture Others Energy-saving Creation and conservation Health care Nurturing materials of energy and Implementation/ Creation semiconductor materials Overseas, new products Company Vision / Midterm Plan “Chemical Solution” Delivering High Added Value in Four New Strategic Fields In the new Midterm Management Plan for the years through 2016, the High Performance Plastics Company identifies as the engines of its growth four new strategic fields, overseas businesses, and new products and new businesses. The four new strategic fields are those of Electronics, Automobiles and Transportation, Building and Infrastructure, and Life Science. In each of these, respectively, we will focus management resources on what we have identified as growth areas: materials for mobile devices, materials for a comfortable ride, functional infrastructure materials, and diagnostic reagent systems. At the same time, we will promote efforts to shift production overseas, increase our global buying power, grow overseas businesses, and develop new products and new businesses. Conductive fine particles Interlayer film Fire protection materials Mediace diagnostic reagent for syphilis 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Prominences Overseas Sales Overview 4,500 (JPY100 million) 75 (%) 63 Developing Markets 56 Environment 54 Overseas sales/total sales 51 Overseas through a Diverse 3,000 50 2,223 Product Lineup 1,500 1,425 1,596 1,684 25 Overseas sales The High Performance Plastics Company has been advancing into CS & Quality overseas markets with a focus on automobiles, IT, and medical 0 0 products. As a result, in fiscal 2013 overseas businesses accounted 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) for 63% of its net sales and more than 50% of its employees. Overseas Business Development by the High Performance Plastics Company Human Resources Sales companies Business and CSR Production and sales companies LCD Panel Structure Electronics Electrode Cell-gap spacer Perimeter sealant Housing This segment supplies products such as spacers used to Color filter Company maintain gaps between LCD layers, conductive fine particles to transmit signals between narrow electrodes, UV sealant, Liquid crystal and double-faced tape. Urban Infrastructure & Glass substrate Photosensitive resin for LCD end seal Conductive fine particles Automobiles and Transportation This segment contributes to improving vehicle safety and comfort through interlayer films used in front windshields, Parts and Materials Used in Automobiles Environmental Products Company vehicle interior and exterior materials, and other products. Door interior materials Roof consoles Low-odor, ultra-low VOC tapes Interior ceiling materials Protective tapes for interior parts Door trim Building and Infrastructure Instrument panel hoods Rear doors This segment handles resin materials for heat-resistant pipes, High Performance Package trays fire protection materials, and other products. Plastics Company Life Science Glove boxes Console boxes Quarter trim This segment’s businesses serve customers including medical institutions, pharmaceutical firms, and Interlayer film for laminated glass Weather-strip compounds manufactures of sanitary materials. Windshields Radiator grilles Rear trim Bases of CSR Rocker panels Installation tapes for door-lock sealing materials Installation tapes for exterior parts Noiseand waterproofing materials Bumpers Over fenders Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 48 High Performance Plastics Company Focus on Contributing to Medicine Around the World in the Life Science Field Our main business in the field of life science is the medical business. This business’s products and services include diagnostic reagents and analyzers, testing instruments, subcontracting of R&D services for new drug development, and subcontracting of production of primary and intermediate drug ingredients. S T E P 1 Developing and supplying the first product of its kind Social issues in the world using high-polymer technologies Infection from blood Medical facilities entrusted with people’s lives need to conduct testing safely, quickly, and with high precision. Since the 1980s the High due to breakage of blood collection Performance Plastics Company has been a world leader in developing tubes during blood testing products to meet these needs. Its plastic vacuum blood collection tubes and diagnostic reagents for infectious diseases help prevent infection and maintain safety in medical facilities. Mediace diagnostic reagent for syphilis Insepack II vacuum blood collection tubes S T E P 2 Social issues Growing our business domains to meet a wide range Growth of of medical needs around the world lifestyle-related The merger with Daiichi Pure Chemicals in 2006 grew the business illnesses domain of our diagnostic reagents business from the existing area of in developed countries infectious diseases to include the areas of blood coagulation, diabetes, fat, and rheumatism. In addition, the full-scale start of our medical Rising medical costs devices business has enabled us to deliver both devices and diagnostic reagents. We are further strengthening our diagnostic reagents business through mergers and acquisitions overseas. Cholestest diagnostic reagent for Rapidpia protein analyzer Coapresta 3000 blood cholesterol Rapidchip BNP reagent for use with Rapidpia coagulation analyzer 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Prominences Environment Creating Value through Our Main Businesses Aiming to be a Global Medical Company that Contributes to Improving the Medical Environment and Quality of Life CS & Quality Lifestyle-related illnesses have been becoming more prevalent in recent years, chiefly in developed countries. Preventing these is important not only for people’s health but also for controlling social costs such as medical care costs. Our diagnostic reagents and analyzers are used widely in such preventive medicine. In addition, the plastic blood collection tubes we have supplied for many years contribute greatly to simple, quick, high-precision testing as well as making medical facilities safer through means including preventing hospital infections. They have earned a high share of the global market. We will continue contributing to improving the medical environment Human worldwide as we work to increase sales of these products in China, ASEAN countries, and other markets. Resources Value for Society Cholesterol diagnostic reagent sales (cumulative) Unit sales of Insepack SQ series vacuum blood collection tubes Business and 50 (JPY billion) 36,000 (Thousands) CSR 40 24,000 30 20 12,000 Housing 10 Company 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Cholestest N HDL/Cholestest LDL Insepack SQ series Urban Infrastructure & These clinical reagents are used to measure both “good” and “bad” cholesterol, which can Vacuum blood collection tubes containing a high-speed coagulant cause hardening of the arteries. They boast the top market share worldwide. to meet the need for quick testing in order to lessen the burden on outpatients. Environmental Value for the Group Products Company Sales in the medical field High Performance 600 (JPY100 million) 503 538 499 Plastics Company 400 405 385 370 373 245 200 115 Bases of CSR 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 50 Bases of CSR Compliance Aiming to continue being a company trusted by society, through strengthening compliance on a global basis Policies Sekisui Chemical Group carries out compliance management based on fundamental principles including “contributing to society,” “being a trusted company,” and “adherence to both the letter and spirit of the law.” We aim to be a company of which each individual employee can be proud, not just for his or her own sake but for his or her family, friends, and society at large, as he or she strives to put our management vision into practice while acting in accordance with the principles of compliance. Activities In fiscal 2013, we strived to deploy our structure for compliance training on a global basis while also continuing compliance training in Japan. In Japan, in addition to the existing compliance training for specific employee ranks and e-learning programs, we also enhanced activities at business sites and Group companies, such as holding open seminars on specific topics and training programs that visited multiple sites. Overseas, we enhanced the organization’s self-purifying functions for preventing scandals by introducing internal whistle-blowing systems in the U.S. and China. To address global corruption risks, we established rules for preventing corruption. We plan to establish and steadily implement rules and systems suited to the laws, regulations, and business practices of each country in fiscal 2014 and later. Number and Percentage of Employees Participating in e-learning Verified 40,000 (Employees) 100 (%) 81.8 83.2 83.0 81.6 82.4 81.7 30,000 75 Participation rate 20,000 19,133 19,497 20,091 19,740 20,054 19,938 50 10,000 25 Participants 0 0 2012 2013 (FY) Session 1 Session 2 Session 3 Session 4 Session 1 Session 2 Note: Comparisons are based on six-month participation periods. 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Three Prominences Global Legal Training To train human resources with legal expertise in response to accelerating globalization of Environment our businesses, we have continued dispatching Legal Department staff to U.S. law schools since fiscal 2010. In the future, we plan to help legal staff build up practical knowledge and experience overseas by increasing opportunities for legal staff to take part in overseas assignments and participation in trainee programs, along with Voice continued dispatch of staff CS & Quality to law schools. I plan to build up practical legal experience in the U.S. I have been attending a master’s degree program in law at a U.S. law school since July 2013. After developing an understanding of U.S. law, which differs structurally from that in Japan, I plan to work at Sekisui America Corporation beginning in autumn 2014. I Human Resources intend to use the ways of thinking I have learned from students from a variety of countries with different Legal Department backgrounds in law school as well as my language skills Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. to provide solid legal support to Group companies in Kei Takigawa the U.S. Business and CSR The S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program FY2013 Whistle-blowing Reports and Consultations Verified In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed the S.C.A.N. (Sekisui Compliance Assist Items Number of Network) intra-company whistle-blowing system, and since then we have made it items available for use by all Group employees. Power harassments 17 Housing In fiscal 2013, we introduced internal whistle-blowing systems in the U.S. and Company Working conditions 5 China and began use of a system under which each area headquarters company receives whistle-blowing reports from Group companies in its area. Workplace environment 2 In Japan, the number of whistle-blowing reports made through the external law Sexual harassments 1 office is increasing, in addition to those made through the internal contact point. In Urban Infrastructure & Sales-related 1 light of this fact, coordination between the contact points is becoming more important. In the future we will continue to respond in good faith to each individual Environmental Use of expenses 1 report, recognizing it to be an important topic for the Company to address. Other 2 Total 29 Products Company Legal Violations, etc. High Performance Plastics Company In February 2009 the Fair Trade Commission found Sekisui Chemical to have colluded with other firms in determination of sale prices of polyvinyl chloride pipes and fittings over the period 2004-2006 and ordered it to take measures to eliminate such collusion and to pay surcharges (hereinafter referred to as the “order”). Since Sekisui Chemical’s determination of facts of this case differs from that on which the order was based, in April 2009 the Company asked the Fair Trade Commission to cancel the order. Appeal procedures are still underway. Bases of CSR At the same time, we are striving to raise employee awareness by holding continual internal e-learning programs and training on the Antimonopoly Act. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will continue its efforts to raise awareness of compliance, always keeping in mind the fact that compliance is an important foundation of CSR management. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 52 Bases of CSR Risk Management Aiming to further strengthen the risk management system to increase sensitivity to risks and improve the quality of risk management activities Policies Strengthening the Risk Management Sekisui Chemical Group has been advancing (Prevention) System development of a risk management system to unify In contemporary corporate activities, which are growing in risk management, which strives to prevent risks from complexity, it is impossible to ascertain accurately all risks that occurring, and crisis management, which involves could be realized in the future. Sekisui Chemical Group continues responding to major risks that have occurred. We to run through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle of risk largely completed preparation of an environment for management in accordance with the international standard on such activities in fiscal 2013 and will move on to risk management ISO 31000, considering increasing employees’ make qualitative improvements in activities sensitivity to risks to be essential to addressing such risks. beginning in fiscal 2014. These activities began in fiscal 2010 at 27 organizations, chiefly divisions under Division Companies. The number of organizations employing these activities has increased from year to year. As of the end of fiscal 2013, a total of 112 organizations, consisting of affiliates in Japan and around the world, took part. These companies accounted for about three-fourths of consolidated net sales. In fiscal 2014, we plan to improve the Improving the Crisis quality of the activities through efforts including education and Management System training for the risk managers responsible for risk management at each business site and sharing of effective risk management In fiscal 2011, Sekisui Chemical Group thoroughly measures. revised its crisis management system, utilizing its experience with the Great East Japan Earthquake. It has continued to improve the system since then. We have conducted drills based on the emergency task force procedures at least twice a Voice year, and we have reviewed the systems and operations described in related manuals, as well as conducting annual training for all employees using We are taking an overview of the emergency initial response procedures and business through risk manageusing disaster-prevention checklists to improve ment activities and deploying disaster-prevention systems at all of our roughly 800 efforts to frontier regions as well sites in Japan. While ideally we should aim for a Administrative Management utilization rate of 100% for a disaster-prevention Risk management activities at Sekisui & Control Department system, the average score in self-evaluations of all Techno Molding Co., Ltd. essentially Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. business sites as of January 2014 was just roughly began in January 2012 with the risk Tomoo Hara 74% and there was variation apparent among assessment conference attended chiefly business sites. As such, we plan to continue making by members of the Board of Directors. Through a cooperative improvements. organization consisting of the two business divisions the Overseas, company-specific crisis management Company had at that time plus head office sections, we analyzed manuals have been developed at more than 90% of and assessed all risks faced by our business activities across the all business sites. We also have completed revisions entire company, getting an overview of our businesses as a result. to the system and operations of the overseas safety As the third cycle, we are considering activities in fiscal 2014 measures secretariat. Based on these, in fiscal 2014 such as expanding membership of the conference together with we will strengthen safety measures in frontier a change in the company’s organization and deployment of these regions such as Southeast Asia. activities in the frontier regions of India and Indonesia as well. 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Bases of CSR Three Communication Prominences Improving Corporate Value through Strengthening Dialogue with Stakeholders Environment Policies Dialogues with Overseas CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the importance of adequate and proactive disclosure and two-way communication for developing relationships built on trust with our stakeholders. Socially Responsible Investment We are working to reflect appropriately in our business the (SRI) Rating Agencies evaluations and comments we receive through dialogue with stakeholders. We are doing so through efforts including In Europe and North America, there is considerable Customer And Top (CAT) Meetings where top management in interest in socially responsible investment (SRI), in which housing sales companies meet customers to receive feedback companies addressing CSR issues are chosen proactively Human directly (3,804 persons took part in fiscal 2013), the External as targets of investment, and much research has been Advisory Board on Environment-Contributing Products (see p. conducted by rating agencies. In light of the broad Resources 18), the Attractive Qualities Screening System, in which the range of businesses Sekisui Chemical Group conducts, Attractive Qualities Screening Committee evaluates and screens each year we visit SRI ratings agencies in Europe and products and services, and opportunities for direct dialogue elsewhere to ensure that they have adequate and between top management and employees. accurate understandings of its lines of business and its CSR efforts. In fiscal 2013, we met with four SRI ratings agencies Business and CSR from Japan and around the world. Communication Between Management and Employees Housing Since fiscal 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group has provided opportunities for employees to communicate with top Company management, based on its belief that it is essential to resolve problems faced by the Company as well as work-related issues through direct communication between top management and employees. In fiscal 2013, the President of Sekisui Chemical visited six business sites across Japan targeting affiliate companies, to discuss the state of company management, expectations for employees, and other matters with approximately 450 participants. In the opportunity for exchange of opinions during these visits, employees discussed with the President Urban Infrastructure & Environmental themes chosen by the business sites, such as human-resources development and passing along skills. Products Company Voice High Performance Plastics Company I will do my work with renewed consciousness Less than one year after joining Sekisui Chemical Group I took part in a discussion with top management. There I learned an important part of the Sekisui spirit: the need to Planning & Control Department think and act on one’s own instead of waiting for somebody Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. Bases of CSR else to do it. As Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. grows in the future, I intend to take on the challenges of my work with a Mieko Ishihara delicate attention and swift action. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 54 Environmental and Social Contributions Environmental Contributions Policies Contribute to the environment Sekisui Chemical Group has continued activities to contribute to through business activities the environment since fiscal 1997, under the fundamental Promote concept of “contributing to the environment through our Environment-Contributing Reduce environmental impacts business activities.” Products We consider promoting Environment-Contributing Products, which deliver superior environmental performance than conventional products, and reducing environmental impacts through means such as cutting CO2 emissions and waste to be Train people to contribute to the environment through business activities good ways to “contribute to the environment through our business activities.” In addition, since we consider contributions to Activities to contribute to the environment, such as nature conservation the environment such as nature conservation to be the results of training the people who will work to contribute to the environment through our business activities, we are carrying out such efforts proactively based on employee participation. Building Habitat for Living Creatures The Tokyo Headquarters of Sekisui Chemical has taken part in rice-planting and harvesting activities since fiscal 2005, with the nonprofit organization Medaka no Gakko (“school of fish”) providing technical guidance. In fiscal 2013, a total of 87 employees and their family members took part in planting rice in May and harvesting the rice in September, at the Hatchotombo rice fields in Tochigi Prefecture. They learned about the importance of both natural life and food. Planting rice seedlings Beech Woodland Restoration and Tree-Planting Activities The nonprofit organization, Society to Conserve Beeches & Water of Zao, continues tree-planting activities to restore the beech woodlands at the foothills of the Minami-Zao area of Miyagi Prefecture. Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. has taken part in the Society’s tree-planting festival since fiscal 2002. A total of 18 people, consisting of employees and their family members, took part in the tree-planting festival held in June 2013, planting trees while struggling with the roots of low bamboo bushes Planting trees and the hot weather. They also were able to confirm the growth of the seedlings planted several years ago. In the opening ceremony, the Company was presented with a thank-you letter The thank-you letter from the nonprofit for past activities. organization 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Children’s Nature Study Course Three In June 2013, Sekisui Chemical’s Gunma Plant held the eighth “Hayakawa River Water-Quality Survey and Observation Prominences of Living Creatures” Children’s Nature Study Course. On the day of the event, 45 people including employees, local children, and their parents and guardians took part. After catching water bugs and taking water samples from the Hayakawa River that flows near the plant, participants went to the plant site to look up the names of the creatures and measure the water’s Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)* to gauge the level of water pollution. Environment * Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Shows the amount of oxygen required for oxidation of oxidizable substances in the water, as one indicator of water quality. Voice This activity provides new opportunities CS & Quality to experience nature each year The Gunma Plant has continued to hold the Gunma Children’s Nature Study Course since January 2006, inspired by the Sekisui Nature Study Course program that began the previous year. We have developed five types of programs so that students from the local sound upbringing committee can take part. While it has been tough to prepare a different program each year, Human Planning & Control Department, our intent is to let both first-time children and those who enjoy participating Gunma Plant each year make new discoveries and get a true feel for the fun of nature Urban Infrastructure & Resources each time. In recent years the program has grown in size as middle school Environmental Products Company students take part in addition to local elementary school students. We will do Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. our best to keep holding this event in the future as well. Sachiko Kanai Business and Planting Mangrove Trees in Thailand CSR In August, mangrove planting activities were held in Thailand, as an event symbolizing Sekisui Environment Week (see p. 17). On the day of this event, about 215 persons including the president of Sekisui Chemical and other members of top management, employees of subsidiaries in Thailand, and their families planted about 2,000 seedlings. Housing This was the third time mangrove planting activities held in Thailand, starting with the first planting Company activities in fiscal 2011. As they grow, the mangrove trees planted this time are projected to have the effect of reducing CO2 by about 260 tons after 10 years. In addition, members of Sekisui Chemical Group top management paid a courtesy visit to the Thai Royal Family. They presented a list of donations to the Urban Infrastructure & Sirindhorn International Environmental Park. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will work to raise Group employees’ environmental Environmental awareness at a global level through actively continuing activities to contribute to the environment in Thailand, where the Group is involved in a wide range of businesses. Products Company Biodiversity Preservation Activities at Manufacturing Sites High Performance Sekisui Alveo’s Roermond Plant, which produces resin foam, has conducted biodiversity Plastics Company surveys in fiscal 2012 in order to carry out business activities with consideration for biodiversity. The surveys employ a surveying tool developed by the European nonprofit organization Global Nature Fund (GNF), with GNF and Alveo staff working together to assess the content of the plant’s business. In fiscal 2013, the survey examined the plant’s impact on biodiversity from the perspectives of nonnative species, climate change, changes in habitats, and overuse of Bases of CSR resources. A report was prepared covering 10 recommendations for preserving biodiversity based on the survey’s findings. As a result, the plant is taking part in activities including nature conservation efforts at neighboring De Meinweg National Park. Activities in De Meinweg National Park Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 56 Environmental and Social Contributions Social Contributions Policies Environment Sekisui Chemical Group advances social contribution activities mainly in the fields of the environment, the next generation, and local communities. We consider such activities initiatives made as a corporate citizen living together with society, and we provide Next Local support for activities to enable Group employees to play active Generation Communities roles in society. Advancing Social Contribution Activities Utilizing our Businesses Sekisui Chemical Group carries out social contribution activities utilizing the distinguishing features of its businesses. Since fiscal 2009 the Housing Company has partnered with prefectural police departments in activities targeting areas such as crime prevention in the community and traffic safety. In addition, since fiscal 2007 the Housing Company has conducted the Houses and the Environment Learning Program to put employees’ knowledge to use in the classroom. Through now, a total of approximately 8,200 junior high school students have taken part in these classes. Since fiscal 2008 the High Performance Plastics Company has conducted the Science Class for Children for elementary-school students and the Chemical Classroom Project for The Chemical Classroom seventh through ninth graders. In fiscal 2013, a total of approximately 2,900 students took Project part in these classes, and one was held in the U.S. as well. In addition, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. has begun a Science Classroom program. Since fiscal 2009 Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company has provided science classes and plant tours for seventh through ninth graders. In fiscal 2012, the Houses and the Environment Learning Program won the encouragement award in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan’s Career Education Awards. In fiscal 2013 the Science Class for Children won the same award. Expanding Social Contribution Activities that Make it Easy for Individuals to Participate Since fiscal 2009 Sekisui Chemical Group has advanced social contribution activities that make it easy for individual employees to participate. These have included TABLE FOR TWO (TFT), which provides school meals in developing countries, the BOOK MAGIC program, in which participants donate unneeded books, and Heart+Action, activities to aid developing countries. In July 2013, Sekisui Chemical’s Osaka Headquarters installed a vending machine linked to the TFT program, and the program was able to provide support for about 13,600 school meals for children in developing countries. Note: See Data Book (p. 22) for more information on performance of other social contribution activities. TFT Vending machine 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Participation in the Community Sekisui Chemical Group actively participates in local communities at its companies and business sites Three Prominences in Japan and around the world. Employees of Group companies in the U.S. took part in the Renegade Playground Challenge charity event held in October 2013. This event is a running race on a hilly course four miles (approx. 6.4 km) long, over various obstacles and muddy pools. The event collects donations from participants and contributes a portion of its revenues to nonprofits such as the Speedway Children’s Charities, Environment which helps children who need assistance. In addition, the shoes used by participants are collected, cleaned, and then donated to people who need shoes, through a program called GreenSneakers. Furthermore, for each pound (approx. 454 g) of shoes collected, 50 cents are donated to the New Hampshire Food Bank. Voice CS & Quality This is a fun and heartwarming event. I participated in the Renegade Playground Challenge otherwise known as the “Mud Run” for the second year in a row. This was especially fun for me because my daughter, Brittany, participated in the run as well. I joined this activity with my company because sometimes having fun like a kid is just a good thing, especially when you have your child with you. Running through obstacles and mud was a great way to build my daughter’s confidence. It Human was really fun being together as a group, cheering each other on, and Sekisui Voltek, LLC. lending a hand to one another when needed. In addition to being a fun Manufacturing Resources event, it was heartwarming to know we were helping out needy children Carlos Medeiros who are not able to enjoy such activities. I would recommend everyone try at least one mud run sometime in their life because it’s just awesome. Business and CSR Supporting the Research Activities of Universities and Research Institutions Housing Company Sekisui Chemical Group began the Sekisui Chemical Grant Program for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature in fiscal 2002 to support the research Urban Infrastructure & activities of universities and research institutions utilizing knowledge of fundamental science learned from nature. Over Environmental the 12-year period through fiscal 2013, this program collected a cumulative total of 3,324 public placements, ultimately Products Company awarding grants to 170 research projects. The award ceremony Donations High Performance For purposes including environmental conservation and support for raising the next generation, Sekisui Chemical Group provides economic support including donations to a variety of activities. Its Plastics Company donations in fiscal 2013 totaled approximately 260 million yen. A typical example of aid provided in fiscal 2013 is the donations and matching gift provided for victims of the typhoon that struck the central region of the Philippines in November of that year. Sekisui Chemical donated 5 million yen to aid victims of the typhoon and assist in the recovery of affected areas. In addition, donations were collected from Sekisui Chemical Group employees and Bases of CSR the company also provided a matching gift that exceeded the amount of donations collected. As a result, a total of approximately 8.4 million yen was given to the Japanese Red Cross Society and the nonprofit World Vision Japan. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 58 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report （TRANSLATION） June 11, 2014 Mr. Naofumi Negishi, President, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Hiroshi Inanaga Chief Executive Officer Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. 3-3-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the material sustainability information (the “sustainability information”) indicated with the verification logo for the year ended March 31, 2014 that included in the “CSR Report 2014 (including the separate “CSR Report 2014 Data Book”)” (the “Report”) of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). The Company’s Responsibility for the Report The Company is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company (CSR Report 2014 Data Book: Calculation Standards of Key Performance Indicators) and “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” (issued by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (the “J-sus”)). Greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to combine emissions of different gases. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the sustainability information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Review of Historical Financial Information (Revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”), and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by IAASB, and the Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information issued by the J-sus. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: ・Evaluating whether the Company’s methods for estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or reperforming the estimates. ・Undertaking site visits to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant assumptions applicable to the sites. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s sustainability information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company and “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” (issued by the J-sus). The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in the Japanese language. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Summary of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Procedures Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Check of Formulation of plan Performance Reporting Quality control Submittal of final edition of check assurance report CSR Report • Assurance procedures • Confirmation of scope of carried out at Sekisui assurance, subject items, Chemical Headquarters • A professional outside the • Obtaining management information collection and visited business sites • Reporting results of • Follow-up on items such assurance engagement team confirmation letter methods, etc. (performance of completed procedures, as matters pointed out in checks appropriateness of • Submittal of Independent • Decision on assurance procedures including field matters for comment, etc. Step 3 the assurance procedures Practitioner’s Assurance procedures, schedule observation, analytical Report (Headquarters, business procedures, documentary sites to be visited for verification, inspection of verification), etc. materials, and inquiries) 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 History of Sekisui Chemical Group 1947 Establishment of Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. Started first injection Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-21 takes effect. molding business in Japan. Began publishing Environmental Reports. 1948 Change of company name to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 2001 Launched the division company system, establishing the three 1950 Began selling cellophane tape. division companies: the Housing Company, the Urban Infrastructure 1952 Started full-scale production of PVC pipe (Eslon Pipe). & Environmental Products Company, and the High Performance 1953 Listed on Osaka Stock Exchange. Plastics Company. 1956 Developed Japan’s first plastic rain gutter (Eslon Rain Gutters). Achieved zero waste emissions in all house production plants and all 1959 Established Sekisui Sponge Industries Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui Plastics plants of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd.) with co-financing from Shin-Nippon Chisso Hiryo Co., Ltd., 2002 Sekisui Chemical Grant Program for Research on Manufacturing Asahi Kasei Corporation and others, to commercialize plastic foam. Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature begins. 1960 Established Sekisui House Sangyo Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui House Co., S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program begins. Ltd.) and started the housing business. 2003 Midterm Management Plan: GS21-Premium 600 takes effect. 1962 Launched Movement for Cleaner Towns featuring our plastic Established the Environmental Management Promotion Department garbage bins (Poly-pail), as a campaign to mark the company’s 15th (now CSR Department Environmental Management Group). Anniversary. Cleaning revolution subsequently spread nationwide. Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-2005 takes effect. 1963 Started producing plastic bathtubs (first in Japan). Modular toilet tank Achieved zero waste emissions at all house construction sites. commercialized, paving the way for production of modular-style 2004 Established the CS & Quality Management Department (now CSR equipment. Department CS & Quality Group). 1970 Exhibited modular house (Sekisui Heim) at the International Good Achieved zero waste emissions in all construction by house Living Show in Tokyo. renovation companies. 1971 Started producing and selling Japan’s first modular house, Heim M1. 2005 Established the CSR Committee. Published the Environmental and 1972 Established original Environmental Management Department. Social Report. Launched company-wide commitment to pollution control. 2006 Midterm Management Plan: GS21-Go! Frontier takes effect. Midterm 1979 Awarded Deming Prize for quality management in recognition of Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan Part 1 takes results of aggressive TQC activities. effect. 1981 Adopted twin-headquarters system (Osaka and Tokyo), and 2007 60th Anniversary of the founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. established Tokyo Headquarters at Toranomon, Tokyo. Global Children’s Eco Summit and Manufacturing Based on Learning 1991 Established Basic Policies on environmental issues. from Nature—Junior Forum held. 1993 Introduced divisional system, shifting to the seven divisions: Pipe & Conducted reviews of the CSR Committee and Headquarters Related Products, Building Materials, Chemicals, Techno-products, organization. Molded Products, Medical Products, and Housing. Published the CSR Report. 1994 Began activities to earn ISO 9000-series quality-management system 2008 CSR policies established and revised. certification. 2009 Midterm Management Plan: GS21-SHINKA! takes effect. 1996 Paid-in capital surpassed 100 billion yen. Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan Adopted new headquarters logo. SHINKA! takes effect. Announced Top Management Policy for Environment and Safety. Developed the “Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030” Long-Term Environmental Began activities to earn ISO 14001 environmental-management Management Vision. system certification. 2010 Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum held 1997 50th Anniversary of the founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. in Nagoya. Launched Sekisui Chemical Group nature conservation activities. 2011 Safety Subcommittee established. Created Women’s Athletic Club. 2012 65th Anniversary of the founding of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 1998 Instituted Corporate Activity Guidelines. Global Children’s Eco Summit 2012 held. Initiated zero waste emission activities. The Outstanding Eco Contributor Award program begins. 1999 Midterm Management Plan: GS21 takes effect. Risk Management Group established. Instituted Corporate Philosophy. 2013 First Sekisui Environment Week held. Concentrated business into three domains: Housing, Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products, and High Performance Plastics. Editor’s Notes Sekisui Chemical Group established a new philosophy, and at the same “Business and CSR” reports on examples of contributing to resolution time began its new midterm management plan SHINKA!-Advance of environmental and social issues through business activities and 2016 in fiscal 2014. Accordingly, to facilitate understanding of our how these have led to creation of values for society, customers, and stakeholders, the beginning of this CSR Report features an overview of the Group. the new midterm management plan along with introductions to In recent years, Sekisui Chemical Group’s businesses have various activities, separated by field. undergone continued globalization, and increases in production and The new midterm management plan identifies CSR SHINKA purchase of parts and raw materials in emerging markets are a cause of (evolution) as one of its basic strategies. This is because incorporating rising human rights risks. This Report and its Data Book report on how CSR in the foundation of management and enhancing it further are the Group enhanced its human rights and supply-chain initiatives in essential to the growth of our businesses and the sustainability of fiscal 2014 to address such growing risks. Sekisui Chemical Group. This CSR Report reports on the results of the The separate Data Book reports detailed information on efforts previous midterm plan along with future directions for CSR SHINKA, along with performance data. organized around Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR concept, based on the In addition to disclosing as much information as possible on our Three Prominences of the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human CSR efforts through this Report and accepting opinions from Resources, and its Three Attitudes of Sincerity in Compliance, Risk stakeholders, efforts such as undergoing an independent practitioner’s Management, and Communication. assurance to ensure the accuracy and objectivity of the information Sekisui Chemical Group considers its mission to be that of fulfilling disclosed are intended to advance CSR management efforts and its social responsibilities and contributing to resolution of environmental improve the content of this Report. We would very much appreciate and social issues through its businesses. For this reason, sections hearing the frank opinions of our readers (csr@sekisui.com). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 60 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) E-mail: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the plate-making process. CSR Report 2014 (including the separate Data Book) has (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds been reviewed for assurance by an independent third (VOC) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking party and as a result has been granted the sustainability performance, is used in the printing process. In addition, waterless report review and registration logo. This demonstrates printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance used as well. Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS; (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended binding process. to assure the reliability of sustainability information. Published: June 26, 2014. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 26, 2013. Next edition planned for publication: June 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR Report 2014 Data Book Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data 2 Results of the Midterm Environmental Plan 3 New Environmental Midterm Plan 5 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Accounting 7 Sekisui Eco Value Index 9 Material Balance (in Japan) 9 Environment-Contributing Products 10 Product Assessments for Environmental Impact 10 Biodiversity 10 Global Warming Prevention 11 Resource Recycling and Saving 12 Environmental Performance of Domestic Offices 13 Atmospheric and Water Related Emissions 14 Environmental Incidents and Complaints, and Emergency Responses 14 Chemical Substances 15 Environmental Management 16 CS & Quality 17 Human Resources 18 Safety 19 Compliance 21 Environmental and Social Contribution 21 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management System 23 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management Policies 24 Calculation Standards of Key Performance Indicators 27 Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance The environmental and social information in this report has been subjected to the independent practitioner’s assurance for the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo is used to indicate that each item of such subject information has been verified. Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) * Fiscal 2012: Performance for overseas subsidiaries is for the 15-month period January 2012 through March 2013 (in connection with standardization of the fiscal years of consolidated subsidiaries to end in March beginning with fiscal 2012). Sales (by Each Division Company) Operating Income (by Each Division Company) ROE (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (%) 12000 12,000 900 10 11,108 9.4 825 10,324 8.1 10000 10,000 9,650 7.8 Housing 9,154 4,967 Company 8,585 Housing 600 596 411 6.9 8000 8,000 Company 546 493 4,690 4,186 4,493 Urban 360 363 6,000 3,982 6000 244 311 65 Infrastructure & 5 Environmental Urban 300 Products 2,399 Infrastructure & 194 Company 3.5 2,145 Environmental 15 18 4000 4,000 30 361 1,946 1,955 2,000 Products Company High 244 206 232 Performance High 192 Plastics 2000 2,000 3,537 Performance 0 Company 2,816 2,968 3,320 Plastics −24 −9 0 2,476 Company -18 Others −3 -11 0 0 179 195 190 168 437 Others −200 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Interest-bearing Debt and Interest-bearing Debt as a Percentage of Overseas Sales and Sales Ratio Total Assets Equity Capital (100 million yen) (%) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (%) 2,594 2,500 25 10,000 1,500 50 2,378 23.4 2500 25 9,610 23.0 9,015 1,330 North 19.7 America 8,271 1,245 1,271 2,000 19.6 20 8,000 7,872 7,901 1,200 38.9 40 767 779 36.6 36.2 1,153 16.4 1,800 1,895 564 27.6 940 1,500 528 15 6,000 900 30 1,409 670 Europe 633 376 20.6 1,000 506 570 10 4,000 600 20 Interest-bearing debt as a percentage 415 Asia of equity capital 500 1,042 5 2,000 300 10 872 675 655 Interest-bearing 550 debt Others 0 68 89 104 104 102 0 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cash Flows Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) 500 500 400 500 500 400 440 345 345 351 348 343 418 400 300 306 400 368 300 249 330 200 300 151 126 300 100 252 200 0 200 200 −100 100 100 −123 100 −200 −300 0 0 -300 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 R&D Costs Annual Dividend Per Share Number of Employees (100 million yen) (Yen) (persons) 300 25 24,000 300 23,017 24000 277 23 256 258 20,855 22,202 240 246 20 250 19,761 19,770 Housing Company 18 9,840 200 16,000 8,478 8,637 8,820 9,775 200 16000 15 15 13 150 Urban 10 10 Infrastructure & 4,570 4,887 5,363 Environmental 100 8,000 4,634 4,447 Products 100 Company 8000 5 High 6,545 6,858 Performance 50 5,620 5,655 6,443 Plastics Company 0 0 0 1,029 1,031 1,022 995 956 Headquarters 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data Japan Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company R&D institutes 1 company and 1 business site R&D institutes 2 companies and 2 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute Production plants 11 companies and 10 business sites Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Production plants 11 companies and 14 business sites Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd., etc. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sales and construction 28 companies and companies 105 business sites Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Sales Companies Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. / Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., etc. Construction and Service Companies 40 companies and 116 business sites in total 11 companies and 16 business sites in total Urban Infrastructure & Headquarters Environmental Products Company R&D institutes 1 company and 1 business site R&D institutes 1 company and 1 business site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories 8 companies and 20 companies and Production Plants and Headquarters 10 business sites Production plants 11 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Osaka Headquarters and Tokyo Headquarters Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. / Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd., etc. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant / Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd., etc. 20 companies and 12 business sites in total 8 companies and 11 business sites in total Total: 76 companies and 155 business sites * The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by two or more companies. Overseas Urban Infrastructure & Sekisui Alveo B.V. Environmental Products Company Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Kydex, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Eslon B.V. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC (Stamford)* Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Pasadena Plant) Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Calvert City Plant) Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. 7 business sites in total Sekisui S-Lec (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. High Performance Plastics Company YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Cheongwon Plant XenoTech, LLC. YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. (Lawrence Plant) Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. (Coldwater Plant) Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. (Buena Park Plant)* Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. (Tennessee Plant) Sekisui Alveo Ltd. 24 business sites in total * Data was collected only for wastes and CO2 emissions. 2 Results of the Midterm Environmental Plan Efforts, targets, and results of the Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (FY 2009 – 2013) Efforts Targets for Fiscal 2013 Improving overall environmental management efficiency Achieving a Sekisui Eco Value Index at least three times the fiscal 2007 value Improving Increase selling of Environment-Contributing Products At least 40% sales ratio of Environment-Contributing Products of consoliEnvironmentdated net sales Contributing Number of products certified as Environment-Contributing Products: 30 Promoting development of Environment-Contributing Products Products (fiscal 2009 – 2013 5years) Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal Reduction in emissions of greenhouse Domestic production sites Reducing 2007 (at least 20% compared to fiscal 1990) greenhousegas (GHG) Reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% compared to fiscal Laboratories emissions 2007 Domestic offices Reducing CO2 emissions by at least 10% compared to fiscal 2007 Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared Overseas production sites gases (GHG) to fiscal 2008 Further reducing the environmental impacts of business activities Promoting enOverseas offices Reducing energy use per capita by at least 4% compared to fiscal 2011 ergy conservaReducing energy used per unit of output by at least 7% compared to fiscal tion Domestic production sites 2007, when converted into thermal units Reducing energy consumption per unit of output by at least 5% compared During shipment in Japan to fiscal 2007 Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 25% compared to Domestic production sites fiscal 2007 (target revised from 40% reduction) Reducing waste generated per unit of output by at least 25% compared to Overseas production sites fiscal 2008 Efficient utilization of resources Reducing Domestic offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 20% compared to fiscal 2007 wastes Overseas offices Reducing copier-paper use by at least 8% compared to fiscal 2011 Reducing wastes at new construction Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 45% reduction sites Two-U Home: 62% reduction Reducing costs derived from waste Reducing loss costs by at least 5 billion yen compared to fiscal 2008 (acmaterials cumulated amount from fiscal 2009 to 2013) Domestic production sites/laboratoRate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% ries Expanding zero Overseas production sites Rate of achievement at sites reviewed: 100% waste emissions Recycling of waste materials proImplementing zero-emissions (i.e., recycling at least 98% of wastes) efforts duced during dismantlement and in at least 50% of demolition projects expansion/renovation of houses Reducing other Reducing water intake at domestic production sites by at least 10% comEfficient water use pared to fiscal 2007 environmental Reducing atmospheric VOC emissions at domestic production sites and Reduction in VOC emissions laboratories by at least 60% compared to fiscal 2000 (at least 25% compared impacts (legal and voluntary controlled substances) to fiscal 2007) Completing assessment of land use at all production sites and laboratories Efforts to conserve biodiversity (target revised since formulation of action plan) Consideration for Activities Support of nature conservation activiAs Sekisui Chemical Group, providing aid to at least 10 nonprofit organizato improve ties by NGOs tions per year in support of nature conservation activities environment Promoting nature conservation activities in at least five locations overseas biodiversity (conservation of biodiversity) Nature conservation activities in colImplementing nature conservation activities at all business sites laboration with local communities At least 80% of employees (cumulative) participating over the three-year period 2011-2013 Attaining external EMS certification at domestic production sites and Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed laboratories Attaining external EMS certification at Attaining external EMS certification at consolidated construction companies domestic construction companies Enhancing environmental Attaining external EMS certification at Attaining external EMS certification at 100% of sites reviewed management overseas production sites Enhancing the environmental systems (EMS) Expanding EMS development in supAttaining external EMS certification at 100% of suppliers of residential buildply chains ing materials supplying a fixed amount or more Expanding green procurement Achieving a green procurement rate of 98% or higher Soil and groundwater surveys Completion of surveys at nine subject sites management infrastructure Establishing a new educational system (target revised from reaching a Learning at least a certain degree of target total of certified Environmental Specialists [Eco Test]) Improvement of education environmental knowledge Conducting environmental education for employees and management and enlightenoverseas as well ment Developing leaders for nature conserHolding the Sekisui Nature Study Course at main production sites and labovation activities ratories in Japan (51 sites) EMS certification: Continuing issuance at production sites, laboratories, and Communication Publishing site reports sales companies (46 sites) with external organizations Communication with local communiContinued implementation at eight domestic production sites ties to improve environment 3 Verified Results of Fiscal 2013 Evaluation Page 3.14 times (compared to fiscal 2007) ○ 17, Data Book 9 Fiscal 2013: Sales of Environment-Contributing Products 466.8 billion yen; percentage of consolidated net sales 42.0% ○ 17, 18, Data Book 10 60 products certified (fiscal 2009–2013 cumulative total) ◎ — Reduced by 17.4% compared to fiscal 2007 (reduced by 25.8% compared to fiscal 1990) ◎ 19, Data Book 11 Reduced by 34.1% compared to fiscal 2007 ◎ 19, Data Book 11 Reduced by 15.2% compared to fiscal 2007 ◎ 19, Data Book 13 Increased by 3.4% compared to fiscal 2008 × — Increased by 1.6% compared to fiscal 2011 × — 9.5% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 ◎ Data Book 11 0.3% increase compared to fiscal 2007 × Data Book 11 19.7% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 × 20, Data Book 12 11.8% increase compared to fiscal 2008 × Data Book 13 1.2% decrease compared to fiscal 2007 × Data Book 13 7.5% decrease compared to fiscal 2011 ○ — Compared to fiscal 2000: Sekisui Heim: 26% reduction × 20, Data Book 12 Two-U Home: 45% reduction Cumulative total reduction: 2.55 billion yen (compared to fiscal 2008) × — One new business site certified, achieved at 100% of sites ○ Data Book 12 One new business site certified, achieved at 23% of sites × — Demolition recycling rate: 96% 99% recycling rate for designated construction materials ○ — Reduced by 4.4% compared to fiscal 2007 × 20, Data Book 13 Reduced by 53.3% compared to fiscal 2000 × 21, Data Book 15 (reduced by 10.8% compared to fiscal 2007) Assessment completed at all production sites and laboratories ○ 22 Aid provided to 13 organizations ◎ — Implemented at five sites ○ 56 Implemented at 49 of 50 subject business sites Total participation rate over three years: 113% ○ — Attained at 100% of sites ○ 17, Data Book 16 Attained at 31% of sites × — Attained at 73% of sites × — Attained at 90% of sites ○ — Green procurement rate: 96.2% ○ — Surveys completed ○ 21 New education system established ○ — e-Learning for management conducted four times (participation rate averaged 80% or more) ○ — Conducted at 28 business sites × — Issued by 40 business sites × — Conducted at two business sites × — “Evaluation” Column Key: ◎ Outperformed target ○ Performed close to target (achievement rate of about 90% to 110%) × Failed to reach target 4 New Environmental Midterm Plan P16 New Environmental Midterm Plan Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Plan: Take-Off (Fiscal 2014-2016) Efforts Indicators Ratio of sales of Environment-Contributing Expand and Increase sales of Environment-Contributing Products Products (consolidated) create EnvironmentContributing Products Number of new Environment-Contributing Create Environment-Contributing Products Products registered Reduce greenhouse gas Emissions reductions GHG emissions emissions Energy consumption per unit of output Greenhouse gases, energy Energy consumption per employee Energy Reduce energy use conservation Energy consumption per surface area Energy consumption per shipment volume Contribute to the return of Natural capital Reduce waste generation Waste generated per unit of output by production volume Reduce environmental impacts Resources, Reduce use of resources in offices Paper use per employee Waste reduction waste Reduce waste generation at new conWaste generated per building struction sites Percentage of subject business sites attaining EMS EMS certification certification EMS, zero emissions Percentage of subject business sites reaching zero Expand zero emissions activities emissions Reduce water use Water use Other environmental impacts Reduce atmospheric VOC emissions VOC emissions Improve quality of green space on business sites Points in Land-Use Report Card Business site activities Promote Sekisui Environment Week Participants as a percentage of all employees Conserve Number of business sites conducting autonomous natural Activities centered on production sites activities environment Activities in Japan partnership Activities centered on sales companies Number of activity blocs with local communities Participating business sites as a percentage of all Overseas facilities 5 Subjects Midterm Targets Overseas (2014-2016) Production Domestic Overseas Laboratories production Other sites in Japan offices offices sites 50% ○ ○ ○ ○ 30 products ○ ○ ○ Total emissions level maintained (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ -3% (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ -3% (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ -3% (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ -3% (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ -12% (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ -6% (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ ○ Sekisui Heim: 825 kg/building Two-U Home: 1,375 kg/building ○ 100% ○ ○ ○ 100% ○ ○ ○ Total volume maintained (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ Total volume maintained (Japan: compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ (Overseas: compared to fiscal 2014) + 10 points (compared to fiscal 2013) ○ ○ 100% ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ 25 business sites ○ ○ 7 blocs ○ 100% ○ ○ 6 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Accounting Verified To promote efficient environmental management and fulfill corporate activities, although costs such as those related to prevention of global accountability responsibilities, Sekisui Chemical Group employs environmental warming and social contributions increased. accounting that makes it possible to ascertain the costs and effects of At the same time, the investment side showed an increase in environmental conservation activities. Calculation is conducted by referring to investments in social contributions resulting from the installation of the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese megasolar facilities as part of our CSR program. Investments in R&D Ministry of the Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Group’s own increased considerably as well. concepts such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). A look at economic effects shows that the amount of cost reductions The scope of procedures expanded in fiscal 2013 due to an increase in the from energy conservation activities increased, while the amount of cost number of production sites and laboratories where data could be collected. In savings from waste reduction and other activities decreased. In addition, addition, megasolar facilities were installed at nine production sites as part of external economic effects from homes installed with solar power generaour CSR program. tion systems and other efforts also are increasing steadily. Starting in fiscal Total costs decreased from the previous fiscal year due to decreases in 2013, “Revenues from sales of electricity generated by megasolar facilities” pollution prevention, waste reduction, environmental education, and other have been booked. Scope of environmental accounting (1) Summation period: April 1, 2013 through March 31, 2014 (2) Scope of summation: 44 target production sites (as listed on Data Book p. 2) + 5 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division companies + 15 housing sales companies. Notes: The scope of summation in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 consisted of 40 target production sites + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division companies + 15 housing sales companies. Business sites added to or removed from the scope of summation in fiscal 2013 are shown below. Added: Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant, Tsukuba Plant, Amagasaki Plant, ADME & Tox. Research Institute Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant, Hamamatsu Plant Removed: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant (plant closed) (3) Principles of summation • Depreciation amounts are the same as those for financial accounting. • Investment amounts are based on budget approvals during the summation period. • Expenditures and investments that contain other than environmental conservation activities are distributed pro-rata in 10% increments. Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Items FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,689 142 1,589 215 1,243 192 1) Costs within business areas Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 469 674 504 993 732 885 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 4,607 153 4,914 195 4,467 280 2) Upstream/downstream costs Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 276 0 248 0 334 5 3) Administrative costs Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for 2,191 12 2,408 4 1,818 4 green action organization, information disclosure, etc. 4) Research & Development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 3,301 15 3,222 244 3,183 999 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 70 0 78 0 338 1,754 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 25 0 26 0 30 0 Total 12,628 996 12,990 1,652 12,144 4,120 Total amount of R&D costs* and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 25,611 17,200 25,895 15,473 27,721 16,217 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 12.9 5.8 12.4 10.7 11.5 25.4 * R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total SelfEffect See evaluDescription of effects Item Unit FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 (13-12) page Item Unit FY2012 FY2013 ation (1) Electricity TJ 3,370 3,315 3,360 46 Data Effects on Amount of energy Book 11 (1) Energy usage per unit of invested usage *1 Data output (electricity + fuel) *1 GJ/ton 1.72 1.64 ○ resources (2) Fuel TJ 2,288 2,142 2,259 117 Book 11 Effects (3) CO2 emissions *2 Thousand 315.9 303.9 312.1 8.2 Data — — — — ○ within tons Book 11 business Effects on (4) Volume of environmental Data areas environpollutants discharged *3 Tons 617.8 532.5 554.3 21.8 Book 15 — — — — ○ mental impact and (5) Waste generated *4 Thousand 36.1 35.2 33.9 -1.3 Data (2) Waste generated per kg/ton 37.2 33.7 × waste tons Book 13 unit of output (6) Outsourced disposal *5 Thousand 0.03 0.02 0.00 -0.02 — (3) Outsourced disposal per kg/ton 0.02 0.00 ○ tons unit of output Upstream/ Effects downrelated to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power Thousand 233 271 316 45 — — — — — ◎ stream products/ generation, etc. (cumulative) tons effects services Business sites New acquisitions Sites 6 1 4 — — Business sites attaining ISO Total number attaining ISO 14001 14001 and other certificaof business 88 92 ○ Other and other certifications *7 sites benefits to tions Renewals Sites 12 15 17 — — environOthers *6 Total number mental Number of business sites achieving Sites 3 4 2 — — Number of business sites of business 148 150 ○ conservazero emissions*8 achieving zero emissions *8 sites tion CO2 reduction from use of megasolar Thousand — — 2.95 2.95 — — — — — — facilities tons *1 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. *2 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data Book p. 11). *3 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. *4 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises. *5 Simple incineration + Landfill. *6 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. *7 A cumulative total number of sites reviewed for factors such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. *8 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economical Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Description of effects FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Remarks (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 267 257 245 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling Revenue (2) Revenues from sale of electricity — — 216 Revenues from sale of electricity generated by megasolar facilities (3) Savings from simplified packaging 12 21 6 Cost 451 436 546 savings (4) Cost savings through energy-saving activities (5) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 966 896 698 Including resource-saving activities Sub-total (actual effects) 1,696 1,610 1,712 (6) Contribution to environmental conservation activities *9 8,420 6,888 7,517 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites *10 21,215 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and “No-Dig” pipe (7) External Economic Effect 16,165 19,135 rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 24,585 26,023 28,732 Total 26,281 27,633 30,444 *9 Excluding housing sales companies *10 (Added value from business sites) × {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 7 Environmental Conservation Cost (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Items Housing Company*1 Environmental Plastics Company Chemical Group*2 Products Company Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1) Costs within Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 968 83 55 24 150 77 1,243 192 business areas Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 152 159 87 115 399 578 732 885 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 3,803 78 324 86 311 114 4,467 280 2) Upstream/ Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods downstream costs involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 307 5 2 0 6 0 334 5 3) Administrative Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for costs green action organization, information disclosure, etc. 669 0 260 0 335 0 1,818 4 4) Research & Research and development on environmental conservation 179 115 1,129 0 1,235 0 3,183 999 Development costs 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 186 1,324 25 431 49 0 338 1,754 6) Environmental damage costs Nature restoration, etc. 0 0 0 0 30 0 30 0 Total 6,264 1,763 1,882 656 2,515 770 12,144 4,120 Total amount of R&D costs*3 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 4,717 3,519 5,118 4,649 14,626 6,613 27,721 16,217 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 3.8 50.1 22.1 50.1 8.4 11.6 11.5 25.4 *1 Including 41 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters. *3 R&D cost is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Cost (by Environmental Conservation Measures) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Items Housing Company*1 Environmental Plastics Company Chemical Group*2 Products Company Category Description of main activities Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments 1. Prevention of global warming Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. 147 156 137 109 383 500 761 792 2. Ozone layer protection Reduction of Chlorofluorocarbon emissions, etc. 4 0 0 0 0 40 5 40 Prevention of air pollution by reducing polluting 232 0 36 5 51 15 352 22 3. Conservation of air quality substances 4. Prevention of noise and vibration Prevention of noise and vibration pollution 5 0 3 0 5 1 18 1 5. Conservation of water environment, Preservation of water quality, prevention of soil environment, ground quality subsidence 182 83 25 2 126 55 369 148 6. Waste reduction and recycling Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. 4,100 78 344 86 323 114 4,799 280 7. Reduction of chemical substances Risk management of chemical substances, etc. 543 0 2 0 7 0 553 0 8. Conservation of natural environment Nature conservation, etc. 58 0 73 0 34 0 231 0 9. Others Others 992 1,446 1,261 454 1,586 44 5,056 2,838 Total 6,264 1,763 1,882 656 2,515 770 12,144 4,120 *1 Including 41 business sites of housing sales companies. *2 Total of three division companies and departments of Headquarters. Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Each Division Company) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Environmental Conservation Benefits Housing Company*1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Group*2 See Description of effects Items Unit FY2012 FY2013 Effect FY2012 FY2013 Effect FY2012 FY2013 Effect FY2012 FY2013 Effect page (13-12) (13-12) (13-12) (13-12) Effects on (1) Electricity TJ 411 425 13 1,317 1,365 48 984 966 -17 3,315 3,360 46 Data Book 11 Effects within business areas invested Amount of resources energy usage*4 (2) Fuel TJ 117 117 0 113 108 -5 1,674 1,788 114 2,142 2,259 117 Data Book 11 Thousand 0.8 82.2 84.6 2.4 142.3 146.7 4.4 303.9 312.1 8.2 Data Book 11 (3) CO2 emissions*5 tons 30.6 31.4 Effects on (4) Volume of environmental Tons 6.1 5.6 -0.5 75.7 82.1 6.3 446.8 462.6 15.8 532.5 554.3 21.8 Data Book 15 environmenpollutants discharged*6 tal impact (5) Waste generated*7 Thousand 8.0 7.4 -0.7 6.0 5.4 -0.5 19.0 19.2 0.2 35.2 33.9 -1.3 Data Book 13 and waste tons Thousand (6) Outsourced disposal*8 tons 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.00 -0.02 0.02 0.00 -0.02  Upstream/ Other benefits to Effects related to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic Thousand 271 316 45       271 316 45  products/se power generation, etc. tons rvices downstream environmental New 0 1  0 0  1 3  1 4   Business sites attaining acquisitions Sites ISO 14001 and other effects conservation certifications Renewals Sites 4 5  3 5  8 2  15 17   Others*9 Number of business sites 2  achieving zero emissions*10 Sites 0 0  0 0  3 2  4  CO2 reduction from use of Thousand  2.13 2.13  0.23 0.23  0.59 0.59  2.95 2.95 megasolar facilities tons *4 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. *5 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data Book, p. 11). *6 Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. *7 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises *8 Simple incineration + landfill *9 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites *10 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economic Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure Housing High Performance Sekisui Description of effects & Environmental Remarks Company*1 Plastics Company Chemical Group*2 Products Company (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 40 8 175 245 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste egregation and recycling Revenue (2) Revenues from sale of electricity 157 16 43 216 Revenues from sale of electricity generated by megasolar facilities (3) Savings from simplified packaging 0 6 0 6 Cost (4) Cost savings through energy-saving savings activities 16 78 409 546 (5) Cost savings through waste-reduction 7 167 512 698 activities, etc. Including resource-saving activities Subtotal (actual effects) 221 275 1,139 1,712 (6) Contribution to environmental conservation activities*11 947 2,396 3,781 7,517 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites*12 16,115 5,100  21,215 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation (7) External Economic Effect systems and “No-Dig” pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 17,062 7,496 3,781 28,732 Total 17,283 7,771 4,920 30,444 *11 Excluding housing sales companies *12 (Added value from business sites) × {(Costs within business areas + Administrative costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 8 Sekisui Eco Value Index P17 Verified The Sekisui Eco Value Index is an independent index utilized by Sekisui Chemical Group for measuring the efficiency of our environmental management activities. Sekisui Eco Value Index Trends Environmental Added Value 3.14 (converted to monetary amount) 3 (= sales revenue from Environment-Contributing 2.6 2.6 Products + external economic benefits) 2.2 Sekisui Eco 2 Value Index 1.4 1.2 Group’s overall environmental 1.0 1 impact (converted to coefficient) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environmental Added Value (converted to monetary amount) Environmental Added Value (numerator): Sekisui Chemical Group calculates Environmental Environmental added value Added Value by totaling the sales of our Environment-Contributing Products and the external Waste (100 million yen) economic benefits provided to society through our products and businesses. External economic reduction 5,000 4,880 by the SPR benefits are calculated by converting to monetary amounts the effects of reducing environmen51 Method tal impacts when Sekisui Chemical Group products are used by customers or society. 4,116 161 Photovoltaic 4,000 3,753 57 generation Conventional 135 Energy and resources consumed, waste generated 3,156 48 3,000 114 Products 37 93 EnvironmentReducing 2,000 1,728 1,912 4,668 Contributing Environmental Impact 1,552 52 3,026 3,592 3,925 Sales of 46 EnvironmentProducts 1,000 37 59 74 Contributing 49 Products 1,466 1,623 1,786 0 External Economic Benefits = Reduction Amount × Cost of Reducing Environmental Impact 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group’s overall environmental impact (converted to coefficient) Group’s overall environmental impact (denominator): The total sum of the Group’s Overall environmental impact (Eco Points) environmental impact is calculated by addition of converted values of raw materials and energy used as well as related landfill and incineration of waste and emissions into the atmosphere and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 water, which represent environmental impacts of differing units and effects on the environment, 0 Energy to the Eco Point coefficient using the JEPIX integration method. 49 46 43 45 42 40 41 Input Output 50 Major raw materials Sekisui Chemical Products Metals, lumbers, Group Raw wood-based building materials, Waste 99 99 102 105 108 materials cement, polyvinyl chloride, Landfill and incineration 100 118 113 polyethylene, polypropylene, etc. Emissions to atmosphere Energy and water area Emissions to 21 atmosphere PRTR-designated 150 26 25 Electricity, heavy oil A, diesel substances (Methylene 16 0.6163 0.6 0.5 39 35 and water area oil, heating oil, gasoline, city chloride, Xylene, Toluene, 1 16 0.7 176 171 170 0.5 0.5 Landfill and gas, etc. etc.), COD 184 184 184 incineration 200 Integration of environmental impacts Eco Points (EIP) (100 million yen) Material Balance (in Japan) Verified Main Raw Materials To the atmosphere •Metals 84,000 tons •CO2 from energy •Wood, wooden building materials 45,000 tons consumption 312 thousand tons-CO2 •Cement for exterior walls 124,000 tons •NOx 213 tons •Concrete for foundations 267,000 tons •PVC 156,000 tons •SOx 11 tons •Polyethylene 66,000 tons •Soot particles 4 tons •Polypropylene 29,000 tons Sekisui •PRTR-designated substances 516 tons •Kraft paper 14,000 tons •PRTR-designated Input Chemical Output substances 125,000 tons Group To water •Water discharged 15,068 thousand tons Energy 5,619TJ •Purchased electricity 347,042MWh •COD 54 tons •Heavy oil A 2,642kL •PRTR-designated substances 0.1 tons •City gas 43,896 thousand m3 Waste Industrial water 16,230 thousand tons •Total generated waste 34 thousand tons Note: Certain main raw materials are undisclosed for business strategy reasons. 9 Environment-Contributing Products P18 Environment-Contributing Products Sales and Verified Sales-Ratio Trends (100 million yen) (%) 5,000 50 5000 50 4,668 42.0% 4,000 3,592 3,925 Sales Ratio 40 4000 3,026 38.0% 37.2% Housing Company 3,000 33.1% 30 3000 2,462 2,687 3,068 1,786 2,078 2,000 1,623 20 2000 1,466 20.8% Urban Infrastructure & 17.4% 1,053 15.3% 841 Environmental Products 1,000 758 Company 10 996 1000 771 799 High Performance 663 731 677 719 Plastics Company 0 45 50 56 7 221 9 349 11 428 12 591 Headquarters 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram Criteria for Environment-Contributing Products Definitions •Products and businesses that demonstrably help reduce the High Environment-Contributing environmental load of our customers and society as a whole. standard •Products or systems having at least a certain degree of effect on reducing environmental load compared to similar conventional products and systems. Certification Environmental Scope of •Reduction of environmental load and resource depletion standards Application related to the stages of customer use, disposal, and recycling (excluding the stages of production, home construction, and Contribution transportation within Sekisui Chemical Group). •Reduction of impacts on the natural environment (e.g., reduction in greenhouse gases) and on the social Products environment (e.g. waste reduction, resource conservation, Low and water saving/recycling). Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact P21 Targets: products and processes Scope: all stages of the product lifecycle Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment • Laws and • Self regulation • Requirements of • Laws and • Prohibited • Restricted regulations industries, etc. regulations substances substances Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Environment-friendly design Raw material procurement Manufacture Transportation Construction and assembly Use Disposal • Invested resources • Environmental impact • Capital Investments • Environmental impact • Invested resources, energy • Invested resources, energy • Composition and structure • Raw materials, Means of transportation • Invested resources, energy Means of transportation • Secondary resources used • Secondary resources used • Recyclability composition, and structure Packaging materials • Secondary resources used Load-efficient design • Environmental impact • Environmental impact • Environmental impact • Information disclosure • Green procurement • Environmental impact • Information Disclosure Atmosphere, water, waste, Atmosphere, water, waste, Transportation, disposal, • Environment-Contributing (Suppliers, raw materials) Atmosphere, water, waste, chemical substances, etc. chemical substances, etc. soil/groundwater Products standards chemical substances, etc. contamination • LCCO2 evaluation Biodiversity P22 Initiatives Envisioned Under the Biodiversity Guidelines • Developing assessment methods and conducting assessment, reducing impacts 1. Assessment and reduction of the impact of business activities on biodiversity • Promoting biodiversity-conscious purchasing • Greening of business sites (promoting landscaping and biotope development) 2. Development and promotion of related technologies and products • Incorporating biodiversity assessment in the product development stage • Conducting nature conservation activities at all business sites 3. Raising employees’ awareness • Expanding the Sekisui Nature Study Course and nature conservation activities • Supporting the Innovations Inspired by Nature, and holding periodic forums on the subject 4. Dialogue and cooperation with external stakeholders • Supporting nonprofit and other organizations through the Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) • Exhibiting at the Eco-Products Exhibition and other events 5. Transmittance of information • Providing information in the CSR Report, Site Reports, and websites • Educating the next generation (Children’s Nature Study Course, school visits) 10 Global Warming Prevention P19 Verified Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing Greenhouse-gas Emissions from Laboratories (1,000 tons-CO2) (1,000 tons-CO2) 500 20 19.0 452 459 443 433 3.0 419 16.6 16.4 400 389 15 1.5 365 2.9 14.0 350 341 342 330 321 1.0 13.0 12.8 12.6 312 Other greenhouse 300 0.5 0.5 0.2 gases Overseas 10 200 Japan 15.1 16.0 13.5 160 CO2 from energy 156 13.1 12.5 12.3 12.3 consumption 5 sources 100 0 0 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing CO2 Emission Coefficients (Environmental Top Runner Plan: SHINKA!) (1,000 tons-CO2) 500 Under the New Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA!, progress is being made in reducing emissions of all 433 greenhouse gases. The conversion coefficients for CO 2 emissions are the 400 44 389 values specified (as of March 2009) under the greenhouse-gas emissions 24 365 37 24 330 341 342 Greenhouse gases from calculation, reporting, and disclosure system established by Japanese law, 37 9 312 321 non-energy-consumption 36 15 26 with uniform figures used for each fiscal year. 300 32 9 9 sources 108 31 31 31 95 31 Housing Company Purchased electricity 0.555 tons-CO2/MWh 88 83 Urban Infrastructure & 80 82 82 85 Environmental Products Heavy oil A 2.71 tons-CO2/kL 200 Company City gas 2.08 tons-CO2/thousand Nm3 High Performance LNG 2.70 tons-CO2/ton 203 178 Plastics Company Heating oil 2.49 tons-CO2/kL 167 167 153 100 157 142 147 Diesel oil 2.62 tons-CO2/kL Gasoline 2.32 tons-CO2/kL Headquarters LPG 3.00 tons-CO2/ton 41 54 49 47 50 50 49 49 0 Purchased steam 0.179 tons-CO2/ton 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Source: Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (published in March 2009 by Japanese Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) Energy Usage and Per Unit of Output (Index) During Manufacturing Breakdown of Energy Used Breakdown of Greenhouse-Gas Basic unit performance Per unit of output index (FY2007: 100) (GHG) Emissions Usage (TJ) 100 100.3 102.2 101.6 10,000 97.3 100 CO2 from non-energy94.7 CO2 from other 90.5 energy consumption consumption 8% sources 3% Others 8% Other Heavy oil A gases 0% 8,000 80 2% Heavy oil A 2% 6,519 6,000 627 6,087 5,956 60 5,657 5,659 5,619 613 553 5,456 539 1,661 540 529 542 Housing Company Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2013 1,542 Urban City gas 4,000 1,392 1,444 1,428 1,430 1,473 Infrastructure & 40 31% 5,619TJ Electricity City gas 321,000 tons Electricity Environmental 59% 27% -CO2 60% Products Company 3,293 3,083 2,000 2,909 3,105 2,840 2,658 2,754 20 High Performance Plastics Company 938 Headquarters 0 849 815 854 853 840 850 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Transportation Volume and Energy Per Unit of Output CO2 Emissions in the Amount of CO2 Emissions (Index) During Transportation Transportation Stage (Overseas) Transportation Volume (10,000 ton-km) Per unit of output Per unit of output index performance (FY2007: 100) 102.6 102.2 100.3 50,000 99.2 98.5 100 Housing Headquarters Company 100 100.8 14% 18% 40,000 80 Fuel usage 61% 36,136 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2013 Electricity usage 33,051 32,899 48,000 tons 459,000 tons 39% 30,000 8,027 30,144 30,436 60 8,032 28,103 27,926 -CO2 -CO2 8,297 8,090 7,912 Housing Company 6,746 7,082 Urban Infrastructure & 20,000 13,273 Urban 40 Environmental Products Infrastructure & Company 12,024 Environmental 47% 10,731 10,507 11,499 12,029 13,004 Products Company 10,000 6,761 20 High Performance Plastics Company 5,889 21% 4,898 5,273 6,109 5,071 4,946 High Performance Plastics Company • Amount transported in fiscal 2013: 330 million See Data Book, p. 2 for scope of summation 8,075 7,107 5,489 0 5,555 5,391 5,657 5,222 Headquarters 0 ton-kilometers • Calculation method: Either the improved Note: CO2 emissions have been calculated 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ton-kilometer method, fuel consumption method, using the emission coefficients of or fuel cost method, depending on the product the greenhouse-gas protocol for and transportation method electric power and the emission coefficients of the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! for fuel. 11 Breakdown of Estimated Greenhouse-Gas Emissions throughout in the Supply Chain (standards for calculation: see Data Book, p. 27) (1,000 tons-CO2) (1,000 tons-CO2) Category (upstream) Estimated emissions Category (downstream) Estimated emissions Purchased goods and services 1,332 Transportation and delivery (downstream) 62 Capital goods 23 Processing of sold products 44 Fuel and energy-related activities not included in 119 Use of sold products 1,295 Scopes 1 and 2 Transportation and delivery(upstream) 20 End-of-life treatment of sold products 236 Waste generated in operations 47 Leased assets (downstream) 1 Business travel 32 Employee commuting 5 Total (upstream and downstream) 3,216 Resource Recycling and Saving P20 Verified Fiscal 2013 Annual Production-Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions Change over the previous year is in ( ) and proportion of the total generation is in [ ]. Reuse within the premises On-site incineration (reduction) 7,251 tons (increased by 3.8%) 0 tons [0%] Total amount of Valuable materials sold 12,657 tons (decreased by 1.5%) [37.3%] materials recycling 28,399 tons (decreased by Total amount of generated 1.1%) [83.8%] waste 33,907 tons Amount of discharged Outsourcing of recycling Materials recycling (decreased by 3.6%) [100%] waste 21,251 tons resources 21,251 tons 15,742 tons (decreased by 0.7%) (decreased by 4.8%) [62.7%] (decreased by 4.7%) [62.7%] [46.4%] Use of incineration heat 5,509 tons (decreased by 14.4%) [16.2%] Simple incineration 0 tons Outsourced disposal 0 tons (decreased by 100%) [0.0%] (decreased by 100%) [0.0%] Landfill 0 tons [0%] Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group Status of Zero Emissions Achievement Achieved at 42 plants in Japan and five overseas plants, (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization (thermal Production sites including those of affiliates. (Includes one plant in Japan and recycling), or landfill outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio: 100%) one overseas plant that achieved zero emissions in fiscal 2013) (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been recycled Laboratories Achieved at all laboratories by fiscal 2012 before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be identified and a service New house agreement must be executed. Achieved at all locations by fiscal 2003 construction sites We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero Emissions House renovation Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system designed to conduct Achieved at all locations as of fiscal 2004 sites internal checks and issue approvals for the status of observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and signage for waste segregation and storage, Osaka and Tokyo Headquarters buildings Achieved as of fiscal 2005 management of related facilities, and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment Home demolition As of end of fiscal 2013, 99% recycling rate for Designated sites Construction Materials (scrap concrete and wood chips) routes in order to enhance the management system through these activities. Waste Generated by New House Construction (per house) Waste Generated by Production Sites and Per Unit of Output (Index) Per unit of output index (tons) Waste generated (1,000 tons) (FY2007: 100) 5 60 120 100 101.7 4.02 50 94.5 96.5 100 4 91.2 88.7 43.7 80.3 1.03 40 39.4 39.5 Per unit of output 80 11.2 36.1 index 3 36.0 35.2 33.9 10.4 11.3 8.3 Housing Company 30 10.1 8.0 7.4 60 1.04 2.30 2.18 2.20 9.6 Urban Infrastructure & 2 0.33 0.29 0.25 1.99 8.6 6.4 6.2 Environmental 1.88 1.90 6.0 5.4 0.26 1.76 Assembly 20 7.1 Products Company 40 0.65 0.25 0.24 0.59 0.75 0.23 plant 0.66 0.46 0.44 Exterior wall 0.45 19.5 19.5 High Performance 1 plant 1.95 10 20.8 18.4 19.0 19.2 Plastics Company 20 16.6 1.32 1.29 1.20 1.07 1.08 1.17 1.22 New house construction 0 site 0 2.2 2.0 2.2 2.3 2.1 2.1 1.9 Headquarters 0 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 12 Breakdown of Generated Waste Waste Treatment Methods (Overseas) Plasterboard 0.4% Burnt residue 0.4% Others 2.4% Oil waste, acidic waste, alkaline waste 9.4% Incineration 4% Metal scrap 2.7% Landfill Wood chips 5.4% 18% Wastepaper 5.7% Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2013 34,000 tons 24,000 tons Sludge 12.9% Plastics waste 49.5% Recycling Glass and ceramics scrap 78% 11.2% Note: See Data Book, p. 2 for scope of summation Amount of Water Extracted for Use at Production Sites Amount of Water Extracted for Use at Production Sites (Overseas) (1,000 tons) (1,000 tons) 20,000 4,000 3,793 3,577 3,614 16,985 16,923 16,541 16,517 16,413 16,230 249 287 285 288 304 15,712 287 Housing 3,049 15,000 2,344 2,204 1,962 1,842 1,861 306 Company 3,000 1,734 1,804 Urban 10,000 Infrastructure & 2,000 Environmental 11,924 Products 12,310 11,632 11,984 11,369 10,807 11,175 Company 1,472 High 5,000 Performance 1,000 Plastics Company Headquarters 2,082 2,507 2,663 2,403 2,879 2,795 3,033 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Note: See Data Book, p. 2 for scope of summation Environmental Performance in Domestic Offices P17, P19 Verified CO2 Emissions at Offices Fiscal 2013 Green Purchases Performance (1,000 tons-CO2) Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to green purchasing of office supplies 20 20 19.0 for all its departments and branches. 17.9 (10,000 yen) 16.7 16.2 16.2 16.3 16.1 15 Amount purchased 15 Photocopying paper 10,241 Other pamphlets, catalogs, office supplies, etc. 13,605 10 Office automation equipment 10 24,079 Total 47,926 5 5 Green Purchase Guidelines 0 Any of those listed 0 under (1)-(4) below: 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification standards (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning 1) OA paper (photocopier paper), the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly Copier-paper Use at Offices stationery, office supplies, Goods and Services by the State and Other (10,000 sheets) office automation equipment Entities 6,000 (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing Network’s6000 database 5,341 5,271 5,213 5,277 (4) Those covered in catalogs as environment5,077 4,866 4,928 friendly5000 products Any of those listed under (1)-(5) below: (1) Those satisfying 4000 Eco Mark certification standards 2) Paper and paper products (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning 3,000 other than OA paper and the Promotion 3000 of Procurement of Eco-Friendly toilet paper (forms, inkjetGoods and Services by the State and Other printer paper, color-printer paEntities per, coated paper, notebooks, 2000 (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing Netvouchers, business cards, work’s database paper used for publications (4) Those covered 1000 in catalogs as environmentsuch as pamphlets and catafriendly products logs, etc.) (5) Non-pulp paper or paper consisting of 70% or 0 more recycled 0 paper, or paper with the highest 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 recycled content for the relevant type 3) Toilet paper 100% recycled toilet paper 13 Atmospheric and Water Related Emissions P21 Note: The Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant data for fiscal 2010 is not included in the data below due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. NOx Emissions Volume Verified SOx Emissions Volume Verified (tons) (tons) 400 25 4 20 300 Housing Company Housing 15 15 14 Company 223 217 213 Urban 200 198 189 205 13 Urban 43 44 Infrastructure & 11 5 11 Infrastructure & 175 6 45 Environmental 12 7 6 55 10 4 10 Environmental 9 7 5 Products 10 12 6 3 2 2 Products 9 Company Company 100 3 3 3 6 9 174 176 168 5 High 156 173 144 163 High 2 Performance 8 3 Performance Plastics 5 6 5 2 2 Plastics 0 Company 0 2 2 1 Company 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Soot and Dust Emission Volume Verified COD Discharge Volume Verified (tons) (tons) 15 Housing 80 Company 68 64 62 1 Housing Urban Infrastructure & 61 63 Company 60 1 1 1 Environmental Products Company 1 7 7 7 7 10 10 9.5 6 51 54 1 2 Urban 1 High Performance Infrastructure & Plastics Company 40 3 6 Environmental 3 45 Products Company 46 43 5 45 44 31 33 High 8.2 Performance 4 4 4 20 Plastics 1 2 2.5 Company 5 2 1.2 2 2 1 1 15 Headquarters 0.7 10 10 11 15 13 0 1 0 1 0.6 1 0 0 9 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Preventing Pollution Disposal and Storage of Machines and Equipment that Contain PCBs Sekisui Chemical Group is working to meet the targets of legal and Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed regulatory restrictions and to reduce discharge of pollutants through of steadily, beginning with sites for which acceptance at PCB treatment appropriate maintenance and control and periodic inspection of the wide facilities is available. range of equipment it uses. In addition, at sites with machines and equipment that contain PCBs in storage, such devices are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including locked storage and periodic inspection. Environmental Incidents, Complaints, and Emergency Responses Environmental Incidents, Complaints, etc. Verified Emergency Response Two incidents occurred in fiscal 2013, one of which had off-site In order to prevent the occurrence and spread of environmental contaminaconsequences. We received four complaints. tion in the event of an emergency, at least once every year each of our We are steadily implementing recurrence prevention measures in response business sites carries out emergency response and reporting drills, assuming to such environmental complaints. a variety of hypothetical cases relevant to the nature of each business site. Major drills performed for fiscal 2013 are as below. Environmental Complaints, etc. Emergency Response and Reporting Drills Description Countermeasures Simulated emergency situation Drills performed Chemical leakage from a storage Renovation of storage the tank Leakage and outflow of oils 33 tank Incidents Leakage Reinforcement of containment dikes Atmospheric discharge of solvents 0 Wastewater water-quality Enhancement of wastewater Fire 81 standard values exceeded water-quality control standard values Increasing frequency of measurements Earthquake 9 Odor from vehicle exhaust fumes Change in direction of parking Emergency communication training 3 in a parking lot positions Odor Odor complaints about the plant Elimination of odor through atomizing, Comprehensive disaster drills 12 including use of masking agents Responding to other equipment-related emergencies 8 Complaints Noise from sound of striking Prohibiting use of hammers and Noise hammers ensuring compliance through education and training Radio Poor TV reception at nearby Changing antenna positions wave houses interference 14 Chemical Substances P21 Verified Summation Results Based on the PRTR Law (Calculations have been made for substances with handling volume of one ton or more at the individual business sites surveyed.) (tons) Government Emission volume Transfer volume Substance ordinance Transaction Transfer in Transfer in Detoxification notification volume Atmosph Public water In house In house Sewage waste waste no. eric areas soil landfill system disposal recycling Acrylic acid and aqueous salt solutions thereof [4] 12.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.2 11 n-Butyl acrylate [7] 257.9 0.087 0 0 0 0 0.12 1.4 256 Acrylonitrile [9] 397.8 2.9 0 0 0 0 0 0.012 394 Acetaldehyde [12] 274.8 0.20 0 0 0 0 0 0 275 Acetonitrile [13] 61.3 4.9 0 0 0 0 0 56 0 2,2’-Azobisisobutyronitrile [16] 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.0 2-Aminoethanol [20] 1.4 0.29 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.2 Antimony and its compounds [31] 12.1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.2 0 Isobutyraldehyde [35] 232.5 1.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 231 Ethylbenzene [53] 2.6 2.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ε-Caprolactam [76] 35.6 0 0.011 0 0 0 0 0 36 Xylene [80] 51.2 6.1 0 0 0 0 0.0013 1.3 44 Vinyl chloride [Special 94] 117,329.0 4.0 0.12 0 0 0 0 0 117,325 Chloroform [127] 1.9 0.13 0 0 0 0 0.25 0 1.56 Vinyl acetate [134] 56.7 0.010 0 0 0 0 5.6 0 51 Inorganic cyanide compounds [144] 105.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 106 (not including complex salts and cyanate) Cyclohexylamine [154] 5.9 0.32 0 0 0 0 0 0 5.5 Dichloromethane [186] 295.2 3.8 0 0 0 0 0.46 0 291 2,6-di-t-butyl-4-cresol [207] 56.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 57 N,N-dimethylacetamide [213] 7.3 0 0 0 0 3.5 0 3.8 0 N,N-dimenthylformamide [232] 1.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.3 Organic tin compounds [239] 87.2 0 0 0 0 0 0.061 0.31 0 Styrene [240] 2,045.2 46 0 0 0 0 0 4.4 1,101 Terephthalic acid [270] 93.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 94 1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene [296] 3.6 2.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.3 Toluene [300] 970.6 276 0 0 0 0 26 25 372 Lead compounds [Special 305] 722.3 0.0004 0.0044 0 0 0.0010 0.096 3.8 0 Nickel compounds [Special 309] 0.7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Phenol [349] 95.7 9.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 86 Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate [355] 128.4 0 0 0 0 0 0.11 2.0 0 n-Hexane [392] 156.3 150 0 0 0 0 0.16 4.6 1.3 Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric acid [395] 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.0 Benzaldehyde [399] 6.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6.9 Formaldehyde [Special 411] 74.4 0.043 0 0 0 0 0 0 74 Manganese and its compounds [412] 4.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.4 0 Phthalic anhydride [413] 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 1.4 0 0 Methacrylate [415] 207.1 1.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 206 Methyl methacrylate [420] 151.0 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 0.012 150 Methylnaphthalene [438] 8.8 0.044 0 0 0 0 0 0 8.7 Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) [448] 1,003.3 3.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 = diisocyanate 124,968.0 516 0.14 0 0 3.5 34 110 121,194 Emission and Transfer Volume by Substance (PRTR Law) Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) into the Atmosphere (tons) (tons) 811 2,936 800 26 3,000 800 5 55 730 34 5 677 63 467 34 7 20 659 154 600 8 10 53 5 46 618 Others 49 44 600 12 5 5 554 40 532 Dichloromethane 2,000 46 4 41 4 122 3 Xylene 1,585 37 46 1,560 Housing Company 1,539 1,498 400 4 6 Styrene 27 6 1,397 1,221 1,373 46 119 4 400 99 150 n-Hexane 153 149 108 4 4 4 596 2,401 123 114 125 Urban Infrastructure & 574 584 587 Environmental 1,000 Products Company 200 Toluene 1,380 401 348 302 1,336 1,457 1,382 High Performance 200 1,267 1,099 1,239 Plastics Company Headquarters 0 0 14 4 4 3 4 4 4 4 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Note: n-Hexane has been added to subject substances beginning with fiscal 2010 figures, due to amendment of the PRTR Law. 15 Environmental Management P17 Environmental Management System Third Party Certified Business Sites Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site* Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto R & D Laboratories [Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant] Sekisui Heim Sanyo Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site [Sekisui Fami S Kyushu Co., Ltd.] Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Shoji Higashi Nihon Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Hanyu Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kydex, LLC. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Eslon B.V. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Sekisui Norditube Technologies SE (Liege Plant) Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Norditube Technologies SE (Schieder Plant) Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant SCG-Sekisui Sales Co., Ltd. Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Yongchang-Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. ADME & Tox. Research Institute** Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Resin Plant Nara Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Ltd. Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Pasadena Plant) Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Headquarters (Calvert City Plant) Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Development Center* Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. [ ]: Organizations in parentheses are included in Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. the scope of certification. Some sites not Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant shown above may include related sections Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. that have attained ISO 14001 certification. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. * The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant and Development Center share a single certification. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant ** Eco Action 21; others ISO 14001 Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Number of Issues of Concern in Environmental Auditing for Fiscal 2013 Numbers of Persons with Qualifications Verified (for Production sites and Laboratories, as of End of March 2014) Verified (Issues) (persons) Those who Number Correction Undergoing acquired of cases completed correction qualifications End of during fiscal fiscal 2013 2013 Issues of concern 109 69 40 Number of participants Number of internal training course participants 42 681 Headquarters Issues to work on 184 104 80 in Environmental environmental auditing Management Systems (EMS) Number of external training course participants 19 266 Proposals 6 2 4 internal auditor development/ (23 business sites) training courses Total 61 947 Total 299 175 124 Number of participants in Number of internal training course participants 23 561 Nonconformity (major) 0 0 0 Auditing by certification body Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Number of external training course participants 6 181 Renewal Nonconformity (minor) 2 2 0 (OHSMS) internal auditor development/training courses Total 29 742 (17 business sites) Observations 65 30 35 Qualifications Registered examiner Lead Auditor 0 1 Total 67 32 35 of the Center of Environmental Auditor 0 1 Nonconformity (major) 0 0 0 Auditor Registration (CEAR) Provisional Auditor 1 1 Surveillance Nonconformity (minor) 11 10 1 Air Classes 1-4 0 47 (31 business sites) Observations 146 79 67 Qualifications Pollution Water Classes 1-4 2 97 Total 157 89 68 control Number of persons manager Noise/Vibration 1 37 Nonconformity (major) 0 0 0 with major qualifications Internal auditing of Dioxins 0 1 Nonconformity (minor) 87 76 11 business sites Certified Environmental Measurers 0 6 (48 business sites; Observations 369 243 126 Energy Managers 2 60 48 audits) Total 456 319 137 Olfactory Measurement Operators 0 1 * Categories of instructions for Headquarters environmental auditing: Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) 12 112 Issues of concern: Matters recommended for swift improvement Issues to work on: Matters recommended for planned improvement Proposals: Matters to be considered for improvement, advice 16 CS & Quality P23-28 Quality Management System Third Party Certified Business Sites Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company (integrated Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant certification) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Housing Product Research&Development Departments Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Technology Department Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Mechanical Plant Division Sekisui-Alveo A.G. (six sites: G.m.b.H., A.G., S.a.r.L, S.p.A, S.A., Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Civil Engineering & Water Treatment Division (Benelux) B.V.) Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Plant Sekisui Nano Coat Technology Co., Ltd. Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Hanyu Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Sekisui Heim Supply Co., Ltd. Technology Department Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Kydex, LLC. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. (integrated certification) Eslon B.V. Hamamatsu Plant KMG Pipe Technologies G.m.b.H. Shiga Plant Headquarters KMG LinerTec G.m.b.H. Tokyo Office KMG Pipe Rehabilitation Emirates, LLC. Osaka Office Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. R&D Center, IM Project Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Headquarters Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. (integrated certification) Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE Sekisui Voltek, LLC. (Lawrence Plant) Chiba Plant Sekisui SPR Construction G.m.b.H. Sekisui Voltek, LLC. (Coldwater Plant) Kanto Plant Sekisui SPR Austria G.m.b.H. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Hyogo Plant SPR TEC Europe G.m.b.H. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Izumo Plant Yongchang-Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Sekisui Insurance Service Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. (Lexington, San Diego, Stamford) Yili Xiang Run Pipe Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics P.E.I. Inc. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Diagnostics (UK) Limited Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Virotech G.m.b.H. Shikoku Sekisui Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. (Calvert City, Pasadena, Dallas HQ) Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. Tarragona Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators Performance (improvements vs. fiscal 2005 performance) Verified (100 million yen) 500 Note: Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators (improvements vs. fiscal 2005 performance): Internal loss costs: Costs associated with disposal of defective products,etc. generated during 427 Environmental costs manufacturing processes Production costs: Costs necessary for manufacturing, such as raw-material and labor costs 369 (to be decreased through productivity improvements such as saving of energy and other resources in manufacturing processes) 304 Environmental costs: Costs for disposal of waste generated at business sites, and energy costs 250 254 Production costs Internal loss costs 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Flow of “Utilizing Customer Feedback in Management” Collection Reflecting Hayamimi Customer’s Senior executives and Fields of Manufacturing Development Contact point Network feedback related sections Analysis Product Development Production Customer’s Utilization and Opinions planning and design feedback Surveys and wishes Needs construction Categorization Customers Interviews Complaints Receiving Investigation Response Factor complaints analysis Reflecting Other Preventative Measures Resolving dissatisfactions 17 Human Resources P29-36 Verified Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical) (persons) Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) (persons) Number of employees 2,266 Number of employees 23,017 Male 1,979 By region Female 287 Japan 17,047 North America, Central and South America 1,544 Employees’ Years of Continuous Service (Sekisui Chemical) Europe 1,432 (Years) Asia/Pacific (including China) 2,994 Average years of continuous service 17.7 Male 17.8 Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires Female 16.5 (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) (%) Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires 40 Number of New Graduates (Sekisui Chemical Group inHired Japan) and Their Separation Rate in the First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) (%) 30 28 40 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 27 40 25 22 Number of new graduates hired 21 58 70 103 20 (persons) 30 28 27 Separation rate within the first 253 years (%) 21 8.6 2.9 1.9 22 10 20 Note: Separation rate within the first 3 years: Calculated as the total of 10 separation rates for the first, second, and third years for employees 0 hired in the relevant fiscal year, in accordance with the Japanese 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Entering FY2010) (Entering FY2011) (Entering FY2012) (Entering FY2013) (Entering FY2014) Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s calculation methods. 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number(Enteringof women FY2010) directors (Entering and percentage FY2011) (Entering FY2012) (Enteringof management FY2013) (Entering FY2014) positions filled by women Number of Elderly Employees Reemployed and Reemployment Rate (Sekisui Chemical) FY2013 Directors (persons) 1 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 (Sekisui Chemical Group) Percentage of management Number of elderly employees 1.7 (Sekisui Chemical Group in Japan) 27 65 56 positions (%) reemployed (persons) Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed (Sekisui Chemical) (%)Reemployment rate (%) 52.9 72.2 87.5* 3.0 Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed (Sekisui Chemical) Note: The reemployment rate for applicants is 100%. 2.59 (%) 2.18 2.12 3.0 2.03 1.99 2.0 3 2.59 Overtime Hours Worked (Sekisui Chemical) (hours) 2.18 Legally stipulated rate 2.12 2.03 2.0 1.99 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 1.0 2 Legally stipulated rate Monthly average per person 14.1 15.6 16.0 1.0 0 1 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of Paid Leave Used (Sekisui Chemical) (%) 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Average per person Main Recruitment and Selective-type Training Programs (not including managers) 42.8 39.5 41.0 Number of Training Details participants in FY2013 (persons) Career Plan Training by Age This program combines intensive courses led by visiting university Total professors with practice tasks so 30s 40s 50s 57s Number of RecruitmentThe Saijuku that participants can improve Participants 36 type Training School their skills and knowledge to become globally oriented leaders. Continuing It is intended to develop the next Preparedness Themes by Self-establishto work even generation of leaders. Market value and motiva— Age Groups ment after retiretion ment These intra-group seminars aim to improve employees’ business Recognition Aiming to skills. Employees can select freely Affirmation of Putting Selective-type Open of abilities and keep workseminars on skills that meet their 104 specialization, into words Training Seminars Training interviews with ing at age 65 needs, to acquire skills that can be values, and the desired styles — Contents superiors on and thinking applied immediately to their daily meaning of for ages 60career-related about sucwork. work 69 matters cession Number of participants 85 84 81 69 319 Results of Intra-group Job Posting in FY2013 (persons) Cumulative FY2012 FY2013 Cumulatotal since 2000 tive total number of Recruitments (cases) 15 23 245 participants 1,848 1,691 961 69 4,569 through Employees recruited FY2013 (per19 55 514 (persons) sons) Applicants (persons) 182 111 1,319 Employees transferred 17 23 265 (persons) 18 Main Programs for Promoting Diverse Working Styles and Program Usage (Sekisui Chemical) (persons) System Main content FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Leave which previously extended only until the child was a year and a half 22 (including 24 (including 28 (including Support for childcare Childcare leave old now extends to the end of the month of the child’s third birthday. 8 males) 6 males) 8 males) Shortened Payment period that previously extended until the child was three years 21 (including 19 23 working hours old now extends until the child starts fourth grade. 1 male) Use of flexible Times of starting and finishing work may be moved earlier or later by up 2 2 2 working hours to 60 minutes until the child reaches junior high school age. Other Three days of special paid leave per year granted until the child or 98 (including 101 (includFamily leave grandchild starts high school (this leave can be taken for reasons such as 98 41 males) ing 35 males) support childbirth-related events, parents day, athletic meets, and PTA meetings) Total number of persons using these systems 143 143 154 Safety P37-38 Verified Number of Occupational Accidents Number of Equipment-related Accidents* (Cases) (Cases) 60 3 49 52 47 43 2 2 40 36 20 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Equipment-related accidents: Any accident that meets one or more of the following conditions (1) – (3) (Sekisui Chemical Group standards): (1) Personnel-related damage: occupational accidents accompanied by 30 lost working days or more (2) Property damage: 10 million yen or more (3) Loss of opportunity: 20 million yen or more Number of Cases of Extended Sick Leave* Number of Commuting Accidents* (Cases) (Cases) 80 160 69 139 64 129 60 58 120 120 99 40 43 43 80 76 20 40 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Extended sick leave: This refers to a new absence of 30 calendar days or longer due to illness or injury. * Number of Cases: Total number of cases with damages incurred and inflicted (including self-injury and Reoccurrences within six months of returning to work are not included in the above count. property damage). Absences due to occupational accidents are not considered extended sick leave. Frequency Rate*1 Severity Rate*2 1.5 0.3 1.05 0.99 0.98 1.00 0.94 1.0 0.2 Average of domestic manufacturing industry*4 0.10 0.10 0.5 0.1 0.09 0.43 0.08 0.08 0.33 0.31 0.54 Average of domestic 0.42 Sekisui Chemical manufacturing Group*3 industry*4 0.015 0.019 0.018 0.007 0.014 Sekisui Chemical 0 0 Group*3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 *1 Frequency rate = (number of deaths and injuries in occupational accidents with lost time / total work hours) × 1,000,000 *2 Severity rate = (number of work days lost / total work hours) × 1,000 *3 Sekisui Chemical Group data: 46 production sites and four R&D laboratories *4 Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Survey on Occupational Accidents” 19 Status of Occupational Accidents at Overseas Production Sites (Accidents) 160 139 137 18 12 120 7 14 96 100 4 2 4 86 50 5 1 China 80 63 74 13 Asia 64 37 5 5 3 60 18 44 Europe 40 23 18 51 61 52 33 32 33 28 North 0 America 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Safety Performance at Housing Company Construction Sites Safety Performance at Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Construction Sites (Accidents) (Accidents) 30 30 Number of 26 occupational 24 24 accidents without lost time in the New Construction sector 20 Number of 20 19 18 occupational accidents without 16 15 14 16 lost time in the Fami 15 S sector 22 10 12 Number of 11 12 occupational 10 11 10 accidents with lost 10 time in the New 5 Construction sector Occupational 12 9 6 6 accidents Number of occupational 4 1 2 without lost time 10 8 2 3 4 7 accidents with lost 1 0 Occupational 5 5 8 4 time in the Fami S 5 4 1 accidents with 3 3 2 2 0 3 sector 0 lost time 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Note: The number of accidents represents the total for the following four companies: Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd., Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd., Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd., and Seiryu Maintenance Co., Ltd. Health, Safety and Accident-prevention Costs (Million yen) Item Sekisui Chemical Group* Expense Investment Classification Details amount amount 1) Costs within business-site areas Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work environment, health 958 1,811 management, workers’ accident compensation insurance, etc. 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,880 — 3) Other Safety awards, etc. 6 — Total 2,844 1,811 * Data above include 47 production sites/4 laboratories + all departments of Headquarters + back offices of division companies. Expenses and Investments Loss Costs* Expense and investment amounts (100 million yen) Rate (%) (million yen) 30 15 800 775.4 28.4 Expense amount 12.6 22.5 22.3 23.0 10.9 600 22.0 9.8 20 19.6 Proportion of 10 18.1 health, safety 16.8 and accident444.5 prevention 400 383.6 6.5 investments to 12.0 the total 326 investment 9.8 amount 274 10 4.1 5 Investment 200 amount 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Loss costs: Expenses, including man-hours, required to respond to occupational accidents, equipmentrelated accidents, commuting accidents, and long-term illness absences. 20 Compliance P51-52 Verified Main Training Implemented in Fiscal 2013 Number Training Trainees attending Sekisui Chemical 6 Operating officer training Group companies in the Housing Company 35 Training for new managers New Sekisui Chemical Group managers 190 Training for specific employee ranks Introductory management training Entire Housing Company 106 Sekisui Chemical Group 89 Training for new employees Entire Housing Company 530 Compliance training for leaders in manufacturing sections Sekisui Chemical Group manufacturing sections 42 Group companies in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental 423 Basic compliance training Products Company Group companies 23 Antimonopoly Law training Sekisui Chemical Group business sections, sales sections 120 Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. Sekisui Chemical Group managers, manufacturing sections 188 Area-specific training to Subcontractors/Construction Business Act training Harassment-prevention training Group companies 547 Mental health training Labor management, safety, etiquette, etc. Group companies 629 Basic contract training Group companies 22 Industry laws, etc. Group companies in the Housing Company 775 Seminars for overseas company presidents Overseas Group companies 44 Global training Basic training for “Global Talents” Personnel employed in international business 10 Labor law Sekisui Chemical Group 21 Open seminars Stamp Tax Act Sekisui Chemical Group 19 Environmental and Social Contribution Activities P55-58 Recipients of Fiscal 2013 Sekisui Chemical Grants for Research on Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Researcher Affiliation/University, Title* Supported Research Theme Construction of bio-ammonia – as a liquid carrier of hydrogen, one of the promising energies – Mitsuyoshi Ueda Professor, Kyoto University production system using M. loti Protein Nanowires with Ultra-Hogh Aspect Ratio Produced by Single Particle Induced Chemical Shu Seki Professor, Osaka University Reactions Taro Nakamura Professor, Chuo University Develoment of Peristaltic Pump based on Bowel Peristalsis using Artificial Rubber Muscle Principal Researcher, National Institute for Materials Seiichi Furumi Soft polymer lasers from periodically ordered nano-architectures inspired by opal Science Masaya Nogi Associate Professor, Osaka University Transparent and conductive paper using coffee ring effects Makoto Ouchi Associate Professor, Kyoto University Polymer research on the basis of vinyl alcohol: Bioinspired syntheses and functions 'Soft' neuromuscular systems for directed swimming control in the simple ascidian tadpole Atsuo Nishino Associate Professor, Hirosaki University larvae Takafumi Ueno Professor, Tokyo Institute of Technology Metal-Protein needle composites designed from Bacteriophages Chief Researcher, Forestry and Forest Products Takuma Takanashi Development of pest control method by using vibrations that mimic predators Research Institute Takahiro Muraoka Assistant Professor, Tohoku University Alternating multi-block amphiphiles inspired by multipass transmembrane proteins Shinsuke Takagi Associate Professor, Tokyo Metropolitan University Artificial light harvesting system using nano-layered materials as a template Specially Appointed Assistant Professor, University of Yoshimi Oka Construction of artificial radical pair system based on learning from avian magnetic compass Toyama Taro Fujikawa Assistant Professor, Tokyo Denki University Development of a small flapping robot based on posture control mechanism of a butterfly How to remain there? Yousuke Degawa Assistant Professor, University of Tsukuba -A mechanism for spore attachment of symbiotic fungi to the wall of their host insect’s digestive tractDye analysis of Okinawan and South East Asian textiles: dyeing techniques and history of the Chika Mouri Smithsonian Institution Forbes Fellow dye trade Professor, Hiroshima University (nonlinear, nonequi(Representatives) librium physics) Hiraku Nishimori Professor, Hiroshima University (surface chemistry) Satoshi Nakata Nonlinear phenomena at immiscible interfaces Professor, Hiroshima University (biological chemistry) Shunsuke Izumi Professor, Kyoto Institute of Technology (applied Toshiharu Akino entomology) * Affiliations, universities, and titles shown are current as of the time the grant was provided. 21 Examples of Main Environmental Contribution Activities Conducted in Fiscal 2013 Charitable Contributions Verified International Others 9% Site Program exchange and cooperation 4% Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Planting beech trees in Minami-Zao Sekisui Children’s Nature Study Course (observing water Environment Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. 5% bugs and testing water quality) Local Gathering at Greenery Trust site no. 11 (vicinity of Kurocommunities Contributions: Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. hama Marsh) and social 255 million yen welfare Gunma Children’s Nature Study Course (observing water 12% Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant bugs and testing water quality) Academia, research, and Wakimizu-no-Sato rural environment preservation education Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. 28% activities Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Research & Minase Children’s Nature Study Course (observing living Disaster relief Activities of Development Institute creatures) 42% business sites in Japan Izumo Children’s Nature Study Course (observing living Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant creatures) Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Enshuhama “Welkame Clean Sakusen” shore cleanup Plant activities Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Cleanup activities in vicinity of Myotokujigawa River Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Sekisui Forest improvement activities Forestation activities at the base of Mt. Tsukuba and in Tsukuba Site the Kasumigaura headspring Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo HeadTree-planting activities at Umi-no-Mori (Sea Forest) in quarters Tokyo Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, Cleanup activities to preserve the wetland environment LLC (Pasadena Plant) at Armand Bayou Nature Center (U.S.A.) Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. SCG-Sekisui Sales Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Ecosystem rehabilitation/maintenance and mangroveThai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. planting activities to contribute to the community Sekisui Chemical (Thailand) (Thailand) Sekisui Systembath Industry (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Tree-planting activities in the state of Morelos (Mexico) Activities of Sekisui Medical Technology (China) overseas busiLtd. ness sites Sekisui High Performance Packaging Tree-planting activities in the Fengning Manchu (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Autonomous County in Hebei Province (China) Sekisui (Shanghai) International Trading Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Wuxi) Plastics Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) International TradForest preservation activities at Yuping Mountain in ing Co., Ltd. Suzhou (China) Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui (Shanghai) Environmental Technology Co., Ltd. Main Social Contribution Activities Conducted in Fiscal 2013 Program FY2013 performance Performance through now Times Cumulative number of Cumulative Heart+Action 13 times Participants 235 persons 20 times 307 persons implemented times implemented participants Number of school meals provided 11,462 meals in developing countries Number of school TABLE FOR TWO Sites 11 sites Implementing sites 11 sites meals provided in de105,478 meals Amount of food veloping countries* aid to the Tohoku 229,230 yen region Number of school TABLE FOR TWO Number of school meals provided (Vending Sites 1 site 2,175 meals Implementing sites 1 site meals provided in 2,175 meals in developing machines) developing countries countries Houses and the Cumulative number Implementing Participating Cumulative number of Environment 16 schools 1,878 persons 76 schools of participating 9,300 persons schools students implementing schools Learning Program students approx Cumulative number Chemical Times Participating Cumulative number of 22 times 2,922 persons 124 times of participating 13,762 persons Classroom implemented students times implemented students Times Cumulative number of Cumulative amount BOOK MAGIC 20 times Amount donated 147,062 yen 72 times 675,226 yen implemented times implemented donated * The provision of food aid to the Tohoku region began in April 2013. 22 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management System CSR Committee/Subcommittee Structure Environmental Management System President Board of Directors CSR Committee Environmental Subcommittee Reporting/Discussion Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of environmental matters at each division company; General Managers of environmental sections; Head of R&D Center CSR Committee Chairperson: President Members: Division Company Division companies Environmental Presidents, Headquarters Directors, Environmental sections at each division company Subcommittee and Employee Representatives Production sites Environmental sections (three Employee Representatives: CS & Quality the chairperson of the Labor Union, Sales companies Environmental sections Subcommittee a Representative of Female Environment Safe environment Energy Environment Employees, and a representative of Human Resources employees of affiliate companies) brainstorming management Subcommittee officers’ meeting managers’ meeting sessions Safety Subcommittee officers’ meeting Headquarters Compliance Environmental Management Group, CSR Department Subcommittee CS & Quality Management System Human Resources System President CSR Committee President CS & Quality Subcommittee Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of CS & Quality at each division CSR Committee company; General Managers of CS & Quality sections; Head of Productivity Innovation Center Division companies Human Resources Subcommittee CS & Quality sections at each division company Subcommittee Chairperson:Head of CSR Department Production sites Quality management sections Subcommittee Members: Directors in charge of HR at each division company; Head Sales companies Technology Department of R&D Center Customer Information & Consulting Services Customer Information & Division Company/Headquarters After-sales service sections Consulting Services HR sections at each division company Each HR sections at production sites, labor-management Headquarters laboratories, sales facilities, committee CSR Department, CS Group; affiliates, etc. Productivity Innovation Center, Quality Management Group Customer Information & Consulting Services Safety System Compliance Management System President President CSR Committee CSR Committee Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Group’s Development of basic policies on compliance and countermeasures for individual Safety Subcommittee formulation of measures to be compliance issues, consideration implemented in areas such of measures to prevent their Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of R&D Center as education and training. reoccurrence, etc. Subcommittee Members: General Managers of safety sections; Head of Productivity Innovation Center Compliance Subcommittee Subcommittee Chairperson: Compliance Reporting Advisory Board Head of CSR Department Subcommittee Members: (to address problems Directors in charge of compliance at each that have actually Division companies division company; Headquarters Directors; occurred) Safety sections at each division company General Manager, Corporate Audit Department Promotion of policies and measures Production sites Sections in charge of safety discussed in the Subcommittee and other matters Construction companies Sections in charge of safety Reporting Instruction and communication Headquarters/ Division companies Promotion and development Compliance of measures Compliance Headquarters Promotion Manager Promotion (person responsible Committee Productivity Innovation Center, Safety Group Reporting for promotion) 23 Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management Policies Sekisui Chemical Group “Environmental Management Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, aim to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth and co-existence of ecology and the economy. Basic Policy Each company in the Sekisui Chemical Group advances approaches that contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a recycling-based society in all countries and regions where they have operations, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. 1. We contribute to the environment through our products and services, with consideration given to the environment in all stages of the product life cycle from research to procurement, production, sales, use, and disposal as waste. 2. We carry out environmentally conscious business activities in all our workplaces and offices, and promote our approach to the environment through cooperation with our customers and business partners. 3. We make efforts to reduce the environmental impact of greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals, etc., and to prevent pollution by promoting the effective use of limited resources and energy. 4. We observe the related laws, regulations, international rules, etc. 5. We make efforts to improve environmental consciousness through education, and advance continual improvements by setting our own objectives and targets. 6. We enhance confidence through close communications with society. 7. We aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. Sekisui Chemical Group “CS & Quality Management Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider “CS & Quality” as our central concept of management and will consistently innovate to maintain the quality of products throughout all our activities, continuously provide values (products and services) that meet customer expectations, strive for selection by our customers on an ongoing basis, and develop and grow with the customer over the long time. Basic Policy We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider “Customer’s Feedback” as precious resources for management and strive to innovate about “Quality of Products,” “Quality of People” and “Quality of Systems” based on the motto “We consider customer’s feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing.” Furthermore, we contribute to the realization of a safe and affluent society by continuously providing our customers and their communities with new value. 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our manufactured products, which form the basis of “Product Quality,” we effectively leverage customer’s feedback and dedicate ourselves with a strong belief in forestalling any potential trouble and preventing any future recurrence throughout our entire value chain. 2. Creating Attractive Qualities We aim to share the emotional values of our customers by thoroughly pursuing “what the customers value” and constantly creating attractive products and services that should realize such customer values. 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities For the sake of ensuring Basic Qualities and for creating Attractive Qualities, we are upgrading our technological capabilities in all fields in order to achieve superb manufacturing development. 4. Enhancing Communications We value communication with our customers and the community and make sincere efforts when dealing with them as well as complying with the relevant laws and regulations in each country and region. We place special emphasis on resolving customer complaints or claims at an early stage by responding promptly and empathetically. 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education To gain and maintain the full trust and impression of our customers, we provide employees with continuous CS & Quality education as well as motivating our employees to achieve self-realization through customer satisfaction. 24 Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy” Mission Based on our belief that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society,” we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their “specialties” and grow personally. With the recognition that it is our social responsibility to protect individual human rights, we respect the diversity, personality and individuality of each person, and promote various working styles as well as creating safe and secure work environments in response to conditions in each country and region. Basic Policy on Human Resources Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. Creating opportunities to take on challenges 1. Respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination We encourage employees to “positively set their own goals and Being aware of our position as a member of the international aggressively to take on challenges.” community, we appreciate and respect the cultures, customs, and 2. Culture where employees learn and grow on their own values of each region and neither violate human rights ourselves nor participate in any such violations. We also never become involved in We strive to enrich our education/training programs and develop a any conduct that might lead to discrimination. culture where employees learn and grow on their own. We never discriminate on the grounds of race, color, gender, age, 3. Enhancement of the performance-based remuneration system language, religion, creed, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, We emphasize our employees’ personal commitment and strive to geographical or social origin, property, or other status or any similar constantly improve the fairness and acceptance of our assessment basis, and we neither violate human rights ourselves nor participate in system regarding performance and processes. any such violations. 4. Acceptance of various working styles 2. Prohibition of harassment We respect various values; develop workplaces where every employee We never commit sexual harassment or other actions that stain can work with enthusiasm; and help employees achieve a balance personal character. 1) We do not commit sexual harassment or any conduct that might be between life and work. misunderstood as sexual harassment. 5. Creating safe and secure work environments 2) We do not misuse the power of a superior position nor use any We promote employees’ health enhancement and mental health care. language or conduct that could sexually annoy any person. In addition, we prevent other employees from using such offensive language or conduct. 3. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We shall never accept forced labor or child labor in any country or region. 1) We comply with the laws for the minimum working age in each country and region and do not use child labor. 2) We do not carry out any form of forced labor in any of our corporate activities. 4. Respect for basic labor rights We respect basic labor rights, including the right of workers to organize and to bargain, in accordance with the laws and customs of each country or region, and do not infringe on these rights. Sekisui Chemical Group “Safety Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that employee safety is essential to achieving sustainable growth. We aim to be a “Safe and Secure” enterprise that establishes safe and secure work environments and has the full trust of its customers and the community as well as its employees. Basic Policy Based on the concept of human dignity that “everyone is invaluable,” we “prioritize safety over anything else” as a basic rule in all of our business activities from development, production, construction to servicing. We are committed to promoting comprehensive safety activities with the aim of achieving zero occupational accidents, facility accidents, commuting accidents or long-term sick leave. 1. We strive to develop a safe and comfortable workplace where everyone is taken care of both mentally and physically, which should lead to good health for each of our employees whom we highly value. 2. We thoroughly disseminate the legal requirements concerning health and safety/disaster prevention to our employees to ensure compliance. 3. We carry out risk assessment and promote risk reduction measures in a systematic way to eliminate hazardous factors that compromise health and safety/disaster prevention. 4. We strive to raise awareness regarding health and safety/disaster prevention through employee education/training and promote continuous improvements by setting voluntary objectives/goals. 5. We proactively disclose any necessary information as well as gain a higher level of trust by having close communication with public administrations and local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group “Social Contribution Policy” As a good corporate citizen, we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, engage in activities that focus on the “Environment,” the “Next Generation,” and “Local Communities,” and contribute not only to business activities but also to society. All employees working for the Sekisui Chemical Group are proactively involved in the society and act so that they can serve as prominent human resources in society as well. In addition, their activities are supported by each company of the Group in order to generate synergistic effects. 25 Sekisui Chemical Group “Procurement Policy” Sekisui Chemical Group will perform its procurement of goods according to the following five basic ideas (openness, impartiality and fairness, compliance with laws and regulations, mutual trust and environmental considerations). We will strengthen our harmonious and mutually beneficial partnership with our business partners through fair transactions. Also, Sekisui Chemical Group will engage in the promotion of CSR activities through the cooperation of business partners in the Group’s procurement activities. 1-1. Procurement Policy Openness Sekisui Chemical Group opens its doors not only to domestic companies but also widely to overseas companies. Impartiality and fairness Sekisui Chemical Group selects business partners based on impartial and fair evaluation standards with emphasis on quality, price and delivery lead-time, services, etc., as well as environmental considerations. Compliance with Laws and Regulations When engaging in purchasing transactions, Sekisui Chemical Group will comply with relevant laws, regulations and administrative instructions in Japan and overseas. Mutual Trust Along with conducting transactions with mutual trust and in fulfillment of contractual obligations, we will build and maintain relationships with our business partners that allow for our mutual profitability. Environmental Considerations Sekisui Chemical Group will further promote the purchase of raw materials and goods that have minimal negative impact on the environment and strive to establish a resource-recycling society through concerted efforts with business partners. 1-2. A Request to our Business Partners Concerning Procurement The company is aware of CSR in all spheres of its business operations based on its philosophy of contributing to society through its business activities. To do so, it is absolutely necessary to engage in activities in mutual cooperation with business partners. We ask all business partners to carry out the following activities proactively. (1) Securing Excellent Product Quality Establish a quality assurance system to improve and maintain the quality of products offered to customers • Establish a quality assurance system in conformity with ISO 9000 (2) Environmental Considerations Sekisui Chemical Group is working to reduce negative impact of its products on the environment from the development and production stages to disposal. To do so, the environmental consideration of our suppliers concerning raw materials and goods is essential. • Environmental management system in conformity with ISO 14001 • Reduction of harmful chemical substances, etc.; procurement of goods and materials with minimal environmental impact (3) Compliance with Laws, Regulations and Social Customs Suppliers are requested to ensure compliance with relevant laws, regulations and appropriate social norms of the countries and regions in which they conduct business operations. • Compliance with relevant laws and regulations in the business operations • Prohibition of forced labor • Prohibition of child labor • Prohibition of discrimination toward employees (4) Safety and Hygiene Quality is built through human resources and facilities. The safety management of these resources is the basis of production. Business partners are requested to perform the following. • Safety and hygiene control of the workplace and maintenance of employee health • Machine safeguarding and safety and hygiene control of facilities • Appropriate response to occupational accidents, facility disasters, accidents, etc. 26 Calculation Standards of Key Performance Indicators Environment Items Indicator Calculation Method Sekisui Eco Value Index = [Environmental Added Value (converted to monetary amount)] / [Group’s overall environmental impact (converted to coefficient)] •Environmental Added Value = (sales revenue from Environment-Contributing Products + external economic benefits) External economic benefits represent the sum of the following two figures: •Volume of waste reduction from the pipe rehabilitation method compared to the traditional excavation method × unit social cost Environmental •Volume of power generation from solar power equipment installed at homes sold (cumulative total) × unit social cost (CO2 emissions reducSekisui Eco Value Index Efficiency tion benefits)) •Group’s overall environmental impact: The impact from raw materials and energy used as well as landfill and incineration of waste and emissions into the atmosphere and water are calculated using the Japan Environmental Policy Priorities Index (JEPIX). Data used in calculation includes volume of energy used (electricity, heavy oil A, diesel oil, gasoline, fuel gas, etc.), raw materials (metals, lumber, cement, concrete, synthetic resins and Kraft paper), PRTR-designated substances emitted into the atmosphere and water, COD, waste (incinerated and landfill) Sales of Environment-Contributing Products = Sekisui Chemical Group consolidated net sales of products certified internally as EnvironmentEnvironmentEnvironment-ContribContributing Products Contributing uting Products Sales Environment-Contributing Products sales ratio = Sales of Environment-Contributing Products/consolidated net sales Products and Sales Ratio Subject: All Group businesses in Japan and overseas GHG emissions = Σ [volume of fuel usage purchased electricity and steam × CO2 emission coefficient] + GHG emissions from non-energyconsumption sources GHG emissions from non-energy-consumption sources = CO2 emissions from non-energy-consumption sources + ∑ [non-CO2 GHG emissions × global warming coefficients] [CO2 Emission Coefficients] Greenhouse-Gas (GHG) Fuels: Heavy oil A 2.71 tonsCO2/kL, city gas 2.08 tons-CO2/thousand Nm3, LNG 2.70 tonsCO2/ton, heating oil 2.49 tons-CO2/kL, diesel oil 2.62 Emissions tonsCO2/kL, gasoline 2.32 tons-CO2/kL, LPG 3.00 tons-CO2/ton Purchased electricity: 0.555 tons-CO2/MWh (Japan) Emission coefficient of each country and region announced by GHG protocols (overseas) Purchased steam: 0.179 tons-CO2/ton [Global-warming coefficients]: Coefficients established under greenhouse-gas emissions calculation, reporting, and publication systems Energy Usage Energy usage = Σ [volume of fuel usage purchased electricity and steam × heat generated per unit of output] Aggregating the results of both the fuel-based method (for transportation of modular home units, etc.) and the ton-kilometer-based method (for transportation of products other than modular home units, etc.) CO2 emissions = Σ [volume of fuel usage × CO2 emission coefficient] + Σ [transport weight (tons) × transport distance (km) × fuel usage per unit CO2 Emissions in the of output × CO2 emission coefficient] Transportation Stage Figures used for fuel usage per unit of output are those employed in the reporting system for specified consigners under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy Subject: domestic logistics (product shipments) CO2 emissions = Σ [volume of main raw materials used × emission coefficient (IDEA v.1.1 [GHG emissions daPurchased goods and services tabase from National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) and Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI)])] CO2 emissions = ∑ [amount of increase in buildings, structures, machinery, and transportation equipment × emission coefficient (Emissions per Unit Database for the Purpose of Calculating the Greenhouse Gas and Capital goods Other Emissions of Organizations throughout the Supply Chain [Ver. 2.0] [Ministry of the Environment (MOE) and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI)])] CO2 emissions = Σ [(volume of fuel usage electricity and steam purchased) × emission coefficient] Fuel and energy related Emission coefficients used are from IDEA v.1.1 (GHG emissions database from AIST and JEMAI) for fuel, and activities not Included in Scope the Emissions per Unit Database for the Purpose of Calculating the Greenhouse Gas and Other Emissions of 1 and 2 Organizations throughout the Supply Chain (Ver. 2.0) (MOE and METI) for electricity and steam purchased. Subject: domestic and overseas production sites and laboratories, domestic and overseas offices CO2 emissions = Σ [volume of main raw materials used (weight) × transport distance × emission coefficient Transportation and delivery (IDEA v.1.1 [GHG emissions database from AIST and JEMAI])] (Calculations assume a uniform transport distance Energy and (upstream) of 200 km.) Carbon CO2 emissions = Σ [volume of waste generated (by type) × emission coefficient (IDEA v.1.1 [GHG emissions Dioxide Waste generated in operations database from AIST and JEMAI])] Subject: domestic and overseas production sites and laboratories CO2 emissions = Σ [transportation costs by means of transportation × emission coefficient (Emissions per Unit Database for the Purpose of Calculating the Greenhouse Gas and Other Emissions of Organizations throughout Business travel the Supply Chain [Ver. 2.0] [MOE and METI])] (Transportation costs for Group companies include estimates.) Subject: domestic and overseas Group companies CO2 emissions = ∑ [amount of commuting allowances paid × emission coefficient (Emissions per Unit Database Estimated Greenhousefor the Purpose of Calculating the Greenhouse Gas and Other Emissions of Organizations throughout the Supply Gas Emissions throughEmployee commuting Chain [Ver. 2.0] [MOE and METI])] (Calculated by assuming all employees travel by passenger rail; commuting out the Supply Chain costs for Group companies include estimates.) Subject: domestic and overseas Group companies Aggregating the results of using both the fuel-based method (for transportation of modular home units, etc.) and the ton-kilometer-based method (for transportation of products other than modular home units, etc.) Transportation and delivery CO2 emissions = Σ [volume of fuel usage × CO2 emission coefficient] + Σ [transport weight (tons) × transport (downstream) distance (km) × fuel usage per unit of output × CO2 emission coefficient (using figures employed in the reporting system for specified consigners under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy)] (Figures for overseas are estimates.) Subject: shipments of products of domestic and overseas Group companies CO2 emissions = Σ [production volume of subject products × emission coefficient for processing of the subject Processing of sold products products (IDEA v.1.1 [GHG emissions database from AIST and JEMAI])] Subject: automotive products of domestic and overseas Group companies CO2 emissions = Σ [number of homes sold during the fiscal year × annual volume of electricity purchased from power companies × 60 years × emission coefficient for electricity], reflecting the effects of photovoltaic (PV) systems Figures used for annual volume of electricity purchased from power companies are from a March 13, 2014 Use of sold products Sekisui Chemical press release (“Survey of net energy balance (volume) of homes installed with PV systems (2013)”). For the emission coefficient for electricity, the internally used figure of 0.555 tonsCO2/MWh is used. Calculations assume a useful life of 60 years for homes.) Subject: Homes sold in Japan during fiscal 2013 CO2 emissions = Σ [volume of main raw materials used in products sold during the fiscal year × emission coefEnd-of-life treatment of sold ficient (IDEA v.1.1 [GHG emissions database from AIST and JEMAI])] products Calculations assume products sold during the fiscal year were disposed of during the same fiscal year Calculated for construction works where machinery leased by Sekisui Chemical is used. Leased assets (downstream) CO2 emissions = Σ [units of relevant work × emission coefficient (IDEA v.1.1 [GHG emissions database from AIST and JEMAI])] 27 Items Indicator Calculation Method Waste = outsourced disposals + recycling resources (use of incineration heat + materials recycling + valuable materials sold) + on-site incineration, not including the following: Waste Generated Waste from demolition of former homes of customers, scrap construction materials from construction at business sites, disposal of equipment, office automation appliances, etc., infectious waste generated from medical treatment and activities Waste generated by new house construction = waste generated by housing exterior wall plants + waste generated by housing assembly plants Waste Generated by Waste + waste generated at new house construction sites New House ConstrucWaste generated by new house construction per unit = waste generated by new house construction / units of houses sold tion Subject: domestic housing business Achievement rate = business sites achieved zero emissions / business sites subject to zero emissions efforts Zero Emissions Business sites subject to zero emissions efforts = domestic and overseas production sites and laboratories holding environmental management Achievement Rate systems external certification for at least two years Amount of Water Amount of water extracted = tap water volume + industrial water volume + on site groundwater intake volume Extracted NOx Emissions Volume Emissions volume = Σ (annual exhaust gas air volume × NOx concentration × 46 / 22.4) Water, Air, SOx Emissions Volume Emissions volume = ∑ (annual SOx volume × 64/22.4) Water Quality Soot and Dust EmisEmissions volume = Σ (annual exhaust gas air volume × soot/dust concentration) sions Volume COD Discharge Volume Volume discharged = Σ [COD concentration (annual average of measured values) × volume of discharged water Volume of Chemical Volume of handled substances subject to the PRTR Law Substances Handled Subject: Domestic production sites and laboratories Volume of discharged and transported substances subject to the PRTR Law Volume of Chemical Volume discharged = volume discharged into the atmosphere + volume discharged into public waters + volume discharged into soil on site + Substances Discharged on site landfill volume Chemical and Transported Volume transported = volume transported into sewers + volume transported as waste Substances Subject: domestic production sites and laboratories Volume of detoxified substances subject to the PRTR Law Volume of Chemical Volume detoxified = volume consumed through chemical reaction + volume consumed through incineration, etc. Substances Detoxified Subject: domestic production sites and laboratories Volume of atmospheric discharge of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) included among substances subject to the PRTR Law and PRTR subVOC Emission stances subject to the Japan Chemical Industry Association (JCIA) Achievement rate = number of business sites that have attained external EMS certification / number of business sites subject to attaining external EMS certification External EMS CertificaBusiness sites subject to attaining external EMS certification = Sekisui Chemical Group business sites as of the start of the midterm plan (April 1, 2009) tion Rate External EMS certification: ISO 14001, Eco Action 21, etc. Production sites and laboratories: Group business sites in existence as of the start of the midterm plan Subject construction companies: 86 business sites (12 companies) selected internally Percentage of employees of business sites that have attained Percentage of employees of business sites that have attained external EMS certification to all Sekisui Chemical Group employees = Σ [number of external employees of business sites that have attained external EMS certification] / consolidated total number of employees EMS certification to all Number of employees: The number as of March 31, 2014 Sekisui Chemical Group employees Management, Amount of procured products and services with ranks A and B under the Green Procurement Standards / total amount of procured products and services etc. Green Procurement Standards: Both suppliers and products/services are assessed using the Green Procurement Standards/Assessment Form (ranks A, B and C). Green Procurement Products and services with ranks A and B under the Green Procurement Standards: Suppliers and products/services which have been both asRate sessed as ranks A or B Green Procurement Standards: http://www.sekisui.co.jp/company/suggestion/index.html Products, construction work, and services involved in domestic purchase of raw materials and capital investment Environmental accounting calculations are performed by referring to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the MOE, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Group’s own concepts such as external economic benefits (estimated effects). The scope of our procedures consisted of 45 production sites, five laboratories, 15 housing sales companies, headquarter departments, and back Environmental offices of division companies, all located in Japan. Accounting External economic benefits included in the economic benefits of environmental conservation measures represent the energy-conservation benefits from homes sold and installed with PV systems and the benefits of the “No-Dig” pipe rehabilitation method for sewers, etc., converted into monetary values. 28 Calculation Standards of Key Performance Indicators CS & Quality Items Indicator Calculation Method External Loss Costs of responding to product-related claims Costs These refer to product and service quality issues determined by the Division Company President, based on evaluations and judgments by the quality assurance manager, which could cause significant damage to customers, society, or Sekisui Chemical Group and lead to the loss of society’s trust in the Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis including: Major Quality Quality Performance 1) Problems that could have a serious impact on (or cause severe damage to) society, such as product recalls Issues 2) All serious problems involving human safety and those acknowledged by the Division Company to be serious problems involving the property safety 3) Compliance-related problems concerning the quality of products or services (e.g., those involving compliance with relevant laws and regulations) 4) Problems that could cause serious monetary damages to customers Claim Costs Same as external loss costs (costs of responding to product-related claims) Loss Costs Costs associated with disposal of defective products, etc. generated during manufacturing processes Internal Loss Same as loss costs (costs associated with disposal of defective products, etc. generated during manufacturing processes) Costs Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators Production Costs necessary for manufacturing, such as raw-material and labor costs (to be decreased through productivity improvements such as saving (improvements vs. fiscal Costs of energy and other resources in manufacturing processes) 2005 performance) Environmental Costs for disposal of waste generated at business sites, and energy costs Costs Human Resources Indicator Calculation Method Separation Rate within the First Three Years of Calculated as the total of separation rates for the first, second, and third years of employees hired in the relevant fiscal year, in accorEmployment dance with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s calculation methods. Global Talents Personnel having overseas assignment experience (including overseas trainees) Hiring of human resources meeting one of the following criteria: those of non-Japanese nationality, returnee students from abroad, International Hiring those with at least one year’s experience studying abroad, and those with TOEIC scores of 750 or higher Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed (Number of regular workers who are physically or mentally challenged / total number of regular workers) × 100 Percentage of Management Positions Filled by (Number of women in management positions / total number of personnel in management positions) × 100 Women (Number reemployed / total number of employees retired at mandatory retirement age) × 100 Reemployment Rate for the Elderly Note: The number of employees retired at mandatory retirement age includes some retirees who do not desire reemployment. Overtime Hours Worked (Total overtime hours worked + total time worked on weekends and holidays) / number of employees Percentage of Paid Leave Used (Days of leave taken/days of leave awarded) × 100 Safety Items Indicator Calculation Method Number of occupational accidents (both those with lost time and those without lost time) at production sites and Number of Occupational Accidents laboratories in Japan during the subject fiscal year (April through March) Number of equipment-related downtime events (such as fires or leakages) meeting one or more of the following conditions (1) – (3) (Sekisui Chemical Group standards) at production sites and laboratories in Japan during the subject fiscal year (April through March): Number of Equipment-related Accidents (1) Personnel-related damage: Occupational accidents with 30 lost working days or more (2) Property damage: 10 million yen or more (3) Loss of opportunity: 20 million yen or more Number of absence cases of 30 days or longer due to injury or illness at production sites and laboratories in Japan Number of Cases of Extended Sick Leave during the subject fiscal year (April through March). Absences due to occupational accidents are not considered extended sick leave. Safety Number of commuting accidents for employees at production sites and laboratories in Japan during the subject fiscal Performance year (April through March). Number of Commuting Accidents These include damages incurred and inflicted (including self-injury and property damage) while driving automobiles or other vehicles. Number of injuries, illness and fatalities in occupational accidents with lost time per 1,000,000 total working hours Frequency Rate during the subject fiscal year (April through March) Formula: Number of injuries, illness and fatalities in occupational accidents with lost time/ total work hours × 1,000,000 Number of work days lost per 1,000 total working hours during the subject fiscal year (April through March) Severity Rate Formula: Number of work days lost / total work hours × 1,000 Status of Occupational Accidents at OverNumber of occupational accidents (both those with lost time and those without lost time) at overseas production seas Production Sites sites during the subject fiscal year (April through March) Safety Performance at Housing Company Number of occupational accidents (both those with lost time and those without lost time) at construction sites under Construction Sites the supervision of the Housing Company during the subject fiscal year (April through March) Safety Performance at Urban Infrastructure Number of occupational accidents (both those with lost time and those without lost time) at construction sites under & Environmental Products Company Conthe supervision of the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company during the subject fiscal year (April struction Sites through March) Scope of summation: Production sites and laboratories, headquarter departments, and back offices of division companies, all located in Japan Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work environment, health manageCosts within Business-Site Areas ment, workers’ accident compensation insurance, etc. Health, Safety and Administrative Costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, safety education, personnel costs, etc. Accident-prevenOther Safety awards, etc. tion Costs Amount of investments related to health, safety, and accident prevention approved during the subject fiscal year (April Investment Amount through March) Expenses, including person-hours, required to respond to occupational accidents, equipment-related accidents, comLoss Costs muting accidents, and extended sick leave during the subject fiscal year (April through March) 29 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com/ For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. Published: June 26, 2014. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 26, 2013. Next edition planned for publication: June 2015
