t e r a p o o r 3 C ili 01 t y s i b t 2 n o r p o p s e R e R Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 We care for the environment Printed on Freelife Satin Paper Papers and boards made with environment-friendly ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free), pure cellule, FSC certified, with a high content of selected recycled material, triple blade coated on both sides with satin finishing. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 0 1 Contents Letter from the Chairmen 2 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) roadmap 4 Fransabank more than 93 years history and growing stronger 6 01. Integrity & Trust 9 Corporate governance 10 Compliance 12 Code of conduct 13 02. Responsible Employer 15 Employment practices 16 Empowering employees for improved performance 18 Developing a diverse workforce 18 Living our values and reaching our goals 20 Engaging employees 20 03. Supporting Economic Development 23 Micro financing for capacity building 24 Women and youth employment in SMEs 25 Making education accessible to all 27 04. Environment & Sustainability 29 05. At the Heart of our Communities 33 Fostering creativity through our cultural activities 34 Enabling talents through our educational programs 39 Creating opportunities through our social initiatives 40 Maintaining active dialogue with our stakeholders 42 Putting into practice the UNGC 10 Principles 44 Letter from the Chairmen Adnan Kassar • Chairman | Adel Kassar • Deputy Chairman F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 2 3 At Fransabank, we have long believed that business has both an opportunity and an obligation to make brighter futures. While we aim to deliver the best financial solutions, we achieve this best through building strong connections in the communities where we live and operate. We are proud to present our first standalone sustainability report covering the poverty reduction programs, women and youth employment, environmental causes, societal and humanitarian initiatives, culture and arts, valuing the Bank’s human capital, amongst others. This report comes following the publishing, in 2012, of our Corporate Responsibility Book that covered the Bank’s journey as a business and a major contributor to the economic, social, environmental and cultural sectors of Lebanon. Fransabank’s sustainability framework is firmly grounded in our values and provides a clear roadmap that leverages our strengths in building our sustainability advantage to achieving a greater impact on society and our own activities. Our aim is to play a continuous valuable role in society and to act with integrity and responsibility. This goal can be achieved through a profound change in our business culture. We want Fransabank to be at the forefront of this cultural change in our Lebanese banking industry. We want to show that we are sensitive to society’s interests, that we create value for clients, employees and communities as well as shareholders. This means combining a culture of performance with a culture of responsibility. It is a long and hard way to go. We are under no illusions about the challenges lying ahead. Fransabank became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the world's largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative as of November 2013. Looking ahead, Fransabank will build on what it has achieved so far in the context of corporate responsibility, to consolidate its role and to live up to the new challenges, presented by taking the UN Global Compact, to higher levels. We want Fransabank to be a leader in driving economic development and social prosperity. Therefore, the challenge for us at this time is it to turn these ambitions into actions as we try to convey long-term sustainable value for all those we serve. This report outlines a clear path ahead for Fransabank to achieve a sustainability advantage and we are certain that this can be achieved with the enthusiasm and unwavering dedication of our employees. Sincerely, Adnan Kassar Adel Kassar United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) roadmap “ The UN Global Compact wouldn’t be in existence if it hadn’t been for President Adnan Kassar. When President Adnan Kassar was President of the International Chamber of Commerce, he played a critical role. More than 10 years ago when the Global Compact was just launched, there was a critical moment when the Business Community was quite skeptical and actually arguing “Why should we bother about Human Rights, Workplace, Environment and Good Governance? Isn’t it the job of Governments alone? And our job is just to maximize profits and shareholder values?” There was heavy resistance. President Adnan Kassar came to the delegation of International Business Leaders and showed the world it can be done which has helped to get the Global Compact started. “ Mr. Georg Kell, Executive Director of the UN Global Compact Fransabank Chairman Adnan Kassar was the first and only Arab businessman elected President of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) from 1999 to 2000. As ICC President, he focused the ICC’s efforts on assisting the developing and the least developed countries in benefiting from globalization while mitigating those countries’ respective risks. He also reiterated the call for peace and stability, voiced by the ICC, in 1919, as preconditions for development and prosperity. Mr. Kassar’s primary goals were to promote the The UN Global Compact is a policy platform and role of the ICC in the world economy and to practical framework for companies that are develop the private sector’s contribution to the committed to sustainability and responsible global economic growth and the social business practices in the areas of environment, development. human rights, labour, and anti-corruption. Fundamental to all of Adnan Kassar’s work with Chairman Kassar has committed Fransabank to the ICC was his belief that only peace can bring the UN Global Compact principles since its economic stability, a stability that is crucial for inception thus setting an example that other business to invest and for humans to develop businesses may follow. This was achieved and prosper. He took this conviction with him through the publication of the “Fransabank all the way to the United Nations and used Corporate Responsibility Book” in 2012 to Lebanon as the primary example of how showcase Fransabank’s corporate responsibility political instability and social turmoil can stifle even the most achievements and serve as an example to other players in promising potential. Lebanon’s banking sector and private sector, in general, on how they can win by being responsible citizens. Adnan Kassar then During his presidency, the relationship between the United ensured Fransabank’s full membership in the UN Global Nations and business went beyond its traditional ties and Compact in November 2013, becoming thus the first Bank in became a collaboration for the pursuit of mutually supported Lebanon adhering to the UNGC. goals and objectives. Thus, the first initiative was the launching of the United Nations Global Compact which produced effective and positive results in the various areas of common interest. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 4 5 The following excerpt on Fransabank CR Book is quoted from Responsible Business Magazine the Middle East Magazine for sustainability and corporate social responsibility published by CSR Lebanon’s dated October December 2012 (link http://www.csrlebanon.com/fransabank-makes-csr-history.html). “ Fransabank Makes CSR History in Lebanon This is the first ever report about a company’s CSR activities to be published in Lebanon. As such, it has set an important precedent, particularly amongst other banks, to be accountable for their social and environmental responsibilities. We hope that this publication marks the beginning of a new era of accountability amongst major banks and corporations in Lebanon. “ Mr. Adnan Kassar the First Lebanese Business Leader to be an Oslo Business for Peace Honourees 2014 Mr. Kassar has been named a Business for Peace Honourees by the Business for Peace Foundation’s independent Award Committee consisting of Nobel Prize winners in Peace and Economics. He was selected amongst over 120 nominations from over 50 countries, H.E. Mr. Adnan Kassar latest recognitions received as an Honouree for being, as described by Per L. for his Corporate Responsibility (CR) initiatives: Saxegaard, chairman, Business for Peace Foundation, a businessperson “who, through their own actions and FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT commitments, promote socially responsible and ethical Mr. Kassar received an award from the Executive Director business practices in an outstanding way, and stand out for the UN Global Compact, Mr. Georg Kell for his role, as as examples to the world”. president of the International Chamber of Commerce, in the founding of the UN Global Compact with then Secretary General of the UN, Mr. Kofi Annan, in 2000 at Mr. Kassar is considered “a driver of growth and the CSR Conference that was held in Beirut, Lebanon in development in Lebanon, in the absence of political March 2013. stability and security, for many decades. Today, it is Adnan Kassar, at the head of the Lebanese private ICC MERCHANT OF PEACE AWARD sector that ensures the prosperity of the country and its Mr. Kassar received the ICC Merchant of Peace Award from attractiveness to foreign investors, thus maintaining and the ICC Chairman Mr. Gerard Worms in Doha in April 2013, securing the livelihood of the Lebanese people.” on the occasion of ICC’s World Chambers Congress, for www.businessforpeace.com his devotion and calls for global peace through partnerships in business. The Oslo Business for Peace Award is the highest form of recognition given to individual business leaders for fostering peace and stability through creating shared CERTIFICATE OF APPRECIATION value between business and society. The world-wide Mr. Kassar received a certificate of appreciation for his search for the 2014 Honourees was a joint effort by distinguished contribution to the 2013 Beirut Conference the International Chamber of Commerce, the United entitled “Economy for Mankind”, which gathered more than 500 Muslim and Christian business leaders that Nations Development Programme, the United shared ideas for progress based on corporate social Nations Global Compact and the Oslo based Business responsibility and opened the way for new perspectives for for Peace Foundation. global economic and social development respectful of human dignity. Fransabank more than 93 years history and growing stronger Fransabank Group's banking and finance legacy dates back to Group offers its large clientele universal banking services through more than 93 years of excellence supported by its very its main commercial bank, Fransabank SAL, and its local and responsible role in the multi-dimensional development of the overseas subsidiaries and associates. economies and communities it serves. The Group has succeeded in establishing, developing and consolidating a competitive Fransabank Group has successfully assumed a leading role in edge that entitled it to occupy a leading position amongst the supporting various sectors and promoting the best standards in Lebanese banking community and the countries into which it corporate responsibility. Consequently, the Group earned an expanded. Today, Fransabank Group has a consolidated exemplary place at the heart of Lebanon’s corporate landscape presence in ten countries: Lebanon, France, Algeria, Syria, and community. Sudan, Belarus, Cyprus, Libya, UAE (Abu Dhabi) and Iraq. The Group also ranks first in terms of local branch network with 116 branches strategically spread all over the country, providing Fransabank corporate responsibility strategy is the Lebanese community with all types of banking products and founded on three main principles: to promote services to satisfy their personal and professional banking wants effective public-private partnerships; to promote and needs. economic development; and to enhance civil society’s aspirations. The Group’s CR strategy is Fransabank Group succeeded in positioning itself as a forwardshaped by the increasing need to ensure effective looking, trustworthy, dynamic, innovative, creative, and socially stakeholder relations, to fulfill the socioeconomic responsible leading financial Group that has been providing needs of the communities in which we conduct our top-notch financial services to its clients, in particular, and to the business and the wider social, economic, and banking industry, at large. Fransabank does this while always environmental requirements wherever we operate. placing the client at the heart of all its activities. Fransabank Cyprus USB Bank PLC Belarus Fransabank OJSC Lebanon France Syria Fransabank (France) SA Fransabank Syria SA Iraq Fransabank SAL Iraq Branches Algeria Fransabank El Djazaïr SPA Libya Representative Office Sudan United Capital Bank UAE Abu Dhabi Representative Office F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 6 7 VISION, MISSION & VALUES Fransabank Group is committed to be a leading financial institution within the local and regional markets, providing topnotch financial services to its customers through innovation, cutting-edge benefits and value added banking services and financial solutions. The Group is committed to: • Consolidate and expand its presence in selective regional and • Promote within the Group professional development and international markets quality performance, decision-making process and teamwork • Adopt and implement the highest international banking and • Generate increasing value for its shareholders in a dynamic finance norms and standards, corporate governance, and manner and on solid sustainable grounds diligent compliance practices • Align responsible business practices and social • Exceed its customers’ expectations, and fulfill their needs and investments to create long-term value and sustainability demands for the Group and its communities. • Strive for distinguished quality service for its existing and potential customers TRANSPARENCY ACCOUNTABILITY INTEGRITY LOYALTY FRANSABANK VALUES F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 8 9 01. r i t y s t t eg T r u In & 01. Integrity & Trust Integrity and trust are weaved through Fransabank’s culture as values that are crucial to the Bank success, inspiring confidence in all the Bank’ stakeholders. In order to counter potential threats to the key assets that are vital to our long-term development, such as our image and reputation, we need to reinforce our risk management procedures on an ongoing basis and bolster customer confidence. Fransabank has worked continuously over the past few years to strengthen its surveillance procedure, focusing on four main areas: corporate governance, compliance, risk management and internal control procedures. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Guiding Principles of Good Corporate Governance Corporate Governance is a set of rules that aim to promote fair organization for creating stakeholder value, whereby and transparent relationship between the Bank’s Management, transparency, disclosure, sustainability and ethical behavior are its Board of Directors, its Shareholders and other Stakeholders. their main features. Both Corporate Governance and corporate responsibility, which has been gradually fused into Corporate Governance practices, The main guiding principles of good Corporate Governance emphasize on the ethical practices and the perception of the include: FAIRNESS ACCOUNTABILITY in the treatment of all related parties including in the relationship between Executive Senior Management shareholders, depositors, creditors, employees, and the Board; between the Board and Shareholders; supervisors, and other concerned parties and between the Board and other Stakeholders CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TRANSPARENCY RESPONSIBIILITY in a way that allows related parties and stakeholders in terms of the existence of clear lines to assess as much the performance of the organization of responsibilities and delegations of authorities as its conformity with regulatory requirements Fransabank believes in and is committed to implement sound Governance Structure Corporate Governance practices, which is considered the basis for its future development, enhanced performance and strong Fransabank Corporate Governance structure includes the confidence in its activities. Fransabank Board of Directors has General Assembly (Shareholders); the Board of Directors; the various adopted a Corporate Governance Code, which promotes the committees; the Chairman; the Deputy Chairman; Control commitment of the Bank to the highest level of transparency, functions; the External Auditors; Senior Management and the integrity and accountability. The code delineates a Corporate Business and Support functions. The aim behind such a structure Governance Framework in line with the regulatory requirements is to provide an efficient framework for the assignment of and international best practices. responsibility and accountability. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 1 0 1 1 Shareholders enjoy all rights conferred upon them by the and effectiveness of the Board and to ensure the objective of Lebanese Code of Commerce, including the right to vote at the adding value to all Shareholders, investors, clients and community General Assembly, the right to receive dividends, the right to in the short, medium and long terms. In carrying out its oversight transfer their shares and the preferential right to subscribe to duties, the Board is supported by the Corporate Governance capital increases. All common Shareholders, including minority Committee, the Risk Management Committee and the Audit Shareholders, enjoy the same rights and benefits and have one Committee. These committees are chaired by independent voting right for each common share (the principle of one share, non-executive members and comprise non-executive Board one vote) without limitation. members. A charter was established to each of these Committees, which indicates the Committee’s scope of work, membership The management of the Bank is vested in the Board of Directors, structure and composition, meetings as well as its roles and which at Fransabank consists in its majority of non-executive responsibilities. members. This composition aims to safeguard the governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE GENERAL ASSEMBLY (SHAREHOLDERS) Board Board Committees of Directors Corporate Risk Chairman & Audit Committee Governance Management Committee Committee Deputy Chairman Corporate Risk Senior External Audit Governance Management Management Control Functions Internal Audit Inspection Compliance Business & Support Functions Management Committees 01. Integrity & Trust FRANSABANK SAL BOARD STRUCTURE 17% 33% 50% Managers, Deputy General Managers and Heads of key departments. Also an Executive Committee and several Management Committees are established to support the Chairman and the Executive NonIndependant Executive Deputy Chairman in running the day-to-day management of the Bank. The Chairman of the Board, in his capacity as General Manager, Fransabank Board of Directors and Senior Management has extensive powers to execute resolutions adopted by the recognize the importance of implementing sound internal General Assembly of Shareholders and undertakes operations control functions at the Bank, including Risk Management, Internal necessary for the daily functioning of the Bank. The Chairman Audit, Compliance, Corporate Governance and Inspection. These may delegate, subject to the approval of the Board, some of his functions ensure that the Bank’s activities are performed in managerial responsibility to another General Manager or accordance with the prevailing laws and regulations as well as Managers, but he remains personally responsible for such with the Bank’s policies, plans, internal rules and procedures. delegation. Fransabank’s strategy is to standardize the Corporate At Fransabank, and in addition to the Chairman and the Governance practices to all its local and foreign subsidiaries, taking Deputy Chairman, the Senior Management includes General into consideration the Corporate Governance requirements of host jurisdictions. COMPLIANCE Fransabank’s AML/CFT (Anti-Money Laundering/Combatting the Financing of Terrorism) Policy primarily aims at setting, within the Group, the essential standards for fighting money laundering operations and terrorism financing. Should the applicable AML/CFT laws and regulations of any country or jurisdiction require higher standards, Fransabank Group’s overseas subsidiaries and associate banks must conform to those standards. This Policy also encompasses the following objectives: Consequently, the adoption of this policy is crucial to ascertain that all Fransabank Group’s entities, whatever their geographic • Promoting a Know Your Customer (KYC) standard as a location, fully comply with the enacted AML legislation. The cornerstone principle for Fransabank Group business ethics Group is committed to overseeing its AML/CFT strategies, and practices; objectives and guidelines on an ongoing basis, and supporting • Developing an effective internal control structure where no an effective AML/CFT Policy within the Group’s business. business with a customer is performed without obtaining all the required information relating to the customer; If we are to inspire confidence in our stakeholders, we need to show through our behavior and our Bank that we maintain the • Consolidating within the Group, the AML/Combatting of highest standards of business ethics, notably with respect to Financing of Terrorism (CFT) efforts deployed by Fransabank corruption, money laundering, and combatting the financing of entities; terrorism. • Conducting self-evaluation processes on the compliance with the AML/CFT policy and measures. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 1 2 1 3 CODE OF CONDUCT Fransabank's Code of Conduct ensures that the employees act in accordance with the highest levels of integrity and that the institution’s internal policies and procedures are committed to this goal. It is a set of rules and policy statements intended to assist employees and managers in making decisions about their conduct relating to the Bank’s operations. It includes basic principles of conduct that govern Fransabank’s employees making it a socially, environmentally and professionally responsible business trusted by its stakeholders. The Code of Conduct covers a wide range of aspects, including diversity, fair dealing, anti-bribery and corruption principles, money laundering, privacy, respect of human rights, and accepting or soliciting gifts and donations, among others. Fransabank's Code of Conduct is updated regularly, and it is the responsibility of each employee, from all managerial and non-managerial levels to adhere to the principles and ensure compliance within their sphere of influence. In this regard, the Code has become an integral part of the employment contract. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 1 4 1 5 02. r l e y e is b plo o n m sp E Re 02. Responsible Employer At Fransabank, we have long put our faith in our human capital, and believed it is the most valuable asset and most solid foundation. Being a cornerstone in the Bank’s development and expansion strategy, hiring and retaining individuals of great merit remained an essential asset reflected in the Bank’s vision statement and strategies. Fransabank’s objective was and is to build a diverse workplace that recognizes the talents that individuals bring to the organization and capitalizes on the people's strength to achieve business performance goals. Our promise is to secure an equal employment opportunity 1 for each and every individual while safeguarding a culture of team spirit, career development and merit-based advancement for people, while always striving to ensure their job satisfaction and individual growth. EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES EMPLOYEES TURNOVER We value diversity and promote equal opportunities in 2013 3.40 recruitment, employment, development and retention. The 2012 3.48 Bank environment is characterized by a culture of respect for 2011 4.70 human rights, freedom of association and non-discrimination to 2010 5.66 gender, religion or any personal belief in addition to fair treatment in 2009 4.69 employment and development. In addition, the Bank complies with all the relevant national and international laws for the 2008 6.50 abolition of child labor at the Bank’s local and overseas entities. Fransabank population grew by 1.61%, from 1,487 employees in As for the employees’ educational background, we can see 2012 to 1,511 employees in 2013. The net growth in terms of that 69% of our staff graduated from universities while nearly employees was 23 net hired people for the year 2013, with 84 7.9% hold a Master’s degree or a PhD. In terms of gender new hired persons (43 of which fulfilled positions in branches distribution, our workforce is diversified in terms of and 41 fulfilled positions in departments) and 61 cases of gender balances with male constituting 54% of the departure. As for the year 2012, the Bank’s population registered staff and female 46% as of end 2013 and we were able a net growth of 46 employees, with 97 hired persons and 51 to attract highly qualified female professionals. cases of departure. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2013 1,511 2012 1,488 2011 1,441 Fransabank “Know Your Staff ” polic y was developed in order to understand the employee’s 2010 1,382 behavior. It is a continuous social process through 2009 1,328 which the manager knows the employee’s personal 2008 1,250 issues such as personal information, employee health, financial well-being, family resources, work / life balance programs and civic and political Employee turnover is one of the key measures that Fransabank activities. He also should be aware of the employee’s uses to gauge employee's satisfaction. The turnover rate behavior and attitude regarding attendance and reached 3.40% in 2013 as compared to 3.48% in 2012, punctuality, confidentiality (banking secrecy), the lowest of the decade. This can be explained by the substance abuse and gambling, abuse of sick retention efforts displayed by the Bank through internal leave and integrity. development methods such as internal promotions, enhanced training methodologies, talent management, polyvalence enhancement, potential development, among other factors. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 1 6 1 7 “ We, at Fransabank, pride ourselves in confidently imprinting every step of our long journey, to trace a rich history in the making, to lead our Group to a top position, and to mark – at every now – the successful start of a rewarding Tomorrow… H.E. Mr. Adnan Kassar, Chairman Fransabank “ EMPLOYEES GENDER DIVERSITY EMPLOYEES AGE DISTRIBUTION 2011 Under 25 7% 47% 2011 53% 46% 2012 54% 46% 2013 54% Between 25 and 29 21% Between 30 and 35 21% Between 36 and 39 11% Between 40 and 49 23% FEMALE FEMALE FEMALE MALE MALE MALE Between 50 and 60 16% Above 60 1% We are keen on preserving our talented workforce while attract2012 ing fresh minds to add a young twist to our team. Fransabank’s Under 25 8% population has in 2013 an average age of 34.5, a 2.5 years U 29 Between 25 and 22% younger than 2012’s 37 years average. Almost more than half of Between 30 and 35 20% our workforce is below 35 years of age and only 15% is over 50. Between 36 and 39 12% Between 40 and 49 20% We aim to attract the best employees while encouraging Between 50 and 60 15% local recruitment from the surrounding communities. Most Above 60 3% of our staff is residents of the local communities and nearby branches locations. 2013 Under 25 13% Between 25 and 29 20% Fransabank rewards its employees’ performance Between 30 and 35 20% through an automated yearly Performance Between 36 and 39 12% Appraisal Review (PAR) for every staff member, Between 40 and 49 20% Between 50 and 60 13% based on both individual yearly objectives and Above 60 2% personal development achievements. This annual evaluation of staff performance provides the means for determining and directly linking merit and bonus to both individual and team achievements and productivity. 02. Responsible Employer “ I think the human factor is essential and important, it allows the company to grow and develop. For this reason, we give it great importance: from its selection and its training, to its sense of belonging to the company so that it becomes his second family. “ Mr. Adel Kassar, Deputy Chairman Fransabank EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES FOR IMPROVED The total number of training hours (internal and external) PERFORMANCE amounted to 14,139 hours in the year 2013 for 1,839 employees, compared with 13,088 hours for 1,187 We strive to provide our workforce with advancement employees in 2012. In addition, a total of 157 employees opportunities for personal and professional growth. Our high completed 27,984 hours of their orientation programs level development and training programs target all departments that included new hires, and on the job training. and branches staff from managerial and non-managerial levels. In the last three years, training spending and time increased at Assessing the performance of our workforce helps to effectively all levels, in particular for employees at non-managerial levels, manage employees’ work and productivity through recognizing indicating stronger emphasis on employee's development. high performers and identifying development needs for possible advancement. TOTAL SEMINARS (INTERNAL & EXTERNAL) 63% 11% 10% 8% 8% Banking Management Information Marketing Foreign & Financial & Behavioral Technology & Selling Languages Techniques Skills Skills DEVELOPING A DIVERSE WORKFORCE Fransabank Customer Service Best Practice At Fransabank, we have a unique approach to individual Guideline main objective is to re-introduce learning and development. We offer equal opportunities employees to the basic principles of managing to increase our people’s skills and knowledge and develop customer service and enable them to implement a their positive can do attitudes. This is achieved through more effective service management program continuous annual training programs that are conducted designed to deliver customer service excellence. based on our business needs and development objectives. These programs are: Induction program: smoothly integrating new entrants Talent management: a practice of selecting high profile through a corporate culture briefing package, and optimizing employees, with an experience at Fransabank ranging from the time by initiating them to their assigned tasks and 0 to 3 years. Talents are selected based on a combination of responsibilities. Young recruits undergo an apprenticeship personal skills, educational background, and banking knowledge. scheme that aims to introduce them to the strategy and values These employees are then enrolled in a Fast Track Program of the Bank and make the most and develop their individual and to determine if they undergo vertical or horizontal development, personal strengths. As of December 2013, the total number or both. As of December 2013, the total number of talents of new successfully initiated recruits reached 66 attained 105 individuals (51 talents in departments individuals, compared with 146 in 2012 and 86 in 2011. equivalent to 7.9% of the departments’ population against 54 talents in branches equivalent to 6.25% of the branches' population) compared with 82 individuals in 2012 and 86 individuals in 2011. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 1 8 1 9 Polyvalence enhancement: a concept based on the idea through competences enhancement as well as multi-tasking skills that an employee can assume multiple functions in time of need, development prior to their nomination. 399 individuals were both for contingency purpose and cost reduction, thus ensuring identified as potentials for the year 2013 (200 potentials in employee multi-tasking and facilitating eventual internal departments equivalent to 31% of the departments' promotions. As of December 2013, 330 individuals population against 199 potentials in branches equivalent were identified as polyvalent in branches, equivalent to to 23% of the branches' population) compared with 229 38.2% of the branches' population compared with 249 individuals in 2012 and 248 individuals in 2011. individuals in 2012 and 269 individuals in 2011. Succession planning: preparing the Bank for all possible Potentials development: high potential individuals contingencies and ensuring that employees are fully ready for are existing employees that have exhibited a high level of future organizational requirements. As of December 2013, the competence in their functions and identified by the Bank and total number of identified potential successors reached 200 prepared to hold higher positions in the short and medium terms compared with 107 individuals in 2012 and 248 individuals in 2011. TOTAL NUMBER OF IDENTIFIED EMPLOYEES Fransabank Learning and Development programs 2013 2012 2011 Induction program (Works on integrating new entrants) 66 146 86 Talent management (Selects high profile individuals to retain and grow) 105 82 86 Polyvalence enhancement (Develops employees multiple functions ability) 330 249 269 Potential development (Prepares skilled employees to hold higher positions) 399 229 248 Succession planning (Forms employees for future requirements) 200 107 248 Continuous Education as a Principle Consistent with Fransabank’s vision of encouraging employees to further develop their professional skills, the Bank committed itself to offer financial support to all the employees interested in obtaining a professional certification (CPA, FRM, CIA, CFA, among others) as well as graduate studies (MBA, MS, MA, PHD) in any field related to the employee’s career path. Eligible employees are provided with financial facilities equivalent to 40 salaries, reimbursed over 10 years, with zero interest. In the year 2013, the number of employees that pursue continuous education doubled from the year 2012 by registering 16 employees, whereas the year 2012 witnessed 8 continuous education initiatives. Fransabank Train-the-Trainer seminars objective is to develop selected employees, transforming them Looking out for the Well-Being of our People into qualified trainers with regards to Customer Relationship Management, ready to conduct workThe physical and mental health of our employees is important shops in areas in need, and thus ensuring training for individual and group performance. Our goal is to support customization, decentralization and continuity. These health-oriented working conditions, and assist employees in workshops have the advantage of reducing costs for sustaining their material and emotional well-being. both the participants and the Beirut-borne trainers, saving time on the road, reducing traffic accidents and offering optimal training customization adapted to the local business needs. 02. Responsible Employer LIVING OUR VALUES AND REACHING GOALS Fransabank Presence at Universities Job Fairs fairs, was part of the Bank’s CR strategy targeting youth. Groups of ambitious students, seeking suitable employment Fransabank’s strategy of building prosperous futures and assisting or looking forward to adding a twist to their existing careers, the young generation in achieving their ambitions is among the visited Fransabank's booth to inquire further about the Bank’s Bank’s main priorities. That’s why Fransabank presence at the potential job opportunities and internship programs. Students American University of Beirut (AUB), the Lebanese American also had the chance to inquire about Fransabank’s educational University (LAU) and the École Supérieure des Affaires (ESA) job plans, the various youth-related services such as the University Loan that offers financial facilities to students, at competitive terms. The total number of job applications submitted at the job fairs reached 140 for the year 2013. Summer Internship Program Fransabank has a customary Summer Internship Program which lasts from four to eight weeks in average. It welcomed 197 students in 2013 against 167 students in the year 2012; with 52% of the students coming from Université Saint-Joseph, the Lebanese University and the Lebanese American University. We make sure to select our interns without disparities in order to cover all the Lebanese regions and they gained general knowledge about banking operations and activities. STUDENT INTERNS DISTRIBUTION BY REGION 34% 27% 16% 12% 11% Beirut Mount South North Bekaa Lebanon ENGAGING EMPLOYEES We support and encourage corporate responsibility activities by At Fransabank, we also believe in providing the best environment our employees that help promote sustainable economic growth for our employees to flourish and reach their potential; we also and improve community life. Being the major associates to the care about enriching the family ties among our employees. The Children’s Cancer Center of Lebanon’s “Partner in Life” program, Amicale Employees Club which was initiated by employees and selective Fransabank employees participated in this program was subsequently embraced by the Bank with generous funding whereby they donated a designated amount of money from allocated to support its activities. Through Amicale, social and their monthly salaries and the total amount collected was cultural events as well as recreational trips for employees and donated to the “Partner in Life” program in an attempt to make their families are arranged. a difference in the lives of these children. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 2 0 2 1 Amicably at Ehden North of Lebanon and at Faqra – Mount Lebanon From November 2005 up till end of year 2013, 382 Fransabank’s employees were enrolled in the Fransabank family members enjoyed pleasant weekend trips, Children Cancer Center of Lebanon's Partner in with Fransabank Amicale Club, to the mountain town in the Life Program and the total contributed amount is heart of Northern Lebanon, Ehden as well as to Faqra, a USD 189,282 as end of December 2013. prominent region in Mount Lebanon. The trips were full of excitement encompassing a lot of interesting activities: long walks in the nature, relishing nature’s striking scenery, a healthy environment. In addition, these trips resulted in the enrichment of the team spirit among the employees. Jabal Moussa Biosphere Reserve Fransabank Amicale Club designed and executed an adventurous Fransabank believes that sports are a great way to promote selftrip to the Jabal Moussa Reserve where Fransabank employees improvement, team spirit, solidarity, professionalism and social explored dominant features of the biosphere reserve which integration. Sports are a chance for everyone to express is divided into a core area mainly dedicated to experts’ visits and themselves impartially and they awaken innovation and research, a buffer zone where ecotourism activities take place, determination to overcome challenges. All these values are at and a transition zone that involves the human use of the the heart of Fransabank’s culture. land. Fransabank employees admired the beauty of Jabal Moussa Biosphere Reserve, the diversity and the species of the From the Beirut Marathon to shooting hoops on a basketball trees and plants. court, Fransabank’s employees can often be found rising to a sporting challenge. Throughout the year 2013, a calendar of Fransabank sporting events was ongoing. Fransabank has talent in the basketball field, with the Bank’s team having competed amicably in several tournaments. Fransabank participated in the Banque Du Liban Beirut Marathon 2013 and celebrated the sense of unity and peace by inciting its employees to ‘Run for Lebanon’ and for the Autism cause. Reaching out to all employees through internal communication is also a vital part of the Bank’s mission to provide an inclusive culture. For this reason, Fransabank is committed to the periodic publication of Zapping, its internal corporate newsletter, Jabal Moussa, an outstanding Biosphere Reserve located in Keserwan-Jbeil area in Lebanon, was designated in 2009 as intranet, Fransabank Group Facebook page, internal events the 3rd biosphere reserve in Lebanon as part of the UNESCO and campaigns, among others. Network of Biosphere Reserves under Man & Biosphere (MAB) program. The Reserve reflects a true mosaic of ecological systems with its predominant land uses including: forest management, charcoal production, traditional agricultural activities, fruit trees plantation, grazing, and seasonal recreation. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 2 2 2 3 03. o m i c o n t E c e n ing p m or t l o p v e u p D e S 03. Supporting Economic Development We recognize that eradicating poverty, promoting sustainable patterns of consumption and production as well as protecting and managing the natural resource base for economic and social development are the ultimate objectives and essential requirements for sustainable development. We also affirm the need to achieve sustainable development by promoting sustained, inclusive and equitable economic growth, creating greater opportunities for all, reducing inequalities, raising the basic standards of living and fostering equitable social development. MICRO FINANCING FOR CAPACITY BUILDING Empowering individuals and local communities and providing This is achieved through a well-perceived business venue that them with opportunities to overcome unemployment and mandates dedicated and specialized teams that conduct onepoverty is tangible evidence of our responsible values and to-one business field visits to potential and existing beneficiaries. culture as a Bank. Empowered individuals can go on to empower The team members are intentionally selected from the suburban others, so in the long term, this creates a cycle that benefits areas. They know exactly the needs and wants of the community. society as a whole. We see this approach as a way of contributing Moreover, we provide them with training to promote development toward a form of economic development that is fair, inclusive ethics based on rigor, creativity, understanding and respect for and sustainable. the rural environment. Our microfinance investments are one way we create opportunity by supporting small entrepreneurs in For the Bank’s social investment strategy, we empowered the different rural areas in Lebanon. individuals and organizations, in the various economic development areas by providing micro credits offering, in rural areas, education, health, well-being, cultural expression, and basic human needs (nutrition, shelter). These small and very small loans are the building blocks that assist people to help themselves earn their livelihood. From 1997 until end of December 2013, our microfinance program has funded an estimated amount of USD 15,263,169 and 8,353 microloans for entrepreneurs, which is delivering clear social and economic value. MICRO-CREDITS AMOUNTS SPLIT BY SECTOR 2013 37% 35% 9% 7% 6% 6% Commerce Service Production Construction Agriculture Transportation F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 2 4 2 5 CASE STUDY Women and youth employment in SMEs The key objectives of the study are: (i) to measure the job impact on SMEs from increased access to In Lebanon, SMEs represent 97% of the total formal enterprises, finance; employing more than 51% of the working population, and are (ii) To understand the broader development outcomes facilitated in the majority family-owned. Supporting Lebanese SMEs is by engagements in the financial sector. hence an important mechanism for increasing employment opportunities and generating income for employees and their The results are based on a survey implemented in March 2013 families. Improved access to finance for SMEs is an essential which sampled from 73 companies that received loans from factor allowing them to grow. Fransabank during 2008 and 2011. The enterprises ranged from very small to medium firms whose activities were in the services, Fransabank’s strategy was to scale up its outreach to SMEs as it agribusiness, and manufacturing sectors spread across the five sought to expand beyond the traditional corporate and commercial regions of Lebanon. markets that dominated the Lebanese banking sector. Fransabank established a dedicated SME department in 2007, which has since grown significantly and its portfolio has increased more than three-fold, (i.e. increased from USD 140 million at end-December 2007 to USD 482 million at end-December Fransabank and the IFC have had a long-standing 2013). The Bank aims at creating value for SME customers with relationship dating back to the 1990s. In 2007, the its extensive and geographically widespread branch network and IFC supported Fransabank under the Lebanon its skilled team, dedicated to understanding the needs of the Rebuild Program with two facilities including a SME customers and to offering the best suited facilities and Risk-Sharing Facility to support the Bank’s lending products to meet their needs and ultimately create value to their to SMEs. The IFC’s counter-cyclical support not businesses. only provided liquidity but also helped restore investor's confidence in Lebanon and its private Fransabank’s SME strategy is centered on: sector in a post-conflict situation. (i) accessibility – a widespread network including branches in difficult regions; (ii) product diversification – offering a variety of credit facilities; (iii) Outreach and awareness – organizing seminars with different The Outcome sectorial associations, including trade, agribusiness, industry, and tourism. Despite the challenging operating environment and economic conditions, the study found encouraging job creation effects. As With the idea of quantifying IFC’s contribution towards job well, it provided unique insights on the dynamic nature of the creation in financial markets investments in Lebanon, the IFC, in Lebanese economy and its SMEs. Between 2009 and 2012, the collaboration with Fransabank, has undertaken an in-depth study 73 surveyed firms reported to have created 473 full-time jobs. Of on the SME businesses in Lebanon. these, 144 were female positions and 90 were youth positions. There were also 64 part-time positions added. On average, firms added 6.5 new positions per firm for a compound annual growth rate of 13%, well above Lebanon’s employment growth of 1.4% over the same period. 73 FIRMS 473 JOBS 13 PERCENT March 2013, the team interviewed 104 SMEs, Permanent full-time jobs created CAGR of total full-time jobs created of which 73 are part of the results between 2009 and 2012 by the surveyed firms in Lebanon 03. Supporting Economic Development NUMBER OF JOBS PER FIRM BY SME SIZE CAGR BY SME SIZE 40% 31% 32% 31% 10 25% 7.6 22% 6.5 17% 20% 4.3 12% 12% 13% 10% 8% 1.6 2 1.4 0.3 1 1.4 0.7 1.2 0.9 5% 0 0% VERY SMALL SMALL TOTAL VERY SMALL SMALL TOTAL TOTAL JOBS FEMALE YOUTH PART-TIME TOTAL JOBS FEMALE YOUTH PART-TIME The services sector created the largest number of full-time average of 1.4 youth positions with an annual youth employment jobs, while industry sectors mostly contributed to growth rate of 31%. While both small and very small firms added part-time employment. Of the 473 total jobs created in the roughly the same number of female positions per firm, the sample, 65% were in retail, tourism, and wholesale sectors. This compound annual growth rate for female employment was is reflective of the Lebanese economy in which services and highest in very small firms almost the triple of that of small firms. trade sectors account for almost 60% of total employment. On the other hand, industry sectors such as manufacturing and Female participation in firm ownership and management construction mostly contributed to part-time jobs which could positions show greater average sales growth and be attributable to the cyclical nature of the work as well as productivity per firm. 34% of the firms had female participation being indicative of the current economic conditions which in ownership, and 29% of firms had women in management have affected these two sectors adversely. Of the 473 jobs positions. Firms with women in management positions had created between 2009 and 2012 in the sample, the service higher productivity and sales growth than those with reported sector contributed to creating 309 jobs or 65%. Disaggregating female participation in ownership only. the service sector, 8 firms in tourism-related activities added 155 jobs, followed by 30 retail firms which added another 115 jobs. These results reflect the core drivers of Lebanon’s economy. CHART NUMBER OF JOBS PER FIRM BY REGION 20 Small firms contributed to the bulk of the full-time jobs created; adding 7.6 jobs per firm on average almost double 9.7 6.3 the figure of 4.3 for very small enterprises. Conversely, very small 3.2 2 1.5 2.2 2.4 0.8 0.3 0.8 0 firms grew more than twice as fast as small firms, posting compound annual growth rates of 25% on average, compared BEIRUT MOUNT LEB SOUTH BEKAA NORTH with 12% for small firms. Very small firms also show the highest compound annual growth rate for part-time/seasonal jobs of FULL-TIME PART-TIME 32%, compared with 5% in small firms. Women and youth employment driven by small firms. Both Beirut and Mount Lebanon were main contributors to fullwomen and youth jobs per firm on average were highest for time job creation. Beirut and the surrounding Mount Lebanon small firms. This finding may be skewed by the fact that the areas are the country’s wealthiest regions; they register the lowest services sector firms, particularly retail firms, dominated the poverty rates, and are the centers of business activity. Mount sample population and mostly employed women. Analyzing the Lebanon also saw strong annual growth rates in youth positions job outcomes by female, youth, and part-time employment between 2009 and 2012, with 17 new positions representing a reinforces the importance of retail and tourism-related business CAGR of 112% annually. Conversely, the fact that the North and as engines of job growth. These two subsectors within services Bekaa regions contributed mostly to part-time employment may contributed to the majority of both female and youth positions, be a reflection of the current economic and security situation growing at compound annual growth rates of roughly 20% for due to the spillover from Syria, and/or that these regions both types of employment. Small firms had the highest per-firm comprise mostly very small firms. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 2 6 2 7 MAKING EDUCATION ACCESSIBLE TO ALL Lebanese have long believed that their strongest asset throughout the years has been the quality of their education. To this end, we believe at Fransabank in making education accessible to all and in helping those with financial constraints still fulfill their dreams of one day obtaining a degree. In this respect, Fransabank University Loan was launched in 2009, offering all qualified students the opportunity to pursue their university education either in Lebanon or abroad. UNIVERSITY LOANS (NUMBER) 2013 358 2012 306 The Challenges 2011 119 (i) “Non-Lebanese” workers accounted for a considerable portion of the total jobs created. 11.5% of the 473 full-time jobs created were reported to have been for “non-Lebanese” UNIVERSITY LOANS (IN USD) workers. While the survey did not ask to differentiate between the buckets of employment by nationality, many firms noted 2013 4,030,650 facing difficulty filling non-professional” jobs or “low-skilled” work 2012 2,832,228 with Lebanese workers due to the cultural mindset and 2011 1,015,204 unrealistic expectations. (ii) Firms reported technical skills as the primary skills gap across most regions. The lack of technical skills (e.g. computer proficiency, operating machinery) was consistent across the country (with the exception of the Bekaa) in both very small and small firms. As a result, many firms engaged in internal training programs to fill this gap. At the sectorial level, firms in the industry sectors noted technical skills as a primary gap; in the services sector both technical skills and soft skills (e.g. communication, interpersonal skills) were also cited as a need. (III) Political instability was identified as the primary obstacle to growth/performance. According to the firms that responded, political uncertainty was the number one constraint to business operations, followed by policy issues such as custom/inspection regulations and business licensing. When analyzed by region, SMEs located in the North and the Bekaa areas emphasized on political instability as the key obstacle, whereas firms in Beirut and Mount Lebanon noted policy issues From 2009 until end of December as a challenge. At the sector level, services (retail, tourism) and 2013, Fransabank has granted industry (manufacturing, construction) reported political instability as a major challenge to operations. 1,984 university loans and the total outstanding amount is USD 13,344,179. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 2 8 2 9 04. t & i l i t y e n a b nm a i n iv ro us t En S 04. Environment & Sustainability We believe that environmental sustainability requires having an effective strategy, an environmental management system, and a leadership structure in place to manage the impact made and monitor issues that may arise in the future. By gradually integrating non-financial criteria into our financing policies, we are fostering a more responsible approach to economic development. In addition, despite our somewhat modest range of environmentally responsible products, it is helping to encourage the companies which we serve, for both proprietary and client-driven activities, to incorporate sustainable development concerns into their business. Energy Loans for Businesses and Individuals Fransabank was the pioneer Bank to launch energy loans for businesses and individuals. Our aim is to maintain a healthy and sustainable environment. This has equally given our customers the chance to benefit from energy power efficiency at home or at their business premises, to develop environmentally friendly projects and to save on primary household and operating expenses. Since the launching date in November 2013 and Within this aspect, the Bank developed and designed for a two-months period at the end of 2013, ten eco-friendly loan packages in Bkassine area – South of Lebanon files were accepted and the outstanding balance in collaboration with the Municipality of Bkassine, the Energy and reached LBP 291,225,000 or c/v USD 193,120. Water Ministry, and the Lebanese Center for Energy Conservation. The objective of this eco-loan is to reduce the household expenses and energy consumption and at the same time to preserve the environment. The loan is granted to cover all the costs of insulating the walls and roofs and to install double Bouchons Roulants to a Wheelchair glazing windows and water heaters through solar energy for approximately 100 houses in Bkassine region. This loan is It’s a simple equation: One ton of plastic bottle caps equals characterized by its very low interest rates coupled with one year a Wheelchair. grace period. Within the framework of Arcenciel’s environment program, the project “Bouchons Roulants” aims at raising public awareness to the importance of recycling, of sorting out solid wastes for the reduction of pollution and the protection of the environment. The Bank called for the collection of plastic bottles’ caps which would be sold to a recycling company in order to, in return, provide with that respective value, a wheelchair to to a person with special needs. The project started with a pilot test by collecting plastic caps and bottles from three departments at the Bank’s Headquarters in order to measure how efficient it would be to collect the plastic caps and bottles and send them for recycling. The results were very encouraging, as we gathered, from July 2013 till the end of December 2013, a total of 172 Kg of biodegradable plastics, out of which 55 Kg are plastic caps. We then launched this project in the entire Bank’s Headquarters departments and will subsequently launch it at all Fransabank’s local branches. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 3 0 3 1 The Cedars Forest in Bsharri, North Lebanon A New Cedars Forest in Bsharri – North of Lebanon Internally, we launched several initiatives aimed at Fransabank decided to be part of a new environmental project reducing our negative environmental impacts: in the region of Bsharri, North Lebanon. The project was launched by the National Commission for Lebanese Women and >> Launching of energy efficiency in our new the Friends of the Cedars Forest Commission in Bsharri through branches and existing renovated ones as for a cooperation protocol to create a new cedar forest entailing power usage reduction and having energy saving planting 1,000 cedar trees in a 30,000 square meter area in lamps Bsharri. The trees that were planted through the Bank’s donations will carry the name of Fransabank. The sponsorship is binding for >> Implementing eco-efficient information technology 9 years, until the tree becomes self-sustaining. in all our branches and departments >> Increasing the use of environmentally friendly Ashrafieh 2020’s Discover Ashrafieh: Marches on materials: usage of recycled paper, usage of recycled Wider and Cleaner Sidewalks tissues, recycled cups, among others Fransabank supported Ashrafieh 2020 to bring to life a livable, >> Halving the consumption of printing and photocopy breathable, welcoming and friendly neighborhood. The key paper and adopting double-sided printing objective of this event was to raise awareness within Ashrafieh's community by banning cars for an entire day, and to transform >> Resources recycling. this noisy and crowded residential area into a better, greener and more environmentally friendly ambiance. Ashrafieh 2020, a Greener Environment F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 3 2 3 3 05. t o f a r H e i e s e n i t t th u A m m C o ur o 05. At the Heart of our Communities We firmly believe that our business can only prosper if society is prospering. We thus view our corporate responsibility investments as investments in society and in our own future. As a responsible corporate citizen, our objective is to build a social capital. Fransabank once again proved its leadership in being one of the major players in the community development projects. INVESTED USD 1.04 MILLION IN 128 NONPROFITS A total investment of approximately USD 1,042,160 for 128 causes, were invested 39% 32% 29% into the community during 2013. Social Education Art & Health & Culture Our selected strategic cultural activities and promotion of young We act in three major focus areas: talent have made important contributions to society and in return had a positive impact on our business. Such activities • Fostering creativity through our cultural activities bring us closer to our communities and/or clients and enable us • Enabling talents through our educational programs to leverage our partnerships with them which resulted in a • Creating opportunities through our social initiatives win-win situation for them and for us. FOSTERING CREATIVITY THROUGH OUR CULTURAL ACTIVITIES The arts are often seen as the preserve of the few. At Fransabank, the young artists wide exposure and many opportunities to sell we think the opposite. We believe artistic endeavor should be their work. accessible to all. This is why we launched JABAL, the platform for young Lebanese artists. In addition to providing a forum for artists to exhibit their work, Fransabank makes it a point to purchase a collection from each Starting in 1998 as part of its pioneering corporate responsibility participating artist. These art works are then displayed at the initiatives, Fransabank’s JABAL is the first-of-its kind art-advocacy Bank’s Headquarters and branches, thus providing the artists initiative by a financial institution in Lebanon, and has set the even more exposure through the Bank’s clients’ base. pace since its inception for the discovery of over 300 young The JABAL initiative has opened new horizons for many of these talents from all the Lebanese regions, thus making art accessible young artists. Often, they have gone on to hold solo and group to all. Artists who made it to each edition of JABAL were selected exhibitions worldwide and to cultivate a name for themselves in from hundreds of applicants who were eager to promote their the field of art. Some have been offered scholarships to further unique art of paintings, sculptures, photography, videos, pursue their art education, while others have even become installations and designs. internationally renowned. Artists such as Ayman Baalbaki, The invitees to these exhibitions are potential buyers, media Mohamed Saïd Baalbaki, Randa Hermès, Manuella Guiragossian, representatives and members of the general public, thus giving Taline Kechichian, Isabelle Yared, Mazen Khaddage, Raja Nehme Sertine, Khalil Ibrahim, are now well established names. “ “ JABAL is a unique experience for all those art lovers and amateurs of discoveries as well as an art affordable for everyone. Mr. Pascal Odille, Artistic Director, Expert at the National Chamber of Specialized Experts F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 3 4 3 5 “ These creations of young talents are a striking example of a personalized approach where boldness and freedom have given a new meaning to creativity. “ Mrs. Laure d'Hauteville, Artistic Advisor The first edition of JABAL was held in 1998 in Tripoli, North of Lebanon and since then, the annual exhibition takes place in various regions in Lebanon (South, Bekaa, Mount Lebanon, and Beirut). Unfortunately, the war and political turmoil in the year 2006 resulted in a temporary halt of JABAL annual exhibitions. • JABAL 1998: Burj Sbeih, Tripoli Al Mina, North of Lebanon • JABAL 2002: Hotel Kadri, Zahle, Bekaa • JABAL 1999: Ecole Supérieure des Affaires (ESA), Beirut • JABAL 2003: Aley, Mount Lebanon • JABAL 2000: Khan el-Franj, Saida, South of Lebanon • JABAL 2004: Paul Guiragossian Museum, New Jdeideh, Mount Lebanon • JABAL 2001: Beit el-Herafi, Zouk Mikael, Mount Lebanon • JABAL 2006: Fransabank Center, Hamra, Beirut JABAL 2013 – The Come Back JABAL 2013 is the 9th edition of JABAL and Art Fair that was held in Beirut in September 2013. it appeared stronger than ever on the Lebanese art scene. Fransabank’s renewed and continued support of this initiative confirms its role as a talent advocate of emerging artists. Through a stringent and professional Furthermore, the Bank endeavors to put in place a policy for selection criterion, the JABAL artistic artistic partnership so as to make art accessible for generations committee selected 25 promising to come. artists from more than 100 demands, whose works were revealed during this new edition. Paintings, sculptures, photographs, drawings, videos, installations and design were exhibited at the Le Gray Hotel in Beirut, Lebanon. The exhibition showcased the work of these promising artists with more than 125 paintings dispalyed. Around 1,000 art lovers and members of the media joined together to outlook a variety of artworks. The event was a success as the participant artists sold most of their exposed art pieces and the Bank, as customary, purchased paintings and artworks from each participating artist. In addition, two participating artists at JABAL 2013 were selected by local art galleries and showcased their artistic works at Beirut A Selection of Paintings from JABAL Exhibition 2013 Beirut Art Fair is an exclusive contemporary art fair that gathers galleries and artists from the Middle East, North Africa and South East Asia. Beirut Art Fair has become the leading showcase of creativity on the regional & international art scene and JABAL 2013 received the Social Economic has awakened collectors’ appetites for all art forms: painting, Award 2013 (SEA 2013) under the Art and sculpture, design, installation art, video and photography. Heritage Category. 05. At the Heart of our Communities “ From here, and because we share the same values, we were proud to be partner with Baalbeck International Festival in its 2013 edition, hoping that the meeting will “ be renewed in 2014 in the arms of Baalbeck, so that the applause keeps echoing in the temples, and withstands as its steadfastness. Mr. Adel Kassar, Deputy Chairman Fransabank Fransabank Partnership with Baalbeck International Festival 2013 As a witness to the contemporary history of Lebanon, Fransabank sponsored Baalbeck International Festival, which is an integral part of the cultural fabric of every Lebanese collective memory and artistic identity. The Festival is the bright face of Lebanon even with some obstipation with the prevailing circumstances. This was the case during the year 2013 with the unfavorable political situation in the Bekaa region. Yet, the Bank refused to abandon its annual main supporting role, and was the main sponsor of Baalbeck International Festival 2013. The Festival committee proceeded in the march as usual, and picked this time another spot in Lebanon named La Magnanerie in Bauchrieh, Mount Lebanon. Baalbeck International Festival 2013 at La Magnanerie The Concert F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 3 6 3 7 Fransabank at the Heart of Beiteddine Art Festival And here it is, in 2013, showing up in one of the most outstanding festivals not only in Lebanon but also the Middle East; Beiteddine Art Festival, conveying its universal messages as an act of faith in Lebanon’s cultural role, an embodiment of ingenuity, and a call for peace. Annually, the festival presents unique vivid performances by Lebanese and international artists. However, when the Beiteddine Art Festival announced its lineup for the 2013 edition, “Splendid!”, Fransabank chose to sponsor the multitalented China National Acrobatic Troupe, in a twelve-act program that combines music, dance as well as acrobatics. The China National Acrobatic Troupe Fransabank and the festival might be two different entities, still what is doubtless is that both were born and have grown in very difficult times, and yet made it against all odds. Fransabank Sponsored Al Bustan Festival Fransabank was proud to be for another consecutive year, a sponsor of Al Bustan Festival 2013, and part of the aspirations it offers to Lebanese music and art enthusiasts by sponsoring one event. Fransabank selected in particular the performance entitled “Wagner Unleashed”, with the Helikon Opera and conductor Vladimir Ponkin, highly renowned and recognized performance. View of Beiteddine Palace Wagner Unleashed Performace at Al Bustan Festival 2013 05. At the Heart of our Communities Fransabank Renovates Salle Montaigne Fransabank Launches Warda El Jazairia’s Latest Video Clip “EYYAM” Under the emblem of the Franco-Lebanese old friendship and determined to preserve the Lebanese heritage, Fransabank As an advocate for life’s universal essence, love, peace and Group took part in the complete renovation of the “Salle forgiveness, Fransabank Group launched Warda El Jazairia’s Montaigne” at the French Institute in Beirut. This theater latest song “Eyyam.” witnessed over the years numerous cultural events and played a major role in enriching the ties between the Eastern and the Honoring Warda El Jazairia for her latest song “Eyyam”, in both European cultures and to promote Lebanon’s role as an open Algeria and Beirut, came as an artistic initiative and tactful step cultural platform between the East and the West. Fransabank from Fransabank Group to the icon of the Arab art, who has Group participated in this project both through its Parent transcended the boundaries through her voice and her presence Company Fransabank and its local banking subsidiary BLC Bank. to reach every Arab home; and the pride was for Fransabank to be a key partner in launching an event that tackles the essence of life. Fransabank Restores Koubra Monument Fransabank El Djazaïr, a banking subsidiary in Algeria, sponsored Fransabank believes in reaching out to the population at Warda’s video clip, which was produced in 2009 under the large through culture. This necessitates looking beyond the supervision of the diva but was finalized later, after the sudden capital to other areas where financing cultural projects can death of the Algerian-Lebanese icon. revitalize communities, cities and prospects. Therefore, the Bank contributed to the restoration of the “Koubra Monument” located in Ehden Town, North of Lebanon. The Koubra Monument is characterized for its authentic traditional Lebanese architecture, its patrimonial and historical values. In its support in restoring and maintaining Ehden’s historic charm, Fransabank once again takes the lead in all aspects of cultural heritage. The inauguration of Koubra Monument is scheduled to be held during the year 2014. Koubra Monument Before Restauration Interior of Koubra Monument Koubra Monument After Restauration F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 3 8 3 9 ENABLING TALENTS THROUGH OUR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS “ At Fransabank, we are keen to provide all less-privileged outstanding Lebanese youth today with educational opportunities in order to give them the individual freedom and empowerment they deserve to turn into tomorrow’s leaders. “ H.E. Mr. Adnan Kassar, Chairman Fransabank “ We witness everyday joint cooperation between institutions, but when institutions rally on mutual interests and socially responsible initiatives, such cooperation “ becomes unique in nature, privileged and cherished, especially when such joint efforts are targeting the youth of our country. Dr. Joseph Jabbra, LAU President The Adnan Kassar Annual Scholarship Grant at the Lebanese American University (LAU) In line with its continuous support to education in Lebanon, USD 60,000 to support the tuition fees of ten good academic Fransabank signed with LAU a cooperation agreement whereby standing and preferably needy students enrolled in the School Fransabank consequently donates an annual scholarship of of Business. Fransabank Signed a Cooperation Protocol with the General Secretariat of Catholic Schools Within its firm commitment to corporate responsibility, and its solid belief that the human element is the real capital in Lebanon, and that education plays a major role in establishing the citizenship spirit, Fransabank signed a cooperation protocol with the General Secretariat of Catholic Schools. This protocol resulted in the development of mechanisms in accordance with a long-term strategy, offering a wide range of exclusive banking products and services, developed to deepen the ties with the Catholic schools’ community, teachers, students and parents, and meet their present and future needs at the best and most efficient services. Mr. Nadim Kassar Signing the Protocol 05. At the Heart of our Communities Corporate Social Responsibility in Times of Uncertainty CREATING OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH OUR SOCIAL INITIATIVES Fransabank strategically partnered with CSR Lebanon for its third CSR Lebanon Forum under the theme: “Corporate Social Responsibility in Times of Uncertainty”, held under the patronage Partnership and Witness Residences of the former President of the Lebanese Republic H.E. Mr. Michel Suleiman. The event was also attended by Central Bank ViceAligning with its mission that puts the individual and community Governor Dr. Saad Andary, the Executive Director of the UN service at the center of its interests and priorities, Fransabank Global Compact Mr. Georg Kell, as well as a wide range of granted, for the first time, housing loans for a project which is still companies, banks and institutions, regional and international, under construction. as well as by global experts and ambassadors. “Partnership and Witness Residences”, a name that hasn’t Fransabank addressed the attendees on how the Bank has been emerged as a coincidence but rather to reflect the principles of putting its corporate principles into practice while considering love, tolerance, openness, partnership, and co-existence, to the economic, social and environmental impacts of its activities confirm that plurality is fortune, and variety is richness. Under this as well as on the Bank long standing contribution to sustainable particular slogan, Fransabank and the Sidon Maronite Parish laid development and society. a foundation stone in Jezzine, South of Lebanon for a residential project. Fransabank aims, with its collaboration with the Maronite Parish at providing housing for low-income people in Jezzine, Fransabank Supports enabling them to own affordable apartments with nice designs “Form, Inform, Transform” the Public Sector and high quality specifications, re-establishing the bonds among the neighbors, re-uniting them in the land of their ancestors, For its fourth consecutive year, Fransabank partnered with reducing internal and external immigration, and emphasizing on the prestigious French School of Administration, the Ecole Lebanon’s peace and its image of diversity. Nationale des Affaires (ENA) and the Basil Fuleihan Institute of Finance which is an autonomous public institution operating under the tutelage of the Lebanese Minister of Finance, for a Fransabank Grants Financial Support joint education program, under the theme of Rencontres des in Fulfillment of Yaduna’s Aspiration Cadres Dirigeants de la Fonction Publique Libanaise. to Promote Women’s Cardiovascular Health Each year, over 20 leaders from the public sector, judges and Fransabank and its chairman H.E. Mr. Adnan Kassar joined general directors of various public institutions and ministries, Yaduna’s board of trustees, thus continuously prioritizing the participate in this program in which high-caliber professors health issues on the list of the Bank’s corporate responsibility and experts from ENA share their knowledge in building the initiatives, and lending a helping hand to those who deserve to capacity of civil servants and developing their skills and live a healthier life, a happier life. performance. Women’s Heart Health Center (WHHC) was founded by the Fransabank strongly advocate that the Basil Fuleihan Institute former first Lady of Lebanon H.E. Mrs. Wafaa Suleiman and in of Finance profoundly tackles topics that serve the monetary collaboration with The American University of Beirut, Faculty of and administrative reforms which are essential to align and Medicine & Medical Center (AUBMC) and Saint Joseph University, meet the public finance policies and objectives. Faculty of Medicine (USJ/FM). Its mission is to improve women’s cardiovascular health and reduce the burden of disease through awareness, prevention, screening, primary treatment and advocacy. The center strives to become a model of excellence in preventive and primary treatment of cardiovascular diseases among women, regardless of their social background. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 4 0 4 1 Salim El Hoss Bioethics and Professionalism Shining a Light on Premature Births Program at the AUB Fransabank granted Fransabank contributed with an annual pledge to the Salim El financial support in Hoss Bioethics and Professionalism Program at the American fulfillment of Neonate University of Beirut. It is an interdisciplinary resource for faculty, Fund mission, which students, and healthcare providers who are involved in bioethics aims to raise public education, research, and consultation. It promotes and awareness, mobilize encourages the development of the essential skills, attitudes, and efforts to reduce death behaviors among those who practice medicine on issues such and disability caused by as end of life care, stem cell research, organ donations, and health premature birth, and ensure that they receive the appropriate administration, among others. medical treatment. In fact, it is the number one killer of newborns worldwide, and every year in Lebanon, around 8,500 babies are admitted to Neonate Intensive Care units. A Journey towards Healing As part of Fransabank corporate responsibility strategy which is Protecting Children to sustain the health sector in Lebanon especially in remote regions, the Bank supported the public campaign launched by Fransabank supported Himaya, a Lebanese NGO that promotes Tell Chiha Hospital in Zahle, Bekaa. Fransabank’s contribution was awareness for the protection of innocent children from sexual allocated to finance the two clinic open days where free medical and physical abuse. The main objective of this organization is to consultations and laboratory tests were offered for the public, in raise general awareness in order to break the taboos, empower addition to conducting awareness health sessions. the children to promote self-protection attitudes and mechanisms, train and support parents and professionals. Honoring the Spirit of Volunteerism at AUBMC Fransabank gave a wholeheartedly applause to the people who embrace the spirit of volunteerism at the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC), by sponsoring the AUB Alumni Medical Chapter’s gala dinner. It included the pink ladies of the Women’s Auxiliary Group and the blue volunteers of the Children’s Cancer Center. Caring for the Elderly For the second consecutive year, Fransabank supported the Fransabank initiatives also focused on the right to life projects Alzheimer’s Association Lebanon that aims to improve the quality supporting a range of humanitarian causes and non-profit of life of people with dementia and with a primary objective to organizations which bring hope to people in need of medical raise public awareness throughout the Middle East, and Lebanon treatment. These include the Children’s Cancer Center of in particular. Lebanon, Chronic Care Center, Lebanese Autism Association, among others. Maintaining active dialogue with our stakeholders STAKEHOLDERS SPECIFIC CR CHALLENGES Public authorities (Lebanon and abroad) Contribute to the development of ethical, fair and transparent practices and implement them Regulatory authorities in the countries where we operate Contribute to regulatory projects International organizations and institutions Comply with signed commitments Contribute to the development of global governance Shareholders, investors (individual and institutional) Offer levels of remuneration that are sustainable in the long-term and in line with market rates as part of a global risk management strategy Supply transparent information Shareholders exercise their full responsibility Customers Satisfy the needs and expectations of customers through honest, fair and transparent business relationships Promote the development of CR best practices Suppliers Promote the development of CR best practices Employees Promote the personal and professional development of employees Environmental/human rights NGOs, civil society Adopt a socially responsible approach Comply with our commitments to the community F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 4 2 4 3 EXAMPLES OF DIALOGUE AND REPORTING Consultation meetings Inspection and verification assignments carried out by the regulators Participation in the working groups for UN Global Compact , UNDP, International Labor Organization (ILO), etc. AGM (Annual General Meeting), annual report, quarterly results Shareholders’ Meetings Open communication with our customers through our branch advisors, call center advisors, emails, Internet banking, etc. Customer relations services, Satisfaction surveys Calls for tender for Fransabank new branches and renovated ones notably including energy savings specifications Individual meetings with HR manager, appraisal process Conferences and internal and external trainning sessions Corporate sponsorships, long-term strategic partnerships with associations and NGOs Responses to requests (via the Press and the Marketing Division, etc.) Working groups with different NGOs Putting into practice the UNGC 10 Principles UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATIONS OF THE PRINCIPLES AT FRANSABANK Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and Fransabank employment principles are guided by international human respect the protection of internationally rights standards, which are consistent with the Bank values and business proclaimed human rights code of conduct. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit Fransabank has published a new updated version of its code of conduct in human rights abuses which supports international human rights frameworks. Fransabank is committed to maintaining workplaces that are free from discrimination, physical or verbal harassment on the basis of race, gender, national or social origin, religion, age, disability etc… differences are treated with respect. Fransabank assures that no human rights abuses happen at the Bank with business partners or customers, guarantees freedom of association, and ensures that it does not use directly or indirectly forced labor or child labor. Fransabank informed the local community, media and public authorities of its endorsement of the UN Global Compact and its intention to respect its provisions, including those on fundamental employees' rights. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Fransabank fully supports employees’ right to choose whether or not to freedom of association and the effective recognition join the banks employees union. of the right to collective bargaining All forms of forced labors are prohibited including child employment. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Recruitment processes and practices ensure the protection and respect for all people and ensure that no individual is discriminated. We Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor value diversity and inclusion. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Fransabank has issued a reviewed version of its code of conduct. respect of employment and occupation Fransabank’s employees are welcome to share their opinion, problems and seek advice. Their performance is also assessed on a yearly basis through an objective appraisal review. Fransabank promotes the spirit of individual participation in serving communities. Fransabank keeps up-to-date records on recruitment, training and promotion. A transparent approach is implemented in this concern for a better view of opportunities for employees and their progression within the organization. Fransabank undertakes continuous staff training practices to keep on developing its employees’ skills. F R A N S A B A N K • C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 0 1 3 | 4 4 4 5 UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATIONS OF THE PRINCIPLES AT FRANSABANK Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precauFransabank has undertaken the following initiatives to promote a greater tionary approach to environmental challenges environmental responsibility: Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Fransabank new branches and renovated ones tender offers to encompass greater environmental responsibility climate protection standards and eco-efficient information technology Banning smoking in the Bank’s Headquarters and branches Principle 9: encourage the development and Encouraging employees to print on double sides of papers diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Sending papers for recycling Using FSC papers in the Bank’s publications Collecting plastic bottles & caps to be reused for social initiatives. Fransabank offers its client eco-friendly end of year gifts. Fransabank incites its employees to reduce their energy use by turning off the light when outside the office and shutting electrical equipment overnight. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Fransabank procedures are designed to ensure that the Bank is in full corruption in all its forms, including extortion and compliance with anti-corruption laws. bribery Fransabank Corporate Governance promotes a fair and transparent relationship between the Bank’s Management, its Board of Directors, its Shareholders and other Stakeholders. Fransabank emphasizes on the ethical practices, whereby transparency, disclosure, sustainability and ethical behavior are their main features. Fransabank maintains the highest standards of business ethics, notably with respect to corruption, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism. Wider Scope and Greater Sustainable Commitments to Follow... © 2014 All rights reserved. Copying for other than personal or internal reference use without express written permission from Fransabank Group is prohibited. w w w . f r a n s a b a n k . c o m
