Welcome to our Sustainable Development Report 2013 Enter site Read our previous reports Sustainable Sustainable Development Development Report 2011 Report 2012 Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting About S&B S&B is a global diversified minerals and materials group, providing industrial solutions based on natural resources, to a wide range of markets, such as foundry, construction, metallurgy and various specialty niche sectors. Our Purpose We provide industrial solutions globally, by developing and transforming natural resources into value creating products About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Our We operate business globally We operate globally Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Close X Sustainable Development Report 2013 Americas Brazil, Canada, Mexico, USA About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting 2013 Sales Countries of sales Number of asset locations in € million Mines Processing plants Distribution centers 131 46 6 13 6 Our business Click on the regions to view key figures Click on the regions to view key figures We operate globally We are a leading global provider of mineral-based industrial solutions, serving a wide range of applications and end markets. Through our mining and processing operations, we deliver products that are critical to our customers’ industrial processes but which typically account for only a small portion of their overall production costs. Our operations cover We entire the are a leading industrial global provider minerals valueofchain mineral-based vertically solutions, as we areindustrial into keya raw integratedserving widematerials range of andapplications control aand end markets. network Through of distribution our mining centers and processing and processing plants which allowswe operations, us deliver products to prepare solutions are critical to that customized toour ourcustomers’ industrial clients’ specific processes but which typically account for only a small portion of their overall production costs. Our operations cover requirements. the entire industrial minerals value chain as we are vertically integrated into key raw materials and control a network of distribution centers and processing plants which allows us to prepare solutions customized to our clients’ specific requirements. Downstream and upstream operations We estimate that our processed minerals and customized products, which we refer to as our “downstream” operations, accounted for approximately 65% of our total Downstream consolidated sales for the and upstream year ended December 31, operations 2013, with the remainder generated by our raw minerals and certain limited processing activities, or our “upstream” We estimateWe operations. thatoperate our processed 31 mines, minerals and customized 51 processing products, facilities and which we refer 28 warehouses to as our “downstream” and distribution centers spanning across accounted operations, 22 countries, approximately for with 65% of our sales to customers total 80 countries in over consolidated around sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, with the remainder generated by our raw minerals and certain limited processing activities, or our “upstream” the world. operations. We operate 31 mines, 51 processing facilities and 28 warehouses and distribution centers spanning across 22 countries, with sales to customers in over 80 countries around the world. Close X We offer Natural Resources and Industrial Solutions WeNorth serve ourEurope customers through four Belgium, main market France, segments:Germany, Hungary, Metallurgy, Foundry,Netherlands, Construction and Poland, United Specialties. In Kingdom, the MetallurgyLuxembourg segment, our products and solutions are We used inNatural offer primarily the production Resources andalumina of steel, iron ore pellets, Industrial Solutions and in refractory materials that are used in the steel making process. In the Foundry segment, we have a long We serveasour customers through four main market segments: Metallurgy, Foundry, for Construction use in iron and Specialties. In the our products segment,develops Metallurgy segment and solutions are used 2013 Sales tradition a supplier of bentonite-based Countries of sales sand binders and application Number of asset locations technology foundry molds. Our Construction products and solutions in construction and building materials, including in large infrastructure and civil engineering projects. Our Specialties segment includes a wide range of other applications ainlong primarily used in the production of steel, iron ore pellets, alumina and in refractory materials that are used in the steel making process. In the Foundry segment, we have which tradition in € our million specialty supplier of as a minerals and mineral-based sand bentonite-based binders products, and application including technology wollastonite, usedfor Mines are in use endin iron foundry markets molds.plants Processing from glass, paints andsegment Our Construction plastics, develops Distribution coatings, horticultureproducts centers and solutions and ceramics used to animal in173 construction feed and functional and building materials,63 filler applications. We have ainglobal including large and infrastructure diversifiedand 2 engineering civil customer base, includingprojects. 14Our Specialties long-standing segmentwith relationships includes 12 a wide blue chip customers eachapplications range ofinother of our marketin which our specialty minerals and mineral-based products, including wollastonite, are used in end markets from glass, plastics, paints and coatings, horticulture and ceramics to animal segments. feed and functional filler applications. We have a global and diversified customer base, including long-standing relationships with blue chip customers in each of our market Click on the regions to view key figures segments. Our mining operations are focused principally on the extraction and processing of industrial minerals, including bentonite (a plastic clay used as a binder for sand in foundry molds and the production of iron ore pellets, among other applications), perlite (a natural glassy volcanic material frequently used in construction and building materials, such as Our mining mortars, operations plasters, are focused lightweight principally concretes and ceiling extraction on thetiles), and processing (a calciumofmetasilicate wollastonite industrial minerals, primarilyincluding used in automotive plastic clay bentonite (aplastics, as aused as a binder filler infor functional thesand in foundry building, paint and We moldsareand a leading the global provider production of iron of mineral-based ore pellets, among industrial other solutions, serving applications), perlite a(awide naturalrange of applications glassy volcanic and end material frequently Through markets.used in our miningand construction andbuilding processing such we operations, materials, as ceramic industries and as a fluxing agent in metallurgical fluxes) and bauxite (the primary raw material for the production of alumina and commonly used as a fluxing additive in deliver mortars, products plasters, that are critical lightweight to our customers’ industrial processes but which typically account for only a small portion of their overall production costs. Our operations cover blast furnace iron-making andconcretes and ceiling in the production tiles), wollastonite of aluminous cements).(aWecalcium metasilicate also produce primarilycasting continuous used influxes automotive plastics, (“CCFs”), mineralas powders a functional filler which in the play building, paint role inand an essential the entireindustries ceramic industrialand value chain mineralsfluxing in we as are vertically integrated into key raw materials and control a network of aluminacenters of distribution and processing used asplants which allowsinus continuous steel castingasbya ensuring agent metallurgical the reliability fluxes) of the process and and bauxite quality of(the theprimary raw material final product. for the production and commonly a fluxing additive to prepare solutions customized to our clients’ specific requirements. blast furnace iron-making and in the production of aluminous cements). We also produce continuous casting fluxes (“CCFs”), mineral powders which play an essential role in continuous steel casting by ensuring the reliability of the process and quality of the final product. Downstream 2013 Industrial andMinerals upstream salesoperations We estimate that our processed minerals and customized products, which we refer to as our “downstream” operations, accounted for approximately 65% of our total 2013 Industrial Minerals sales consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, with the remainder generated by our raw minerals and certain limited processing activities, or our “upstream” operations. We operate 31 mines, 51 processing facilities and 28 warehouses and distribution centers spanning across 22 countries, with sales to customers in over 80 countries around the world. We operate globally Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Sustainable Development Social Contribution ReportClose On Reporting 2013X South Europe Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Italy, Morocco, Spain, Turkey About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting 2013 Sales Countries of sales Number of asset locations Our business in € million Mines Processing plants Distribution centers Our We125operate business globally 46 20 16 8 We operate globally Click on the regions to view key figures We are a leading global provider of mineral-based industrial solutions, serving a wide range of applications and end markets. Through our mining and processing operations, we deliver products that are critical to our customers’ industrial processes but which typically account for only a small portion of their overall production costs. Our operations cover the entire industrial minerals value chain as we are vertically integrated into key raw materials and control a network of distribution centers and processing plants which allows us to prepare solutions customized to our clients’ specific requirements. Downstream and upstream operations We estimate that our processed minerals and customized products, which we refer to as our “downstream” operations, accounted for approximately 65% of our total consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, with the remainder generated by our raw minerals and certain limited processing activities, or our “upstream” operations. We operate 31 mines, 51 processing facilities and 28 warehouses and distribution centers spanning across 22 countries, with sales to customers in over 80 countries Close X around the world. Asia / Pacific China, India, Indonesia, South Korea We offer Natural Resources and Industrial Solutions 2013 Sales Countries of sales Number of asset locations We serve our customers through four main market segments: Metallurgy, Foundry, Construction and Specialties. In the Metallurgy segment, our products and solutions are primarily used in the production of steel, iron ore pellets, alumina and in refractory in € million Minesmaterials that areProcessing steel making process. In the used in theplants segment, we have a long Foundry centers Distribution 12 as a supplier of bentonite-based tradition 9 sand binders and applicationClick 3 for use in iron foundry technology on the regions to view key figures 8 molds. Our Construction segment2develops products and solutions used in construction and building materials, including in large infrastructure and civil engineering projects. Our Specialties segment includes a wide range of other applications in which our specialty minerals and mineral-based products, including wollastonite, are used in end markets from glass, plastics, paints and coatings, horticulture and ceramics to animal Click on the regions to view key figures feed and functional filler applications. We have a global and diversified customer base, including long-standing relationships with blue chip customers in each of our market We are a leading global provider of mineral-based industrial solutions, serving a wide range of applications and end markets. Through our mining and processing operations, we segments. deliver products that are critical to our customers’ industrial processes but which typically account for only a small portion of their overall production costs. Our operations cover Ourentire the We are a leading mining industrial operations minerals global value provider are focused ofchain as weonare mineral-based principally industrial thevertically integrated solutions, extraction into keyaof serving and processing raw wide materials range minerals, industrial of and control applications network aand including of distribution end markets. bentonite Through (a plastic centers clayour used asprocessing and mining a and binder sand which forplants processing allowswe operations, in foundry us to prepare deliver molds products and solutions that customized the production are critical of irontoto our our ore clients’ customers’ pellets, specific among requirements. industrial other processes but applications), which perlite (atypically account natural glassy for onlymaterial volcanic a small frequently usedoverall portion of their production in construction and costs. Ourmaterials, building operationssuchcoveras the entireplasters, mortars, minerals value industriallightweight chainand concretes as we are tiles), ceiling vertically integrated wollastonite (ainto key raw calcium metasilicate and control materialsprimarily used a network in automotive plastics, centers of distribution and processing as a functional plants filler in the whichpaint building, allowsandus to prepare solutions customized to our clients’ specific requirements. ceramic industries and as a fluxing agent in metallurgical fluxes) and bauxite (the primary raw material for the production of alumina and commonly used as a fluxing additive in Downstream and upstream operations blast furnace iron-making and in the production of aluminous cements). We also produce continuous casting fluxes (“CCFs”), mineral powders which play an essential role in We estimate that our processed minerals and customized products, which we refer to as our “downstream” operations, accounted for approximately 65% of our total continuous steel casting by ensuring the reliability of the process and quality of the final product. Downstream and upstream operations consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, with the remainder generated by our raw minerals and certain limited processing activities, or our “upstream” operations. We estimateWe thatoperate 31 mines, our processed 51 processing minerals facilities and and customized 28 warehouses products, and distribution which we refer centers spanning to as our “downstream” operations, 22 countries, across accounted for with sales to customers approximately 65% of our total 80 countries in over around the world. consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2013, with the remainder generated by our raw minerals and certain limited processing activities, or our “upstream” 2013 Industrial Minerals sales operations. We operate 31 mines, 51 processing facilities and 28 warehouses and distribution centers spanning across 22 countries, with sales to customers in over 80 countries around the world. We offer Natural Resources and Industrial Solutions We serve our customers through four main market segments: Metallurgy, Foundry, Construction and Specialties. In the Metallurgy segment, our products and solutions are We used inNatural offer primarily the production Resources andalumina of steel, iron ore pellets, Industrial Solutions and in refractory materials that are used in the steel making process. In the Foundry segment, we have a long We serveasour tradition a supplier customers of bentonite-based through four main sand binders market and application segments: technology Metallurgy, Foundry, for use in iron and Construction foundry molds. Our Specialties. Construction In the segment,develops Metallurgy segment our productsproducts are used and solutions and solutions in construction primarily used in andthebuilding productionmaterials, of steel,including large infrastructure iron oreinpellets, alumina and in and civil engineering refractory that are Our materialsprojects. in the steelsegment usedSpecialties includes a making process. Inwide range ofsegment, other applications the Foundry which we have ainlong tradition as a minerals our specialty supplier of and mineral-based sand bentonite-based products, bindersincluding wollastonite, and application are usedfor technology in use endinmarkets iron foundry molds.plastics, from glass, Our Construction coatings,develops paints andsegment horticulture and ceramics products to animal and solutions used feed in and functional construction filler applications. materials,We and building have ainglobal including large and diversifiedand customer infrastructure base, including civil engineering long-standing projects. segmentwith relationships Our Specialties blue chip includes a wide range ofinother customers eachapplications of our market in which segments. our specialty minerals and mineral-based products, including wollastonite, are used in end markets from glass, plastics, paints and coatings, horticulture and ceramics to animal feed and functional filler applications. We have a global and diversified customer base, including long-standing relationships with blue chip customers in each of our market Our mining operations are focused principally on the extraction and processing of industrial minerals, including bentonite (a plastic clay used as a binder for sand in foundry segments. molds and the production of iron ore pellets, among other applications), perlite (a natural glassy volcanic material frequently used in construction and building materials, such as mortars, Our mining plasters, lightweight operations concretes are focused and ceiling on thetiles), principally wollastonite extraction (a calciumofmetasilicate and processing industrial minerals, used in automotive bentonite (aplastics, primarilyincluding functional as aused plastic clay as a binder thesand filler infor building, paint and in foundry ceramic molds andindustries and as of the production a fluxing iron oreagent pellets,in metallurgical among otherfluxes) and bauxite applications), (the perlite (a natural raw material primaryglassy volcanic formaterial the production of alumina frequently used in and commonly construction and used such in fluxing additive as a materials, building as blast furnace mortars, iron-making plasters, lightweight in the production andconcretes of aluminous and ceiling cements). tiles), wollastonite (aWe also produce calcium continuous metasilicate used influxes primarilycasting (“CCFs”), automotive mineral plastics, as powders which a functional play filler an essential in the role inand building, paint continuous ceramic steel casting industries and asbya ensuring the reliability fluxing agent of the process in metallurgical and bauxite fluxes) and quality of (the final product. theprimary raw material for the production of alumina and commonly used as a fluxing additive in blast furnace iron-making and in the production of aluminous cements). We also produce continuous casting fluxes (“CCFs”), mineral powders which play an essential role in continuous steel casting by ensuring the reliability of the process and quality of the final product. 2013 Industrial Minerals sales About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Adding value In 2013, S&B’s global sales revenues were €441 million. Employee payments in compensation, social security and benefits reached €88.6 million, and payments to governments & social contribution was €15.5 million. €246 million was paid to suppliers of all kinds. Direct economic value generated in 2013 (€ ’000s) Revenues Net sales 440,958 Dividends received 7,479 Interest and other finance income received 243 Income from Rentals 1,092 Proceeds from the disposal of PPE 1,874 Total direct economic value generated 451,646 Economic value distributed in 2013 (€ ’000s) Operating costs 296,113 Employee wages and benefits 88,585 Payments to providers of capital 14,098 Payments to government 14,292 Community investments 1,215 Total Economic value distributed 414,303 Economic value retained in 2013 (€ ’000s) Total Economic value retained in 2013 37,343 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our organization In July 2013, S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. (historical parent company of the Group) was delisted from the Athens Stock Exchange following a successful completion of a mandatory tender offer for shares not controlled by the major shareholding Kyriacopoulos family. Following the delisting, the S&B Group became a privately held organization with two shareholders, the major one remaining the founding Kyriacopoulos family. A process of legal reorganization commenced in order to enhance the corporate and financing structure of the Group. This process included the formation of new subsidiaries of S&B Minerals Holdings S.A.R.L. in Luxembourg, as well as a broader reshuffling of existing legal entities aimed at driving structure optimization. The S&B Group’s Board of Directors (BoD) is responsible for the overall direction, supervision and management of the Group and consists of 9 members (8 male and 1 female). The BoD oversees: The Audit Committee (3 members, all male) entrusted with: Monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Review of the Group’s internal financial controls, Group’s internal controls and risk management systems Monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Group’s internal audit function Recommendations to the Board for the appointment, reappointment, resignation or removal of the Group’s external auditors and overseeing the relationship with the external auditor The Executive Committee with 3 members from the BoD, and the Group’s CEO and CFO. It is entrusted with the Group’s strategic management. The Management Committee with members (9 male, 2 female), the CEO and all his direct reports ensuring global alignment and day to day management of the business strategy and financial performance. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Management letter 2013 was a milestone year in S&B’s history. Even in these uncertain times of persisting economic challenges we made significant progress in improving our operating performance and delivering, yet again, solid financial results, with sales of €441 million and adjusted EBITDA of €85.8 million – improving on the previous year’s levels by 3.8% and 7.5% respectively. Over the course of the year, and especially in the second half, signs of modest recovery in steel, automotive production and certain construction industries became increasingly noticeable, particularly in North Europe and North America – and our group was well positioned and prepared to make the most out of the positive development. The acquisition of NYCO, in particular, in September 2012 contributed significantly to our performance, exceeding our initial expectations and adding significant value to our Group, both in terms of sales and profitability. These positive developments on our performance were also met with a strong focus and continued commitment on Sustainability. 2013 was a milestone year, not least, because our company’s ownership status changed, from publicly listed on the Athens Exchange to a privately held organization with two key shareholders. The founding family maintained its share and, through the successful execution of a mandatory tender offer, the Rhone Group in concert with the founding family, assumed the previously listed portion. Our Group’s non listed status allows for greater focus and speed of execution in realizing our strategic plans, while also increasing our efficiency in accessing the capital markets via new financing tools without digressing from our Purpose and Vision. Our improved operating performance, securing a new strategic partner in the Rhone Group, and completing successfully the integration of NYCO, make 2013 a year when we considerably increased our flexibility, and our capacity to realise our Vision. We can now compete internationally more efficiently than ever before. We are publishing our Group Sustainable Development Report for the 12th consecutive year. Improving further the level of transparency, with this year’s report we meet the Global Reporting Initiative’s highest level of Application A, as well as our UN Global Compact reporting obligations. Our commitment to our Values and our focus on longterm sustainability guided the development of a new Code of Conduct in 2013, reflecting our approach to doing business in a global environment, under our renewed governance structure. Our business today truly spans the globe. From Chile to Sweden and from Panama to South Korea, we serve customers and markets in 82 countries, across all continents. We deliver more than 35 Applications, offering solutions through over 70 Product groups. Our global organization addresses the challenges and significant opportunities for growth by remaining flexible and efficient in a constantly changing world; alert and ready to adapt to market dynamics; and focused on sustainability. Each one of us takes pride and satisfaction in our positive impact on all stakeholders, and we are committed to constantly improve our sustainability practices across all operations. Our Sustainability strategy and our work to market dynamics; and focused on sustainability. Each one of us takes pride and satisfaction in our positive impact on all stakeholders, and we are committed to constantly improve our sustainability practices across all operations. Our Sustainability strategy and our work on four Sustainability Pillars with clear targets (People, Health & Safety, Environment, Social Contribution) matured into its second year of global deployment. We have already seen great achievements as a consequence, and we continue working on the areas where further improvement can be realized. The inclusion of NYCO Minerals in the S&B Group in 2012 set an important milestone for S&B’s sustainable value growth vision. Over the course of 2013 we worked intensely towards NYCO’s full integration in our Group, which has proved to be a success story, setting a benchmark for similar endeavours in the future. An integrated Americas organizational structure was also put in place, building on our peoples’ skills and competencies, and leveraging on business synergies. Our Ergonomics Initiative took off in full force in early 2013, with the majority of S&B employees, including those of supervised contractors, attending training and related activities. Despite our steadfast focus and efforts on Safety, we cannot be satisfied. An accident in an underground bauxite mine in Greece, operated by one of our contractors, involved the loss of a life. We deeply regret the loss suffered by the families, friends and co-workers. We will not condone any compromises to our commitment to safety. We do not accept any digression from our targets on accident rates, and our commitment to certifying all facilities according to the OHSAS 18001 management system by the end of 2014 remains steadfast. The target we set back in 2011 to reduce energy consumption by 5% per MT of product sold within 3 years was reviewed in 2013. Performance has shown that product and sales mix affect the specific energy consumption, despite various successful energy efficiency measures. Thus, our Energy target has been adjusted to 1% improvement in 2014 vs 2013 per MT of product for the 8 largest facilities, where 80% of the Group’s energy is consumed. We believe that this rationalization of the target will bring better tangible results and lead to overall business improvement. We take great pride in the success of S&B’s Global Volunteerism initiative, organized for a second consecutive year. It is testament to the fact that all of the Group’s employees greatly value our shared commitment to make a positive contribution to society. At S&B we realize the importance of developing young people’s skills. This is why we invest considerably in professional learning & development, through standing cooperation with organizations and academic institutions, such as Junior Achievement and the ALBA business school, often welcoming interns at the company’s global operations. In 2013 we are most proud of the YOU@S&B program, which gives unemployed young people in Greece the opportunity to gain meaningful work experience through nine months of paid occupation at S&B. The project’s main aim is to create long-term value for society, by empowering young professionals with skills and experience. The operation of mining, production, and distribution of assets worldwide requires us to continuously develop our people, optimize our resources, and invest in technology. We recognize the challenges and opportunities facing the industrial minerals sector, from access to resources to the rising urban population globally. This drives our sustainability strategy towards increased resource efficiency. It does not just mean using less, but also using better, and S&B’s expertise on the special characteristics of minerals and their applications combined with our customer intimacy allows us to improve sustainability – both for us and for our customers. It also drives us to rethink our community development strategy, especially in areas where we have a long-term presence, and to add new perspectives: from sustainable tourism to developing new land uses that increase post-mining value. We will have a lot more to say in the years to come as our innovation efforts will bare fruit. Looking ahead, we recognize that global economic development remains fragile and that geopolitical risk in various locations is escalating. We are determined to stay focused on ensuring a sustainable future for our business, by integrating our competitive strengths and by swiftly executing our strategy. Our strength is our unremitting pursuit of our sustainable development vision and strategy. We will keep growing by doing what we know well. Our growth will be sustainable if we keep adapting to the everchanging global environment, staying abreast of developments and trends, and delivering on our promises. Ulysses P. Kyriacopoulos Chairman of the Board Kriton Anavlavis Chief Executive Officer About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Sustainability approach Our Sustainability Vision calls upon every employee of S&B to personally contribute every year to our sustainability targets. Three years after reshaping our sustainable development approach our sustainability focus remains as strong as ever. We view sustainability as an approach on how we conduct our business and how we add value to our customers by incorporating stakeholders’ needs and aspirations. This not only necessitates a sound strategy and objectives, but also monitoring and evaluation of performance going forward, while communicating openly and engaging constructively with our key stakeholders. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Strategy, Goals & Performance 2013 was a year of strengthening the Group’s sustainability strategic framework. Our sustainability strategy is implemented within four pillars (People, Health & Safety, Environment, Social Contribution) with issues and related goals & targets emerging from our materiality assessment. Our Sustainability Pillars People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution We will be We strive to achieve zero We improve ours and our We build goodwill capital and considered a accidents and continuously customers’ environmental relationships in every community great place to improve our working footprint based on the social relevance of work in our environment (waste/energy/land) our operations sector Developing our internal sustainable development reporting over the past two years has improved visibility of results & performance and allowed for better management. In effect, during 2013 we reviewed and refined some of our sustainability goals & targets. For example: The Safety training for all S&B and supervised contractors employees target was increased from 4 hours/year to 6 hours/year for 2014 Safety performance improvement (as per Group FR) has been set as a priority for 2014 (from 7 to 5.2) Safety behavior methods intensification with 3 of the following to be carried out per Region: MSV, safety barometer, ergonomics improvement, risk assessment per Group policy, incident root cause analysis The Energy Target has been re-adjusted to 1% improvement in 2014 vs 2013 (MJ per Metric Tonne produced) As per Product Stewardship, a review of all Safety Data Sheets and hazardous materials management A new target was set for 2014 onwards to accelerate our strategic recruitment plans and onboard of our new employees Goals & performance evolution An overview of our Sustainable Development goals and related performance evolution over the past two years is summarized under each section below: Goals & performance evolution An overview of our Sustainable Development goals and related performance evolution over the past two years is summarized under each section below: SD Management Goals and targets Performance end 2012 Performance end 2013 2013 progress Certify all facilities* At the end of 2012: facilities At the end of 2013: ISO 9001, 84% (2 per Quality, where 80% of products are new certifications), ISO 14001, 73% (2 Environment and produced were certified per new certifications), OHSAS 18001, 17% Health & Safety ISO14001, 2 facilities (3 new certifications), where % reflects Management passed certification audits S&B and contractors’ employees under Systems (ISO 9001: and pre-audits for OHSAS our supervision. Percentages as per 2004 , ISO 14001: 18001, gap analysis products produced correspond to: 86.8% and OHSAS 18001 implemented in South & (ISO 9001), 81.1% (ISO 14001), 6.1% standards) by end North Europe Regions. (OHSAS 18001) 2014 Group SD policy Internal Quarterly Group Permits & Licenses Compliance development Sustainability Reporting Management, Risk Assessment, Group policy Code of Conduct Key: Improving performance Declining performance Static performance * facilities where production and/or processing of industrial minerals/ores takes place People Goals and targets Performance end 2012 Performance end 2013 2013 progress Align HR systems and Integration of HR systems in NYCO integrationJob mapping practices across the Group China, India, Brazil, and in emerging countries of (by end 2014) ItalyNew Group HR policies operations introduced Enhance collaboration Actions as per Global On-going targetReinforced Employee Engagement management meetings with SurveyCross-regional targeted Business Improvement project workshops reviewOn-going cross-regional targeted workshops Strengthen Training Emphasis on on-the-job On-going targetIncrease in projects and cross-functional technical operational assignmentsEffective feedback trainingDesign of project training with 140 participants management training platform globallyFormalization of global Training Data Reporting system Accelerate our strategic New target. Design of hiring recruitment plans and tracking system and of new onboard our new employees onboarding plan Key: Improving performance Declining performance Static performance Health & Safety Goals and targets Performance end Performance end 2013 2013 2012 progress Ultimate goal to achieve zero Group Severity Rate 37% improvement in the Accident accidents was slightly Frequency Rate decreased by 2.5%, but no decrease in Frequency Rate Health & Safety Goals and targets Performance end Performance end 2013 2013 2012 progress Ultimate goal to achieve zero Group Severity Rate 37% improvement in the Accident accidents was slightly Frequency Rate decreased by 2.5%, but no decrease in Frequency Rate Expand implementation of During 2012, Coaching in all Regions, except in proactive safety practices. implementation Asia/Pacific. Number and quality of Implement Management expanded to all Management Safety Visits need to be Safety Visits practice (specific facilities in South improved. methodology) at mines and and North Europe processing plants (by end Regions and 2014) partially in Americas’ Region where, nevertheless, training has been completed. Improve working Exposure dust On Dust: At Group level, personnel environment:Targeting dust mapping covered exposed to above 0.8 legislation limit dose on each employee 20% 88% of all S&B and has been improved from 9 in 2012 to below thresholds of local supervised 2.6% in 2013On Noise: Personnel regulations (by end contractors exposure at Group level to above 85dB 2014).Targeting 8 hours noise employees, 10% (A) without any hearing protection has exposure level in working exceeding the target been improved from 20% in 2012 to environment at all set.Noise mapping 13% through investments made in production/processing facilities covered 87% of insulating equipment and mobile below 85dBA (by end 2014) employees. equipment cabins. Safety training of all S&B and Target achieved at Target achieved at all facilities; it refers supervised Contractors all facilities to classroom training employees – 4 hours/year Key: Improving performance Declining performance Static performance Environment Goals and targets Performance end Performance end 2013 2013 2012 progress Reduce energy consumption in all Declining trend Declining target due to product Group facilities by 5%/MT of product attributed to product mix, plus increased energy in 3 years (starting 2011) mix and reduced consumption from perlite utilization of facilities expansion in the Americas. in North Europe Region Reduce net water consumption in all Declining target, Decrease in water consumption Group facilities by 5%/MT of product mainly because of at Group level by 22%, mainly in 3 years (starting 2011) increased utilization because of: a) Greek bauxite of bauxite operations improvement, which beneficiation plant exempted the need for the at Itea facility, beneficiation plant; and b) Greece adjustment of water consumption at Bulgaria operations Dust emissions to be at least -20% Mapping covered Mapping covered 92% of vs permissible limits set by local 97% of facilities, facilities, 97% of which were legislation (by end of 2014) 93% of which were within target. within target Group additional (new/new) The target set to 4.2% achieved revenues will be coming from achieve by end exploiting the value of waste streams 2014 10% of Group (by end of 2014). New/new means additional new products, applications or (new/new) revenues technologies which are sold to new from exploiting the markets and are considered value of waste within target Group additional (new/new) The target set to 4.2% achieved revenues will be coming from achieve by end exploiting the value of waste streams 2014 10% of Group (by end of 2014). New/new means additional new products, applications or (new/new) revenues technologies which are sold to new from exploiting the markets and are considered value of waste new/new for a period of 5 years. streams was achieved Key: Improving performance Declining performance Static performance Social Contribution Goals and targets Performance end 2012 Performance end 2013 2013 progress All operations to have in Rigorous Social Contribution Improved quality of social place locally appropriate, Plans in place for high social contribution projects and social action plans (by impact facilities ieffectiveness of local end 2012) community initiatives Encourage employees to Establishment of Global Global Volunteerism Initiative participate in community Volunteerism Initiative “live “live brighter” with 24 facilities in and/or volunteerism brighter” with 27 facilities in 9 12 countries organized 67 activities countries participating in 2012 initiatives in 2013 Key: Improving performance Declining performance Static performance About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Governance Sustainability governance is built into S&B’s organizational structure and business strategy. Group policies, along with commitments, guide strategy and decision-making, providing the necessary transparency and accountability. Policies & commitments Group Policies formulate the S&B way of operating, forming the basis for effective and uniformed management across the Group under a common risk management framework. They span all areas of the Group’s operations, from financial and business operations management, to quality of products and services, human resources, health & safety and environmental management. You may read more on our Group Policies in our website. At the same time, S&B participates in associations and organizations driving best sustainability practices today and endorses related key initiatives, principles, voluntary agreements and codes. You may read more on our public commitments and participation in various associations in our website. Governance structure S&B’s sustainability strategy and goals are cascaded and implemented across the organization with appropriate mechanisms in place, as described schematically below. Monitoring and accountability of sustainability performance is built into this structure. Internal controls The Internal Control System aims to safeguard compliance with the financial and operational procedures and controls, including sustainability performance, as well as with the risk-management procedures. The S&B Group Internal Audit Services are headed by a high-level management member and are supervised by the Audit Committee. The Internal Audit performs its duties according to its Charter, which is approved by the Audit Committee and the CEO. The function serves to safeguard compliance with the financial, operational and riskmanagement procedures and carries out controls for fraud, corruption, conflict of interests, compliance etc. Audit priorities are established based on a yearly risk assessment methodology which combines multiple risk scoring criteria covering a wide range of issues from financial, operational to environment, health & safety, labor issues and country corruption risk. Each year all S&B operations (100% of entities) are assessed with this methodology, thus ensuring that variations in risk factors are captured. Supply chain audits are carried out selectively for major contractors as defined by the yearly audit planning and for specific issues each time. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Stakeholder Engagement Actively listening and being aware of our stakeholders’ needs refine our materiality assessment and also help us in our strategic Sustainable Development management. Our channels of engagement range from informing and awareness-raising to entering into a dialogue with our stakeholders. We strive to establish the most appropriate communication platforms on a systematic, transparent and equal basis. We engage more frequently with stakeholders who have the greatest potential impact on the Group’s business and on whom S&B has the greatest potential impact. Initial stakeholder mapping takes place at local level. During 2012, groups with whom we engage have been mapped and identified by facility managers at the S&B Group’s high and medium social relevance operations (see Table in Social Contribution), according to a check-list provided by Group Sustainable Development. Local communities, public authorities, contractors and, in certain areas, NGOs, academia and media (Greek operations) have been commonly identified. Additional stakeholder identification takes place at corporate level, and results from the active interest and engagement of certain stakeholder groups in our sustainability performance: customers and suppliers, analysts on behalf of socially responsible investors, business partners and associations and employees. During our global internal Sustainable Development workshop we reviewed our stakeholder list with 50 executives from around the Group, and confirmed its relevance for our materiality and reporting. Stakeholder Group Key interests & concern How we engage with them Employees 1,838 S&B people in A broad range of issues from health & Mentoring, skill sharing and more than 40 facilities safety, working conditions, equal international training days and worldwide at the end of treatment and opportunities, to assignments 2013 development and training opportunities. Surveys, Intranet, Newsletters, Insofar as they are also members of Workshops, regular meetings, local communities, they share concern webcasts for environmental protection, local Compliance to governance, group development and cultural heritage policies and international agreements Regular meetings with Work Councils and Labor Union representatives Integration of HR systems policies and Group level Performance appraisals and goal setting process Customers S&B serves a wide Secured global sustainable supply, Global Marketing Organization and range of industrial product quality & reliability, product Regional sales teams closely applications in the safety, customized know-how & interact with customers providing global markets of expertise and innovation. advice and technical support metallurgy, construction Customer satisfaction surveys and foundry, as well as Participation in trade shows, specialty niche sectors industry-related conferences and R&D projects Contractors 500 workers’ Contractor Health & Safety, working Regular meetings contractors worked with conditions and job security Compliance processes S&B in 2013 Health & Safety training Local Communities S&B conducts business Local communities, especially remote Operations or facility managers or in more than 40 ones, seek local economic development local affairs facilities worldwide with in depth of time, social contribution and Long term policies and practices on impact in the daily life of infrastructures and show concern for land reclamation and local thousands of people potential environmental impacts. biodiversity protection and actively engages Involvement in community with them to ensure a infrastructure development projects sustainable legacy Suppliers S&B’s supplier network Interested in our supply agreements as Regional Purchasing departments provides materials for well as the standards required from Sales teams processing and services them for product safety and materials Compliance processes (i.e. extraction, stewardship Visits and meetings transport) Business Partners Interested in sound mechanisms in Participation in BoD for joint place to ensure good cooperation and ventures financial returns Regular information flow Public Authorities Safeguard and monitor rule of law, Engagement directly and through industry correct application of regulations and associations the public interest as pertains to all Sustainable Development issues NGOs and Academia S&B collaborates with a Protection of the environment, cultural Attendance and participation at wide spectrum of non – heritage, advancement of scientific sustainabilityrelated conferences governmental knowledge and increase of public and events organizations, awareness for issues of their concern. Cooperation on research projects institutions, universities and academia to enhance our sustainable development practices Business Associations Communicate the business voice on Participation of S&B executives to business or sector issues business and industry related associations Public commitment to key initiatives, principles, voluntary agreements and codes driving best practices Media Timely and accurate information to their Dedicated communication function audiences Press releases & briefings/Presentations/Website Shareholders and Investors As of July 2013 S&B is Interested in business, financial and Annual General Meeting no longer listed in the sustainability performance Results presentations Athens Stock Dedicated Investor Relations Exchange. The Group Function is now privately owned by two shareholders, the founding family being the majority shareholder About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Material issues Materiality assessments help us focus our sustainable development strategy and reports on those issues that are most important to our stakeholders. In early 2012 we revisited our material issues following a participatory methodology. We identified and assessed the importance of issues affecting our business and its stakeholders over the next three years and prioritized them considering internal and external perspectives. In early 2013, at the 2nd global S&B Sustainable Development Workshop, more than 50 members representing all functions and Regions at Managerial level, reviewed the material issues identified in 2012 and produced new – updated matrices for each Region and for the Group overall. The chart displays all the material topics that were assessed in our 2013 materiality assessment. The major differences between 2012 and 2013 matrices concern “Volunteering” and “Philanthropy”; the first was moved from the “Low priority – Passively monitor” to the “Actively Monitor & Communicate” quadrant and the second from the “Actively Monitor & Communicate” to the “Low priority – Passively monitor” quadrant. While “Philanthropy” remains an important element of our Social Contribution strategy, nevertheless, we focus more on bringing value to local communities through more structured development programs (like Miloterranean and YOU@S&B) that are not simply donation of money. Volunteerism has become more significant as it combines empowerment of our People and contribution to causes and initiatives that are meaningful to all parties involved, the beneficiary and the benefactor. Identify: We include a complete list of topics raised by all our stakeholders (from shareholders and employees to local communities and contractors), rising from our risk management process and concerning our sector in particular. Prioritize: We rate sustainability issues based on the significance of their impact to S&B and on the level of concern from our internal and external stakeholders. The level of concern is measured by stakeholder engagement outcomes and overall rating is based on the informed opinion of 50 executives (including the Executive team and facility managers from around the world). Report: On deciding which issues to include in our report, topics from our materiality assessment are combined with user needs to present a complete and accurate sustainability performance. The topics on which we report are reviewed by our Sustainability Coordinating Committee for relevance, completeness and alignment to our strategy. This means that we might report on issues that we have not rated as highest priority in terms of their impact to our organization. Nevertheless, they might be considered as priority for external information purposes. People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution 1. Diversity 6. Occupational 10. Restoration/ 20. Philanthropy Health Reclamation 2. Training/Development 7. Occupational 11. Physical Footprint 21. Volunteerism Safety 3. Compensation/Reward 8. Product 12. Climate Change 22. Community Health/Safety Mitigation/Adaptation Economic Development 4. Human Rights 9. Contractor 13. Energy Health/Safety 5. Aging Workforce 14. Air Emissions 15. Reserve Management 16. Waste 17. Water Management 18. Product Responsibility 19. Impact on environmental footprint of products supplied to customers Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Key sustainability data About S&B 2013 Notes Sales €441 million Adjusted EBITDA €85.8 million Countries of operation 15 Countries where S&B has full management of the facilities Countries of presence 22 Includes 7 more countries where S&B has JVs or partners / agents Facilities: mining permits 31 Data included in the report as per active mines in 8 countries Facilities: processing plants 51 Data included in the report as per 48 facilities managed by S&B Group facilities certified per ISO 9001 (based 84% To become 100% at end 2014 on employees coverage) People Employees 1,838 Female employees in total workforce 18% Female employees in management positions 14% Employee voluntary turnover 1.6% Average training per employee 24.1 hours Health & Safety Group facilities certified per OHSAS 18001 17% To become 100% at end 2014 (based on employees coverage) Lost time accidents – frequency rate (number of incidents with at least one day lost 7.1 x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Lost time accidents – severity rate (lost calendar days x 1,000,000)/Total working 172 hours Health & Safety Group facilities certified per OHSAS 18001 17% To become 100% at end 2014 (based on employees coverage) Lost time accidents – frequency rate (number of incidents with at least one day lost 7.1 x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Lost time accidents – severity rate (lost calendar days x 1,000,000)/Total working 172 hours Fatalities workforce 0 Fatalities – supervised contractors 0 Fatalities – contractors with own supervision 1 Average training on H&S per employee (incl. 9.5 hours supervised contractors) Environment Group facilities certified per ISO 14001 (based 73% To become 100% at end 2014 on employees coverage) Total mining land in use at end of the year 845 hectares Various reclamation works in areas affected by 397 hectares mining during the year Total area in use within protected areas 121.5 hectares Direct and indirect energy consumption 2,208,308,952 MJ Total GHG emissions 190,577 t CO2 eq Total freshwater consumption 547,187 m3 % of total water recycled 11% Mineral waste (overburden used to fill in voids 2,329,506 m3 or disposed of in land) Social Contribution Payments in employee compensation and €88.6 million benefits, including social security Payments to suppliers €246 million Social contribution (donations and in-kind) 1.2 € million Facilities embracing the S&B Group 24 Volunteerism initiative Total number of social contribution projects 138 (excludes volunteering initiative projects) About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Win-win land swap transaction with local community vote Case Studies NYCO Minerals, member of the S&B Group, successfully ensured extension of its mining operations through an agreement with the people of New York State. New Yorkers voted in favor of NYCO’s proposal to swap a 200 acre forest land parcel for 1,500 acres of prime recreational lands at a public statewide referendum on November 5, 2013. The agreement allows NYCO to acquire the 200-acre parcel of state Forest Preserve land to the north of its Lewis Mine. In return, it will be donating 1,500 acres of spectacular recreational lands to New York State for inclusion in the Adirondack Forest Preserve for the enjoyment of people across the State. In addition, when NYCO’s mining operations on the 200 acres are complete, the company will reclaim and replant the land and return it to the Forest Preserve. NYCO now has the opportunity to extend the life of its Adirondack operations and protect 100 jobs. At the same time, the New York State will see its spectacular Adirondack Forest Preserve grow significantly by new public recreational lands via an agreement of a land exchange transaction. Since the early 1950’s, NYCO Minerals has been Solid Transformation producing and supplying an industrial mineral called wollastonite that improves the strength and quality of automotive and consumer plastics, coatings, adhesives, sealants, Sitemap Search brake components, construction materials, ceramics, mold fluxes and many other applications. Create Charts Sustainable Development Report 2013 Win-win land swap transaction with local community vote The Adirondack Land Swap exchange is a prominent example of what stakeholder dialogue can achieve, whereby organizations and individuals with different objectives and concerns work together on solutions About S&B benefits with mutual Sustainability approach for all parties involved. People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting NYCO Minerals, member of the S&B Group, successfully ensured extension of its mining operations through an agreement with the people of New York State. New Yorkers voted in favor of NYCO’s proposal to swap a 200 acre forest land parcel for 1,500 acres of prime recreational lands at a public statewide referendum on November 5, 2013. Τriple Group certification: Quality, Environment and Health & Safety The agreement allows NYCO to acquire the 200-acre parcel of state Forest Preserve land to the north of its Lewis Mine. In return, it will be donating 1,500 acres of spectacular Case Studies recreational lands to New York State for inclusion in the Adirondack Forest Preserve for the enjoyment of people across the State. In addition, when NYCO’s mining operations on thein200 Early 2012acres are complete, an ambitious the company Group-wide set: to and wasreclaim targetwill replant certify the land all facilities perand returnEnvironment it to the Forest Quality, andPreserve. Health & Safety Management Systems’ standards (ISO 9001: 2004, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 respectively) by the end of 2014. In addition, one certification body, Lloyd’s Register – LRQA, was selected to be the global provider of audit and NYCO now has certification the opportunity services for all Groupto facilities. extend the A tight for facilitiesand scheduleoperations its Adirondack life ofreview protect already 100 jobs. certified At thecertification by other the New same time,bodies York State culminated in will its spectacular see Group a triple Adirondack certificate issued in Forest Preserve December 30, 2013growwhich, significantly based on newnumber by the of S&B and lands public recreational via ancontractors’ supervised of a land exchange agreement employees transaction. at S&B facilities, Since the embraces: 84% for 1950’s, early ISO 9001, 73%Minerals NYCO has been for ISO 14001, and 17% for producingDuring OHSAS. and supplying 2013, thean industrialfacility bentonite mineral called wollastonite in Turkey has obtained that ISO improves the OHSAS 14001 and strength18001and quality of automotive certification and theand Americas and plastics, consumer South Europecoatings, adhesives, Region sealants, head offices have brake obtainedcomponents, certificationconstruction per ISO 9001 materials, and OHSAS ceramics, 18001 mold fluxes andThe respectively. many other target applications. is to reach 100% triple certification for all active facilities by the end of 2014. The Adirondack Taking into accountLand theSwap exchange timeline is a prominent example of its implementation, of what this has been stakeholder a great dialogue achievement andcan achieve, would not have been organizations whereby andthe possible without individuals coordinated different witheffort objectives of people and at Corporate concerns work functions, togetherand at Regional on at solutions level.mutual Facility with Benefitsbenefits for all with parties associated thisinvolved. multi-facility assessment by the same auditor are already evident and are reinforcing our work on many levels by: Diffusing best practices and standardizing our approach for handling quality, environment and Health & Safety related issues Integrating assessment of Group operations and identifying common areas for improvement Establishing a platform to cascade and monitor sustainable development progress. Local community stakeholders on S&B’s material issues Engaging key local communities in identifying our material issues is fundamental to our Sustainable Development strategy. With representatives from key stakeholder groups in Greece (Milos and Fokis local authorities, Department of Geology/ Athens University, Customers, Employees, Contractors and NGOs) we organized a workshop to evaluate S&B’s material issues, as presented in the Sustainable Development Report 2012. An external party facilitated the workshop which included discussion and assessment of S&B’s sustainability issues presented in the company’s report, and how well these correspond to stakeholder needs. The workshop re-affirmed our materiality assessment in many areas, and highlighted local-specific issues. Workshop results informed our facility-specific local community action plans related to the Sustainability goals & targets, as well as the Group’s materiality assessment and reporting. Case Studies Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Case Studies Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Working with our supply chain In 2013, S&B’s Mexico operations held an “Open Freight Workshop” inviting local transportation companies as well as companies from the Guaymas port area. The purpose of Case Studies the workshop was to inform potential and existing contractors about our activities and discuss our business needs. S&B provided historical information of the S&B Group and our NYCO products, presented the site’s operations and logistics with estimated business volume for 2014. Upon North Europe employee engagement workshops Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation S&B places emphasis on the two-way internal communication, as a means of familiarizing the employees with the policies andSustainable practices of theDevelopment Report Company, of informing them2013 about business news and developments of the Group, as well as of providing a feedback culture where employees can address their concerns to their supervisors. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Further to the Employee Engagement Survey results in 2012, “internal engagement” improvement workshops took place in 2013 throughout Germany. To this end, around 12 Win-win land swap transaction with local community vote managers were trained on facilitation skills and tools, to help them embark on employee internal discussions. The engagement workshops took place in 5 locations with 70 employees participating in total, and determined 280 points of improvement mainly in the area communication, organizational structure, leadership and personnel development. NYCO Minerals, member of the S&B Group, successfully ensured extension of its mining operations through an agreement with the people of New York State. New Yorkers voted in favorStudies Case of NYCO’s proposal to swap a 200 acre forest land parcel for 1,500 acres of prime recreational lands at a public statewide referendum on November 5, 2013. Developing a new Code of Conduct The agreement allows NYCO to acquire the 200-acre parcel of state Forest Preserve land to the north of its Lewis Mine. In return, it will be donating 1,500 acres of spectacular recreational lands to New York State for inclusion in the Adirondack Forest Preserve for the enjoyment of people across the State. In addition, when NYCO’s mining operations on the 200 acres are complete, the company will reclaim and replant the land and return it to the Forest Preserve. To strengthen our revised sustainability strategy and commitment, in 2013 we started working on the development of the S&B Group Code of Conduct. The Code was officially ratified by the Management Committee in 2014. NYCO now has the opportunity to extend the life of its Adirondack operations and protect 100 jobs. At the same time, the New York State will see its spectacular Adirondack The S&B Group Code of Conduct contains principles of conduct which reaffirm our commitment to the long-standing Values that we live by, along with our Purpose and Vision. Forest Preserve grow significantly by new public recreational lands via an agreement of a land exchange transaction. Since the early 1950’s, NYCO Minerals has been More specifically, the Code covers the issues of compliance, business integrity, employment, Health & Safety, environmental stewardship, society and communities, protection producing and supplying an industrial mineral called wollastonite that improves the strength and quality of automotive and consumer plastics, coatings, adhesives, sealants, and use of S&B Group’s assets, fair business practices, transparency, and code of conduct violations. brake components, construction materials, ceramics, mold fluxes and many other applications. The Code applies to all employees, officers and directors of the S&B Group, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and related companies over which it has control. Partners, suppliers, The Adirondack Land Swap exchange is a prominent example of what stakeholder dialogue can achieve, whereby organizations and individuals with different objectives and consultants, agents and trustees are also expected to comply with the Code of Conduct or a similar agreed upon document in all their dealings with, or on behalf of S&B. concerns work together on solutions with mutual benefits for all parties involved. S&B will ensure that all parties are aware of the Code of Conduct either by referring them to the dedicated page on the Group’s website, or by providing a hard copy. An internal awareness program will be developed to ensure that the Code is fully understood. About S&B internal Global Sustainable Sustainability approach Development People workshop Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Content, Scope and More than 50 colleaguesGovernance People, Diversity and Rights representing all functions and Regions Health at Managerial level, met at S&B’s headquartersEnergy at the beginning ofVolunteerism 2013 to assess progress against Sustainable Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers Development targets and share experiences in implementing S&B’s Sustainability strategy. During this workshop S&B’s materiality was reviewed not only atGRI Index but also at Group, Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Regional level. Emerging issues on Safety and Energy were discussed and the Ergonomics Initiative was launched. We also reviewed our stakeholder list , confirming its relevance for our materiality and the issues we report on publicly. Internal assurance of sustainability reporting During 2013 we carried out an internal Sustainability Assurance audit at 9 facilities (Milos-Greece, Fokis-Greece, Kardjali-Bulgaria, Oberhausen-Germany, Neuss-Germany, Neuss Hafen-Germany, Marl Sinsen-Germany, Willsboro-USA, Niagara Falls-USA), selected because they contribute significantly to the overall Sustainability performance of the Group. Nine auditors from various departments (Sustainable Development, Human Resources, Environment, Health & Safety and Quality, Financial Management Organization and Operations) carried out the audits in pairs, after a thorough training by the Internal Audit in auditing procedures and by Group EHSQ in the subject matter to be audited About S&B Development (Sustainable internal reporting Sustainability and related People approach Key Performance Indicators). HealthThe Assurance project & Safety aimed at mapping how Environment accurate Social and traceable Onthe Contribution Sustainable Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance Development data submitted eachinFacility quarterly and annually fromPeople numbers Safety to Group EHSQ are, in order to: Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Improve comfort for data quality and reliability and be prepared for External Assurance audit Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management interpretation Material Check letter of definitions issues and need for improvement Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Improve tailoring of indicators per Facility Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Identify hardships in Case dataStudies collection Waste Identify areas for operational improvement through comparison of Group Facilities Awards and distinctions S&B was presented with various awards and distinctions during 2013, for example: S&B’s Turkey operation was awarded by the Biga Chamber of Industry for its 2012 exports activity. S&B’s Sustainable Development Report 2012 was distinguished in the categories: Natural Environment, Sustainability Management, Labor Relations, and Society in the BRAVO/Sustainability Dialogue 2014 Awards. What is unique about this distinction is that the “rating” is awarded by a large number of stakeholders representing various groups (civil society, academia, NGOs, business etc.) that are asked to rate companies’ reports. Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting People Management approach Our people strategy is founded on our Value of Respect to our people. People are the driving force of our business, carving the path for the sustainable growth of S&B within a culture of mutual trust and respect. Our strategic Human Resources (HR) priorities are set and reviewed regularly as enablers of our Business Improvements and Group strategy. We aspire to be considered a “Great Place” to work in our sector and in the areas we operate, providing a fulfilling and learning working environment. Through sustainable human resources practices we aim to attract, retain and develop our people to meet the challenges ahead while enjoying an exciting and rewarding journey. As we grow further around the globe, we embrace and smoothly integrate a richly diverse workforce into a culture shaped by S&B Values. As stated in our Code of Conduct, we are committed to our employees and openly communicate our approach to employment, fair treatment and equality and labor practices. In this respect, we are committed to providing equal opportunity and treatment in all employment practices (i.e. hiring, training, performance evaluation and promotions), we are committed to providing a fulfilling working environment and conditions (where forced, compulsory or child labor is prohibited), we recognize the right of all employees to seek to bargain collectively in a manner that is legally compliant, we are committed to providing a work environment that is free from harassing, abusive, disrespectful or other non-professional conduct, and we are committed to providing privacy protection of employee data maintained by the Group, in accordance with the requirements of data and privacy protection local regulations. In addition, S&B is committed to identifying and engaging into meaningful dialogue with its stakeholders, including its employees. The Group supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and avoids implication in human rights abuses as concerns the rights of all its employees and the communities where it operates. Group policies, guidance and monitoring related to Human Resources are set by the Group Human Resources function. Regional HR functions oversee regional implementation and support Facility Managers that have operational responsibility. Group Human Resources Management Policies, including recruitment and selection, performance management, talent management, learning & development, reward & benefits management, international and in country assigments and business travelling formulate a comprehensive way of managing our people. Integration of Group HR policies & systems within Regions follows a judicious approach and is based on various factors pertaining to size, structure and local conventions and norms. An overview of our performance against the people goals that we have set at Group level is outlined in “People: Goals & performance evolution” of Strategy, Goals & Performance. Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting People in numbers Americas (396) South Europe (841) North Europe (419) Asia / Pacific (182) USA (290), Greece (609), Germany (368), China (116), Brasil (59), Bulgaria (124), France (38), India (66) Mexico (47) Italy (49), Hungary (13) Spain (13), Turkey (17), Georgia (24), Morocco (5) Employee headcount pertains to countries where S&B has full ownership and management of facilities (50% and above). This total workforce number is used in all calculations of labor indices included in this section. At the end of 2013 we had a global work force of 1,838 employees and 500 contractors’ employees. The majority (93%) of our total workforce in 2013 were employed with an indefinite contract. The rest were employed in fixed term or temporary contract and 1.6% of our total workforce was employed part-time. In 2013, 18% of S&B’s total workforce was female with two out of the eleven members of the Management team and one out of nine Board of Director members being women. The majority of our workforce is in production which traditionally is not favored by women. In line with the Group’s overall gender distribution of employees, due to our business sector, 14% of our management positions are covered by women, and subsequently 86% by men. Group Employee Distribution Group employee turnover 2013 Turnover Employees Turnover % employees Voluntary Leavers Turnover % voluntary N. Europe 37 398 9% 7 1.6% S. Europe 85 799 10% 8 0.9% Americas 48 391 12% 7 1.8% Asia-Pacific 14 165 9% 9 4.8% Total 184 1753 10.5%* 31 1.7% *All leavers (voluntary, retirements, contract terminations, excluding temporaries) 2013 Voluntary Leavers per Age Age from Age to Leavers Turnover Rate 18 29 7 22.5% 30 39 11 35% 40 49 10 32.3% 50 59 3 9.7% 60 0 0,00% 2013 Voluntary Leavers per Gender Gender Leavers Turnover Rate Male 20 64.5% Female 11 35.5% About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting People, Diversity and Rights To S&B, respect for labor and human rights forms part of our organizational culture, which is shaped by the very diversity expressed through different backgrounds, cultures, perspectives, ideas and priorities of our global business. This diversity is actually an advantage that helps us in achieving our goal of sustainable value growth. Our approach to diversity and human rights also derives from our commitment to a collaborative learning culture, based on teamwork and diversity value generation. Non-discrimination across our policies S&B employs on the basis of job requirements and does not discriminate on the grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, politics or religion. Within the same context, S&B provides equal opportunities for developing employees, according to their identified development needs and their career aspirations. S&B employees’ compensation & benefits is based on a strategy which has been developed with the following objectives: Assure internal consistency and meritocracy in the employees’ remuneration; Offer competitive remuneration packages in relation to the market; Safeguard reliability and objectivity in compensation management and progression. As such, S&B’s compensation policy is based on the job profile and level, on the market dynamics and on the qualifications and performance of the employees. In that respect, when offering a hiring salary to a candidate or a salary increase or promotion to an existing employee, S&B does not discriminate on the grounds of gender, or on any other grounds (age, ethnic or social origin, religion etc.). In our major operation hubs (Greece, Germany and the United States, where in total almost 70% of our workforce is located), we provide benefits to our employees that are over and above their minimum regular compensation. In Germany, a private pension plan is offered to all employees to participate. In Greece, a private medical plan and a private pension plan is offered to all Company employees, and a medical coverage is provided also to temporary staff. In the US, all regular fulltime employees are eligible to participate in an employer sponsored retirement savings plan, as well as to a private medical health plan. Labor & human rights We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and we endorse the labor rights principles provided in the International Labor Organization (ILO) core conventions. S&B’s voluntary commitments, Group standards and labor practices are linked to the protection of Human Rights, i.e. we respect our people’s personal beliefs and Labor & human rights We are signatories to the UN Global Compact and we endorse the labor rights principles provided in the International Labor Organization (ILO) core conventions. S&B’s voluntary commitments, Group standards and labor practices are linked to the protection of Human Rights, i.e. we respect our people’s personal beliefs and personality, their cultural diversity, we offer equal opportunities and equal treatment, we acknowledge free expression of opinion, including right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. Within this context there is no tolerance of discrimination (personal, sex, religion, ethnicity etc.), forced or compulsory labor or child labor. During 2013, 68% of the Group’s workforce was located in countries that have ratified all related International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions, which means that requirements have been harmonized with national legislation, to which S&B strictly adheres. Countries of S&B operations which have not ratified all ILO Conventions represent: a) 22% of total workforce (USA, India, Mexico) for issues related to child labor; b) 22% of total workforce (USA, China) for issues related to elimination of forced or compulsory labor; c) 32% of total workforce (USA, China, India, Brazil, Mexico and Morocco) for issues related to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In these locations, S&B Regional General Managers and Facility Managers have responsibility to implement, monitor and ensure that facilities operate in line with corporate Values and our Group Code of Conduct and practices, which are binding for all S&B employees, with no exceptions, and pertain to respect for fundamental human rights, as well as principles and rights at work. Strengthening the S&B Human Resources systems in facilities worldwide is a further insurance. The risk of incidents of child labor or forced or compulsory labor is further dealt with by S&B’s thorough employee selection process, which is part of the S&B Group’s comprehensive Human Resources System already fully integrated in our USA, India and China operations, ensures that no individual under 18 years of age is recruited and employed by the organization. Moreover, S&B’s work procedures rule out the possibility of forced or compulsory labor and deal with related issues (such as forced overtime, threat of firing etc.) for our operations located in countries “at risk”. In addition, employees are periodically trained on HR policies that promote fundamental principles & rights at work. Risk assessment process and risk ranking components of the yearly Internal Audit plan examine the risks of noncompliance on issues such as the ones described above, that may arise either from the nature of an operation or from the country in which an operation is located. This process has not identified so far any operations whose nature creates a significant risk of non-compliance with our standards pertaining to rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining, or occurrences of child labor or forced or compulsory labor. In 2013, no significant incident of unfair or discriminatory treatment was reported from our operations. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Learning & Development We seek to develop and maintain a skilled technical workforce and a high caliber competent team of executives meeting current and future challenges. S&B perceives learning and development as an investment in its long-term sustainable growth. The main objectives of our Learning & Development strategy are to: Drive and accelerate business strategy Instill company culture and values Unleash people’s talents and full potential to meeting existing and emerging business needs Create capability for the future driving organizational excellence The further design of a Learning & Development Curriculum to support organizational excellence and growth strategy is one of S&B’s strategic Human Resources priorities. Training by Category Total Training Hours 2013 2013 total training hours per employee type Training is offered to S&B and contractor’s employees with special emphasis to technical, safety, environmental, quality, and management issues. The increase of training and development programs which was noted in past years continued unabated in 2013. Collection of training data from all S&B locations worldwide was uniform amounting to almost 98,000 hours of training from all Group facilities, a 78% increase to 2012. This figure corresponds to approximately 24.1 hours of training per employee against the total workforce. The high increase in training hours from 2012 to 2013 is due mainly to the increase of technical trainings for our technical staff in our operations in Greece. All kinds of technical training, including environment, health &safety and quality issues corresponds to 88% of our total training hours, which showcases our commitment to have a highly skilled technical workforce in place, ensuring a safe working environment and products of high quality. Contractors’ employees training was also implemented and relevant data may be reviewed in the Health & Safety training section of this report. Once completed, major training initiatives are evaluated according to a detailed process. Participants complete an evaluation form and also provide feedback to the HR department, especially in case of major initiatives. A few months after the training, an evaluation of Learning & Behavior Change takes place with discussions and assessment between the trained employee, his/her supervisor and HR. In addition to the above more formal training, each year various Group facilities provide counseling and awareness-raising around wellbeing, health and safety issues, personal life challenges and vocational orientation. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Case Studies About S&B Sitemap Sustainability approach Search People Health & Safety Create Charts Environment Social Contribution Solid Transformation On Reporting Sustainable Development Report 2013 Integration of NYCO Minerals Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting The inclusion of NYCO Minerals into the S&B Group at the end of 2012 set an important milestone for S&B’s sustainable value growth vision. From a Human Resources (HR) perspective, it set new challenges as the Americas Region doubled in size, with new locations in the USA (Wilsboro, NY and Seneca, MI) and a new country of operation (Mexico). 2013 was an intensive year with members of both organizations working together to exchange information, practices, knowledge and explore ways to operate as one Case Studies team effectively and efficiently. As a result, an integrated Americas organizational structure was put in place, building on our peoples’ skills and competencies. Key positions in the organization were assigned to executives coming from the NYCO organization, such as the Americas Operations Manager, and the Americas EHSQ Manager. A full integration of HR systems and practices in all our USA operations remains one of the major People priorities for the Americas Region in 2014 and 2015. Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Managing People seminars Sustainable Development Report 2013 Our 2012 Employee Commitment Survey About S&B revealed the Sustainability approach to provide need for supervisors Peoplemore systematic feedback to Health & Safety subordinates with Environment emphasis Social to people development. Contribution On Reporting In reaction to this, a Management seminar for foremen from Milos and Fokis, our main production sites in Greece, was kicked-off in 2013, as well as for managers and supervisors in Germany and France. The main training objectives were to develop the team’s Managerial Skills and equip them with tools and techniques to handle issues related to their Integration of NYCO subordinates, while creating a feedback Minerals culture. The topics covered included communicating effectively, motivating people, giving feedback, managing a diverse workforce, Case Studies handling conflicts and adjusting management and communication style based on individual needs. The inclusion of NYCO Minerals into the S&B Group at the end of 2012 set an important milestone for S&B’s sustainable value growth vision. From a Human Resources (HR) perspective, it set new challenges as the Americas Region doubled in size, with new locations in the USA (Wilsboro, NY and Seneca, MI) and a new country of operation Leadership program in India (Mexico). 2013 was an intensive year with members of both organizations working together to exchange information, practices, knowledge and explore ways to operate as one team effectively and efficiently. As a result, an integrated Americas organizational structure was put in place, building on our peoples’ skills and competencies. Key positions in the Withinorganization were assigned 2013 a Leadership program to executives was designed coming and from the NYCO implemented in organization, our operations such as the in India Americas over an 8-month period, Manager, mainly forand Operations employees havingEHSQ the Americas Manager. people management A full integration of HR systems and practices in all our USA operations remains one of the major People priorities for the Americas responsibility. Using a blend of conceptual inputs and exercises, the program provided a comprehensive learning and development process with the objective of helping Region in 2014 and 2015. participants: Acquire knowledge of different leadership models and theories Identify their leadership style Enhance their leadership skills and competencies. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting The focus areas of the program were covered in four phases: Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology AddingManagerial value effectiveness Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Leading self Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management Leading letter others Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Leading team members Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Life coaching and vocational orientation S&B offers employees and their families a series of benefits and opportunities that are related to local-specific needs and social Download report in pdf circumstances. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology A life coaching Adding value seminar was held for 40 employees and their Governance spouses People, Health providing participants Rights Greece, in Milos, Diversity and Energywith the opportunity of mapping the drivers forContent, their happiness Volunteerism Scope and and Boundary personal Our fulfillment. organization During the seminar Stakeholder they also explored Engagement ways&of Learning being more effective Development Health & Safety personal Training their Land in achieving targets. Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water A vocational orientation training program was offered to 55 children, both of S&B employees and of local community members in Fokis, Greece during 2013. The program aimed About S&B Sustainability Case Studies approach People Health & Safety Environment Waste Social Contribution On Reporting to help Our them business inclinations identify theirStrategy, Goals &and thus make sound Performance People in numberswhen choosing decisions Safetytheir career path. Materials Air and GHG emissions Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Case Studies Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Providing for Key employees sustainability data and their families’ well-being Case Studies Water Download report in pdf Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions In the USA, we provide the S&B Employee Assistance Program (EAP), a 24/7 confidential counseling andCase referral hotline for employees, spouses, and family members who Studies reside in the employee’s household. The EAP is designed to help participants resolve job related, personal and family problems. The program includes a website with additional About resourcesS&Band self-assessment tools. approach Sustainability People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology About S&B Adding value Sustainability Governance approach People People, Diversity and Rights Health Health & Safety Environment Energy Download report Social Contribution Volunteerism in pdf On Reporting Content, Scope and Boundary In OurGreece, Our business where approximately organization Strategy, Stakeholder 400 Goals &people are working People Performance Engagement in ourinproduction Learning &numbers Development facilities of Milos Safety Health and & Safety Training haveManagement long established the Fokis, we Materials Land servicesin of Communities Contribution a Social Worker. numbers The Social Methodology GRI IndexScope and Content, Worker’s Adding valuemain Management letter accountabilities Governance include the support of employees Material issues People, and their Diversity Case Studies family members and Rights Health especially in cases Product Stewardship Energy of serious illnesses Volunteerism or workplace Biodiversity Case Studies incidents. The support is both on Boundary Contact Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development HealthStudies & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers a psychological scale wellsustainability as Key data as on a practical scale, from providing counseling toCase helping with logistics and Water paperwork in cases of hospitalization etc. This service GRI Index has a long Management letter Material Case issues Studies Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Waste Case Studies Contact history at S&B, being a strong asset of its social policy. Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Waste Case Studies Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Health & Safety Management Approach To S&B, promoting and fostering a healthy and safe environment is a priority going beyond numbers and statistics. It is about the collective and continuous effort towards the implementation of proactive safety practices and continuous improvement. Our approach to Health & Safety is to encourage safe behaviour in all our employees and contractors and minimize or eliminate occupational health hazards. A comprehensive framework of Health & Safety is reflected in our Corporate Policy of Quality, Environment and Health and Safety. Our ultimate goal is to achieve “zero” accidents and “prevent” any risk to safety and health of direct and indirect S&B employees. Assessing the key findings from our safety practices, i.e. behavior-based methodology (including on site management safety visits, safety barometers), timely incident reporting and investigation, as well as awareness and training initiatives, have been key to defining areas for improvement and designing action plans. In 2013, one additional Group Policy was issued on Risk Assessment, which pertains mainly to occupational H&S hazards and risk assessment. The Group Environment, Health & Safety and Quality (EHSQ) function stands within the Group Sustainable Development Department and is responsible for Health & Safety Group policies, target setting, consulting, and monitoring of implementation and performance. The function may also coordinate Group-wide projects implementation. Operational responsibility for EHSQ is held by Facility Managers, who in cooperation with Regional EHSQ Managers deliver on performance. Certification per OHSAS 18001 is in progress at all Facilities. Apart from obtaining certification, the development of certified H&S management systems across all our operations, ensure that their principles, standards and systems are embedded by all our employees. The current certification status based on the number of S&B and supervised contractors employees at Group facilities is 17%, aiming to reach 100% for all active facilities by the end of 2014. Finally, we work on identifying and understanding the potential health, safety, environmental and societal impacts of the products from the production to their use, recycle and disposal with the purpose to eliminate or minimize such impacts. An overview of our performance against the health & safety goals that we have set at Group level is outlined in “Health & Safety: Goals & performance evolution” of Strategy, Goals & Performance. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Safety Safety is one of S&B’s Values: “We secure safe working conditions and we all behave accordingly” and all methods and tools for the creation of a strong safety culture aim at the “zero” accidents target for all people working with S&B supervision. Methods focused on accident prevention and improvement of attitude towards safety have been introduced gradually across the Group’s facilities within the past decade, including Management Safety Visits, Safety Barometers and Incident Investigations, except in Asia-Pacific Region, which is planned for 2014. Read more here. Emphasis on Ergonomics In 2013, following the risk analysis of the Group’s 2012 Lost Time Accidents (LTA) data, an Ergonomics Campaign was launched. Evaluation had revealed that more than half of LTAs are caused by hazards associated with Ergonomics and about 20% are related with Muscle Skeleton Disorders (MSDs). The Ergonomics Campaign, spanning the entire S&B Group and cascading from high level managers down to each facility’s employee and supervised personnel, placed emphasis on creating awareness and the tools for improvement. Read more in our Ergonomics case study. Safety Indicators 2013 A 37% improvement in the Accident Frequency Rate is recorded for 2013, in comparison to 2012, and attributed to increased awareness of all personnel about the “safety value”. Yet it is far from “zero”, which is the ultimate goal. The Ergonomics Campaign did contribute to the reduction, and so did the upper management involvement in the Safety Indicators 2013 investigation of all lost time accidents. A 37% improvement in the Accident Frequency Rate is recorded for 2013, in comparison to 2012, and attributed to Nevertheless, the tragic fatal accident of a Contractor’s worker in the underground bauxite mine at Fokis, Greece increased awareness of all personnel about the “safety value”. Yet it is far from “zero”, which is the ultimate goal. in August 2013 has been devastating for the Group. The accident involved the operator of an underground loader The Ergonomics Campaign did contribute to the reduction, and so did the upper management involvement in the vehicle and the causes are still under official investigation. investigation of all lost time accidents. Nevertheless, the tragic fatal accident of a Contractor’s worker in the underground bauxite mine at Fokis, Greece in August 2013 has been devastating for the Group. The accident involved the operator of an underground loader vehicle and the causes are still under official investigation. Basis of Index Calculation Frequency Rate: (number of incidents with at least one day lost x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Severity Rate: (lost calendar days x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Indicators cover both direct employees and supervised contractor employees, while severe and fatal accidents are reported separately. Basis of Index Calculation Frequency Rate: (number of incidents with at least one day lost x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Severity Rate: (lost calendar days x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Indicators cover both direct employees and supervised contractor employees, while severe and fatal accidents are reported separately. Basis of Index Calculation Frequency Rate: (number of incidents with at least one day lost x 1,000,000)/Total working hours Severity Rate: (lost calendar days x 1,000,000)/Total working hours About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Indicators Our business cover both direct employees Strategy, and supervised contractor Goals & Performance employees, while People in numbers severe and fatal accidents Safety are Materials Communities Methodology Content, Scope and reported Adding valueseparately. Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Health Health management includes issues such as dust or noise which may affect the wellbeing of employees. From top management to the lower levels of hierarchy, everyone is committed to ensuring the health of our people and methodically manages workplace conditions and hazards towards the “prevention” goal. Monitoring of employee health covers majority of employees securing in all circumstances their “personal, confidential” nature, in compliance with legislation. Dust Dust generated from mining, processing and handling of S&B’s products poses a potential impact to workers’ health, especially as pertains to the respirable fraction of dust. Minimization of occupational exposure to dust lies at the heart of S&B’s practices for improvement of workplace conditions, use of appropriate personal protective equipment and systematic training. Dust measurements are carried out regularly and good practices are followed according to strict standards. The S&B Group continued to implement measures resulting from its obligation to the “Social Dialogue Agreement on Workers’ Health Protection through the Good Handling and Use of Crystalline Silica and Products Containing it”. Target at Group level is for dust dose on each employee to be 20% below thresholds of local regulations (by end 2014). Monitoring of this target set at 2011 began with respirable dust exposure mapping during 2012 (covering 88% of employees and supervised contractors) and continued in 2013. Personnel exposed to dust above the Group target has decreased from 9% in 2012 to 2.6% in 2013 following investments in improving conditions where such were needed. 2013 Dust exposure mapping – % of employees exposed above 0.8x legislation limit such were needed. 2013 Dust exposure mapping – % of employees exposed above 0.8x legislation limit Noise Noise is a parameter monitored and managed to prevent potential impacts to employees’ health. Target at Group level is that no employee is exposed to noise levels above 85dB(A) without hearing protection at all times during an 8 hour working day for each S&B facility and worksite (to be achieved by end 2014). Group data reveals that employee exposure to above 85 dB(A) without use of hearing protection has improved from 20% in 2012 to 13% in 2013 through investments in insulation of cabins in mobile equipment and vehicles. Although gradual progress has been made, the target is proving difficult to achieve in certain mining activities, where air drills and hammers are operated manually, and work on alternatives is underway. 2013 Noise exposure mapping – % of employees exposed above 85dB(A) Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Health & Safety Training All employees and supervised contractors’ employees attend Health & Safety training depending on their duties and responsibilities. Training is monitored at site-level, to make sure that all H&S measures have been communicated adequately and employees have acquired the required skills and knowledge to perform their job according to the S&B Group’s standards and procedures. For Contractors with their own supervision, a contractual obligation provides for compliance with necessary Health & Safety requirements. Moreover, a relevant S&B Group procedure is under consultation. In 2013, a considerable increase in Health & Safety training programs was achieved involving S&B employees and supervised workers of contractors, who attended 21,095 hours of training. This amounts to an average of 9.5 average training hours / employee (up from 6.5 average hours / employee in 2012) and well above the Group target that has been raised to 6 average hours training/employee every year in 2014. During 2013 training focused on the organization of Health & Safety days or weeks or monthly Safety campaign, a practice now established throughout the Group. These included training on: Ergonomics (Muscle Skeleton Disorders) Emergency procedures & medical aid Silica potential health effects Communication signals at worksites Psychosocial conditions and risks Man-hours training​on H&S issues Number of S&B and supervised employees Average man-hours training on H&S per employee (S&B and supervised employees) About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Product Stewardship Every product sold (bentonite, perlite, bauxite, wollastonite, continuous casting fluxes etc.) is accompanied by a safety data sheet (SDS) that provides all necessary details for its safe use, handling and disposal. SDSs are issued for all products whether hazardous (legislation requirement) or non-hazardous. Work on development of a Group procedure for “Management of hazardous materials” was initiated in 2013 and completed in April 2014, to be enforced by January 2015. The objective of this procedure is to ensure that hazards associated with all materials used and products produced in the Group facilities are identified, adequately assessed and communicated to employees, customers and third parties, so as to ensure their health and safety protection and that control measures are established for the Use and Storage of hazardous materials and Disposal of Hazardous waste. An associated target for substitution of hazardous products with more environmentally friendly ones has been set, to amount at 10% of new/new products by end of 2014. At the same time, training on the safety use of raw materials and products is implemented at all Facilities with development of SDS even for non-hazardous products. Product stewardship is about identifying and understanding the potential health, safety, environmental and societal impacts of the products from the production to their use, recycle and disposal with the purpose to eliminate or minimize such impacts. The role of Product Stewardship Committees is to respond to that need and through collaboration with experts to advise on initiatives and programs to be implemented, based on factual information, while maintaining awareness through follow up of regulatory changes. A Product Stewardship Committee has been in place at the USA Willsboro operations since 2003 (former NYCO Minerals Inc., acquired by S&B in 2012), concerning wollastonite products. The Committee’s scope was expanded in 2013 to include other products of the S&B Group applicable to the Americas Region. In this respect two epidemiological – toxicity reviews elaborating on environmental and H&S impacts of wollastonite (updating a previous one) and perlite were sponsored by S&B and carried out by third party experts. Along the same lines, the Group is currently examining the creation of other Regional Product Stewardship Committees with a clear agenda led by each Region or Group EHSQ depending on scope. Life Cycle Assessment may be considered as a tool to support product stewardship and its value – albeit with its shortcomingshas been recognized since 2007. At that time S&B participated in a joint IMA-Europe (Industrial Minerals Association Europe) project which resulted in the calculation of Life Cycle Impact (LCI) data for the bentonite sector; due to the average used, LCI data were not considered adequate and currently a study is underway to evaluate LCI for powder activated bentonite and for pet litter grade. Should there be a demand for LCI data by Customers, the model developed will be expanded to cover the exact grades supplied by S&B for the products produced. Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sitemap About S&B Search Sustainability approach People Create Charts Health & Safety Environment Solid Transformation Social Contribution On Reporting Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Sustainable Development Social Contribution Reporting2013 On Report Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Ergonomics: Case Studies a topSafety priority Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Case studies Health Sustainable Development Report 2013 A Group-wide Ergonomics Initiative was launched in 2013 in response to an analysis indicating that over 50% of lost time accidents were Ergonomics-related. Awareness raising Health & Safety Training and training began at the highest level and was cascaded down to facilities, tailored to individual needs. Key activities during 2013 included classroom and on-the-job training for Product About Stewardship S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting all hierarchical levels, as well as mapping of job activities and work areas that need improvement. Case Studies More than 50 colleagues from all Regions, including the CEO, General Managers, operations and facility managers participated at an Ergonomics workshop. Areas for improvement were identified and specific key performance indicators where selected to monitor implementation, with emphasis on training of all employees within 2013, Case Studies identification of 2 job activities with increased potential to generate MyoSkeletal Disorders and a recommendation to include Ergonomics in risk assessments and shop floor Management Safety Visits. During the year the majority of S&B employees, including those of supervised subcontractors, attended trainings organized by the Group and Region safety officers according to a generic training material adjusted Sitemap Search to each facility’s needs. Create Charts Solid Transformation Case Studies Sustainable Development Report 2013 Ergonomics: a top priority Finally, mapping of job activities and work areas at facility level identified improvement needs such as: reduction of forklift drivers’ work-time to 6 hours where vibrations surpass recommended levels; adjust blasting pattern to obtain rock size lumps that are easier to handle; adjust work processes to avoid performing tasks that demand high physical force About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting etc. A Group-wide Ergonomics Initiative was launched in 2013 in response to an analysis indicating that over 50% of lost time accidents were Ergonomics-related. Awareness raising and training began at the highest level and was cascaded down to facilities, tailored to individual needs. Key activities during 2013 included classroom and on-the-job training for Safety training can be fun all hierarchical levels, as well as mapping of job activities and work areas that need improvement. Case More than 50 The annual Studies colleagues from Occupational all Regions, Accidents including Prevention Weekthe CEO, has (SIPAT) General becomeManagers, operations an institution in S&B’s managers facilityfacility and Brazil sinceparticipated each year byworkshop. at an Ergonomics 2002. Organized an Internal Teamforfor Areas improvement (CIPA) itand were identified Accident Prevention goes specific beyond key performance conforming indicators to local wherethat regulations, selected simplytoaskmonitor implementation, for annual with to emphasis safety training, a training training onthat of all employees is designed 2013, needs. withinspecific for the facility’s identification The 2013 week of 2covered job activities themes withonincreased accidents,tostress, generate domestic potential MyoSkeletal environment andDisorders its impactand a recommendation on our to include lives and occupational safety. A digital in Ergonomics risk assessments lecture on “The power andofshop floor enthusiasm” Management by motivational Safety Visits. speaker Prof. Gretz was well attended. This year’s SIPAT motto chosen through an internal competition “Company and employee consciously against accidents” was printed on the commemorative t-shirt received by all employees. During the year the majority of S&B employees, including those of supervised subcontractors, attended trainings organized by the Group and Region safety officers according to a generic training material adjusted to each facility’s needs. S&B’s Durgapur plant also transformed safety training into a celebration during India’s “National Safety Day”. The day’s Safety message was reinforced by fun activities: a Safety Finally, mapping of job activities and work areas at facility level identified improvement needs such as: reduction of forklift drivers’ work-time to 6 hours where vibrations surpass skit presentation, a Safety Talk competition including a Safety Slogan prize, and a children’s drawing competition. recommended levels; adjust blasting pattern to obtain rock size lumps that are easier to handle; adjust work processes to avoid performing tasks that demand high physical force etc. Laboratory safety workshop in Germany S&B in Germany organized a Laboratory Safety seminar focused on safety practices as opposed to safety “theory”. The seminar was organized around selected and preprepared real cases from a lab’s everyday work. The participants formed small working groups with members from various labs that “processed” the selected cases and presented their actions and conclusions to the entire group followed by a discussion. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology All about health Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Ergonomics advice for each workstation, healthy eating, a health check-up and “how to avoid stress” counseling was among the “menu” of the Health DaysContact organized in Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Germany’s Oberhausen Case facility bringing free advice and services to S&B employees. Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions On the other side of the Atlantic, a Health Circuit ran for 2 days during all shifts at S&B’s Brazil facility withCase a team of five nurses and one dentist monitoring the health of Studies employees. Medical history on health conditions, lifestyle, stress levels, quality of relationships, and socioeconomic & demographic characteristics was collected, as well as health data such as blood pressure, blood glucose and oral health. Safeguarding medical and personal data, at the end of the year a summary report on the physical and emotional condition of employees helped in choosing the appropriate Health Insurance for them. The Health Circuit proved to be a very good tool to support the implementation of OHSAS 18001. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting IMA-Europe Dust Our business Monitoring Program Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology About S&B Adding value Sustainability Governance approach People People, Diversity and Rights Health & Safety Health Environment Energy Social Contribution Volunteerism Content, Scope and On Reporting Boundary Our business organization Strategy, StakeholderGoals & Performance Engagement People Learningin&numbers Development Safety Health & Safety Training Materials Land Management Communities Contribution in numbers Methodology S&B was actively involved in the establishment of Employers-Employees agreement (social dialogue) for the diffusion of good practices in the handling of crystalline GRI Index silica and Adding value letter Management Governance Material issues People, Diversity and Rights Case Studies Health Product Stewardship Energy Biodiversity Volunteerism Case Studies Content, Scope and has been reporting since 2008 on the status of all facilities in Europe, even for the facilities not falling under the Agreement. S&B, and in particular the bentonite Boundary Contactactivities at Milos Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Key sustainability data Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Case Studies WaterManagement Land Contribution in numbers GRI Index (Greece), have Management letter been participating Material for issues Case Studies more than 10 years in the development Case Studies of the IMA DMP (Industrial Product Stewardship Minerals Waste Association Biodiversity Europe Dust Case StudiesMonitoring Program), that qualifies as Contact the largest multi-company/multiple-site coordinated dust monitoring programme inCase Key sustainability data Europe (and probably the Studies world) Water Air and GHGand serves as a good example of how hazardous exposures emissions About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting should About S&Bbe monitored andCase Studies consequently Sustainability be controlled. Similarly, approach Peopleperlite activities are monitored Health & Safetyin the sameWasteCase way,Studies but not reported under Environment SocialtheContribution IMA DMP as perlite does not subscribe On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Air and GHG emissions Communities Methodology Our to abusiness sector within IMA. Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Case Studies Content, Scope and Boundary Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Download Studies in pdf Casereport GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Environment Management approach As a leading global provider of mineral-based industrial solutions, serving a wide range of applications and end markets, we strive to improve ours and our customers’ environmental footprint. Our environmental strategy is based on the fundamental principle of prevention and is implemented in line with our Corporate Environment, Quality, Health and Safety policy. Our operations cover the entire industrial minerals value chain, from extraction of minerals (referred to as “upstream” operations), to processing and production of customized products (referred to as our “downstream” operations). Downstream operations in recent years generate more than half of our total consolidated sales (approximately 65% in 2013). Our active mines, mainly opencast, are located in 8 countries around the world and are focused principally on the extraction and processing of industrial minerals, including bentonite, perlite, wollastonite and the metal ore bauxite. Environmental impacts associated with transportation of our input materials, of our products to customers and employee travel are noted, however the complexity of collecting such information has not produced reliable and verifiable data, yet. We work on identifying and understanding the potential health, safety, environmental and societal impacts of the products from the production to their use, recycle and disposal with the purpose to eliminate or minimize such impacts. Our material environmental issues, resulting from our risk and materiality assessment include management of materials (extracted and used in our processing), land use and biodiversity management of our extraction activity, resources use such as energy and water, and production of waste and emissions, mainly pertaining to dust form the processing of industrial minerals. Limits set by legislation are the minimum standard we apply and we may even decide to set even stricter limits for certain environmental aspects. Our goals and targets are set with a 3-5 year outlook and compliance with legislation is considered the minimum standard, with even stricter limits set for certain aspects. The Group Environment, Health & Safety and Quality (EHSQ) function stands within the Group Sustainable Development Department and is responsible for Environment Group policies, target setting, consulting, and monitoring of implementation and performance. The function also coordinates Group-wide projects implementation. Operational responsibility for EHSQ is held by Facility Managers, who, in cooperation with Regional EHSQ Managers, deliver on performance. Certification per ISO 14001 is complete in the majority of the Group’s facilities. Apart from obtaining certification, the development of certified Environmental management systems across all our operations, ensure that their principles, standards and systems are embedded by all our employees. The current certification status based on the number of S&B and supervised contractors employees at Group facilities is 73% with 2 new certifications apply and we may even decide to set even stricter limits for certain environmental aspects. Our goals and targets are set with a 3-5 year outlook and compliance with legislation is considered the minimum standard, with even stricter limits set for certain aspects. The Group Environment, Health & Safety and Quality (EHSQ) function stands within the Group Sustainable Development Department and is responsible for Environment Group policies, target setting, consulting, and monitoring of implementation and performance. The function also coordinates Group-wide projects implementation. Operational responsibility for EHSQ is held by Facility Managers, who, in cooperation with Regional EHSQ Managers, deliver on performance. Certification per ISO 14001 is complete in the majority of the Group’s facilities. Apart from obtaining certification, the development of certified Environmental management systems across all our operations, ensure that their principles, standards and systems are embedded by all our employees. The current certification status based on the number of S&B and supervised contractors employees at Group facilities is 73% with 2 new certifications during 2013, and aiming to reach 100% for all active facilities by the end of 2014. We monitor those issues (including environmental issues) that could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial position, operations or future prospects. In the Annual Financial Report 2013, we describe extensively those Risk factors that we currently consider to be material. For the year 2013, we make reference to potential changes to applicable laws and regulations also pertaining to Environment, the cost of energy prices, natural disasters etc. There may be additional such risks and uncertainties at present considered immaterial, or not know to us. We are constantly reviewing our internal and external business environment to udpate our risk factors. In the current global context of scarce natural resources, increasing energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions, our commitment to responsible environmental management is a key sustainability pillar for our Group. Minimizing our environmental footprint is, therefore, an essential component of our long-term strategic goals at our daily business operations. An overview of our performance against the environmental goals that we have set at Group level is outlined in the section on Strategy, Goals & Performance. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Materials The S&B Group is a supplier of mineral raw materials extracted from its mines and of products tailored to various industrial applications. Access to land and effective management of its mineral resources and those purchased is of primary concern to the Group, so as to be able to satisfy current as well as future demand for its products, while at the same time ensuring efficient management of these resources and their effective use in the production processes. The typical unit operations in the processing stage vary according to the product and may include crushing, beneficiation, drying (fluid bed, rotary, spay), grinding, screening, milling, blending, packaging. Responsibility for our products means understanding and efficiently managing the impact that their production, use, recycling and final disposal may have to human health and the natural environment, i.e. the total “footprint” throughout their lifecycle. It also means improving our client’s sustainability performance, where possible. Materials used in the Group’s entire production cycle, including materials purchased and extracted are identified in the Tables below: Materials used by the S&B Group Unit Group Total 2013 MT (or equivalent MT) of products produced (saleable) (at the end of the reporting MT (Metric 3.685.107 period) Tones) Extracted material MT 3.016.772 ANFO (explosive) consumed kg 635.650 Zelatine (explosive) consumed kg 270.231 Pb batteries purchased kg 7.403 Tyres purchased kg 166.847 Lubricants purchased kg 288.063 Quantity of Minerals used in bentonite, wollastonite and fluxes product recipes’ like MT 306.834 spodumene, graphite, coal, cryolite etc. Waste materials (from other industries) used in production MT 37.179 Quantity of Chemicals (not laboratory ones) used in product recipes like soda, starch MT 56.134 etc. Heavy Oil lt 13,532,598 Diesel Oil lt 11,520,513 Liquified Petroleum Gas kg 1,756,506 Quantity of Minerals used in bentonite, wollastonite and fluxes product recipes’ like MT 306.834 spodumene, graphite, coal, cryolite etc. Natural Gas m3 16,067,543 Waste materials (from other industries) used in production MT 37.179 Quantity of Chemicals (not laboratory ones) used in product recipes like soda, starch MT 56.134 A Group guideline for exploitation of waste from other industries as an input material into our operations sets the etc. framework for such efforts to be intensified, where possible. The utilization and exploitation of reusable materials Heavy and Oil by-products from other industries (such as fly ash and rice husks) for the production of new lt products 13,532,598 is significant Diesel Oilin all our Continuous Casting Fluxes (CCF) operations around the world for many years lt already. 11,520,513 Approximately 10 out of the 45 ingredients normally used in the product formulation of continuous casting fluxes Liquified Petroleum Gas kg 1,756,506 are based on such materials, which in 2013 represented on average 50% of total input materials used. Natural Gas m3 16,067,543 A Group guideline for exploitation of waste from other industries as an input material into our operations sets the About S&B for such efforts framework to be intensified, Sustainability where possible. approach The utilization and exploitation People of reusable materials Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our by-products andbusiness from other industries Strategy, Goals & (such as fly ash and Performance riceinhusks) People numbersfor the production Safety of new products is Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Content, Scope and significant in all our Continuous Casting Fluxes (CCF) operations around the world for many years already.Energy Volunteerism Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers Approximately 10 out of the 45 ingredients normally used in the product formulation of continuous casting fluxes GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact are based on such materials, which in 2013 represented on average 50% of total Case Key sustainability data inputStudies materials used. Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Download report in pdf Content, Scope and Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Energy Even though the S&B Group’s activities are not energy intensive, this issue has been ranked high in materiality, both because it affects S&B’s production costs and efficiency and due to societal concern about climate change. An ambitious Group target was set in 2011 whereby energy consumption in all Group facilities should be reduced by 5%/MT of product sold within 3 years. Despite various energy efficiency measures, performance in following years showed the initial target to be too ambitious. During 2013 in particular, diversion from the energy target was again attributed to product and sales mix. Thus, the Energy target was adjusted to 1% improvement in 2014 vs 2013 per MT of product for the 8 largest facilities where 80% of the Group’s energy is consumed. Action plans with specific projects have been deployed in these facilities and incorporated in the 5 year business plan. Energy consumption per MT S&B Group 2013, Direct and Indirect Energy consumption by primary energy source in MJ Crude Oil 577,841,921 Diesel Oil 513,814,877 Electricity 422,971,222 Liquefied Petroleum Gas 70,260,256 S&B Group 2013, Direct and Indirect Energy consumption by primary energy source Natural Gas 623,420,677 S&B Group Total 2,208,308,952 in MJ Direct energy = i.e. fuels distilled from crude oil, natural gas / Indirect energy = intermediate energy purchased Crude Oil 577,841,921 and consumed from renewable or non-renewable energy sources (electricity, steam, nuclear, geothermal, hydro Diesel Oil etc.) 513,814,877 Electricity 422,971,222 Liquefied Petroleum Gas 70,260,256 Natural Gas 623,420,677 S&B Group Total 2,208,308,952 Direct energy = i.e. fuels distilled from crude oil, natural gas / Indirect energy = intermediate energy purchased and consumed from renewable or non-renewable energy sources (electricity, steam, nuclear, geothermal, hydro etc.) About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Download report in pdf Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Land Management Our mining operations are focused principally on the extraction and processing of industrial minerals, including bentonite, perlite, wollastonite and the metal ore bauxite. Our active mines are located in 8 countries around the world and are mainly opencast mines. We also operate underground mines in China (Huanyu), Sardinia (Italy) and Fokis (Greece). With the acquisition of NYCO Minerals at the end of 2012, we have added new opencast mines in the USA and Mexico, and we are reporting on their data for the first time in this report. Land management and reclamation in the various countries where the S&B Group owns or operates mines depends on the legal framework, the size of the specific mineral deposit, the previous use of land, as well as other factors of local nature that determine the reclamation process of the affected areas. The Group is committed to implement best practices in all locations of its operations towards land management in on-going activities, as well as land reclamation in areas no longer required for its activities. Our approach takes into consideration views and opinions of key stakeholders, from permitting authorities to local communities on a case-by-case basis. Our land footprint Land Reclamation of affected areas in the S&B Group per Region (2013) North South Asiain hectares Americas Europe Europe Pacific New areas brought into use in 2013 1 4 17 0 Total area in use end of 2013 218 36 585 6 Reclamation of affected areas in 2013 137 36 224 0 Reclamation of affected areas since the beginning of the activity 193 36 568 0 Land Reclamation of affected areas in the S&B Group per Region and Country (2013) in hectares Americas North Europe South Europe Asia/Pacific Aberdeen Hermosillo Landshut Egyházaskeszö Milos & Kardjali Sardinia Huanyu & Seneca Fokis & Olmedo activity 193 36 568 0 USA Mexico Germany Hungary Greece Bulgaria Italy China New areas Land Reclamation1of affected 0 areas in3 the S&B Group 1 per17Region and 0 Country 6 (2013) 0 brought into in hectares Americas North Europe South Europe Asia/Pacific use in 2013 Aberdeen Hermosillo Landshut Egyházaskeszö Milos & Kardjali Sardinia Huanyu Total area in 210 8 31 5 452 133 26 6 & Seneca Fokis & use end of Olmedo 2013 USA Mexico Germany Hungary Greece Bulgaria Italy China Reclamation 137 0 34 2 224 0 5 0 New areas 1 0 3 1 17 0 6 0 of affected brought into areas in use in 2013 2013 Total area in 210 8 31 5 452 133 26 6 use end of 2013 Reclamation 137 0 34 2 224 0 5 0 of affected areas in 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Download report in pdf Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Biodiversity S&B acknowledges the importance of protection and management of biodiversity, not only regarding the areas under its management but also for the protection and conservation of the natural environment in general. Biodiversity management has been integrated in the company’s environmental strategy for years and constitutes an integral part of S&B’s approach to Sustainable Development. Appropriate reclamation methodology, including biodiversity management, is part of each mine’s permitting procedure and management plan and varies according to local regulations. Important investments in human resources (dedicated Land Reclamation departments with experienced foresters) as well as infrastructure work (company owned plant nurseries, on-going research & development with academic and research institutions and experts) for reclamation works and biodiversity management have been made, especially in the Greek mining activities. S&B’s know-how is acknowledged by national and international bodies, while its contribution in the management of biodiversity goes beyond its “obligations” and embraces the local communities. Protected areas The total surface “in use” of S&B’s mining activities within or close to protected areas of high biodiversity value amounts to 121.5 hectares and is located in Greece: Fokis (Ghiona extraction area and Itea processing and loading facility) and Milos (Abourdehtaki loading facility). Revised regulations effective from 2011, with regard to Natura 2000 network (an EU wide network of nature protection areas established under the 1992 Habitats Directive) and SPA areas (Special Protection Areas classified in accordance with Article 4 of the EC Birds Directive), have led to expansion of the protected areas under S&B management. These four sites (8% of total number of S&B sites) require specific biodiversity management plans, with criteria set by the existing regulatory framework. For every mining site we have a biodiversity management plan, which refers to what we are obliged to do to the rehabilitate environment. Permitting by Authorities in those areas takes into account the capacity of the ecosystem and constraints or prohibitions are mandated on the area to disturb. Also new roads construction to serve new mines (serving also as forest roads) is minimized. The impact on biodiversity (flora or fauna) may be associated with noise generated from vehicles traffic, extraction equipment and blasting, the latter two applicable to opencast mines in Fokis only. Noise invariably will lead to fauna migration from the extraction activities. Fugitive dust generated from above activities may impact flora. In response, we have already submitted or are in the process of updating relevant studies with so-called Special Ecological Assessments, in order to meet the standards foreseen in regulations. In its efforts to meet upcoming regulations early-on, S&B commissioned a study already in 2006 to update biodiversity reference data in the wider area of the Ghiona Mountain, where Fokis mining activities are located. order to meet the standards foreseen in regulations. This base study recorded and studied the fauna in the period 2006-2008 and updated existing reference data. It In itscarried was efforts out by the to meet University upcoming of Thessaly, regulations Ecosystem early-on, Management and S&B commissioned a study already Laboratory, Biodiversity Department of in 2006 to update Agriculture, Crop Production biodiversity reference data in and Rural area the wider Environment in Greece of the Ghiona and validated Mountain, by the where Fokis Hellenic mining Ornithological activities are located. Society. This base Results enhancedand study recorded Environmental thestudied the faunaImpact in theAssessments period 2006-2008and the andStrategies to mitigate updated existing potential reference impacts data. It of Fokis was extraction carried out by activity on bothofflora the University and fauna Thessaly, and have Ecosystem also become Management andreference dataLaboratory, Biodiversity studies for the newDepartment of carried out. Crop Production and Rural Environment in Greece and validated by the Hellenic Ornithological Agriculture, Society. Results enhanced the Environmental Impact Assessments and the Strategies to mitigate potential impacts At the same of Fokis time, the extraction Milosonand activity both floraReclamation Fokis and fauna and have also are Departments becomecarrying out continuous reference research data for the and new studies carried out. with scientific institutions on the study and successful reproduction of local and rare plants of the cooperation areas at the company owned plant nurseries, and in improving reclamation techniques and methodology. A longstanding At the same time, the with cooperation Milosthe andInstitute of Mediterranean Fokis Reclamation Forest Ecosystems Departments are carryingofout thecontinuous National Agricultural research and Research Foundation (NAGREF) cooperation with scientificandinstitutions academic on experts on many the study different projects and successful involving reproduction the reproductive of local and rare plants biology of of the plants areas ator the selection companyof appropriate owned plant local speciesand nurseries, to endure specific in improving climate, environmental reclamation techniques and soil conditions andmethodology. also A longenhances our work. standing cooperation with the Institute of Mediterranean Forest Ecosystems of the National Agricultural Research Foundation (NAGREF) and academic experts on many different projects involving the reproductive biology of As theselection per or plants target setof aappropriate few years back, currentlytoand local species 2010 no sincespecific endure foreignenvironmental plant species and climate, are used in our Greek soil conditions also reclamation enhances our works, work.both in Fokis and on Milos island. To this end we are constantly investigating reproduction of local “new” plant species in the laboratory and at large scale in the nurseries, for use in land rehabilitation. We are also As percontinuously the target setresearching a few years new reclamation back, currentlytechniques to improve and since 2010 end results. no foreign plant species are used in our Greek reclamation works, both in Fokis and on Milos island. To this end we are constantly investigating reproduction of local “new” plant species in the laboratory and at large scale in the nurseries, for use in land rehabilitation. We are also continuously researching new reclamation techniques to improve end results. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index About S&Bletter Management Sustainability Material issues approach People Case Studies Product & Safety HealthStewardship Environment Biodiversity Social Case Contribution Studies On Reporting Contact Our business Key Strategy, Goals & data sustainability Performance People in numbers Case SafetyStudies Water Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Case Studies Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Waste Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Air Landand GHG emissions Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Case Studies Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Water Water consumption in the operations of S&B pertains mainly to: sprinkling roads used for transportation of raw materials to reduce dust emissions wet processing in some cases cooling of equipment in some processing stages S&B is committed to the sustainable management of water resources, their conservation and protection. To this end we undertake various actions towards water saving, reduction and reuse of consumption. The Group target for reducing water consumption 5% each year based on 2012 consumption was achieved in 2013 through a series of actions across facilities of the Group. In Fokis bauxite operations (Greece) the process was redesigned to avoid employing a wet circuit; on Milos (Greece), water from mines is being recycled back into the process (road sprinkling); in Hermosillo (Mexico) water is recycled from tailing ponds back into the process; in Willsboro (USA) and Kardjali (Bulgaria) settling and clarifying mine water takes place prior to returning it to riverscreeks. The raw materials mined and processed at S&B Group operations are inert and, therefore, there is no risk of groundwater pollution. In water scarce places like Milos (Greece) rain water is collected to reduce fresh water consumption. In Fokis reclamation works, a reduction of 33% in water used for irrigation of new plants was achieved in 2013. The S&B Group total volume of water recycled in 2013 amounted to 58.867m3, or approximately 11% of total volume of water consumption. Water consumption per metric tonne 11% of total volume of water consumption. Water consumption per metric tonne S&B Group Total 2013 Water withdrawal by source Water source or destination Volume (m3 ) Surface water (including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes; excluding seawater) 103,627 Seawater (recycled back to the sea) 678,163 Ground water 120,010 Municipal / purchased water 98,011 Net water consumption in the production process 312,079 Net water consumption for environmental rehabilitation / reclamation purposes 7,890 Total water recycled (excluding seawater) 58,867 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Waste Introduction Mineral waste constitutes the greater volume of S&B’s waste and is mainly overburden (inert) from extraction activities. For many years already reduction and effective management of overburden forms an integral part of extraction and rehabilitation planning, with a direct positive effect towards reducing the extraction activity’s environmental footprint. Mineral waste S&B has implemented various measures to reduce waste and manage overburden during raw materials extraction, aiming to minimize their environmental impacts. Additional data on mineral waste will be aggregated from 2014 onwards aiming to refine target setting at Group level. Certain facilities, such as our Continuous Casting Fluxes production facilities already have relevant targets. Initiatives to minimize mineral waste include: Optimization of bentonite, perlite and bauxite reserves through appropriate mixing of various qualities extracted. This way poor qualities are utilized and premium raw material qualities are not “sacrificed” for a lower value product. Conversion of mineral by-products and processing waste into saleable mineral products. Examples include Rhyolite and Garnet, as well as perlite fines produced in China and Greek perlite operations. Open pit extraction bench slope is mandated by permitting authorities, so the amount of overburden material extracted cannot be influenced by changing the slope. Nevertheless, improvement of mine planning over the years has reduced the amount of overburden produced, and for the actual overburden material extracted efficient management methods are implemented: Filling-in neighboring or same mine excavations; Use in other applications, such as additive in cement industry or aggregates for road construction; Reclamation of overburden deposits following guidelines from permitting authorities. S&B’s extensive know-how in reclamation methods and biodiversity management has played a key role in improving reclamation over the years. The total production of mineral waste and the methods of disposal from all S&B Group activities in 2013 are aggregated in the Table below. Mineral waste – Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludge Unit Value generated In land disposal m3 1,745,739 all S&B Group activities in 2013 are aggregated in the Table below. In land disposal m3 1,745,739 Filling of underground and open pits m3 1,606,726 Mineral waste – Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludge Unit Value generatedof into open water receiver (perlite fines in the sea)* Disposed MT (Metric 70,000 Tonnes) 1,745,739 In land disposal m3 Landfill disposal MT 5.842 Filling of underground and open pits m3 1,606,726 Tailings pond disposal MT 603 Disposed of into open water receiver (perlite fines in the sea)* MT (Metric 70,000 Tonnes) The risks associated with the disposal of overburden, gangue and tailings generated from the operations is Landfill and minimal disposal well managed taking into account that: MT 5.842 Materials Tailings ponddisposed disposal of are inert MT 603 The majority of disposed of materials are solids TheAppropriate risks associated with theisdisposal implemented engineering for all disposed of overburden, gangue ofand material, tailingswhich has been generated fromapproved by the operations is competent authorities. minimal and well managed taking into account that: Materials disposed of are inert Furthermore, The majority of disposed of materials are solids The use of natural Appropriate material engineering (overburden) for is implemented all voids to fill disposedin opencast or underground of material, which has been structures approved by competentexcavation stabilizes authorities.voids Disposal on land is made using bench design that takes into account the material’s angle of repose and other technical parameters such as its strength and stability; subsequent planting for ecosystem Furthermore, rehabilitation The use of natural stabilizes further material the structure. (overburden) to fill voids in opencast or underground structures stabilizesof Disposal tailings tovoids excavation ponds is limited to two sites in Bulgaria and at Hermosillo, Mexico. The volume of solids disposed is small Disposal on land is madeinusing both cases bench and design risk takes the that of liquefaction into accountminimal. Even in case the material’s angleofofliquefaction repose andno adverse effect on other technical environment parameters suchoras onitshuman health strength anticipated andisstability; due to the subsequent inert nature planting of solids/liquid for ecosystem the remote disposed andstabilizes rehabilitation location further the of sites from inhabited areas. structure. Disposal of tailings to ponds is limited to two sites in Bulgaria and at Hermosillo, Mexico. The volume of *Disposal solids of materialisatsmall disposed sea in(perlite fines) is both cases and monitored the risk of the sea ecosystem its effect tominimal. forliquefaction Even in case byof the State Institute liquefaction no concluding maintenance of “good” ecological status. This is generated by the adverse effect on environment or on human health is anticipated due to the inert nature of solids/liquidde-dusting process (scrubbers) at the disposed processing andfacility of Miloslocation the remote (Voudia, ofGreece) sites from that areas. recycled back to the sea. The total volume of uses seawater inhabited effluent discharge for 2013 amounted to 678,163 m3. This effluent discharge contains only suspended solids *Disposalrejects) (mineral and no of material chemicals. at sea (perlite As partisof fines) monitoring monitored forour environmental its effect to the seafootprint, ecosystem Hellenic the by Center the State for Institute Marine concluding Research (HCMR)ofhas maintenance been “good” monitoring ecological status. generated byclose This isenvironment the marine to our Milos the de-dusting operations process since 2009 (scrubbers) at thea processing in facility of sea study that classifies Milos water condition (Voudia, Greece)following the guidelines that uses of the Water backFramework seawater recycled to the sea. Directive The total volume of 2000/60/EC. effluent discharge Following the initial for 2013 amounted mapping, the research to 678,163 m3. This continued in 2011, 2012 effluent discharge and 2013 contains only and results are suspended solids periodically (mineral rejects)shared andwithno Milos Municipal chemicals. andofMinistry As part monitoringauthorities. surveillance The annualfootprint, our environmental program Center is scheduled the Hellenic for to continue until 2014. Marine Research The research, (HCMR) has been focuses on the monitoring theevaluation marine environment impact of potential close tofrom the authorized operationsdisposal our Milos of since 2009 perlite in a studyfines and that consistssea classifies of: recording of phytobenthos water condition following the and zoobenthos, guidelines sea of the currents’ Water mapping, Framework chemical analysis Directive of heavy metals in the seawater and of sediments, mapping of disposed 2000/60/EC. Following the initial mapping, the research continued in 2011, 2012 and 2013 and results fines deposits, seawater turbidity are measurement periodically shared and measurement of chlorophyll, with Milos Municipal and evaluation and Ministry authorities.ofThe the annual of perlite fines impact surveillance to filtering program organismsto is scheduled (mytilus galloprovinciallis, i.e. mussels). Findings up to now, taking into account continue until 2014. The research, focuses on the evaluation of potential impact from the authorized disposal of the annual field surveillance investigation perlite fines and – monitoring consists of: program recordingby ELKETHE of phytobenthosshow that: a) No deterioration and zoobenthos, of biological sea currents’ mapping, physicochemical and chemical analysis state of heavy metals insince is observed the initialand the seawater mapping of 2009/2010 of sediments, mappingand of the annual surveillance disposed fines deposits, data from then seawater on; b) The turbidity biological measurement statusandrepresented measurement by macrophytes of chlorophyll, and and benthic evaluationinvertebrate data classify of the impact of perlite ecological thefines status to filtering as organisms (mytilus while “Good”, that expressed galloprovinciallis, i.e. by generalFindings mussels). conditions, to now,metals up heavy takingandintohydrocarbons as “Excellent”. account the annual field surveillance investigation – monitoring program by ELKETHE show that: a) No deterioration of biological and physicochemical state is observed since the initial mapping of 2009/2010 and the annual surveillance data from then on; b) The Other kinds of waste biological status represented by macrophytes and benthic invertebrate data classify the ecological status as “Good”, while that expressed by general conditions, heavy metals and hydrocarbons as “Excellent”. Recycling methods are applied to other waste materials, aiming at their efficient management and best utilization. The data collected from all sites of the Group indicate that materials such as lead batteries, car tyres, metal scrap, used lubricants and paper are effectively recycled, and for some production activities and certain waste the Other kinds of waste recycling ratio surpasses 90%. Recycling methods are applied to other waste materials, aiming at their efficient management and best utilization. Non-mineral The data collected from allpurchased waste sites of the Group & recycled indicate that 2013 – such inmaterials S&BasGrouplead batteries, car tyres, metal scrap, used lubricants and paper are effectively recycled, and for some production activities and certain waste the Type of material In kg recycling ratio surpasses 90%. Lead batteries purchased 7,403 Non-mineral Lead batteries recycled waste purchased & recycled in 2013 – S&B Group 5,594 Tyres Type of purchased material 166,847 In kg Tyres recycled purchased Lead batteries 6,774 7,403 Metal scrap recycled Lead batteries 251,505 5,594 Amount of lubricants purchased Tyres purchased 288,063 166,847 Amount of lubricants consumed Tyres recycled 265,257 6,774 Amount Metal scrap of used lubricants recycled 62,910 251,505 Office Amount paper purchased of lubricants purchased 19,060 288,063 Office Amount paper recycledconsumed of lubricants 37,132 265,257 Amount of used lubricants recycled 62,910 Office paper purchased 19,060 Other kinds of waste Recycling methods are applied to other waste materials, aiming at their efficient management and best utilization. The data collected from all sites of the Group indicate that materials such as lead batteries, car tyres, metal scrap, used lubricants and paper are effectively recycled, and for some production activities and certain waste the recycling ratio surpasses 90%. Non-mineral waste purchased & recycled in 2013 – S&B Group Type of material In kg Lead batteries purchased 7,403 Lead batteries recycled 5,594 Tyres purchased 166,847 Tyres recycled 6,774 Metal scrap 251,505 Amount of lubricants purchased 288,063 Amount of lubricants consumed 265,257 Amount of used lubricants recycled 62,910 Office paper purchased 19,060 Office paper recycled 37,132 The majority of S&B products (over 80%) are sold in bulk. For the portion of production sold in packaged form, the S&B Group, in compliance with the obligations arising from regulations, has signed contracts with special authorized Alternative Packaging Materials Management Systems, or with other Bodies certified by Authorities under national legislations. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Air and GHG emissions Our operations release air emissions into the atmosphere related with potential health or environmental impacts or disturbance to neighboring communities. These emissions are the result of extracting, handling and processing industrial minerals and of fossil fuels combustion. We monitor air emissions and look for ways to control and improve performance. For the first time this year we are publicly disclosing air emissions data, even though we have been monitoring these for many years already. Dust emissions Dust emissions generated from raw materials handling and processing still remains a priority in our emissions’ management to be measured, controlled and reduced in compliance with our Group target. Modern de-dusting methods and significant investments in anti-pollution equipment and in continuous training of employees and contractors are applied to control and minimize dust emissions. At the beginning of 2012 a target was set to keep dust emissions at least -20% vs the permissible limits set by local legislation (by end 2014). Dust mapping has been carried out gradually since then, with 92% of facilities already covered and the majority of dust measurements (97%) found to be within the target. Direct and indirect GHG emissions Climate change and its impacts on economy, environment and human wellbeing have raised societal awareness and policymakers’ concerns worlwide with significant scientific research dedicated to measuring and controlling emissions that contribute to this phenomenon. S&B has identified climate change in its materiality analysis process, and thus actively monitors and communicates the Group’s performance in this aspect. Direct GHG emissions are generated from the consumption of fuels in the Group’s operations (scope 1). The estimated emissions for 2013 are 112,345 t CO2 eq. Indirect GHG emissions are generated from the electricity purchased for the needs of the Group’s activities, the largest amount for processing and a smaller for office spaces (scope 2), and is estimated at 78,232 t CO2 eq for 2013. In total, it is estimated that the S&B Group in 2013 has emitted 190,577 t CO2 eq (direct and indirect GHG emissions). Calculations were made using the GhG protocol guidelines. S&B reports direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) emissions generated from the Group’s energy consumption within its operations. We recognize that other relevant GHG emissions (scope 3) associated with the Group emissions). Calculations were made using the GhG protocol guidelines. operation exist with transportation of our products generating the material part of our scope 3 emissions. We try to S&B reports direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) emissions generated from the Group’s energy consumption minimize the environmental impact of our product transport. The bulk of transportation is conducted by vessels (in within its operations. We recognize that other relevant GHG emissions (scope 3) associated with the Group Greece, Bulgaria, Italy) and barges (Rhine river), and only final products are delivered by trucks. In America operation exist with transportation of our products generating the material part of our scope 3 emissions. We try to transportation is performed mostly by train. We are using optimum vessel size taking into account the ports and minimize the environmental impact of our product transport. The bulk of transportation is conducted by vessels (in rivers drafts. We also try to minimize our impact of business travel, by using teleconference services rather than in Greece, Bulgaria, Italy) and barges (Rhine river), and only final products are delivered by trucks. In America person visits, where possible. The Group increasingly uses IT tools that ease on-line telecommunications to assist transportation is performed mostly by train. We are using optimum vessel size taking into account the ports and our global teams. Our Fleet Management policies have introduced diesel and hybrid engine employee passenger rivers drafts. We also try to minimize our impact of business travel, by using teleconference services rather than in cars in replacement of gasoline engine ones, to reduce environmental impacts of transportation. Our approach is person visits, where possible. The Group increasingly uses IT tools that ease on-line telecommunications to assist to identify and quantify scope 3 GHG emissions that are material to S&B. our global teams. Our Fleet Management policies have introduced diesel and hybrid engine employee passenger cars in replacement of gasoline engine ones, to reduce environmental impacts of transportation. Our approach is Other air emissions to identify and quantify scope 3 GHG emissions that are material to S&B. Other air emissions (non-GHG) generated from energy combustion for 2013 are estimated from the S&B Group’s total fuel consumption (by type of fuel). Other air emissions Other air emissions (non-GHG) generated from energy combustion for 2013 are estimated from the S&B Group’s Type of Air Emissions 2013 S&B Group Total (tons) total fuel consumption (by type of fuel). NOx 642.2 Type SOx of Air Emissions 2013 S&B Group Total (tons) 55 NOx VOC 642.2 43.4 SOx PM10 55 23.7 VOC 43.4 PM10 23.7 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization About S&B Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability approach Learning People & Development Health& & Health Safety Training Safety Land Management Environment Contribution in numbers Social Contribution On GRI Reporting Index Management Our business letter Material Strategy,issues Goals & Performance Case Studies People in numbers Product Safety Stewardship Biodiversity Materials Case Studies Communities Methodology Contact Adding value Key sustainability data Governance People, Diversity and Rights Case HealthStudies Water Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Case StudiesEngagement Stakeholder Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Waste Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Air and GHG emissions Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Case WaterStudies Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About Sitemap S&B Sustainability approach Search People Health & Safety Create Charts Environment Solid Transformation Social Contribution On Reporting Sustainable Development Report 2013 Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Case Studying Studies new plant species and mine reclamation methods S&B’s Rehabilitation departments in Greece are continuously working in biodiversity management and mine reclamation techniques. During 2013, notable achievements in challenging areas were reached. Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sitemap Search Create Charts Sustainable S&B’s Milos plant nursery started testing 2 new local plant species (Hypericum tiquetrifolium, Teucrium brevifolium) for large scale reproduction and use in reclamation, since Solid DevelopmentTransformation Report 2013 they have characteristics that allow them to survive under harsh conditions: resistance to grazing, salinity, draught, vivacious root Sustainable Development system, perenniality, green during Report 2013 summertime, About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting etc. Furthermore, the results of a research About program S&B on “The Sustainability for rehabilitation suitability approach Health & to and the resistance People Safety 11 plant species in grazing ofEnvironment bentonite Social deposits in Milos Contribution Island” showed On Reporting that 4 shrubs and phrygana species (Anthyllis hermanniae, Calycotome villosa, Sarcopoterium spinosum, Phlomis Fruticosa) demonstrated sufficient growth even in unfenced areas, as well as regeneration signs (which is considered a good indicator of a species’ adaptation) with significant predominance of one of them (Sarcopoterium spinosum). Case S&B’s Studies Rehabilitation Dept. in Fokis, successfully reclaimed steep sloped calcareous deposits and excavation slopes through: Case Studies Use of tree trunk grids Dense planting of native plants Studying Application ofnew plant grids plastic stabilizing species and mine and hydroseeding reclamation of cliff plant (centranthus, euphorbia)methods and climbing plant species (ivy, honeysuckle, parthenocissus quinquefolia) S&B’s Rehabilitation departments in Greece are continuously working in biodiversity management and mine reclamation techniques. During 2013, notable achievements in challenging areas were reached. Energy efficiency for low carbon emissions S&B’s Milos plant nursery started testing 2 new local plant species (Hypericum tiquetrifolium, Teucrium brevifolium) for large scale reproduction and use in reclamation, since S&B have they participates that(EE-Quarry), in a project characteristics survive by allow them tofinanced the harsh under European Commission’s conditions: resistance7thtoFramework Program, grazing, salinity, concerning draught, the development vivacious of a new andgreen root system, perenniality, effective highlyduring modeling summertime, etc. monitoring Energy Management System that aims to improve energy efficiency towards low CO2 emissions. and Furthermore, the results of a research program on “The suitability for rehabilitation and the resistance to grazing of 11 plant species in bentonite deposits in Milos Island” showed The that 4goal is to and shrubs apply a new analysis speciestechnique phrygana (Anthyllis capable hermanniae,of improving Calycotome Energy Efficiency villosa, and to reduce Sarcopoterium Greenhouse spinosum, PhlomisGas Emissions Fruticosa) from quarries, demonstrated through sufficient the constant growth monitoring even in unfenced of well as in everyasprocess areas, the production regeneration signschain in order (which to detect athe is considered weak good points of indicator and the potential a species’ for energy adaptation) withimprovements. Another important of one goal significant predominance of themof the project is to contribute (Sarcopoterium spinosum). significantly in the optimization S&B’s Rehabilitation of resources Dept. in Fokis, needed successfully for the extraction reclaimed steep sloped of non-extractive production deposits andcalcareous minerals and excavation by using slopes field validated computational simulation methods. S&B’s through: MilosUsefacility of treein Greece is used as a pilot site for the project. The objective is to apply the solutions developed in the project to demonstrate their effectiveness. During the trunk grids summer Dense of planting 2013, project-related of native plants activities were carried out in Milos for Hauling, Loading, Transportation, Crushing and Screening of minerals. Application of plastic stabilizing grids and hydroseeding of cliff plant (centranthus, euphorbia) and climbing plant species (ivy, honeysuckle, parthenocissus quinquefolia) Creation of a Plant Micro-Reserve on Milos Island About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology The creation of a Plant Micro-Reserve (PMR) is already underway at a reclaimed area (deposit of Agia Eirini), in an initial area of approximately 30 hectares. Around Content, 40and Scope species Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Boundary Ourwood of endemic speciesStakeholder organization and 15 turf species have been Learning Engagement planted. to establish The objective isHealth & Development a populationLand & Safety Training of the majority of endemic Management in numbersfrom Milos and the Cyclades. wood species Contribution GRI Index Mild management Management letter methods areissues Material used (fencing, signs etc.)Case for the protection of selected Studies Productspecies and conservation Stewardship of biodiversity in the Biodiversity StudiesThe fact that S&B has already CasePMR. Contact studied and defined those Key that data sustainability factors affect the plant’s survival rates (climate, soil, Case Studies competing Water human activity etc.) poses a big advantage and allows for species, grazing, Case Studies Waste optimum conditions to be created for the plants to grow. Conservation of the PMR requires continuous cooperation with research institutions. Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Win-win land swap transaction with local community vote Download report in pdf NYCO Minerals, member of the S&B Group, successfully ensured extension of its mining operations through an agreement with the people of New York State. New Yorkers voted in favor of NYCO’s proposal to swap a 200 acre forest land parcel for 1,500 acres of prime recreational lands at a public statewide referendum on November 5, 2013. The agreement allows NYCO to acquire the 200-acre parcel of state Forest Preserve land to the north of its Lewis Mine. In return, it will be donating 1,500 acres of spectacular recreational lands to New York State for inclusion in the Adirondack Forest Preserve for the enjoyment of people across the State. In addition, when NYCO’s mining operations About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our the on 200 acres are complete, business the company Strategy, Goals will reclaim People & Performance and replant in numbers return it to the Forest Preserve. the land andSafety Materials Communities Methodology About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Content, Scope and NYCO now has the opportunity Adding value Governanceto extend the life of its Adirondack operations People, Diversity protect 100 jobs. At the Energy and RightsandHealth same time, the New YorkVolunteerism State will see its spectacular BoundaryAdirondack Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers Forest Preserve grow significantly Adding value Governance by new public recreational People,lands viaand anRights Diversity agreementHealthof a land exchange transaction. Energy Since the early 1950’s, NYCO Minerals Volunteerism GRIhas IndexScope Content, been and Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Boundary producing Our and supplyingStakeholder organization an industrial Learning & that mineral called wollastonite Engagement improves the Development strength Health and & Safety Training automotive quality of Land Managementand consumer plastics,in coatings, Contribution numbers Contact sealants, adhesives, Key sustainability data Case Studies Water GRI Index Management brake letter components, Material issues construction materials, ceramics, mold Casefluxes and many otherProduct Studies Stewardship applications. Biodiversity Case Studies Case Studies Waste Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water The Adirondack Land Swap exchange is a prominent example of what stakeholder dialogue can achieve, Air whereby and GHGorganizations emissions and individuals with different objectives and Case Studies Waste Case Studies concerns work together on solutions with mutual benefits for all parties involved. Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Download report Social in pdf Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Case Studies Energy savings initiative Energy savings initiatives continued during 2013 around our global operations, aiming to reduce energy consumption towards the target that has been set. Our Oelsnitz plant in Germany managed to achieve savings of up to 5% for the energy used in drying bentonite in the mills. A former maintenance workshop was converted into a bright and clean area, where four compressors were installed. Hot exhaust air from the compressors is collected through a channel and fed into the two bentonite mills, substituting some of the hot air that was originally produced from the gas generator and lowering overall energy consumption. Work on such projects is on-going and provides resource efficiency and better housekeeping. Studying new plant species and mine reclamation methods About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology S&B’s Rehabilitation departments in Greece are continuously working in biodiversity management and mine reclamation techniques. During 2013, notable achievements Content, Scope andin Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Boundary challenging Our organizationareas were reached. Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water S&B’s Milos plant nursery started testing 2 new local plant species (Hypericum tiquetrifolium, Teucrium brevifolium) for large scale reproduction and use in reclamation, since Case Studies Waste they have characteristics that allow them to survive under harsh conditions: resistance to grazing, salinity, draught, vivacious root system, perenniality, green during summertime, Air and GHG emissions etc. Case Studies Furthermore, the results of a research program on “The suitability for rehabilitation and the resistance to grazing of 11 plant species in bentonite deposits in Milos Island” showed that 4 shrubs and phrygana species (Anthyllis hermanniae, Calycotome villosa, Sarcopoterium spinosum, Phlomis Fruticosa) demonstrated sufficient growth even in unfenced areas, as well as regeneration signs (which is considered a good indicator of a species’ adaptation) with significant predominance Downloadof one of them report (Sarcopoterium spinosum). in pdf S&B’s Rehabilitation Dept. in Fokis, successfully reclaimed steep sloped calcareous deposits and excavation slopes through: Use of tree trunk grids Dense planting of native plants Application of plastic stabilizing grids and hydroseeding of cliff plant (centranthus, euphorbia) and climbing plant species (ivy, honeysuckle, parthenocissus quinquefolia) About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Social Contribution Management approach The S&B Group directly operates and manages mines, plants, processing units and distribution centers in 15 countries worldwide. Responsible management of our activities creates socio-economic benefits in the countries and communities in which we operate. Our aim is to build goodwill capital and relationships in every community based on the social relevance of our operations. We have rated our global facilities according to their social relevance (high, medium and low impact) with a methodology that measures direct and indirect employment vs. total area population. Each category corresponds to a strategic intent that guides the intensity of our Social Contribution programs and initiatives. The majority of our facilities are small with few employees and operating in remote areas. In our high and medium social relevance operations we are a major local employer, having common practices in granting preference to local residents when hiring in significant locations of operation, provided that they have the suitable skillset needed for the position. In these operations the majority of our senior management executives are locals, and so is the overwhelming majority of our workforce, in the sense that they have been born or are citizens of the country where our activity is located. Our main goal is to leave a sustainable legacy and contribute to the local communities wherever we have presence and regardless of our social relevance. In higher social relevance facilities, we have a more demanding framework, as reflected in our strategic intent. S&B Group facilities categorized per social relevance Social Relevance Strategic intent Facilities categorized High Building Communities Milos (Greece) Medium Building Relationships Burbank (USA) Kardjali (Bulgaria) Fokis (Greece) Morgongiori (Sardinia) Olmedo (Sardinia) Karabiga (Turkey) Montoir (France) Low Building Goodwill Rest of facilities Operational responsibility for Social Contribution belongs to facility Managers. They are responsible to evaluate local needs and draw up relevant social contribution action plans, in line with the Group’s Social Policy and related Low Building Goodwill Rest of facilities Operational responsibility for Social Contribution belongs to facility Managers. They are responsible to evaluate local needs and draw up relevant social contribution action plans, in line with the Group’s Social Policy and related guidelines. In high or medium impact facilities some projects may be initiated or supported by the Group Sustainable Development function or the Regional Human Resources Departments. The Group’s Social Policy prescribes that local social contribution action plans and initiatives focus around specific areas: Community infrastructure, Community development, Education, Health, Culture and projects which may cover local-specific needs. During 2013 our work was focused on improving the quality of social contribution projects and on creating more effective initiatives in local communities. This effort was reflected in the increase in the number and quality of projects per Region, and also in the improvement of employee engagement in our numerous volunteerism efforts. We seek to operate in harmony with our neighboring communities and address issues that may be arise from our operations. Our facilities have designed emergency plans to secure the sites’ preparedness to potential natural or manmade disasters. In 2013, no resettlement of households / people occurred in any of our operations and none is scheduled for the future. None of our operations underwent closure and there were no significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and indigenous rights, hence there was no necessity for a grievance mechanism to resolve such disputes. An overview of our performance against the social contribution goals that we have set at Group level is outlined in “Social Contribution: Goals & performance evolution” of Strategy, Goals & Performance. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Communities We believe in the power of partnerships and we embark into multi-stakeholder collaborations and initiatives when possible. In such a way, our projects are the appropriate answer to the concerns, aspirations and needs of the local communities. Our contribution and projects span from creation and operation of infrastructure works that promote the cultural and industrial heritage of the areas in which we are present, to active educational and cultural programs development and even more sophisticated shared value initiatives such as developing and promoting sustainable tourism. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Volunteerism Volunteerism is a central theme in our social contribution strategy. Our main goal is to contribute to society needs in the most appropriate manner through a collective and participatory process with multiple positive results. Moreover, volunteerism empowers our people and assists them to fulfill their maximum potential and build skills and competencies in areas of their interest. In 2012 we established the S&B Group Volunteerism initiative, aiming at actively involving S&B people in a common cause to help local communities and society across the world regions we operate in. The final objective is to create awareness, mobilize and engage our workforce into community issues but, in such a way, as to increase our positive social impact and multiply our social contribution. During 2013 the Group Volunteerism initiative’s theme remained the same: address health and poverty by organizing blood-drives and in-kind donations, like food or clothes, to charitable organizations. The global map shows our collective efforts around our Regions and the case study presents a deeper insight into our local activities. Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Contribution in numbers Our Social Contribution in cash payments is higher in South Europe, because our single High Impact as per Social Relevance facility (Milos in Greece), as well as the majority of our Medium Impact as per Social Relevance facilities (Kardjali in Bulgaria, Fokis in Greece, Morgongiori and Olmedo in Sardinia, Karabiga in Turkey) belong to this Region. Our Milos community Social Contribution is shown in the second chart. Donations pertain to contribution in various local associations, causes, projects, initiatives of the local community, most of them ongoing. 2013 Group Social contribution – number of projects Regions & Number and type of projects countries (excludes Global Volunteerism initiatives) Community Community Education Health Culture Special infrastructure development projects Americas USA 3 7 4 4 13 Brazil 1 Mexico 1 1 North Europe Germany 5 3 1 2 France 2 1 1 Hungary 3 1 South Europe Bulgaria 1 2 1 Greece 11 13 12 1 11 8 Italy 2 1 1 1 Spain 1 Turkey 1 1 3 2 1 Asia / Pacific China 3 India 4 1 1 2 2 Total Group 19 37 26 11 20 25 2013 Global Volunteerism engagement Regions & countries Number of facilities Number of initiatives Americas 6 17 North Europe 9 13 South Europe 7 28 Asia / Pacific 2 4 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Case Studies S&B global volunteers “live brighter” With the motto “live brighter”, S&B volunteers from 24 different facilities in 12 countries from all four S&B Regions joined forces to offer their time and efforts to local communities around the world. Americas Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 S&B Niagara volunteers in the US participated in the “Bowl-a-thon”, a fundraising bowling competition for the Jr. Achievement organization, as well as in the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge “Run for Charity”. Our US Seneca colleagues organized a fund-raising for the Seneca School District, and the company matched the total of the donated About S&B in theSustainability amount. In Brazil, S&B Volunteers participated Psychologistapproach People for the Volunteerism program Health & Safety Homeless Environment Association. Social Contribution On Reporting North Europe Case S&B Studies global volunteers “live brighter” Volunteers from S&B’s Oberhausen, Marl, and Neuss sites in Germany participated in the “Targo Run” marathon, whereby the participants’ entry fee was donated to charitable organizations, whereas in Mannheim, S&B volunteers organized and participated in a spring celebration at the “House Bethanien”, an organization for socially disadvantaged and disabled people. In France, Abbeville employees supported a local children fencing team, covering its transportation to the French championship. With the motto “live brighter”, S&B volunteers from 24 different facilities in 12 countries from all four S&B Regions joined forces to offer their time and efforts to local communities around the world. South Europe S&B employees in Bulgaria along with children from the Art & Design School, visited the home for elderly people “Dobrolubie” at Kardjali and organized a Christmas celebration. Americas In Turkey, S&B volunteers visited the “Artiqiana” home for elderly people in the framework of the World Elderlies Day. In Greece, the Athens volunteerism team “S&B in Action” S&B Niagara aiming was initiated, volunteers in the US to support participated regular volunteerism “Bowl-a-thon”, in the initiatives a fundraising throughout bowling the year, competition for and it immediately the Jr. started Achievement work organization, through a clean-up activity well preparation as and as in the JPofMorgan flats to host 65 Corporate Challenge “Run for Charity”. Our US Seneca colleagues organized a fund-raising for the Seneca School District, and the company matched the homeless in Athens. S&B employees in Italy organized and participated in the initiative “Olmedo – Miners on the road”, a restoration activity of a local pastoral building. total of the donated amount. In Brazil, S&B Volunteers participated in the Psychologist Volunteerism program for the Homeless Association. Asia / Pacific North Europe S&B volunteers in Durgapur, India, participated in tree planting and gardening activities wthin the facility’s grounds in the framework of the “15th World Environment Day”. Volunteers from S&B’s Oberhausen, Marl, and Neuss sites in Germany participated in the “Targo Run” marathon, whereby the participants’ entry fee was donated to charitable organizations, whereas in Mannheim, S&B volunteers organized and participated in a spring celebration at the “House Bethanien”, an organization for socially disadvantaged and disabled people. In France, Abbeville employees supported a local children fencing team, covering its transportation to the French championship. Celebrating minerals in our everyday lives The European Minerals Day (EMD) initiative launched in 2007 by IMA-Europe is South Europe organized every two years and invites the public to explore the world of minerals and S&B employees in Bulgaria along with children from the Art & Design School, visited the home for elderly people “Dobrolubie” at Kardjali and organized a Christmas celebration. discover more about an industry that affects every aspect of our lives. In 2013, the In Turkey, S&B volunteers visited the “Artiqiana” home for elderly people in the framework of the World Elderlies Day. In Greece, the Athens volunteerism team “S&B in Action” European Commission chose EMD as a key channel for promoting the European was initiated, aiming to support regular volunteerism initiatives throughout the year, and it immediately started work through a clean-up activity and preparation of flats to host 65 Innovation Partnership Initiative, creating synergies among all raw material stakeholders homeless in Athens. S&B employees in Italy organized and participated in the initiative “Olmedo – Miners on the road”, a restoration activity of a local pastoral building. to illustrate the role of raw materials throughout their whole value chain with special focus to innovation and resource efficiency. S&B joined in this celebration with events and initiatives in 9 facilities in Bulgaria, Greece, Germany and – for the first time – Asia / Pacific Turkey and Italy. Open days, plant tours, minerals school competitions and more were S&B volunteers in Durgapur, India, participated in tree planting and gardening activities wthin somethe the activities of facility’s organized. grounds Read moreofabout in the framework themWorld here.Environment Day”. the “15th About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Sitemap About S&B Search Sustainability approach People Create Charts Health & Safety Environment Solid Transformation Social Contribution On Reporting Sustainable Development Report 2013 Case Studies About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Case Studies Contributing in tackling youth unemployment – YOU@S&B Case Studies The YOU@S&B Social Contribution program, launched in May 2013, constitutes S&B’s contribution in tackling youth unemployment in Greece. 25 unemployed high school, as well as higher education graduates had the opportunity to gain meaningful work experience through nine months (September 2013 – May 2014) of paid occupation at S&B’s Greek operations in positions that span the company’s departments and functions: Research & Development, Mining & Processing, Environmental Management, Machinery & Electric Equipment maintenance, Sales, Communications, Sustainable Development, Finance, Accounting, Information Technology, Human Resources, Legal Services, Internal Audit and Secretarial support. The project’s aims at creating long-term value for the Greek society, since young people with little or no professional experience, acquire professional knowledge, skills and experience and improve their employment prospects. In addition, by being employed in positions that are commensurate with their qualifications, this work experience will enable them to become familiar with modern entrepreneurship and aims to empower them and help their professional development. The project was designed and realized based on transparency and meritocracy. It is a program with high expectations entailing multiple benefits for all involved parties, from the participating young people to S&B’s executives themselves. The You@S&B program will continue with a second “round” for the period 2014-2015. Investing in local community infrastructure S&B global volunteers “live brighter” S&B sponsored the installment of a WiFi service in one of Milos island’s most visited towns, Pollonia. Via a hotspot accessible for free, a fast internet connection is provided to the local community and visitors. The hotspot promotes local news and events, as well as tips about the island’s “secrets” aiming to enrich the visitors’ experience. S&B not only sponsored the hotspot and WiFi service, but also provides for its maintenance. With the motto “live brighter”, S&B volunteers from 24 different facilities in 12 countries from all four S&B Regions joined forces to offer their time and efforts to local communities around the world. A helping hand to India’s flood victims In June 2013, a multi-day cloudburst centered on the North Indian state of Uttarakhand caused devastating floods and landslides in the country’s worst natural disaster since the Americas 2004 tsunami. Though some other parts of the country, as well as some regions of Western Nepal, and some parts of Western Tibet also experienced heavy rainfall, over 95% of S&B Niagara volunteers in the US participated in the “Bowl-a-thon”, a fundraising bowling competition for the Jr. Achievement organization, as well as in the JP Morgan the casualties occurred in Uttarakhand. According to figures provided by the Uttarakhand government, more than 5,700 people were “presumed dead.” The Prime Minister of Corporate Challenge “Run for Charity”. Our US Seneca colleagues organized a fund-raising for the Seneca School District, and the company matched the total of the donated India announced an aid package for disaster relief efforts in the state. Among the companies that responded to India PM’s call was S&B’s local operation with its employees amount. In Brazil, S&B Volunteers participated in the Psychologist Volunteerism program for the Homeless Association. contributing one day’s salary, and the company itself double-matching the total amount. North Europe Establishing a scholarship scheme in Turkey Volunteers from S&B’s Oberhausen, Marl, and Neuss sites in Germany participated in the “Targo Run” marathon, whereby the participants’ entry fee was donated to charitable organizations, whereas in Mannheim, S&B volunteers organized and participated in a spring celebration at the “House Bethanien”, an organization for socially disadvantaged S&B’s Turkish operation initiated a cooperation with the Karabiga Municipality for the annual awarding of 4 scholarships to financially disadvantaged students, who have and disabled people. In France, Abbeville employees supported a local children fencing team, covering its transportation to the French championship. successfully entered higher education, and are residents of the Karabiga district’s Biga and the surrounding area. The 4 scholarships are addressed to a freshman, a sophomore, a junior, and a senior student of 4-year higher education faculties. South Europe About S&B S&B employees Sustainability in Bulgaria along with approach children from the ArtPeople & Design School, visited the&home Health Safety Environment for elderly people “Dobrolubie” at Kardjali Contribution Social and On Reporting organized a Christmas celebration. Volunteer Our business supports In Turkey, S&B volunteers Strategy, Goalsa homeless & Performance visited the “Artiqiana” home forassociation elderly people in the in People in numbers Brazil Safety framework Materials Communities of the World Elderlies Day. In Greece, the Athens volunteerism team Methodology “S&B Content, inand Action” Scope Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Boundary was initiated, aiming to support Our organization regular Stakeholder Learningthroughout volunteerism initiatives Engagement & Development the year, Health immediately and& itSafety Training started work through a clean-up Land Management activity Contribution and preparation of flats to host 65 in numbers GRI Index Support toin homeless Management the association Athens. letter “Toca S&BMaterial employees issues in Italyan de Assis”, organized ofCase initiative andthe local Catholic participated Studies Church in the that“Olmedo welcomes initiative Product Stewardship homeless – Miners people, on the was road”, Biodiversity providedCase a restoration an S&B byactivity Studies employee of a on a volunteerism local pastoral building. basis Contact in the Guarantiqueta area ofsustainability Key our Brazildata operations. The institution houses homeless people, Studies most of whichWater Case are also in need of psychiatric help. S&B’s employee, a trained psychologist, had weeklyCase Studies one-hour face-to-face meetings with some of the residents over a period of 18 months. Waste The work aimed at raising the individuals’ self-esteem, Air and GHG emissions encourage them to practice their independence and provide the opportunity for open discussion on topics of their concern. The program also included creative workshops, Case Studies Asia aiming /toPacific help participants express themselves while having fun. S&B volunteers in Durgapur, India, participated in tree planting and gardening activities wthin the facility’s grounds in the framework of the “15th World Environment Day”. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Boundary Methodology Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, GRI IndexScope and Boundary Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers Contact GRI Index Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting On Reporting S&B has been publishing a stand-alone Report on its Sustainability related issues, pertaining to People, Environment, Health & Safety and Social Contribution performance, since 2001. The 2013 Sustainable Development Report has been published solely on-line. The Report conveys a summary of our economic, environmental and social performance and progress, and also includes significant activities of the past year that contribute to our sustainable development. Certain sustainability related information is included in our Annual Financial Report (available from the Investors section of our website), as well as in our website. Where appropriate, reference and links are provided in the Report and in the GRI Index. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Methodology We report under voluntary commitments, and mainly the Global Reporting Initiative and the United Nations Global Compact. We use the GRI’s G3 Mining and Metals Sector Supplement as we find it valuable in addressing some of our performance reporting areas. Due to the size, nature and location of our activities a lot of the issues addressed in the Supplement are not applicable to S&B’s operations, as the Group is active not just in extraction but also in materials processing. Our 2013 Report has been upgraded to the GRI Application Level A, increasing our disclosure and transparency. S&B is a signatory party to the principles of the UN Global Compact since May 2008. Description of our actions and related outcomes that form our Communication on Progress as per the Global Compact’s principles are fully integrated in our Report and facilitated by the G3 Index. Our Report is not externally assured. Although we had stated that assurance would be provided from 2012, we decided to begin with the internal assurance of our data and mechanisms and a program was deployed during 2013. The internal assurance program aimed at mapping how accurate and traceable the Sustainable Development data submitted from facilities to Group EHSQ are. This quarterly and annual Sustainable Development Reporting has been established since 2012 and was further refined in 2013. This tool is aligned with our existing policies and performance indicators (in Environment, Health & Safety, Human Resources, Group consolidation policies and IT capabilities), as well as applied best practices within our industry and across the Regions where we operate. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Content, Scope and Boundary Materiality and Content Report content and material issues are defined based on our materiality assessment and relevant feedback received from stakeholders as well as developments within the S&B Group and the countries where it operates. On deciding which issues to include in our report, topics from our materiality assessment are combined with user needs in order to present a complete and accurate sustainability performance. The topics on which we report are reviewed by our Sustainability Coordinating Committee and the Group Sustainable Development Department for relevance, completeness and alignment to our strategy. This means that we might report on issues that we have not rated as highest priority in terms of their impact to our organization. Nevertheless, they might be considered as priority for external information purposes. We have mapped major stakeholders of S&B’s Group high and medium social relevance operations (see Social Contribution for more on social relevance of operations). These stakeholders are also potential users of the information that we publish in our report each year and have been identified as: local communities, public authorities and, in certain areas (mostly Greek operations), media. In addition, we have been receiving requests for sustainability-related performance from major customers and suppliers, which also use our report to obtain information. Analysts are also interested in our sustainability related performance and use our report while developing sustainability ratings on behalf of investors. Finally, employees, NGOs and academia use the report each year to stay up-to-date with the Group’s initiatives and progress. Boundary and changes in reporting Our sustainable development data are reported for fiscal (calendar) years. Unless otherwise stated, in sections where data appears the figures reflect calculations which include all S&B managed operations data. Since 2011, we have been collecting and reporting our data under our new Regional organizational structure. The geographic regions are North Europe, South Europe, Asia Pacific and Americas with responsibility for operations, sales, supply chain and support functions. Collection of sustainability related data at Group level follows a quarterly internal reporting period, where 29 indicators are collected from every facility, at Regional and finally at Group level, from all pillars (Environment, H&S, People, Social Contribution). The yearly reporting covers many additional indicators (over 100) . We do not, however, publicly report on all this data because some of it is not deemed material enough to be reported, or there may be proprietary information concerns. In addition, reliability of certain sustainability performance data is not harmonious across all facilities, yet. Nevertheless, we report sufficient data and information for the material sustainability issues of our Group to provide a clear, complete and balanced view of our sustainability performance. Recording of Economic, Environment, Health & Safety and Human Resources data and relevant key performance indicators calculations are based on relevant and acclaimed industry standards and protocols which ensure comparability and uniformity across the Group’s activities worldwide. In all sections of the 2013 Report, and in particular where data or performance indicators are reported, the scope of collection is stated (locations of operations or activity) and the basis of calculations is mentioned, as well as any major changes or revisions from previous years. For calculations of direct and indirect Greenhouse Gas emissions (CO2 t equivalent) we have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol tool. For calculation of other air emissions from fuel combustion and in lack of an Industrial Minerals sector specific guidance we have used the Guidance for Manufacturing Industries and Construction from the EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook 2013. In September 2012, we announced the acquisition of NYCO, a world-leading wollastonite supplier for high-end applications, which increases our asset base and employees. Although NYCO financial resultss had been consolidated with S&B Group results for the 4th quarter of the fiscal year 2012, we had not consolidated 2012 sustainability data accordingly for reasons of consistency and comparability on a year-to-year basis. The 2013 financial and sustainability data presented in this Report are fully consolidating NYCO, which was fully integrated in our organization during the year. A significant milestone in 2013 was the change of ownership status of S&B from being publicly listed on the Athens Exchange to becoming a privately held organization with two key shareholders. The founding family maintained its share and, through the successful execution of a mandatory tender offer in concert with the Rhone Group, assumed the previously listed portion. S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. was delisted from the Athens Exchange on July, 11, 2013. Following the delisting, a process of legal reorganization commenced in order to enhance the corporate and financing structure of the Group. This process included a broader reshuffling of existing legal entities aimed at driving structure optimization. Subsequently, the shares of S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. (historical parent) were contributed to S&B Minerals Finance S.C.A, making the latter the new parent entity of the Group. Throughout the Report the term “S&B Group”, “Group” and “S&B” refers to all S&B Group legal entities, subsidiaries and related companies for which performance is consolidated and reported through the parent entity. The consolidated financial statements of the new parent entity are a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of the historical parent S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. and contain comparative information of the previously existing S&B Industrial Minerals S.A. group for all the amounts reported in the 2013 financial statements. The Group’s organizational structure (matrix organization across Markets and Regions) remained unchanged, and consequently the way that Sustainability-related information is monitored, collected and consolidated was also not altered and contain comparative information with previous years. About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting GRI Index 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Disclosure 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Fully Management letter Continuing support statement of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Fully Governance, Material issues, Strategy, Goals & opportunities. Performance, Risk factors in Annual Financial Report 2013 p.53 (available in Investors) 2. Organizational Profile Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation Disclosure 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Following the legal reorganization the new parent entity of the Group, where financial and operational information is consolidated is S&B Minerals Finance S.C.A. The ultimate parent entity, where the S&B Group’s Board of Directors sits, is S&B Minerals Holdings S.a.r.l. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Our business, Our business 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, Fully Company Profile, Group overview section in including main divisions, operating companies, Annual Financial Report 2013 p.2-5 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully Luxembourg 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Fully Our business operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Corporate information and activities in Annual Financial Report 2013 p. 78 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Fully Our business, Our business breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Our business, Adding value 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully Boundary and changes in reporting in Content, regarding size, structure, or ownership. Scope and Boundary 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Awards and distinctions 3. Report Parameters Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation Disclosure 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Fully Fiscal Year 2013 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Sustainable Development Report 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully Contact or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully Content, Scope and Boundary, Material issues 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Fully Content, Scope and Boundary divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Fully Content, Scope and Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or Fully Content, Scope and Boundary boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Fully Content, Scope and Boundary subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases Fully Content, Scope and Boundary of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements Fully Content, Scope and Boundary and within the of information provided in earlier reports, and report, as appropriate the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Fully Content, Scope and Boundary periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Fully GRI Index Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to Fully Methodology seeking external assurance for the report. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation Disclosure 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, Fully Our organization, Governance including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Fully Yes, the Chairman of the BoD also chairs the governance body is also an executive officer. Group’s Executive Comittee. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board Fully S&B does not have a unitary board structure. structure, state the number of members of the The BoD supervises the Group’s Executive highest governance body that are independent Committee. and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Fully The S&B Group is a privately held organization to provide recommendations or direction to the with two shareholders. Both shareholders can highest governance body. provide recommendations or direction to the BoD through the Annual General Meeting, but also at each BoD meeting, as they are both represented at Board level. Employees may provide recommendation or direction to the highest governance body through the organization’s hierarchy. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Fully The compensation of each Board Member is the highest governance body, senior managers, determined on the basis of time spent and their and executives (including departure professional experience, as well as according arrangements), and the organization’s to the Company’s financial results. The main performance (including social and criteria for the compensation are the environmental performance). Company’s financial results and increase of capitalization, the achievement of overall targets and their professional experience. The compensation of all Board Members is subject to approval by the Shareholders’ General Assembly. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Fully Board members are obliged to reveal to the body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Board any kind of conflict of their own interests with those of the Group, as well as with interests which may result from significant Company transactions known to them. Board members, as well as individuals with managing responsibilities within the Group, are obliged to communicate to the Board their intentions regarding any important transactions and financial activities related to the Group, as well as to its main customers or suppliers. The relevant section of the Group’s Code of Conduct applies here as well. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and Fully The members of the BoD are selected by expertise of the members of the highest S&B’s shareholders and are individuals with governance body for guiding the organization’s expertise, qualifications and experience to strategy on economic, environmental, and guide the Group’s strategy. social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or Fully Governance values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully Governance Includes oversight of UNGC Principles overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Fully A structured evaluation mechanism regarding governance body’s own performance, the Board’s and its Committees’ activities is particularly with respect to economic, implemented for each preceding year’s environmental, and social performance. performance, and this forms the basis for a deliberation on the improvement of performance and effectiveness. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Fully Environment/Management approach UNGC Principle 7 precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Fully Governance leading to Policies & Includes the UNGC Principles and social charters, principles, or other Commitments initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully We participate, Stakeholder engagement associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully Stakeholder engagement organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Fully Stakeholder engagement stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Fully Stakeholder engagement, Case studies: Global including frequency of engagement by type and internal Sustainable Development workshop, by stakeholder group. Local community stakeholders on S&B’s material issues 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Fully Stakeholder engagement through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) G3 DMA Aspect Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress DMA EC Economic performance Fully Management letter, Adding value, Strategy, Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 Environment/Management approach Market presence Fully Social contribution Indirect economic impacts Fully Social contribution, Contribution in numbers DMA EN Materials Fully Environment/Management approach, Materials Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 Energy Fully Environment/Management approach, Energy Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 Water Fully Environment/Management approach, Water Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 Biodiversity Fully Environment/Management approach, Land Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 management, Biodiversity Emissions, effluents, and waste Fully Environment/Management approach, Waste, Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 Air and GHG emissions Products and services Fully Environment/Management approach, Product Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 stewardship Compliance Fully Environment/Management approach Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 Transport Fully Environment/Management approach, Air and Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 GHG emissions Overall Fully Environment/Management approach Actions for Principles 7, 8, 9 DMA LA Employment Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 3 – 6 Labor/management relations Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 3 – 6 Occupational health & safety Fully Health & Safety/Management approach Training and education Fully People/Management approach, Health & Safety/Management approach, Learning & development Diversity and equal opportunity Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 3 – 6 DMA HR Investment and procurement practices Fully People/Management approach, Developing a Actions for all Principles Code of Conduct Non-discrimination Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 1 – 6 Freedom of association and collective Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 1 – 6 bargaining Child labor Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 1 – 6 Forced and compulsory labor Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 1 – 6 Security practices Fully People/Management approach Actions for Principles 1 – 6 Indigenous rights Not The S&B Group has no operations in or adjacent to Indigenous People’s territories DMA SO Community Fully Social contribution/Management approach Actions for all Principles Artisanal and small-scale mining Not No small-scale or artisanal mining takes place on, or adjacent to, any of S&B’s global operations Resettlement Fully Social contribution/Management approach Closure planning Fully Social contribution/Management approach Grievance mechanism and procedures Fully Social contribution/Management approach Emergency Preparedness Fully Health & safety/Management approach, Social contribution/Management approach Corruption Fully People/Management approach, Internal Actions for Principle 10 controls in Governance Public policy Fully People/Management approach, Governance Actions for Principle 10 Anti-competitive behavior Fully People/Management approach Compliance People/Management approach, Governance DMA PR Materials stewardship Fully Health & safety/Management approach, Product stewardship Customer health and safety Fully Health & safety/Management approach, Product stewardship Product and service labelling Fully Health & safety/Management approach, Product stewardship Product stewardship Product and service labelling Fully Health & safety/Management approach, Product stewardship Marketing communications Fully Advertising and related publications (i.e. Marketing communications Fully product brochures) Advertising are reviewed and related by Group publications (i.e. Communication product brochures) services periodically are reviewed to ensure by Group compliance Communicationand services conformance with overall periodically to ensure branding complianceguidelines. Sponsorships and conformance are with overall reviewed and approved branding guidelines. by senior management Sponsorships are per each country reviewed of operation. and approved by senior management per each country of operation. Customer privacy Fully Health & safety/Management approach Customer privacy Fully Health & safety/Management approach Compliance Fully Health & safety/Management approach Compliance Fully Health & safety/Management approach Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Economic Economic Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator EC1 Direct economic value generated and Fully Adding value EC1 distributed, including Direct economic valuerevenues, generated operating and Fully Adding value costs, employee distributed, compensation, including donations and revenues, operating other costs,community investments, retained employee compensation, donations and earnings, and payments other community to capital investments, providers retained and governments. earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and Fully Environment/Management approach Outcomes for Principle 7 EC2 opportunities for the organization’s Financial implications and other risks activities and Fully Environment/Management approach Outcomes for Principle 7 due to climatefor opportunities change. the organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit Fully Annual Financial Report 2013 p.130 EC3 plan obligations. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit Fully Annual Financial Report 2013 p.130 plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Fully No significant financial assistance was received EC4 government. Significant financial assistance received from Fully from government No significant in 2013 financial assistance was received government. from government in 2013 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Fully Contribution in numbers EC6 locally-based suppliers Policy, practices, at significant and proportion locationson Fully of spending Contribution in numbers of operation. suppliers at significant locations locally-based of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of Fully Social contribution Outcomes for Principle 6 EC7 senior Procedures hiringfrom management for local hired the local of and proportion Fully Social contribution Outcomes for Principle 6 community at significant senior management hiredlocations from theoflocal operation. community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Fully Contribution in numbers, Investing in local EC8 investments Developmentand andservices impact of provided primarily for infrastructure Fully community Contributioninfrastructure in numbers, Investing in local public benefitand investments through services provided in-kind, commercial, primarilyorfor community infrastructure pro bono public engagement. benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Environmental Environmental Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Fully Materials Outcomes for Principles 7 9 EN2 input materials. Percentage of materials used that are recycled Fully Materials Outcomes for Principles 7 9 input materials. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully Energy EN3 source. Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully Energy source. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by indirect source. Fully Energy EN4 Indirect energy consumption by indirect source. Fully Energy EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully Water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Fully Water Outcomes for Principles 7 9 EN10 and reused. and total volume of water recycled Percentage Fully Water Outcomes for Principles 7 9 and reused. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully Protected areas in Biodiversity Outcomes for Principles 7 9 EN11 managed Location andin, or size of landto, adjacent protected owned, areas leased, Fully Protected areas in Biodiversity Outcomes for Principles 7 9 and areasin, managed of or high biodiversity adjacent value outside to, protected areas and areasareas. protected of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Fully Protected areas in Biodiversity EN12 products, Descriptionandof services significant biodiversity onimpacts in of activities, Fully Protected areas in Biodiversity protected areas products, and and areas services of high biodiversity on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and Fully Land management Outcomes for Principles 7 9 MM1 managed Amount offor landproduction (owned or activities leased,or extractive and Fully Land management Outcomes for Principles 7 9 use) disturbed managed or rehabilitated. for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and Fully Land management Outcomes for Principles 7 9 managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. MM2 The number and percentage of total sites Fully Protected areas in Biodiversity Outcomes for Principles 7 9 identified as requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully Air and GHG emissions emissions by weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Partially Air and GHG emissions emissions by weight. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by Fully We have been phasing out ozone-depleting Outcomes for Principles 7 9 weight. substances for many years in line with legislation in coutnries of operations. As a result, this indicator is not material enough to be aggregated at Group level anymore. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Fully Air and GHG emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Fully Waste destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Fully Waste method. MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and Fully Waste sludges and their associated risks. EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully None during 2013 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Fully Product stewardship Outcomes for Principles 7 9 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Fully This indicator is not material to S&B, as the packaging materials that are reclaimed by bulk of our products are sold in bulk, rather category. than in packages. Waste EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully None during 2013 number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Fully People in numbers employment contract, and region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by Fully People in numbers age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Fully On benefits in People, Diversity & Rights, Case are not provided to temporary or part-time study employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Fully As stated in our Code of Conduct, we Outcomes for Principles 3 bargaining agreements. recognize the right of all employees to seek to bargain collectively in a manner that is legally compliant. We do not collect or intend to collect aggregated information Group wide as there are many jurisdictions in which we operate where it is not legal to ask about an employee’s membership of unions or other representative organisation. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant Fully Notice periods vary based on national laws and Outcomes for Principles 3 operational changes, including whether it is regulations. We strictly adhere to those and specified in collective agreements. engage in timely and appropriate consultation when the need arises. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one Fully No strikes or lockouts exceeding one week week’s duration, by country. duration occurred in 2013 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Fully Safety indicators in Safety. Absenteeism rate is days, and absenteeism, and number of workcollected at local level and in accordance with week’s duration, by country. duration occurred in 2013 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Fully Safety indicators in Safety. Absenteeism rate is days, and absenteeism, and number of workcollected at local level and in accordance with related fatalities by region. local regulation. We do not report this data at Group level as legislation and policies varies across the countries where we operate. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Fully Life coaching and vocational orientation, Safety risk-control programs in place to assist training continues, All about health workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per Fully Learning & development, Health & safety employee by employee category. training LA13 Composition of governance bodies and Fully People in numbers, Our organization Outcomes for Principles 6 breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by Fully S&B’s compensation policy is based on the job employee category. profile and level, on the market dynamics and on the qualifications and performance of the employees. S&B in that respect does not discriminate on the grounds of gender when offering a hiring salary to a candidate or a salary increase or promotion to an existing employee. Social: Human Rights Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Fully There were no significant agreements during Outcomes for Principles 1 – 2 investment agreements that include human 2013 (such where S&B has formed a new rights clauses or that have undergone human partnership and has over 50% control of the rights screening. entity and/or the entity’s management) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and Fully At present, we do not specifically screen all of Outcomes for Principles 1 – 2 contractors that have undergone screening on our suppliers or contractors on human rights human rights and actions taken. compliance. Although we do not systematically include human rights clauses in agreements with them we may include clauses on labor rights, per case. Partners, suppliers, consultants, agents and trustees are also expected to comply with our new Code of Conduct or a similar agreed upon document in all their dealings with, or on behalf of S&B. In 2013, no contracts with significant suppliers and contractors were neither declined nor imposed performance positions, nor were subject to other actions as a result of human rights screening. During 2014 we aim to review our Group supply chain/purchasing procedures and related policies at Group level, cascading down to Regional Supply chain departments. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Fully None during 2013 Outcomes for Principles 1, 2, 6 actions taken. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to Fully Labor & human rights in People, Diversity & Outcomes for Principles 1, 2, 6 exercise freedom of association and collective Rights bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk Fully Labor & human rights in People, Diversity & Outcomes for Principles 1, 2, 5 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken Rights to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk Fully Labor & human rights in People, Diversity & Outcomes for Principles 1, 2, 4 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Rights measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or Not This indicator is not relevant to S&B, as the adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and Group has no operations in or adjacent to number and percentage of operations or sites Indigenous People’s territories. where there are formal agreements with forced or compulsory labor. MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or Not This indicator is not relevant to S&B, as the adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and Group has no operations in or adjacent to number and percentage of operations or sites Indigenous People’s territories. where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities. Social: Society Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any Fully Social contribution programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes Fully Social contribution Outcomes for Principles 1, 2 relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms Fully Social contribution were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. MM8 Number (and percentage) or company Not No small-scale or artisanal mining takes place operating sites where artisanal and small-scale on, or adjacent to, any of S&B’s global mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, operations. the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the Fully Social contribution number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with Fully Social contribution closure plans. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Fully Governance Outcomes for Principle 10 analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Fully During 2013 no training in anti-corruption organization’s anti-corruption policies and policies and procedures was carried out in S&B procedures. operations. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of Fully No incidents of corruption were identified in corruption. 2013. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Fully We participate Outcomes for Principles 1 – 10 public policy development and lobbying. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully None during 2013 number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Performance Description Reported Cross-reference/ Direct answer/ Explanation UN Global Compact progress Indicator MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials Fully Product stewardship stewardship. PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety Fully Product stewardship impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR3 Type of product and service information Fully Product stewardship Actions for Principle 8 required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Fully This indicator is not material to S&B. and voluntary codes related to marketing Advertising and related publications (product communications, including advertising, brochures) are reviewed by Group promotion, and sponsorship. Communication services periodically to ensure compliance and conformance with overall branding guidelines. Sponsorships are such information requirements. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Fully This indicator is not material to S&B. and voluntary codes related to marketing Advertising and related publications (product communications, including advertising, brochures) are reviewed by Group promotion, and sponsorship. Communication services periodically to ensure compliance and conformance with overall branding guidelines. Sponsorships are reviewed and approved by senior management per each country of operation. PR9 Sitemap fines Monetary value of significant Search for nonFully None during 2013 Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Contact We welcome your questions and feedback. S&B Group Sustainable Development 15, A. Metaxa str. 145 64 Kifissia P.O. Box 51528 Greece tel. + 30 210 6296292 e-mail: sustainability@sandb.com About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies Contact Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf Sitemap Search Create Charts Solid Transformation Sustainable Development Report 2013 About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting GRI check About S&B Sustainability approach People Health & Safety Environment Social Contribution On Reporting Our business Strategy, Goals & Performance People in numbers Safety Materials Communities Methodology Adding value Governance People, Diversity and Rights Health Energy Volunteerism Content, Scope and Boundary Our organization Stakeholder Engagement Learning & Development Health & Safety Training Land Management Contribution in numbers GRI Index Management letter Material issues Case Studies Product Stewardship Biodiversity Case Studies GRI check Key sustainability data Case Studies Water Contact Case Studies Waste Air and GHG emissions Case Studies Download report in pdf
