CPH and Society 2013 Copenhagen Airports A/S Lufthavnsboulevarden 6 DK-2770 Kastrup, Denmark Denmark Tel: +45 3231 3231 Fax: +45 3231 3132 E-mail: cphweb@cph.dk Web: www.cph.dk Company reg. (CVR) no: 14 70 72 04 Founded on: 19 September 1990 Registered office: Taarnby Terms used Copenhagen Airports, CPH, the Group and the Company are used synony41 mously about Copenhagen Airports A/S consolidated with its subsidiaries and associates. 20 32 Copenhagen Airport The airport at Copenhagen, Kastrup, owned by Copenhagen Airports A/S. Roskilde Airport The airport at Roskilde owned by Copenhagen Airports A/S. Front cover illustration The illustration on the front cover shows what Copenhagen Airport could look like in the future. It is part of ­Expanding CPH, a detailed vision 41 for an airport that can handle 40 million passengers per year – almost twice the number served today. 08 45 25 Contents Preface................................................................................ 5 Reading instructions............................................................. 6 Corporate profile................................................................. 7 CSR strategy: Responsible growth........................................ 8 01 Responsibility as a hub Route development............................................................ 14 Regulation and charges...................................................... 18 Capacity expansion............................................................ 20 CPH’s stakeholders............................................................. 22 18 Focus on passengers.......................................................... 25 02 Responsibility as a company Environment and energy.................................................... 32 Employees......................................................................... 41 Safety and security............................................................. 48 Procurement...................................................................... 52 03 Financial responsibility Financial summary............................................................. 56 Group financial highlights and key ratios............................ 59 Taxation............................................................................. 61 Indicator tables.................................................................. 62 CSR accounting policies..................................................... 70 Management’s statement................................................... 72 Independent auditor’s report.............................................. 73 Glossary.............................................................................74 Contents 3 Preface Copenhagen Airport is a hub, which means that it has more passengers and serves more destinations than its catchment area warrants on its own. 1.1 Ownership of Copenhagen Airport, one of Denmark’s critical infrastructure assets, involves a responsibility to provide the On being a hub best possible framework conditions so that the airport can A hub is a place where passengers come to move on, retain and improve its position as the key hub in northern for example to change flights when there are no direct Europe, for the benefit of both Denmark and the Øresund flights to their destination. The Øresund region is a region. There is a great deal of economic potential in havsmall region on the outskirts of Europe, so we must ing a strong international airport. Each route is tantamount work extra hard to maintain Copenhagen Airport’s to jobs and growth, both at and outside the airport. Other position as a hub. We must offer modern, flexible countries and regions also know how important strong interfacilities and good service at low cost. national airports are, so there is intense competition among the regions of Europe to retain and attract new routes. This applies not least to the airports in Amsterdam, Munich, Stockholm, Vienna, Zurich, Brussels and Berlin. In spite of the international competition, our ambitions for is about efficiency and the environmental, health and safety the future are clear: as and when the growth materialises aspects of airport operations – and about involving the we will be able to serve 40 million passengers annually. We stakeholders at and around the airport who can contribute expect that Copenhagen Airport will then employ close to to this. 40,000 people in airport-related jobs alone, which means creation of 16,000 new jobs. CPH has worked with CSR for the past 15 years, initially focusing on energy and the environment and, in recent years, When we invest in expanding and optimising Copenhawith a broader perspective. Our goal is for our CSR strategy gen Airport to prepare for 40 million passengers annually, to support CPH’s growth strategy so that we can grow in a we must ensure that we reduce our energy consumption responsible manner, with an understanding of our signifiand environmental and climate impact to separate any link cance to society as an airport. between our CO2 emissions from the growth in passenger numbers. We must give each of our employees the opportuCPH and Society serves as a declaration of our continued nity to help develop the airport by bringing all their compesupport of the UN Global Compact, which we signed in tencies into play. Lastly, we want to be a responsible opera2011. On the following pages, we detail how we work with tor in terms of procurement as well as operate the airport in CSR by incorporating it into both our strategy and our opcompliance with all applicable safety and security standards. erations. If you have any comments on the contents of this We cannot succeed without involving several of the compareport, you are most welcome to contact us at csr@cph.dk. 3.4 nies operating at the airport, for we depend on the success of our business partners, and they depend on ours. For this reason, a cornerstone of our strategy for corporate social responsibility (CSR) is to coordinate efficient collaboraThomas Woldbye tion in this field across the airport companies. CSR at CPH CEO of Copenhagen Airports A/S Preface 5 Reading instructions CPH and Society deals with and distinguishes between the two key elements of CPH’s corporate social responsibility: our responsibility as a hub and our responsibility as a company 3.1 CPH and Society 2013 is the fourth CSR report issued by CPH has not conducted surveys to detail the expectations of 4.16 3.2 Copenhagen Airports A/S . The report covers the full 2013 each of the groups regarding CPH’s corporate social respon3.3 calendar year and is published every year as a legal subsibility, but we will continually incorporate the responses we document to CPH’s Group Annual Report. This report was gather into our work on CSR going forward. Any contact released on 25 February 2014 concurrently with the presregarding this should be addressed to our External Relations 3.4 entation of the consolidated financial statements. The indedepartment at csr@cph.dk. 3.13 pendent auditor’s report is on page 73. Global Compact and GRI Materiality As a report in compliance with the Global Reporting Initia4.15 CPH’s responsibility as an important international transport tive (GRI) G3.1 guidelines, CPH and Society 2013 reports on hub mainly relates to the transport authorities and other a total of 41 performance indicators and fully covers 25 perplayers with a stake in creating accessibility to and from formance indicators, three of which are sector-specific. CPH Denmark and southern Sweden. In the main, these players is reporting at the C+ level for 2013. Pages 62-68 contain are CPH’s aeronautical business partners at the airport and a table providing an overview of the GRI indicators. For ad4.12 the companies and organisations that contribute to the pasditional information on GRI, please visit www.globalreporter3.11 senger’s transport or travel chain. ing.org. Page 69 contains an overview of CPH’s position with respect to the UN Global Compact principles and where you 3.5 CPH’s responsibility as a major Danish-based company and can read about each of the subjects. employer mainly relates to employees of CPH and at the airport in general and to other players with a stake in reCPH joined the UN Global Compact in February 2011 to sponsible operation of the airport, such as the environmental support human rights, labour standards, the environment authorities, the local authorities in the areas around Copenand anti-corruption efforts. We are working continuously hagen Airport and Roskilde Airport, passengers at Copento integrate the ten principles from the UN Global Compact hagen Airport and our non-aeronautical business partners in our strategy, operations and corporate culture. As part of at the airport, who together account for a significant part of our extended corporate social responsibility, we are working passengers’ experience at and perception of the airport. to disseminate the ten principles to our business partners. This CSR report represents CPH’s COP (Communication On This division of responsibility partly reflects CPH’s financial Progress). For additional information on the UN Global Comdistinction between the aeronautical and the non-aeronaupact, please visit www.unglobalcompact.org tical segment, and it largely corresponds to the general lines of the organisational logic at CPH. Topics dealt with in this report 3.5 Each chapter deals with a number of topics selected on the basis of their financial significance to CPH and on CPH’s assessment of the importance of the topic to the stakeholders identified as the intended readers. We base this assessment on a number of stakeholder surveys conducted by CPH, including CPH’s quarterly reputation survey of the general GRI reporting – references public in Denmark and southern Sweden; annual surveys of satisfaction of airlines, concessionaires and passengers at Throughout this report, we have used the symbol X.XX Copenhagen Airport; and CPH’s continuing dialogue with to mark where we describe conditions that Reporting the regulatory authorities. Standard 3.1 recommends reporting on. 6 Reading instructions Corporate profile With direct flights to 163 destinations and 24.1 million passengers in 2013, Copenhagen Airport is the preferred hub of northern Europe. 2.1 Headquartered at Copenhagen Airport, LufthavnsbouleShareholders EC 4 varden 6, DK-2770 Kastrup, Denmark, the listed company 2.6 2.4 Copenhagen Airports A/S is responsible for the development 2.9 and operation of both Copenhagen Airport and Roskilde Copenhagen Airports Denmark ApS (CAD) 57.7% Airport. Copenhagen Airport is located nine kilometres – The Danish State 39.2% 14 minutes by Metro – from the Copenhagen city centre; Foreign private and institutional investors 1.3% CPH 2.5 Roskilde Airport is located 35 kilometres south-west of CoDanish private and institutional investors 1.8% penhagen and is mainly used for corporate flights and genOntario Teachers’ Pension Plan (OTPP) eral aviation, for pilot training and taxi flights. Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund III (MEIF3) 2.3 The Group includes the subsidiaries Copenhagen Airports’ CPH had 3,303 registered shareholders at 31 December Hotel and Real Estate Company A/S (KLHE), which owns the 2013. Copenhagen Airports Denmark ApS (CAD) is Copenhagen Airport Hilton, and Copenhagen Airports Interjointly controlled by the Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan national A/S (CAI), an international consultancy business. (OTPP) and Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund III (MEIF3). 3.6 CPH owns 50% of the shares of Airport Coordination Den3.7 mark A/S, which manages slot allocation in Denmark and Iceland. This report does not cover associated companies or One of Denmark’s largest workplaces the before-mentioned subsidiaries. Of the Group’s 2,122 full-time employees (2012: 2,073), 2.8 2,083 work at Copenhagen Airport (2012: 2,033), 36 at LA1 OTPP and MEIF3’s ownership of CPH is described in greater Roskilde Airport (2012: 36) and three in the international detail in note 20 of the Group Annual Report of CPH, department (CAI) (2012: four). concerning related parties. Information about corporate governance at CPH is provided in CPH’s Statement on A key element of the work with CPH’s responsibility as a ­Corporate Governance 2013, which is available at company and as an airport is the large number of players http://www.cph.dk/en/about-cph/investor/corporateoperating in the airport area. In 2013, more than 23,000 governance/Corporate-Governance-Statements/ employees were working for more than 700 companies operating at the airport. 2.2 Responsibility for the travel experience 3.5 Transport and arrival Check-in and baggage Security Food and shopping T he airport’s infrastructure Passenger service Security service  estaurants and shops (concessionaires) R Parking Passenger and baggage check-in and Passport control and customs (Police Development of the shopping centre -handling (airlines and handling comand SKAT, Danish tax authority) and services panies) Rental of premises Check-in facilities Maintenance and cleaning of premises Baggage conveying and sorting facilities Gate and boarding Flight Transfer and arrival Baggage reclaim and home trip  ate facilities G  ir traffic control service (Naviair) A Cargo handling (cargo companies and  aggage conveying and sorting B Boarding (airlines and handling comFuel supply (partnership of oil comground handling companies) facilities panies) panies) Shuttle bus service to and from the Bagage handling (airlines and hanSafety, including fire department and Catering-services (Gate Gourment and aircraft dling companies) rescue staff LSG Catering Services) Aircraft de-icing (handling companies) CPH responsible Airport partners responsible Corporate profile 7 CSR strategy: Responsible growth Our CSR strategy is about how we will achieve our business goals – in a responsible way. This has to do with the fact that Copenhagen Airport both affects and is affected by its many stakeholders. Our CSR strategy forms part of our World Class Hub busiImpact on competitiveness ness strategy and is designed to help ensure that CPH is Copenhagen Airport’s competitiveness is based on its positrusted by and obtains support from its many stakeholders. tion as a hub. In order to be an attractive business partner What we can do at CPH with our business is one thing; anfor all airlines, we must offer modern and flexible facilities, other is that our international competitiveness depends on our ability to coordinate an efficient collaboration with our stakeholders in growing and developing the airport. Extract from CPH’s CSR policy Shared identity perception In all areas, CPH’s ambition is to provide sustainable When they rate their satisfaction and travel experience, passolutions and promote sustainable behaviour, to ensengers at Copenhagen Airport rarely distinguish between sure and promote respect, to challenge stereotypes the airport corporate entity and the companies that operand prejudice, and to act responsibly through active ate at the airport. This perception of shared identity with commitment and dialogue with relevant stakeholders. the airlines, ground handling companies and retailers at the airport relates to our responsibility, reputation and financial The policy was adopted by CPH’s Board of Directors in performance. If our collaboration with the concessionaires at the autumn of 2013. You can read the entire policy the shopping centre does not work well, or if we are unable here: http://www.cph.dk/about cph/csr/our responsito work together with the handling companies, it is more bility/csr policy/ difficult for us to meet our operating targets. 8 CSR strategy: Responsible growth Henrik Gürtler Chairman of the Board of Directors, Copenhagen Airports A/S We are currently at a point where corporate social responsibility influences a growing number of our decisions – both in management and in the organisation in general. Photo: Martin Ungermann good service and low costs. CPH helps the airlines operate a The in-house steering group consists of CPH’s management viable business by working actively to lower the overall cost and relevant key persons from the organisation. After each of their operations at Copenhagen and Roskilde airports. For meeting, this group informs the middle-management group example, a report commissioned by Eurocontrol, a European of the decisions made; they also report to the CPH works intergovernmental flight safety organisation, shows that council on an annual basis. All coordination and follow-up is each minute of delay at an airport costs an airline an average handled by our External Relations department. of more than EUR 78. With efficient processes, CPH can help ensure faster boarding and deboarding of passengers, shortIn the autumn of 2013, the Board of Directors adopted a er turnaround times and hence also lower airline operating revised version of our CSR policy after having consulted with costs and CO2 emissions as a result of a lower consumption CPH middle managers and employee representatives. One of of jet fuel and diesel. By operating the airport efficiently, the revisions was adjusting the policy to explicitly state that CPH also increases its capacity for more routes and flights all CPH employees are responsible for acting in accordance out of Copenhagen, which benefits the entire region. with the policy. This sets the direction for our future work in making CSR a relevant and natural element of all functions So when we work to provide a resource-efficient airport and and decisions. a safe and healthy workplace for our customers, employees and business partners, it also allows us to get the most out Every three months, the Audit and Risk Management 4.11 of our capacity and resources and, with that, improve the Committee (ARMC) looks at the non-financial indicators competitiveness of Copenhagen Airport and the region. with respect to safety, security, environment and health (SSEH) at CPH. Organisation CPH’s CSR strategy was adopted by CPH’s Board of Directors in the autumn of 2012. The strategy is underpinned by a number of goals and targets as specified on the following page. The in-house CSR steering group meets twice a year to ensure progress in fulfilling these goals and targets; the steering group’s status reports employ a simple system, which also appears from the table on page 11. CSR strategy: Responsible growth 9 Responsible growth at CPH. This is what we will do: • Create jobs • Collaborate to put customers first A strong international airport with many routes and We will give passengers an extraordinary travel exfrequencies is essential to economic growth and emperience and provide good conditions for airlines at ployment in the region and in all of Denmark. When Copenhagen Airport. To do this, it is essential that we we encourage airlines to locate more routes and acinvolve all companies and employees at the airport, tivities at Copenhagen Airport, we also create more not only CPH employees. jobs at and outside the airport. • Improve our own and partners’ competitiveness • Collaborate to generate responsible growth Copenhagen Airport’s competitiveness is closely reWhen we invest in expanding and optimising Copenlated to the competitiveness of our business partners. hagen Airport to prepare for a future with 40 million For this reason, we are working to reduce operating passengers annually, we also have to ensure that we costs for our customers and improve our operations reduce our energy consumption and environmental by planning initiatives that utilise our capacity and and climate impact. We want to give each of our eminfrastructure in an even more efficient way. ployees an opportunity to contribute to the development of the airport by bringing all their competencies • Make it easier and faster to get to the airport into play. Lastly, we want to be a responsible operator More than half the travellers that Copenhagen in terms of procurement, and we want to operate the Airport serves arrive at and leave the airport using airport in compliance with all applicable safety and public transport. Our ability to attract new routes security standards. This is work that involves most of depends, among other things, on expanding the pasthe companies operating at the airport. senger catchment area by making it easier and faster for more people to get to and from the airport. This means that infrastructure development in Denmark and southern Sweden is vital if Copenhagen Airport is to maintain and expand its position as the preferred northern European transport hub. 10 CSR strategy: Responsible growth Focus area Operating targets See also Process targets See also Expanded targets See also Scope of target Specific targets for CPH as a Targets that ensure that knowlTargets that relate to CPH's opreporting entity edge and data are obtained to portunity to influence the responenable definition of additional sibility of the entire airport operating CSR-targets Environment CPH will be responsible for a p 34 Energy standard for new construcp 35 CPH will determine Copenhagen p 36-37 and energy maximum of 1 kg CO2 pr. pastion projects – adopted in Q4 2013 Airport’s end-to-end CO2 emissions senger in 2020 (2011: 1.4 kg) in 2013 (Scope3) CPH will save 17 GWh/year, p 34 Energy and environment will be inp 36 CPH will initiate a dialogue in p 36-37 equivalent to 20% in 2020 relategrated in the Project Governance 2013 on CO2 efficiency targets for ­­ tive to 2012 templates before Q2 2013 Scope 3 with our primary stakeholders with 2012 as the baseline Energy and environment will be p 21 CPH will help the businesses operatp 36-37 integrated in the LTCP Master Plan ing at the airport reduce their envi2035 and in high level master planronmental impact ning on an ongoing basis (e.g. water, particulate matter, etc.) CPH will investigate the opportunip 19 CPH will investigate the business p 35 ties of incorporating additional case for in-house production of environmental parameters into the power and for introducing electric charges negotiations (e.g. NOx, cars or alternative fuels noise and particulate matter) Employees In 2017, employee commitment p 43 Gender: CPH will strive to have a p 41 In 2017, CPH will have implemented p 44-45 at CPH will be 10% better than proportion of women in managea system that will provide an overin 2012 ment equalling the staff as a whole view of the training and development (25/32% in 2011) of competencies offered to CPH staff In 2017, the average rate of p 43 Ethnicity: In 2013, CPH will collect p 42 CPH will give relevant employees of p 28 sickness absence at CPH will be data on the cultural diversity at CPH partner companies at the airport the 4.5% or better (2011: 4.99%) and finalise a strategy and related opportunity to participate in custargets pointing towards 2017 tomer service courses From 2012-17, occupational p 46 Age: In 2013, CPH will introduce p 42 CPH will guide and motivate third p 48 injuries at CPH will amount to a a programme to increase the total parties operating at the airport in maximum of 12 pr. one million number of apprenticeships at CPH maintaining a high standard for ocworking hours (2011: 13.4) in 2017 cupational health and safety Age: In 2013, CPH will make a plan p 42 for senior-friendly jobs (60+), which will include target setting for 2017 Safety and In 2013, the rate of passenger p 26 CPH will integrate the guidelines p 51 CPH will develop the 'security experip 23, 51 security satisfaction with CPH Security on respecting international human ence' by collaborating with our security will exceed 87 (2012: 86) rights into our existing quality manpartners at the airport (police, airlines, agement system in Security, and others) to raise the quality of the overall experience for passengers Waiting time at security: 85% of p 50 In Q2 2013, CPH will conduct a surp 26 all passengers should go through vey of the emotional drivers behind the central security checkpoint in passengers’ satisfaction with CPH’s less than five minutes. functional services. This information is to be used for setting operating targets for passenger satisfaction with security at Copenhagen Airport in the period until 2017 Airline damage involving CPH pr. p 50 10,000 operations will be 0.1 pr. month from 2013 (Q4 2012: 0.2) The number of reported nearp 50 CPH will work with behaviour (safety p 48 incidents will be a maximum of culture) throughout the airport, so 25 pr. 10,000 operations that 60% of all events that must be reported are reported by the persons involved (status Q3 2012: 46%) Procurement In Q4 2012, CPH will implement p 52 By Q4 2013, CPH Procurement will p 53 In 2017, CPH will have a system for p 53 a Supplier Code of Conduct as have documented critical interaction monitoring employee performance an addendum to all standard with suppliers so as to establish a with respect to CSR, in order to contracts basis for adopting new social and make decisions on supplier audits, environmental criteria in the proif necessary curement process In 2016, a minimum of 85% of p 52 CPH’s procurement will be subject On track Postponed/ Cancelled/ to CPH’s Supplier Code of Conduct almost there not on track The table shows the targets of CPH’s CSR strategy. Through collaboration and understanding of our partners’ business settings, CPH will strengthen the growth of the Company as well as the region. The four focus areas are ‘Environment and energy’, ‘Employee relations’, ‘Safety and security’ and ‘Procurement’. CSR strategy: Responsible growth 11 01/ Responsibility as a hub CPH has a responsibility to improve the competitive position of the airport – and therefore also the region – in the highly competitive global airport market. A strong international airport with many routes and frequencies is essential to economic growth, employment and increased tourism in the region and in all of Denmark. When we encourage airlines to place more routes and activities at Copenhagen Airport, we also create more jobs at and outside the airport. We take this responsibility seriously and we find that it is a collective responsibility for both the region and the whole of Denmark. In the following sections, we describe how we endeavour to live up to our responsibility as a transport hub through targeted route development, charges adjustment, capacity development and interaction with stakeholders, while also seeking to provide the best possible services to our passengers and the airlines. Responsibility as a hub 13 Route development Every single air route generates growth and jobs. For this reason, Copenhagen Airport focuses strongly on route development. The battle among the regions and airports of Europe to relaunch by new airlines of services to 11 current destinations, tain and develop new air routes has intensified dramatically. and the deployment of additional capacity in the form of As a result, route development is vital if we are to strengthen more frequencies or larger aircraft to 15 destinations. This Copenhagen Airport’s position as a northern European hub. represents a total net growth in passengers of 3.1%. We work closely together with the airlines, the authorities, Roskilde Airport also received recognition of its performance the business community and the Global Connected route dein 2013. In February, European Business Air News rated velopment programme to create the best possible conditions Roskilde Airport the seventh-best airport at handling taxi for our airline partners. The airlines recognised this work flights and private jets among 380 European peer airports. in 2013 by awarding us with a prestigious award at World Routes Awards. Airlines choose Copenhagen Airport The rest of the world has noticed that Copenhagen Airport World championship in route development is in the top league of European Airports when it comes to 2.10 On 8 October 2013, Copenhagen Airport received the World growth and development. The award presented at the World Routes Award in Las Vegas as the world’s best major airport Routes conference, a forum where 3,000 delegates from (20-50 million passengers annually) at collaborating with airairlines and airports worldwide meet once a year, is quite lines to develop new routes, an award that has been dubbed special, as CPH’s customers – the airlines – are on the panel “the world championship in route development”. of judges. We received this award after a year that saw the launch of services to 22 new destinations out of Copenhagen, the 14 Route development Christian T. Ingemann Member of the Executive Board, The Danish Chamber of Commerce The award for being the world’s best at route development presented at the World Routes conference was truly a recognition of the professional and dedicated work that CPH’s Route Development department has been doing for a number of years. The award also illustrates that it pays off for a combination of public and private funds to be deployed in improving international accessibility to Denmark, as is the case with the Global Connected consortium. The airlines appreciate Copenhagen Airport’s professional CPH in Global Connected and objective way of presenting them with viable business Copenhagen Airport also contributes financially to the SO 5 cases for new routes to be developed. Global Connected consortium that works with destination marketing of Denmark, Copenhagen and southern Sweden. Copenhagen Airport has a team of route developers who Global Connected is supported by public and private organiare in close contact with airlines that already fly to Copenhasations on both the Danish and the Swedish sides of the gen and many of the airlines that do not do so, the contact Øresund strait. ranging from personal contacts and meetings in various places worldwide to a large number of international conferGlobal Connected has helped facilitate routes such as Emirences where airports and airlines meet. ates to Dubai, Air Canada to Toronto, SAS to Shanghai and San Francisco, and Norwegian to Fort Lauderdale. The value of new routes Growth in the route network out of Copenhagen is not only a direct driver of growth and jobs at Copenhagen Airport and the 700 businesses operating at the airport; it also has a number of secondary effects on both tourism and the labour market derived from growth in the route network. In 2013, In 2013, One million Copenhagen Copenhagen airline passengers Airport served Airport was the generate about 24.1 million workplace of some 1,000 new jobs at passengers 23,000 people. Copenhagen Airport and 450 outside the airport.* *Sources: The Air Traffic for Germany Initiative, Airports Council International and York Aviation: ”The Social and Economic impact of the airports in Europe”, and Copenhagen Economics Route development 15 Route development in 2013 Change 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2012-2013 AO 1 Total number of arriving AO 2 and departing passengers 19,715,451 21,501,750 22,725,517 23,336,187 24,067,030 3.1% Operations 236,173 245,640 253,762 242,993 244,944 0.8% Seat capacity 29,012,398 30,816,357 32,335,260 32,273,412 33,458,006 3.7% Average size of aircraft (scheduled and charter) 127 128 131 136 140 2.9% Passenger load factor 68% 70% 70% 72% 72% 0.0% Average number of weekly frequencies to intercontinental destinations 102 111 121 124 123 -0.5% Average number of weekly frequencies to feeder destinations (excluding domestic) 713 702 730 775 771 -0.5% Weekly frequencies to domestic destinations 668 759 769 514 504 13.5% Domestic seats 3,037,243 3,495,981 3,520,144 2,805,405 2,793,326 15.1% Both feeder routes and intercontinental destinations saw significant growth in 2013 in numbers of passengers and frequencies. Copenhagen Airport provides an opportunity for risk sharing Long-haul growth by offering start-up discounts to airlines opening year-round Copenhagen Airport saw intercontinental services grow by services to unserved destinations. The criteria for discount 3.8% in 2013. The launch of three new intercontinental eligibility can be read at http://www.cph.dk/en/about-cph/ services to San Francisco (SAS), Fort Lauderdale (Norwegian) b2b/airline-sales/charges--slot/ and Casablanca (Royal Air Maroc) brought the total number of intercontinental routes to 26 at year-end 2013. Airlines operating at Copenhagen Airport More than 60 airlines operate services to and from CopenOther airlines adding capacity included Singapore Airlines, hagen. The two largest are SAS, with 42% of traffic, and which expanded the number of weekly frequencies on its Norwegian, with 16%. easyJet comes in third, with 6% of service to Singapore from three to five. SAS added three traffic. weekly evening flights to New York, and Air Canada deployed larger aircraft to Toronto in the peak season. CPH has strategic partnerships with SAS and Norwegian to create the best possible conditions for operating at CoGrowth in Europe penhagen Airport. CPH also has a close collaboration with In 2013 a number of new feeder services opened. They will easyJet for efficient handling of the airline’s flights from the all help support the viability of the long-haul routes. airport’s low-cost facility CPH Go. 16 Route development SAS opened five new European year-round routes out of For this reason, CPH is working actively to boost and expand Copenhagen in 2013 – to Bremen, Humberside, Newcastle, its catchment area, for example by promoting high-speed Prague and Budapest – and a number of seasonal routes to train services from Stockholm, Gothenburg, Oslo, Hamburg southern European destinations. SAS also deployed additionand Berlin. al capacity on both its Madrid and New York routes. In the short term, this would result in a slight decrease in Norwegian opened six new European routes – to Madrid, passenger numbers on the short-haul services, with more Liverpool, Corfu, Lisbon, Sarajevo and Montpellier – and people taking the train instead. In the longer term, it would easyJet opened new routes to Rome and Edinburgh. significantly improve Copenhagen Airport’s position, growing its catchment area by more than one million people and Vueling opened a new service to Florence, Transavia to Einthus increasing the viability of air transport at Copenhagen dhoven, DAT to Norrköping, and Widerøe to Molde; while Airport and improving our chances to attract more routes. service to destinations such as Venice, Rome, Edinburgh, Luxembourg, Madrid and Alicante, Riga, Berlin and Man2014 chester was boosted either by new airlines on the routes, or In the spring of 2014, Norwegian will open two new longby additional frequencies or larger aircraft. haul services: to Los Angeles, California and to New York’s JFK Airport. At the beginning of the year, several new yearOur catchment area round services had also been announced, including SAS to SO 5 In the competition with other major European airports, one Leeds and Linköping, Agean to Athens, SunExpress to Izmir, of Copenhagen Airport’s greatest challenges is its passenger and easyJet to Hamburg. catchment area. Four million people live within two hours of Copenhagen Airport, but competing airports such as Berlin, Moreover, a number of summer-only services have been anHamburg, Zurich and Amsterdam have catchment areas nounced. SAS is launching services to a number of new desmore than twice that size. tinations – Pisa, Naples, Faro, Chania, Bastia and Montpellier – and re-opening summer-only services to Pula, Thessaloniki, Palermon, Biarritz and Antalya/Gazipasa. AO 2 Copenhagen Airport’s route network in 2013 AO 3 Kangerlussuaq Narssarssuaq 2.7 Ivalo Reykjavik Kiruna Kittillä Passengers Cargo Trondheim To open in 2014 (Passenger) Faroe Islands Molde Aalesund Vaasa Toronto Bergen Turku Helsinki Oslo Karlstad New York St. Petersburg Haugesund Sandefjord Stockholm Washington Aberdeen Stavanger Tallinn Tokyo Örebro Norrköping Chicago Kristiansand Gothenburg Linköping Edinburgh San Francisco Aalborg Jönköping Bangkok Fort Lauderdale Glasgow Riga Moscow Karup Los Angeles Newcastle Aarhus Dublin Humberside Billund Palanga Singapore Leeds-Bradford Copenhagen Manchester Kaliningrad Vilnius Liverpool East Midtl. Sønderborg Rønne Beijing Birmingham Oxford Hamburg Bristol London Gdansk Amsterdam Bremen Seoul Berlin Eindhoven Poznan Warsaw Shanghai Hannover Leipzig Brussells Düsseldorf Lodz Wroclaw Lahore Luxembourg Cologne (Köln) Paris Frankfurt Prague Krakow Bratislava Stuttgart MunichSalzburg Vienna Basel/Mulhouse Innsbruck Geneva Zürich Budapest Ljubljana Grenoble Milan Venice Zagreb Biarritz Bologna Bukarest Montpellier Nice Pisa Florence Pula Beograd Marseille Split Sarajevo Rome Pristina Burgas Phuket Barcelona Dubrovnik Naples Istanbul Madrid Palma Olbia Podgorica Thessaloniki Ibiza Korfu Ankara Dubai Ponta Delgada Lisbon Alicante Kos Konya Faro Palermo Izmir Malaga Catania Athens Rhosos Casablanca Marrakech Thira Antalya Alanya Cairo Erbil Baghdad Madeira Tenerife Las Palmas Agadir Malta Chania Heraklion Larnaca Tel Aviv Beirut Doha Sharjah In 2013, Copenhagen Airport had direct services to 163 destinations, including 18 cargo destinations. Route development 17 Regulation and charges It is critical that Copenhagen Airport’s charges are competitive regionally as well as internationally as it enables investments. Copenhagen Airport’s charges are subject to supervision by Joining forces to provide better service the Danish Transport Authority and have been fixed in a 5½CPH and the airlines signed a service level agreement in year agreement between the airlines and Copenhagen Air2011 that defines the minimum levels of service airlines can ports A/S. The current agreement runs until 31 March 2015, which means that negotiations on a new charges agreement Charges for using Copenhagen Airport Danish kroner to replace the current agreement will be held in 2014. Type of charge From 1 April From 1 April 2012 2013 Investment is part of the charges agreement Passenger charge, international departures 99.26 101.97 Under the current charges agreement, CPH must invest an Passenger charge, CPH GO 76.49 78.57 average of no less than DKK 500 million annually in aeroPassenger charge, domestic departures 44.53 45.74 nautical projects, i.e. projects directly aimed at improving the Passenger charge, international transfers 59.95 61.58 infrastructure at Copenhagen Airport used by the airlines. Investment in retail areas, hotels and other commercial areas Passenger charge, domestic transfers 26.90 27.63 is not included in this amount. Security charge 43.80 44.99 Security charge, transfers 29.25 30.05 In addition to the DKK 500 million per year CPH has underHandling charge, international departures 14.23 14.62 taken to invest annually, DKK 921.2 million was invested in Handling charge, domestic departures 7.12 7.31 2010 to 2013 in improvement and expansion of CopenhaTake-off charge, passenger flights gen Airport’s aeronautical capacity. (Per tonne – MTOW*-charge) 47.93 47.93 Take-off charge, cargo flights (Per tonne – MTOW*-charge) 63.90 63.90 * MTOW: Maximum takeoff weight. No fees are charged for weight above 200 tonnes. 18 Regulation and charges Mikkel Krogh Director of Charges, Copenhagen Airports A/S The goal for the negotiations on the new charges is to find a model which ensures that both the airlines and the airport can maintain their growth rates, a model that encompasses both conventional network airlines and low-cost airlines. expect at Copenhagen Airport in baggage handling, secuAs take-off charges have been frozen throughout the term rity, transfers, passenger satisfaction and other parameters. of the agreement, the passenger-related charges must Under the agreement, CPH puts money into a pool to which compensate for this. In practice, it means that passengerairlines and handling companies can gain access if they meet related charges for using Copenhagen Airport will increase the agreed service levels. The agreement runs until 31 March by 2.73% in 2014, equivalent to an overall 2.16% rise in 2015 and will be renegotiated in connection with the negocharges. tiations for a new charges agreement in 2014. Emissions-based charge As part of the current charges agreement between the airlines and CPH, an emissions-based charge was introduced CPH’s competitive position in terms of price and quality (NOx). With the introduction of the NOx charge, CPH used fiHigh price – High quality Low price High quality nancial incentives to encourage the use of engine types with low emissions. It was agreed that the NOx charge should be Dublin Helsinki Athens Amsterdam neutral for the airport and the airlines as a total. This means Copenhagen Gatwick that NOx charges are financed by a reduction in the current Budapest Vienna Stockholm take-off charge. Dusseldorf Oslo Madrid Lisbon Financial transparency Brussels Frankfurt Paris CDG The charges reflect a desire for financial transparency from both the airlines and the airport. There must be a clear corMilan relation between prices and costs and an optimal balance between network/transfer traffic, domestic traffic and lowcost traffic. Rome In view of the airlines’ situation during the worldwide financial crisis, an agreement was made to freeze the charges High price – Low quality Low price – Low quality for using Copenhagen Airport from 1 October 2009 to 31 The figure shows Copenhagen Airport’s position among other major European March 2011. According to the current 5½-year charges airports as measured by price and quality. Price is defined as the charges level agreement, charges would instead be adjusted annually of each airport as determined by LeighFisher, an independent firm of consultants, and quality is based on passenger surveys at European airports confrom 1 April 2011 to match increases in the Danish consumducted by the industry organisation Airport Council International (ACI) Airport er price index plus one percentage point. Quality Service surveys in 2013. Regulation and charges 19 Capacity expansion As a northern European hub, Copenhagen Airport has a social responsibility to ensure that the right capacity is available to airlines and passengers, both in the short and long term. In January 2014, we announced our plans for the airport of the future. CPH is currently investing close to a billion Danish kroner anto be a well planned and clearly laid-out airport. We want to nually in improving and expanding Copenhagen Airport. We ensure that it is easy and a pleasant experience to find one’s are currently investing more than we earn. For this reason, it way through the airport and that it is easy to travel to and is vital that we continue to be profitable, generating profits from the airport. that can be used for our continuing investment in the Copenhagen Airport of the future. That requires a thorough expansion of the airport that will almost double the current floor space in the terminals. In January 2014, we announced the results of 18 months of analysis work to determine how Copenhagen Airport Plan for expansion can best retain and develop its position as the key airport of Arup, a highly reputed global firm of consulting engineers northern Europe, a position that generates economic growth with decades of experience in airport capacity analysis, in all of Denmark and promotes Copenhagen as an internaconducted the extensive analysis. The conclusion was that tional metropolis. Denmark will obtain the best airport by expanding its existing terminals in a phased process, rather than by building a We want to strengthen our position as the preferred hub of new terminal. northern Europe. This means that as and when the growth materialises, we must be able to handle 40 million passenExpanding its existing terminals will allow CPH to retain its comgers annually, which we will accomplish through an intelpact layout “under one roof”, which is a competitive advanligent expansion of the terminals, technical facilities, gates tage. Moreover, the phased expansion will allow us to follow and aircraft stands so that Copenhagen Airport can continue the growth trend and provide the required capacity at all times. 20 Capacity expansion Lone Edelbo Head of Master Planning, Copenhagen Airports A/S We must reach our target of accommodating 40 million passengers by expanding the terminals’ technical facilities and aircraft stands in a phased and intelligent process. It is vital that Copenhagen Airport of the future can live up to today’s virtues: that Denmark has an attractive and compact airport where passengers can easily get to and from the gates. This means that the expansion and conversion to take place In 2014, we will start analysing the need of a major converin the years ahead must now be incorporated into our longsion and expansion of the central security screening facilities term plan for the airport of the future “Expanding CPH”. located between Terminals 2 and 3. Expansion well underway The upgrade and expansion of the baggage system will Since the beginning of the current charges agreement becontinue. In 2014, we will be preparing for the expansion tween the airlines and the airport, CPH has invested DKK and conversion of the inbound baggage system and the sur2,921.2 million, which is DKK 921.2 million more than the rounding area. minimum level required under the agreement. A new charges agreement will be negotiated in 2014. A number of initiatives will also be taken in 2014 in connection with the current baggage system in order to prepare the In 2013, a significant expansion of the system for outbound airport for the busy summer period. baggage was completed, enabling the airport to handle the baggage of up to 30 million passengers per year. The Responsible expansion first phase of the expansion of Terminal 2 was completed in Our investment in expansion of capacity will be made in a 2013, providing an additional 1,400 square metres for pasresponsible manner in terms of energy consumption. Our sengers, 12 new check-in desks and 16 new check-in kiosks. CSR strategy states that growth at Copenhagen Airport must be energy neutral. The coming growth requires us to In November 2013, Copenhagen Airport also launched 12 reduce the consumption of energy in the buildings today. self-service bag drops, initially for SAS and Norwegian only. This will be achieved by, among other things, installing LED light sources, making ventilation more efficient and including Continuing development energy consumption in the design of new installations when In 2014, we will continue to invest in the airport’s terminals, expanding or renovating the airport. technical facilities and infrastructure to enhance the passenger travel experience and improve airline efficiency. Our target is to use 20% less energy in 2020 than we do today. This furthers progress towards our overall target of reAs a result of the continuing growth in intercontinental serducing Copenhagen Airport’s CO2 emissions from 1.4 kg per vices, we plan to continue to expand Pier C, which is used passenger in 2011 to 1.0 kg per passenger in 2020. for long-haul services and airlines flying to and from nonSchengen countries. Pier C will be extended further, adding three new gates for large aircraft. The work on this expansion will begin in 2014 and is scheduled for completion in 2015. Capacity expansion 21 Henrik Peter Jørgensen Vice President, Communication, Copenhagen Airports A/S We can only develop and expand the airport if we have a close dialogue with a number of key external stakeholders. We can build the infrastructure, but we are dependent on some of them for ensuring that Denmark and the Øresund Region is an attractive destination for both tourists and business people, while others work to fill the flights. CPH’s stakeholders Air traffic strengthens tourism, increases our foreign trade and generates jobs. Copenhagen Airport is a growth driver for both Denmark and the rest of the Øresund region. Growth at the airport means more jobs, better productivity restrict foreign airlines’ opportunities of opening services to and greater wealth. However, development of the airport Copenhagen Airport, thereby reducing our ability to grow. cannot depend on CPH alone: good development of the airport is dependent on the airlines, regulatory authorities and More insight into Copenhagen Airport’s image politicians all contributing to ensuring stable growth in trafIn addition to the roughly 100,000 interviews we conduct fic. For this reason, 2013 was also a year in which we coneach year with travellers about their experience in the airtinued our close dialogue with CPH’s stakeholders towards port’s terminals, we began in 2013 to systematically track the efficient and responsible development of Copenhagen what people from Denmark and southern Sweden think of Airport. Copenhagen Airport. With this initiative, we aim to obtain a better understanding of the expectations they have to us, Dialogue about route development both as a host and as the manager of a significant compoIn 2013, we continued our dialogue with the airlines on nent of Danish infrastructure. the opportunities to enhance their business at Copenhagen Airport, so that we secure our route network and create a The CPH Growth Committee better basis for new routes. The work to create a better basis for an even larger airport does not end at the airport fence, and it concerns much SO 5 We also continued our dialogue with politicians and the more than transport politics. Our market is characterised by regulatory authorities regarding an update of statutory and intense competition for routes and travellers, and the comother formal barriers that are no longer in line with the petition among regions has intensified. In this competitive growing competition from international airports. This applies situation, the opportunities in the airport’s catchment area for example to agreements on traffic rights which still today and politics regarding transport, business and tourism have 22 CPH’s stakeholders CPHs interessenter ded stakeholde ten rg ex ro Hs CP up re st a k e h co ol H’ s de CP rs CPH Core stakeholders CPH’s extended stakeholder group 4.13 Employees Authorities with a daily Politicians with an interest 4.14 • Bi-annual employee commitment presence at the airport (tax in the Øresund region Labour unions 4.16 survey authorities and police) • Stakeholder Committee (regional • Employee representatives • Works council and local •K  ey account structure and local authorities and • P articipation in relevant steering communication committees •D  aily morning meetings at the ministries) groups (e.g. regarding ultrafine • The health and safety committee operations level (’Pulse meetings’) • CPH hosts visits several times particulate matter) and local health and safety •Q  uarterly status meetings with each year groups • Employee-elected board operations staff and managers The general public members (3 persons) Tourism organisations in •Q  uarterly surveys of Danish • Local communication committee Authorities with supervisory Denmark public opinion on CPH as a at Roskilde Airport obligations (the Environmental • Chairmanship of Open company • Various active committees, e.g. Protection Agency, the Copenhagen board the Smoking, Canteen and • Membership of Global Apprentice Committees, etc. Municipality of Taarnby) Connected board • CPH’s intranet •K  ey account structure • Membership of DI’s Tourism • S pecialist contact persons at Committee Passengers middle management level • Membership of the Danish• App. 100,000 passenger Chinese Business Forum satisfaction interviews per year Authorities with supervisory • Membership of Turismens • Social media obligations (the Danish Vækstråd (Tourism Growth Council) under HORESTA (the • Customer service Transport Agency) association for the hotel, •K  ey account structure restaurant and tourism industry Shareholders • S pecialist contact persons at in Denmark) • Annual general meeting, annual middle management level • Membership of WoCo Cruise financial report, quarterly stock •A  ssessor in joint dialogue with airlines Network exchange releases •Q  uarterly status meetings at management level National and European industry Airlines organisations • Key account structure at airline Concessionaires, tenants • CPH’s Security manager is one of level the two European representatives • Participation in Airport Operators •K ey account structure • Biannual  concessionaire on the ACI Airports’ Council Committee (AOC) meetings at VP International) standing Security level satisfaction survey •C PH is represented on the board Committee • Biannual dialogue meetings • Two employees on the board of about CPH’s strategy and of the Copenhagen Airport Shopping Centre the Danish Aviation Industry development plans Association (BDL). • Biannual Airline Satisfaction •Q uarterly shop manager meetings • Membership of the Danish Survey Transport Federation • Annual consultation regarding • Biannual  concessionaire forum •M onthly newsletter Connect and • Membership of the Danish CPH’s investments in aeronautical Society of Transport Economics infrastructure weekly newsletter News (TØF). Neighbours Ground handling companies • WebTrak noise interface from •D aily operating meetings 2013 and onwards (Pulse meetings) • Hotline for complaints regarding • Key account structure noise The figure shows CPH’s dialogue tool options with selected stakeholder groups CPH’s stakeholders 23 gained growing significance in the effort to attract and repassengers per year. The third meeting was a study-trip to tain routes, and thus also in the success of the hub. Istanbul to learn more about how the city government, the airport and the national airline, Turkish Airlines, have worked An efficient, strong and well-coordinated interaction betogether to increase growth in the region and create a tween the airport and external players is of vital importance strong hub on the border between Europe and Asia. to the airport’s competitiveness. For these reasons, and as planned in 2012, we set up the CPH Growth Committee Valuable forums for collaboration in 2013. The objective is to bring together key players with We participated in the establishment of a Joint Economic an interest in developing Copenhagen Airport as a hub to Trade Committee (JETCO) between Denmark and Turkey, coordinate external efforts to improve accessibility and route and we hosted the annual conference for Danish goodwill SO 5 growth. The committee held three meetings in 2013. The ambassadors. In addition, we set up a partnership with the first meeting had special focus on generating more traffic Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands to take part and trade between Denmark and our closest BRIC market, in a large-scale research project to gather new knowledge Russia. The second meeting focused on a discussion of CPH’s about how airports strengthen the regions around them. plan for the development of the airport towards 40 million Initiatives in 2014 In January 2014, we presented our vision of the future authority, the Danish Transport Authority, to jointly find of Copenhagen Airport. Together with this new vision, the right balance between a competitive price level and a we have prepared a plan for the expansion of capacity growth-oriented investment level. at the airport, as described under “Capacity expansion” on pages 20-21, and issued an invitation to the authoriIn 2013, Copenhagen Airport’s head of security services, ties, politicians and key players in tourism and the Danish Johnnie Müller, assumed the chairmanship of the Secubusiness community to work together to ensure that the rity Committee of ACI Europe, our international indusregion remains attractive for both business and leisure. try organisation. Under this chairmanship, we wish to strengthen the organisation’s collaboration with the EuThe year 2014 is also the year we once again negotiate ropean Commission in 2014 with respect to the framecharges with our customers. To that end, we will be in work conditions for airports in the field of security. very close contact with both airlines and our regulatory 24 CPH’s stakeholders Marie-Louise Lotz Head of Passenger Service, Copenhagen Airports A/S Copenhagen Airport is a service provider. We focus on customers and we see ourselves as hosts of our passengers, airlines and other business partners. Focus on passengers In order to strengthen Copenhagen Airport’s position as the preferred hub in northern Europe, we must understand travellers and present them with worldclass products and services. With our World Class Hub strategy, we focus on our customlines in 2013 and asked about 100,000 passengers to give us ers – passengers, airlines, concessionaires and cargo operatheir opinion of the airport. The many interviews showed quite tors – because good facilities and conditions for our business clearly that both passengers and airlines would like to see even partners and satisfied passengers generate more routes and more self-service solutions, since self-service not only reduces therefore also growth and jobs in the region. the time spent on check-in and other processes, but also gives travellers a feeling of control and reduces the feeling of stress. The major international airports today compete fiercely to attract passengers and new routes. For this reason, it is esCopenhagen Airport today offers a large number of self-sersential to us that our passengers have a good travel experivice solutions to ensure that passengers can get through the ence that motivates them to actively choose flights out of or airport easily. The facilities include check-in kiosks, self-servia Copenhagen Airport. We are focusing on continuing to vice bag drops, self-service e-gates at the security checkpoint enhance and adapt our service offering, and we are assumand, starting in 2014, also self-service boarding at gates. ing co-responsibility for passengers’ overall travel experience. With a holistic approach to passengers’ travel experience, (See also page 7). we focus both on the entire experience and its individual components to ensure that they interact and complement Self-service means satisfied customers each other to the best possible extent. At Copenhagen Airport, we see ourselves as a host to our customers and to the 24 million passengers who travel Airport improvements affect passenger satisfaction through the airport each year. As a host we wish to get The general level of passengers’ satisfaction with Copento know our passengers better so that we can meet their hagen Airport has been at a high and stable level over the wishes and demands the best we can. We conducted more past six years. On a scale from 0 to 100 (with 100 as “highly than 70 interviews with representatives of more than 20 airsatisfied”), passenger satisfaction increased from 80 in 2009 Focus on passengers 25 to 85 in 2013. The many conversion and expansion projects Moreover, Copenhagen Airport was also rated Europe’s most at the airport during the first half of 2013 meant that pasefficient airport for the eighth time in ten years by the indesenger satisfaction dropped for a short period of time, but pendent international Air Transport Research Society (ATRS) in it rose again in late 2013, once much of the year’s construc2013. tion work was completed. In 2013, we also began investigating the emotional paramPR 5 This indication of a generally high level of satisfaction in eters that affect passenger satisfaction. The survey gave us CPH’s in-house passenger surveys was confirmed by a numan even better understanding of how our passengers see ber of third-party surveys as well: in April 2013, Copenhathe airport. The outcome of the survey did not give rise to gen Airport was rated the best airport in the world for secunew targets for passenger satisfaction but, together with the rity processing in the annual Skytrax survey, which covers 395 many interviews, it provides valuable information on passenairports and surveys satisfaction among 12.1 million travellers. gers’ expectations and wishes. Passenger satisfaction, 2009-2013 World-class shopping The shopping centre at Copenhagen Airport plays a key role Level of satisfaction in our work to provide passengers with a first class travel 100 experience. Since 2010, we have worked to develop the 80 shopping centre and provide an optimal shop and brand mix of local heroes and international top brands. As part of 60 this development, we opened the first independent Marc by Marc Jacobs shop in a European airport in early 2013. 40 In October, Joe & The Juice and Le Sommelier Bar & Bistro 2.10 20 8,134 5,017 put Copenhagen Airport on the world map with awards for 4,417 5,564 2,782 8,117 5,695 5,965 2,699 the “Best Airport Coffee Shop” and the “Best Airport Chef9,487 6,481 6,840 2,760 8,036 5,858 6,093 2,923 5,321 4,589 2,602 0 Led Dining” when the prestigious FAB Awards were presentOverall satisfaction Check-in Security Baggage delivery ed in Dubai. Copenhagen Airport also won the “Best Food & 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Beverage Marketing & Promotions Campaign” award for the CPH Nordic Dining pop-up restaurant in connection with the In 2013, passengers’ overall satisfaction was at the same high level as in 2012. Copenhagen Cooking food festival. There were minor changes within check-in, security and bagage delivery. The number inside the bars indicates the number of interviews in the base. 26 Focus on passengers The best travel experiences are also digital Our overall mission with social media is clear: we want helps make the site more user-friendly for the 40% of to make our passengers’ acquaintance with Copenhagen users who access it from mobile units. The shopping Airport a journey in itself. We want to engage with our section of cph.dk has also been redesigned and now passengers so we can better understand them, have a features a magazine environment that enhances the closer relationship with them and give our ambassadors visual experience for users. a channel of communication. Focusing on passengers allows us to communicate our message in an engaging • The CPH app, now available in four different languages manner and tell them about our services, events and relfor all relevant mobile platforms, had exceeded evant offerings long before they arrive at the airport. 600,000 downloads by the end of 2013, with an average of seven to eight thousand visits logged each day. In 2013, we further developed our CPH Advantage benIn late 2013, we also launched a Chinese-language efit programme, our website, our app and our presence version of the app for iOS and Android. on social media: After the launch of CPHs Facebook page in May 2012, • Just two years after its launch, our free CPH Adwe expanded our presence on social media in 2013 so vantage benefit programme has rounded 480,000 that we are now represented on all relevant platforms: members. The programme was upgraded in 2013 to Facebook, Instagram, Pinterest, YouTube and Twitter. include the possiblity to earn and spend Advantage Social media is an important part of our efforts to attach points in the airport’s six dutyand tax-free shops. passengers and other stakeholders even more closely to the airport, and there is a great interest in the airport: • In late 2013, we relaunched the www.cph.dk webat the end of 2013, CPH’s Facebook page had rounded site in a new design that is automatically scaled to all 45,000 fans. screens, be they PC-, tabletor smartphone-sized. This Focus on passengers 27 Susanne Laux Store Manager, Ecco at Copenhagen Airport Shopping Centre At our Ecco store at Copenhagen Airport, we offer more than advice and sale of shoes: we are also ambassadors for the airport. We are part of a team out here, and we have a joint responsibility for adding exciting features to passengers’ travel experience. The airport’s courses offered at the CPH Retail Academy and their offer of mystery shoppers are an important supplement to Ecco’s own efforts. They help ensure that we all maintain a common high level of service provided to passengers. On 1 March 2013, Gebr. Heinemann opened its refurbished ly for employees at the airport shopping centre. The courses Tax Free main store and introduced a new brand for the dutyare free, and 300 employees have already completed one or and tax-free stores under the name of Copenhagen Airport more of the courses. Tax Free. Since then, its other stores have also been converted and refurbished to match the new concept under the five-year To ensure a high level of focus on customer experience and a contract signed with Gebr. Heinemann in the summer of 2012. continual adjustment of these courses, we have provided free mystery shopping since 2012, with each shop unit receiving In 2013 also H&M Kids, Eton and Samsung opened in the between 0 and 100 points every month. This has driven sigshopping center, and Joe & The Juice and Lagkagehuset nificant positive developments in the retailers’ focus on cusrespectively added one and two additional units. Finally, the tomer experience. From a starting point of no shops receiving opening of a Bottega Veneta in November marked the starta score of 100 in any quarter of the first year, the results for ing point for the further development of Nytorv, where the 2013 as a whole showed that seven units achieved a score of goal is to create Scandinavia’s strongest high-end shopping 100% through an entire quarter in 2013. street. Mystery shopping is also the pivotal point of the annual CPH Joint responsibility for world-class travel experiences Retail Academy diploma event, which was held for the first At CPH, we consider it part of our responsibility as an airport time in the spring of 2013 in the Vilhelm Lauritzen Terminal. operator to assume co-responsibility for the way our busiAt the event, CPH presented awards to the shops that reness partners operate and develop their businesses. We call ceived the highest scores in five different service dimensions. that our extended corporate social responsibility. We assume this responsibility in recognition of the fact that we can only From ban to permission really generate results when we work together with the 700 Another initiative in 2013 that will benefit CPH as well as its companies that operate in the airport area. business partners and passengers is a collaboration with the University of Roskilde in connection with using “nudging” A specific example of how we handle our extended responin guiding passengers to outside areas where smoking is alsibility is our collaboration with the concessionaires in the lowed. This has helped us move outdoor smoking away from shopping centre about improving the passenger shopping places where smoke could be a nuisance to passengers and experience. Working together with these concessionaires, airport staff, e.g. when it flows in through open windows. we developed the CPH Retail Academy in 2012, a training After the first few attempts, more than 50% of smokers programme designed to ensure that the level of service at changed their behaviour and now only smoke in areas where Copenhagen Airport remains uniform and high. The proit causes the least inconvenience. gramme consists of a number of courses developed especial28 Focus on passengers Continuing digital development In 2014, we will continue to focus on enhancing our • Integration between the CPH Advantage benefit prodigital offering to passengers. Our planned initiatives gramme and the airport app that will make it easier include: for users to avail themselves of the offers in the programme and earn and burn points, and launch of mo• Further development of the CPH Advantage benefit bile payment for various services by smartphone. programme, with implementation of the possiblity to earn and spend Advantage points in all the shops • Further development of the social platforms as imporof the shopping center and integration of external tant strategic channels of communication in building partners in order to increase the number of Plus and strong relationships and increasing customer satisfacPremium members. tion and spend per passenger. • More self-service at cph.dk, for example at check-in, • A relaunch of taxfree.dk and launch of a new e-comand implementation of recognition on the website so merce platform. The overall goal is to give passengers that previously requested services will be given priority the opportunity to shop all the way through the travel in connection with individual users. value chain and give our business partners better opportunities to utilise the commercial potential of a • High priority for mobile solutions as a supplement to cross-channel strategy. our online solutions, including several positioning services for customers, for example push messages with • Finally, we plan to develop a taxi management system relevant information. together with the taxi industry in 2014. This management system will improve the management of taxi queues, ensuring a better passenger experience and shorter waits for both taxis and passengers. Other initiatives in 2014 In 2013, we began a review of CPH’s policies and proceness partners at the shopping centre, to ensure that new HR 2 dures to ensure that they uphold and encourage compliance contracts commit our business partners to the UN Global with human rights throughout CPH’s value chain. On page Compact and, in this connection, to respect human rights. 51, you can read about our survey on security screening We will also investigate possibilities for introducing sanctions procedures. In 2014, we will continue to focus on our busiin the event of failure to comply. Focus on passengers 29 02/ Responsibility as a company As part of the international aviation industry, CPH has a responsibility to operate and develop Copenhagen Airport in a sustain­ able manner that respects the environment, the climate and the people who travel through or work at the airport or who are ­otherwise affected by CPH’s activities. In the next sections, we describe our targeted efforts to live up to this responsibility in our day-to-day operation and continuing ­development of the airport. Responsibility as a company 31 Environment and energy Activities in the field of environment and energy focus both on compliance with environmental regulation and on supporting efficient and competitive operation and development. At CPH, we work every day to reduce our environmental 4.11 impact in areas such as climate, energy, noise, air quality, waste, surface water, waste water, groundwater, soil conEnvironmental and energy policy tamination and protected species. Copenhagen Airport is subject to environmental regulation, and environmental perCPH must be managed and developed so that it mits set the conditions for the establishment and operation continually improves its environmental results. This of the airport, including the individual facilities. Moreover, involves: CPH’s handling of soil and waste is regulated by general regulations in the environmental legislation, and aviation • Constant attention to environmental aspects in all legislation contains a number of environmental regulations decisions for airport operation. As a result, we are in a continuing dialogue with the environmental regulatory authorities. • Preventive action and use of cleaner technologies In addition to this, CPH’s work in the field of environmental • Increased environmental awareness among emand energy involves a wish to reduce the Company’s enviployees and partners ronmental impact based on its defined goals and targets. Based on an ambitious growth plan, CPH has set a goal that • An open dialogue about the environmental impact growth at Copenhagen Airport must be CO2 neutral, with a of the Company maximum of 1 kg of CO2 per passenger in 2020. In practice, 32 Environment and energy ” Henrik Zimino Mayor, Taarnby Municipality As a neighbour to a huge business such as Copenhagen Airport, it is important that we have a close collaboration between the municipality and the business, not least with respect to environmental and climate issues. The Municipality of Taarnby and CPH have shared interests with respect to noise, water resources, climate adaptation and soil contamination, but also with respect to accessibility to and jobs at and near the airport. My experience is that Copenhagen Airport is open to discussion on these issues. this means that Copenhagen Airport must be able to accommodate the expected future growth within its current level CPHs regulatory stakeholders in of energy consumption, and that any increase in the airport’s the environmental field CO2 emissions must be disconnected from the rise in passenger numbers. • The Municipality of Taarnby: Supervisory and approving environmental authority for Copenhagen This goal will be met by focusing on energy efficiency and Airport, except in respect of noise and air pollution energy savings and by incorporating these considerations from air traffic. The Municipality of Taarnby also into all relevant decisions in CPH. In addition, CPH’s envihandles the environmental regulatory tasks for the ronmental goals and targets take into account the fact that part of the airport that is located in Dragør, based most of the CO2 emissions at the airport come not only from on a collaborative agreement between the two Copenhagen Airport, but from CPH’s business partners at municipalities. the airport. • The Danish Environmental Protection Agency: For this reason, we have defined so-called “extended enviSupervisory and approving authority for noise and ronmental targets” in addition to our own operational tarair pollution from air traffic at Copenhagen Airport. gets (see page 11). The logic behind this is that environmental improvements have the potential to also generate growth • The Municipality of Roskilde: Supervisory and apthrough reduced costs, increased efficiency or an improved proving authority for Roskilde Airport. working environment for the partner in question and thus also for CPH. See “Scope 3” on page 36 for more details • The Danish Transport Authority: Supervisory auabout our extended environmental targets. thority with respect to the environmental provisions in aviation legislation for both Copenhagen Airport Status on CO2 emissions and Roskilde Airport. EN16 We have calculated our CO2 emissions for 2013 to be 30,881 tonnes. This was 624 tonnes less than in 2012, and corresponds to 1.3 kg in CO2 emissions per passenger at Copenhagen Airport within Scopes 1 and 2. Environment and energy 33 Status for CO2 targets EN 16 CPH’s CO2 targets address the emissions and energy consumption that CPH itself is directly responsible for, for example resource consumption that can be directly or indirectly controlled by CPH through its own production or procurement for its own consumption (Scopes 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol). With 2012 as baseline the targets are: Savings of A maximum 17 GWh pr. year, of 1 kg equivalent to a 20% of CO2 reduction in 2012 levels per passenger of energy consumption in 2020 to be achieved See page 11 for a list of all CPH’s environby 2020 mental and energy goals and targets. CO2-emissions 2009-2013 per passenger and 2020 targets Power consumption at Copenhagen Airport 2009-2013 EN 4 EN 5 Kg GWh kWh/passenger 1.8 120 6 1.5 100 5 1.2 80 4 0.9 60 3 0.6 40 2 0.3 20 1 0.0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2020 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Power consumption at Copenhagen Airport, GWh From 2012 to 2013 the CO2-emissions per passenger decreased from 1.4 to 1.3 kg. Our target is a maximum of 1 kg of CO2 per Power consumption CPH share, GWh kWh/passenger passenger in 2020. Average kWh consumption per passengers dropped from 4.23 in 2012 to 4.05 in 2013. CPH uses 53% of the total power purchased at the airport. Total power savings in 2013: 3,750 MWh General lighting 284,633 Ventilation 2,089,000 Outdoor signs 280,350 Travolators 0 Runway lighting 0 Cooling (incl. ATES) 742,200 Guide signs 10,030 Misc. 152,390 Advertising signs 49,100 Roskilde Airport 142,500 Voltage control 0 Total (kWh) 3,750,203 Copenhagen Airport and Roskilde Airport achieved combined energy savings equivalent to 3,750 MWh in 2013. The figure shows the most significant energy saving measures behind the reduction. EN 5 The reduction in CO2 emissions was mainly reduction in abNew comparative basis for CO2 reduction solute power consumption. CPH is currently being accredited to the Airport Carbon 4.12 Accreditation (ACA) standard. ACA is an international proIn order for us to meet our target of a maximum of 1 kg CO2 gramme for carbon management developed specifically for Original per passenger in 2020, it is therefore essential for us to deairports. Behind the programme is Airports Council Internavelop and renovate buildings according to ambitious energy tional (ACI), an international airport industry organisation. standards and implement energy savings in the operation of Airport CO2 emissions and activities are verified indepenour existing buildings and facilities. dently to the ISO 14064 standard. In 2013, we initiated a 34 Environment and energy Visualisation of the installed ATES facilities Installation of the groundwater cooling system began in 2010, and CPH expects the installation to be completed in 2015. Total installation costs for the cooling system are estimated to be DKK 51.9 million. verification process and we expect to be accredited to ACA Ventilation in 2014. Accreditation will make comparisons of CPH’s work In 2013, the many ventilation systems at the airport began to reduce its CO2 emissions with that of its peer airports to play a role in CPH’s power-saving efforts. Several powereasier and more transparent. saving measures were implemented in connection with the renovation of Terminal 2, including replacing the ventilation CPH energy savings implemented in 2013 (scope 1+2) systems in basements and ceilings and halving the use of EN 4 In 2013, we implemented savings totalling 3.75 GWh, basic ventilation as such (through boosters). These new venEN 5 0.14 GWh of which were at Roskilde Airport. In 2013, CPH tilation changes have resulted in savings in both heating and achieved own power savings equivalent to an annual reducpower consumption that account for about 60% of CPH’s tion of 2.0 GWh, equivalent to 4% of CPH’s own power total energy savings. consumption in Scopes 1+2. The efforts in 2013 correspond to 22% of the 2020 target with respect to realised energy Solar panels savings. The savings were a contributing factor when CPH Copenhagen Airport is the first airport in Denmark to comEN 4 reduced absolute power consumption in the Copenhagen plete a safety approval process of solar cells for airport use Airport area for the fourth consecutive year while passenger together with the Danish Transport Authority. Based on numbers grew. Groundwater cooling In 2013, the ATES groundwater cooling system was exWhat is Scope 1, 2 and 3? panded further in synergy with the large-scale improvements in Terminal 2. (See map on page 39 for illustration.) Scopes 1, 2 and 3 define the organisational and Eight out of ten cooling wells are now in operation, and the operational boundaries used in calculating amounts power-saving effect of the system is already clear. The ATES of greenhouse gas emissions from different sources. system has so far reduced CPH’s annual power consumption The different scopes are used to classify whether for comfort cooling by 2.2 GWh, equivalent to about 4% of greenhouse gas emissions are generated by the orCPH’s total power consumption in 2013. ganisation itself or by other related organisations, for example suppliers or business partners: Other initiatives in Scope 1+2 Light-Emitting Diodes (LEDs) • Scope 1: Direct emissions from operations owned Renovation that included installation of LED technology was or controlled by CPH. completed in several of the airport’s multi-storey carparks in 2013. The project has resulted in uniform lighting com• Scope 2: Indirect emissions that are the result of bined with savings in both maintenance costs and power purchased electricity, heat, cooling or steam conconsumption. We have installed motion-detector-controlled sumed by CPH. lighting in several carparks to provide a safer and more secure environment for users. • Scope 3: Other indirect emissions in CPH’s value chain Source: GHG Protocol Environment and energy 35 software developed by the US Federal Aviation AdministraBecause CPH acts as a distributor of power to the shops tion (FAA), CPH has established a method for ensuring that and tenants at the airport, renewable energy from the solar reflection from solar panels does not represent a flight safety panels will be used not only by CPH, but also by the airport hazard. CPH began a pilot project in 2013 to install a solar shops and tenants. Based on the current split of consumppanel area of about 750 square metres to explore the potion between CPH and its tenants, about 0.1% of the tentential of installing solar panels at Copenhagen Airport and ants’ power consumption will come from the solar panels investigate the related requirements to the airport power when the system goes online in 2014. Accordingly, the solar infrastructure. The installation will have an estimated output power system is an initiative that is expected to reduce CPH’s of 105,000 kWh, equivalent to 0.2% of CPH’s current power CO2 emissions within Scopes 2 and 3. consumption of 52 million kWh. Scope 3: An important part of our environmental work With respect to the future expansion of the airport, the inResource efficiency is an important part of CPH’s environEN 17 tention is for this small pilot system to form the basis for premental work, as it can lower the operating costs of both EN 18 paring a standard for sustainable power production at CoCPH and its customers. Resource efficiency at an airport penhagen Airport that can actively be selected or deselected involves factors such as fuel, heating and electricity. Confor new buildings and areas expected to be built or develsumption of these resources can be reduced by optimising oped in connection with preparing the airport to handle 40 processes and collaborating across the companies operating million passengers per year. In addition, we are carrying out at the airport. In 2013, CPH conducted a so-called Scope 3 ongoing analysis of lifecycle cost methodology expected to analysis, i.e. an analysis of CO2 emissions from the operations be finalised in May 2014. of Copenhagen Airport that CPH does not directly control, but which it has an opportunity to impact to a certain extent. The distribution of CPH’s CO2 emissions in scope 1-3 Sources of CO2 emissions in scope 3 30,881 metric ton EN 17 306,481 Scope 1 1% District heat 1% metric ton EN 18 Scope 2 8% Electricity 7% Scope 3 91% Aircraft 76% Engine runups 1% APU 1 4% Airside traffic 2 2% Landside traffic 3 10% The distribution shows that we can only achieve results if we also 1) APU: aircraft auxiliary power unit coordinate efficient collaboration throughout the airport on reducing 2) Airside traffic: the area on the side of security, where only passengers and staff have access CO2 emmissions 3) Landside traffic: the area before security where everyone has access 36 Environment and energy Inger Sturm Head of E­ nvironmental Affairs, Copenhagen Airports A/S The combination of an ambitious growth strategy and our goal of CO2 neutral growth has given the emissions from our activities more visibility. It has contributed to energy efficiency increasingly becoming incorporated into CPH’s cross-cutting projects. The results of this analysis document the extent of CO2 emisReduced fuel consumption sions across all activities at the airport. The greatest source, ‘We care about you – and our surroundings’: with this sloAO 5 air traffic, which accounts for 73% of CO2 emissions at the airgan, we launched a campaign in 2013 targeting pilots at port, is beyond CPH’s direct control. For this reason, we intend the airport. The main message of the campaign to the many the new Scope 3 data to form the basis for resource efficiency international and Danish pilots was to remind them to turn discussions with our business partners wherever relevant. off the engines when their aircraft are parked on the ramp, to turn off as many engines as possible when taxiing from Scope 3 activities the runway to the aircraft stand, and to reduce APU (auxilEN17 Energy initiatives targeted at CPH’s tenants lary power unit) use. Fliers and small boxes of candy were EN18 The refurbished Tax Free main store opened in 2013. Lightused to spread the messages, which were aimed at helping ing for the store was planned in collaboration with CPH, improve the local working environment on the apron and and the new lighting has halved the store’s direct power reduce particle and greenhouse gas emissions and noise. consumption. Other shared value projects included significant savings on the cooling system and an improvement of Natural gas as an alternative to diesel and petrol the store’s indoor climate. WHSmith, Eton, Sun Shop, Plaza, In 2013, CPH signed an agreement with natural gas compaEN 3 Accessorize and Fine Food also received assistance in findny HMN as a supplier and partner to CPH in a project to test AO 5 ing energy-friendly lighting and cooling solutions to improve natural gas as an alternative fuel in selected vehicles used their indoor climate and reduce power consumption. on the apron and around the airport area. I 2013, the Danish Technological Institute and Force Technology conducted Bio jetfuels initial testing of the technology for CPH, and the conclusion CPH has joined forces with a group of key players in Nordic was that natural gas produces a real improvement in the loaviation as a founding partner in an initiative to develop cal air quality. The conclusion is crucial to CPH, as it results in sustainable jet fuels in the Nordic region. The initiative is a significant improvement of the local working environment LA 8 called NISA (Nordic Initiative for Sustainable Aviation) and and also in a minor reduction in CO2 emissions, with a subincludes the other Nordic airports, airlines and their industry stantially lower particle count in the exhaust from engines organisations, as well as aviation authorities. Aircraft manuusing natural gas than from engines using diesel fuel or petfacturers Airbus and Boeing, and IATA (the International Air rol. The project will continue into 2014, when a test process Transport Association) are also involved in the initiative. The involving natural gas vehicles and a filling station will begin. objective of the new association is to bring together relevant parties from the entire supply chain in order to identify the Efficiency stands best and most energy-efficient solutions for manufacturing In 2013, CPH established an additional six efficiency stands sustainable jet fuel with a focus on the Nordic region. The on Piers A and B. These stands facilitate faster boarding association wants to intensify discussions with politicians to and de-boarding of passengers and consequently reduce give the aviation industry an opportunity to utilise its share turnaround times. The stairs used to be operated with diesel of sustainable fuels. engines, but the stairs at the efficiency stands are electrical. Environment and energy 37 Changesin Changes innoise noiseimpact impactand andnumber number ofof passengers passengers perperyearyear continuing optimisation of waste handling will be based on this new concept. TDENL, dB Million passengers 156 24 The total amount of waste generated in 2013 was 4,388 154 22 tonnes, representing an increase of 2.5%. 17% of the waste 152 20 was handled as recyclable waste. Both the actual volume 150 18 and the share of recyclable waste show a slight decrease. This should be seen against a relativly large increase in 2012. 148 16 146 14 Noise from air traffic 144 12 Copenhagen Airport had a total of 244.942 flight operations AO 7 ‘96 ‘97 ‘98 ‘99 ‘00 ‘01 ‘02 ‘03 ‘04 ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 in 2013, which was a year-on-year increase of 0.8%. CPH TDENL, dB Million passengers continually calculates the noise impact from its air traffic: the level for 2013 was calculated to be 144,4 dB, which is the The figure shows changes in noise exposure and passenger numbers over a large number of years. The limit for noise impact set in the environmental perlowest noise impact on the environment in recent years (see mit (red line) was changed from 152.8 to 147.4 dB in 2005 (plus or minus 1 figure). Noise levels are calculated using the TDENL method. dB). Copenhagen Airport remained well within this noise limit. TDENL stands for “Total Day-Evening-Night Level” and is an expression of the average noise exposure calculated on the With this, we achieve an improvement in the local air quality basis of the three busiest months of the year. The environfor the benefit of all staff working in the apron area, as well mental approval of noise from air traffic at Copenhagen Airas lower CO2 emissions. The stairs also require fewer ground port sets a noise equivalent limit of 147.4 dB, and the airport handling staff to operate them. This means that the efficienmust remain within this limit with a tolerance of 1 dB. cy stands benefit airlines, ground handling companies and CPH, while also providing clear environmental and working CPH monitors noise using a system with 12 permanent noise environment advantages. Moreover, efficiency improvements measuring stations and two mobile measuring stations. are paving the way for more routes and flights out of Copenhagen Airport. CPH plans to establish an additional four The system forms the basis of the collection of noise data for efficiency stands in 2014. continuous monitoring of noise exposure in the areas adjacent to the airport. Any noise limit violations logged by CPH, Other environmental indicators for example levels in excess of the maximum limit for takeCopenhagen Airport’s land forms part of an overall drinking offs and landings at night of 80 dB(A), are reported to the water resource for Taarnby and Dragør. For this reason, CPH environmental and aviation authorities, who then handle the keeps a close eye on the quality of the groundwater under steps to be taken with the airlines. The location of the noise the airport in a monitoring programme designed in colmeasuring stations can be seen from the map on page 39. laboration with the regulatory authorities. When any soil or construction work is carried out at the airport, CPH always Flight and noise data for everyone involves the environmental authorities and takes groundwaIn the spring of 2013, CPH WebTrak™, a web portal based ter resources into consideration. on data from the noise monitoring system was launched. The portal is intended as a tool to help users seek informaEN 8 The consumption of drinking water at Copenhagen Airport tion about operations at Copenhagen Airport and to contact fell by 3% in 2013 compared with the level in 2012. CPH. The portal allows the public to monitor the airport’s flight operations and obtain up-to-date information on eveNew waste concept rything from aircraft type, take-offs and landings to noise EN22 For each 1 million additional passengers, CPH expects that measurements. For the benefit of people living in the vicinity approximately 140 tonnes of waste will be generated in the of the airport, Webtrak also has an option for obtaining this terminals. As a result, the expected growth in passenger information based on an exact address. By the end of 2013, numbers at Copenhagen Airport will require more of the WebTrak had rounded more than 38,000 visitors, correairport’s waste handling and logistics services, both of which sponding to an average of 139 a day. CPH received 24 quemust be made more efficient and be incorporated into the ries from residents about noise in 2013, and just over a third plans for the future expansion of the terminal complex. CPH of the queries were based on WebTrak information. also intends to work to ensure not only that a substantially larger share of the airport’s waste is recycled, but also that Air quality monitoring retailers at the shopping centre will see more efficient proCPH monitors air quality at two measuring stations near the AO 5 cesses for handling and sorting waste. In 2013, with these airport perimeter to see whether air traffic affects air quality LA 8 goals in mind, CPH prepared a five-year plan for waste in adjacent areas. The locations of the two stations, Station EN20 handling that included a new waste concept. In 2014, the East and Station West, are shown on the map on page 39. 38 Environment and energy N Kastrup 1 2 Terminal 2 Hangars ATES Terminal 1 Terminal 3 Baggage 10 11 12 B4 22L CPH Go Station East Station West 0.0 8% % 4. 0.3 % % .0 Taarnby 58 22R 9 2.5 % .4 % 56 0.3 % 5% 30 0. 3 4 0% 3. 5 % .9 37 04R Øresund Dragør .7 % 35 % 0. 6 04L 8 12 7 6 Use of runways in 2013 Departures The weather is a crucial factor for how air traffic is handled. Arrivals Wind conditions are especially key in determining which runAir measuring stations ways are used for departures or arrivals. X Noise measuring stations Long periods of dominant north-easterly winds in 2013 ATES cooling distribution pipelines (established) contributed to runway 04R being used for 38% of all deATES cooling distribution pipelines (planned) partures. This was quite different from previous years when the use of runway 04R for departures was about 10% lower. Similarly, the use of runway 22, was the lowest in several years. Environment and energy 39 The two stations track the occurrence of the compounds The investigation includes expected changes in temperature, NO, NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) and PM2.5 (particles), and results sea water level, rain events, groundwater level and wind show that Copenhagen Airport is generally well below the conditions in the next 50 years. The strategy also includes EU threshold values for these parameters. NO has increased estimated increases in surface water volumes from the future from 4 to 5 μg/m3. This is within the interval of previously expansion of the airport. As the first initiative implemented measured. from its climate adaptation strategy, CPH prepared an overall emergency plan in 2013 for handling of water. Moreover, CPH has also measured the volume of ultrafine particles since CPH is currently in a dialogue about climate adaptation with 2010. The purpose of these measurements is to monitor air several of its key stakeholders, including the Municipalities quality on the apron with respect to the working environment of Taarnby and Dragør and the Danish Transport Authority. at the airport. See page 47 for more information about air quality and the working environment in the apron area. Roskilde Airport Roskilde Airport is used to handle much of the region’s opCPH supports new environmental technology research and erations with small business aircraft and general aviation. in 2013 made a 300 square metres landside parking lot There is a trend towards more and more people choosing available for testing a new product that may reduce NOX helicopter flights over the traditional fixed-wing aircraft that emissions from car exhaust. The pavement of the parking lot account for most operations. For this reason, Roskilde Airwas coated with a material that absorbs and degrades NOx port applied for and received permission in 2013 to increase from car exhaust through a catalytic process, a process that its helicopter quota to 12,000 operations per year, and the starts when light hits the surface. However, it has not yet quota for fixed-wing aircraft was reduced correspondingly. been possible to draw any final conclusions about the effect At the end of 2013, the Municipality of Roskilde was in the of this coating. process of reassessing the Roskilde Airport environmental permit. In this process, which continues, Roskilde Airport is Strategy for climate adaptation working hard to maintain the conditions required for the EN 21 CPH drafted the first version of a climate adaptation strategy companies that have chosen to locate at the airport, while for Copenhagen Airport in 2013. The strategy addresses also taking the environment and the airport’s neighbours how climate change may affect Copenhagen Airport’s ininto consideration. frastructure and business, and how CPH can adapt to the expected impact. The ATES (Aquafier Thermal Energy Storage) cooling system employs a water-based thermal energy storage system that stores heat and cold in groundwater reservoirs. Initiatives planned for 2014 and forward • CPH puts its solar power plant in operation. • CPH will renovate the fire training area, which will involve a number of environmental improvements. • The expansion of the ATES groundwater cooling system will continue in order for 80% of the airport’s ter• In 2013, CPH analysed the implementation of A-CDM, minal comfort cooling requirements to be met by this a project for improved collaboration among the playsystem by the end of 2015. ers in the travel value chain, including airports. (Airport Collaborative Decision Making, A-CDM). The project • CPH will receive Airport Carbon Accreditation. will begin in 2014. 40 Environment and energy Employees Our employees are the face of CPH to the millions of passengers who use Copenhagen and Roskilde airports each year. Competent and committed employees are essential to our work to generate responsible growth at CPH. CPH has a direct influence on the working conditions of the in our staff in future through recruiting, training and in2,258 employees at CPH, as well as an indirect influence house career development. on the roughly 21,000 employees who work for the 700 companies that operate at Copenhagen Airport. As one of Gender distribution the very largest-scale employers in Denmark, the airport is CPH considers diversity on the Board of Directors and at L A13 an important part of the lives of many employees. This is a other management levels to be a benefit that contributes great responsibility which we take very seriously as a workto the Company’s performance and improves management HR 5 place. We are making a targeted effort to comply with the efficiency. For this reason, CPH has – based on the rules set HR 6 UN Global Compact principles regarding labour standards out in the Danish Companies Act in this respect – defined a HR 7 and human rights and thus also working to eliminate child target for the required percentage of women on the Board labour and forced and compulsory labour. of Directors and prepared a policy for increasing the number of women at other management levels. Our target is that in Employee composition and diversity at CPH 2017 the proportion of women on the Board will be 33% LA13 At CPH, we only recruit and promote employees on the basis corresponding to the proportion of women in CPH’s general of their professional and personal qualifications and skills. staff in 2012. Furthermore, our goal is that the proportion of Gender, age, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation or other diwomen in management must correspond to the proportion versity variables are irrelevant when we fill vacant positions. of women in CPH’s general staff by 2017 (2013: 33%). We also believe that diversity in our labour force is a sigIn 2013, 66% of CPH’s employees were men and 34% nificant advantage in developing products and providing women. In 2013, the percentage of female board members services to our customers and passengers, most of whom are elected by the shareholders was 17%. The gender distribunot Danish. tion of our 201 management and executive staff is 73% men and 27% women. This was a moderate improvement In 2013, we collected data on cultural diversity at CPH, and from 2012, when female managers accounted for 25% of we have prepared a plan for how we can work with diversity management staff. CPH supports the goal of a more equal gender distribution by demanding that the recruiting agencies we use must Excerpts from CPH’s present us with at least one candidate of each gender when human resources policy vacant positions are to be filled. In 2012, CPH conducted its first two development programmes for women with a focus At CPH, we want to act responsibly and with respect on work-life balance. These programmes continued in 2013, for each employee. with a group for women and one for men. For this reason, any kind of harassment, including CPH’s job advertisements were adjusted in the summer of sexual harassment and bullying, and acts that may be 2013 to better appeal to both men and women, and in the perceived as offensive, are considered unacceptable advertisements we explicitly encourage both qualified men conduct and may have consequences to the employand women to apply for the vacant jobs advertised. ment of the person who offends another person. Employees 41 To constantly focus on a more equal gender distribution, we director is currently a member of the charter board, which calculate the proportion of women to men together with meets to discuss ways to strengthen diversity. other HR ratios each quarter. Seniors Ethnicity The average age of our employees is 44.2. The youngest LA11 CPH’s employees come from a total of 55 countries. Data employee is 17 and the oldest is 81. derived from Statistics Denmark show that 89% of employees originate from Denmark, 8% have a non-Danish ethnic Twenty-nine per cent of our staff are more than 50 years background, and 3% are descendants. Besides the workers old, so we are taking a structured approach to successor from Denmark, most of our employees come from Pakistan, planning to ensure we have people ready to replace these the Philippines, Turkey, the Balkans and Morocco. employees when it becomes relevant. CPH’s pensions broker invites employees who have reached the age of 55 to “senThe diverse backgrounds of our employees are utilised in reior seminars” at which they are offered advice on an indilation to passengers, of whom only a third are of Danish navidual plan for their final years on the job market and their tionality. In Security, for example, there is a board where all retirement years. employees can see the languages each colleague speaks, so that passengers who speak neither English nor Danish can In 2012, we set ourselves the goal of reviewing our senior receive assistance. We have also hired Chineseand Russianpolicy. We elected in 2013 to retain our current policy in the speaking guides who can help those passenger groups have first round. a better experience at the airport by having the opportunity to speak in their mother tongue with someone who underApprentices, trainees and jobs for people with special stands their cultural background. needs At the end of 2013, CPH had seven apprentices, three office In 2013, CPH began to produce videos portraying employees trainees and three adult apprentices. We have adopted a in order to show how they take pride in their job and enjoy plan for how we can further increase the number of peoworking at CPH, and how everyone across departments ple in these positions to 21 in 2015. We have a number of works to support CPH’s strategy. The videos also show how university and business school students working part time the diversity of the staff is a strength in serving passengers. as student assistants or working on school projects in collaboration with CPH. At the end of 2013, we had 18 em4.12 CPH was one of the first companies to sign the City of Coployees with flexible working arrangements or other kinds of penhagen’s charter of diversity some time ago, and our HR government-subsidised jobs. In addition, CPH trains some 55 42 Employees Thomas Kolber Vice President, HR, Copenhagen Airports A/S We believe that diversity among our employees is a clear strength in serving our passengers, two-thirds of whom are not Danish. new security staff annually. You can read more about this on Overall, the 2013 survey showed progress in almost all fields page 50-51. compared with the year before. In particular, leadership and the connection between strategy and each employee’s dayEmployment conditions to-day work were rated higher. The employees also rated 2.5 CPH’s business activities are really only in Denmark, and all their job satisfaction higher in the survey, but this rating did LA 4 its employees are subject to Danish labour law. There is a not rise as much as it did for the other questions. HR 5 long tradition of employee freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. 68% of our staff are employed under collective agreements; the remaining 32% are employed on individual terms. CPH health clinic LA 7 Equal pay and conditions In 2013 sickness absence declined from 5.3 in 2012 LA 8 LA13 We pay equal salaries for equal work, irrespective of gender to 4.9. LA14 or other diversity variables . We have analysed our salary and wage data as reported to the Confederation of Danish EmAt the CPH health clinic we conducted 119 prevenployers in 2013 against the backdrop of the Danish Act on tive health check-ups in 2013. A total of 799 employEqual Pay to Men and Women, and the analysis did not give ees received massage from a physiotherapist attached rise to any comments. to the clinic, and 144 employees received guidance on a healthier diet, smoking cessation and exercise LA15 In 2013, 10 women took maternity and parental leave, 48 which increased their well-being and, for many of men took two weeks’ paternal leave and 35 men took six them, led to significant weight loss. to ten weeks of parental leave. There were no cases of complaints of discrimination in 2013 in connection with recruitWe offer free back and lower back training facilities ment, promotion or other circumstances. to prevent muscoskeletal injuries, three weekly yoga classes and free use of our two exercise rooms with Employee engagement gym equipment. CPH conducted its annual engagement survey in September 2013: employees were asked about their involvement in and The health clinic also focuses on ergonomics and corunderstanding of CPH’s World Class Hub strategy, in adrect desk design for computer work, and we have an dition to questions focusing on their engagement and job agreement with an optician to provide VDU glasses satisfaction, and a record number of employees – 87% – refor employees who need them. sponded. Employees 43 LA12 On the basis of the engagement survey, each department employees for their opinion of the health options we offer defines action plans intended to ensure an increased manand what we could do to make their workdays even healthagement focus on the areas specified by employees. ier. In general, the WPA showed that our employees are well aware of the health options at CPH, of which use of the Our goal is for employee engagement to be 10% higher in health clinic was considered a high priority, but our health 2017 than in 2012. In 2012, the average score on all stateinsurance plan was also considered very important. ments in the engagement survey was 76.9; it was 80.0 in 2013. We expect that initiatives regarding sickness absence, Based on this health WPA, we have started on several initiahealth, management, collaboration and employee developtives in the individual departments, and this work will conment will generate an even higher level of engagement in tinue in 2014. CPH. Job satisfaction interviews LA 2 The rate of employee turnover was 9.8% in 2013, which In 2013, we also developed a tool to be used by managers, LA 8 was a small increase from the 2012 rate of 8.6%. This rate is the Working Environment department and HR to promote considered to be acceptable. job satisfaction and reduce long-term sickness absence. The tool comprises three types of job satisfaction interviews. Security staff strike We expect that systematic use of the interviews will help us In early September 2013, Copenhagen Airport was hit by a determine whether an employee is on the way to long-term four-hour wildcat strike by security staff. The reason for the sickness absence, and enable us to help employees get back strike was disagreement about the length of duty periods to work and ensure that they be satisfied on the job, for exin the upcoming winter period. The strike affected traffic ample after a long period of absence due to stress. This new on the day in question, with 27 arrivals and departures cankind of job satisfaction interview will be introduced in the celled and 72 departures delayed by between eight minutes organisation sometime in 2014. and almost seven and a half hours. CPH’s management and union representatives have jointly ensured that there will be An open climate for debate an even better dialogue in future in an effort to avoid similar CPH wants to maintain an open dialogue, both in the formal LA 6 situations going forward. employee forums and in the annual performance assessment LA12 interviews (MUS) held between each employee and his or Health and well-being her superior. The topics discussed at these interviews include LA 8 We want our employees to be in the best of health. Our efwhat kind of training is relevant for the individual departforts to understand the reasons for employee absence were ments at CPH held up against the Company’s requirements intensified in 2013, as was our work to prevent disease and and expectations. improve the general level of health and well-being. Employee development For this reason, we conducted a workplace assessment Training for employees with reading or spelling (WPA) on health in the summer of 2013 in which we asked problems We have a wide variety of staff with different requirements when it comes to communication on the job. We are aware that a number of our employees have problems reading or Assistive equipment spelling, so we are involved in a project called “Reading and for baggage staff Communication in Companies” under the National Labour Market Authority, which offers information, training and In order to avoid strain injuries among handling comanalysis of company communication pathways in collaborapany staff, we continuously develop and improve tion with the Danish labour union 3F. technical assistive equipment. In collaboration with the handling companies, we are currently testing new Employees in a number of our operating departments have lifting equipment to be used in loading fixed-top conagreed to take a test to determine whether they have readtainers, which are not compatible with conventional ing or spelling problems. Employees identified as having lifting hooks. This technology is relatively new, so in dyslexia to a greater or lesser extent are offered a training 2013 we worked to identify suppliers and prepare reprogramme from Danish course provider AOF they can take quirement specifications. A four-month testing period during working hours to give them a better foundation for for the equipment began in January 2014, in close reading and writing in their everyday situations. A number of collaboration with the handling companies and their employees are already enrolled in the programme, and more staff, and we expect the equipment will be rolled out are on the way. for use in late summer 2014. 44 Employees We have also received recommendations for IT solutions that in CPH’s talent development activities. By comparison, 48 can help these people, for example iPhone apps that can women and 39 men took part in these activities in 2012. read texts aloud. All employees at CPH have a work iPhone that can also be used for assistance in this context. A smoke-free workplace CPH has been a smoke-free workplace for two years: emLA 8 Finally, we are increasingly using videos, which can also be ployees are not allowed to smoke on the job. We want to viewed on an iPhone. Video is an excellent media for helping be a smoke-free working environment to ensure that our employees with reading problems. employees are not exposed to second-hand smoke. In the section “Focus on passengers” on page 28, we describe our Talent development initiatives to ensure that passengers only smoke in places LA12 CPH is dependent on having talented employees who can where their smoke is not a nuisance to employees or other assume greater responsibilities in the organisation when airport staff. the need arises. We would like to fill vacant positions with in-house candidates as much as we can, and this requires Occupational health and safety a constant focus on talent and potential successors to key The number of occupational injuries at the airport was lower LA 7 positions. In 2013, 47 women and 52 men were involved in 2013 than in 2012, and especially the number of particuWorking with an IT backpack and confidence CPH’s Field Service department recruited an apprentice I know how many IT tools we can give him to help him, in 2013 who told them during the job interview that he and we can send him to training that will improve his was dyslexic. Field Service department head Lars Faurreading skills. Also, I think a person should be recognised schou says, for being honest and telling us that he has certain challenges – because his qualifications for the job clearly “Historically, I would be reluctant to hire an apprentice compensated for his reading difficulties. He will learn to who told us so explicitly that he was dyslexic. After all, read, or else he’ll be able to use his IT tools to help him.” he has to be able to complete a training programme and pass some tests. But I’m not worried any more, because Employees 45 ” Lars NameBrogaard Name Union Secretary,xxxx 3F It is a complicated challenge to xxxxx improve air quality at an airport, and the problem has not yet been finally solved. We, the unions, recognise CPH’s commitment and preparedness to collaborate with us to improve air quality, and we are pleased with the specific initiatives we have launched together for the benefit of all of us. larly severe accident has decreased from 18 in 2012 to 8 in There were several serious occupational accidents or near2013. All occupational injuries are risk assessed and categoaccidents among external contract workers at the airport in rised with respect to severity so that preventive action can be 2013. We will be focusing on preventing this kind of injury taken if necessary. in 2014, and we will provide special instruction to tradesmen on the terms and conditions that apply at the airport and in The occupational injury frequency for all occupational accithe projects they work on. dents with absence dropped from 15.9 to 15.0 in 2013. Expanded dialogue The three most frequently occurring injuries were from stumThe discussion on health and safety at work reaches beyond bling and falling, from being hit or squeezed, and ergonomic our own employees. For example, we work closely together injuries. It was especially injuries caused by falling and erwith the health and safety organisations of the handling gonomic injuries that resulted in absence. companies to provide training in health and safety issues, and we also offer a high degree of employee involvement, for example when we make changes to aircraft stands or Occupational accidents, 2011-2013 design or renovate premises, so that we continually improve our safety culture and encourage safe behaviour among all 100 employees working at the airport. 80 Intranet in your pocket About 75% of CPH’s employees work in operations and only 60 have access to shared PCs in their break rooms. Therefore, it 40 is difficult to communicate information to these employees via our intranet, and large employee groups rarely meet their 20 immediate superior, as they work shifts and in large geo8 18 21 49 36 22 52 54 44 80 90 67 graphical areas. 0 Very servere Servere With absence Without absence For these reasons, CPH has had a special in-house mobile 2013 2012 2011 app developed to provide employees with easy access to our intranet and, thereby, to our in-house news and information The number of occupational accidents has decreased over the last three years. as well as the in-house videos we began producing for our From 2012 to 2013 there has been a large decrease in the number of very employees in 2013. The app is so popular that many intranet severe accidents. pages are more often seen via the app than on PCs. 46 Employees LA 8 Air quality programme AO 5 We continue to work intensively to reduce ultrafine partiTo inform our stakeholders and business partners on the cle counts and thus improve air quality for our employees changes made to improve air quality, we issued three and the environment. There are currently no threshold newsletters to our stakeholders and business partners in values for ultrafine particles, but they have been docu2013. We will continue to do so in 2014. mented as a health hazard: occupational injuries (bladder cancer and COPD lung disease) in three baggage operaA pioneer airport internationally tors have officially been acknowledged as having resulted CPH provides information on the issue of ultrafine parfrom air pollution. ticles to stakeholders in the aviation industry, primarily with a starting point in ACI, the airport international inThe largest volumes of ultrafine particles are found in the terest group. We are considered a pioneer airport in this apron areas, and a study prepared for us in 2013 showed field, and we see substantial interest from other internathat baggage operators are the group of workers with tional airports wanting to learn more about the experithe greatest exposure to these particles. ence gained in Copenhagen. This means, among other things, that we have provided information on our work Efforts to achieve better air quality at a conference in the European Parliament organised by It is exactly on the aprons we are implementing a number the local union 3F Kastrup. of measures to reduce emissions. We have significantly reduced the volume of particles near Piers A and B by Project Cleaner Air and Better Lifting pushing aircraft to the taxiways before their engines are As an additional investigation into what it might mean started up rather than allowing start-up on the stand and for employees at the airport to work in an environment allowing them to move to the taxiway using their own with polluted air, the airport, the handling companies engines. and the labour unions are participating in a research project called “Cleaner Air and Better Lifting”. A group Moreover, we ask pilots to turn off the aircraft engines of researchers at the Clinic of Occupational Medicine as soon as they are parked on the stand, and we recomat Bispebjerg Hospital is examining 5,000 current and mend that, if possible, they taxi using one engine only. former baggage operators at the airport to determine This saves fuel and helps make the air cleaner, benefiting whether they had more sickness absence and more musboth the environment and the employees working in the coskeletal problems than other unskilled workers in Denapron areas. mark. They expect to present their findings in 2015. Employees 47 Safety and security The safety and security of our passengers, business partners and employees have the highest priority at CPH. Through a close collaboration with the regulatory authorities and our business partners, we are working to live up to this responsibility while respecting human rights and providing a high level of service. 4.11 Safety and security are part of CPH’s core business. As an airto at least 60% in 2013, but we managed to reach a level port, we have a responsibility for flight safety and passenger of 85% through a targeted effort to promote dialogue and security. Our ability to fulfil this responsibility with a focus on more understanding among the persons who move and respect and service is key to CPH’s competitive position. work around aircraft. At CPH, we constantly work to develop and improve our apWe will continue to work with awareness and conduct reproach to safety and security. We think that we can always lating to safety, and we have set a 2014 target of 87% for become better, and we are working to constantly strengthen incidents reported through the system. our collaboration with the regulatory authorities and our business partners, which is essential if we want to provide Fire and Rescue the level of safety, security and service we demand from Copenhagen Airport’s Fire and Rescue department plays a ourselves. key role in ensuring the safety of people and property at Copenhagen Airport. From two separate fire stations in the A shared safety culture airport area, our 71 firefighters (and one apprentice) can At CPH, we share identity perception with our business reach any location in the airport manoeuvring area in three partners. This applies to passengers’ assessment of Copenminutes or less at any time of the day or year. hagen Airport or Roskilde Airport, as passengers cannot be expected to distinguish between the processes that are the All our firefighters are highly trained, also by international HR 8 responsibility of CPH and those that are the responsibility of standards. In addition to training at the Function Training our business partners. The perceived shared identity also apFire Level, the ordinary training level for city firefighters in plies very much to safety and security, where we are dependgeneral, all CPH firefighters have been trained to the level ent on all the operators at the airport working together to of Aviation Firefighters and First Responders (first aid traingive top priority to security. ing). In addition, a high percentage of our firefighters have received additional training in team management, incident We see it as our responsibility to encourage a shared safety management and rescue operations at sea. All watches of and security culture in which all workers – both CPH emfirefighters include trained instructors in areas such as first ployees and employees of our business partners – consider it aid, smoke-helmet operations, elementary fire fighting, their responsibility to follow all the rules and contribute to a flashover containers, pioneer services and incident managecontinual improvement in this field. ment. In 2013, the Fire and Rescue Department responded to 1,872 incidents, of which 1,493 involved first aid, and In recent years, we have successfully focused on the impor128 were for flights. tance of safety and security across the airport companies. As part of this activity, we have run a number of campaigns Bird strikes aimed at promoting honesty and learning. Moreover, we The manoeuvring area of Copenhagen Airport is patrolled have introduced a reporting system which does not sanction 24/7 by bird controllers who do their best to ensure that employees working at the airport if they report an incident birds stay out of the way of departing and approaching airpersonally and within 24 hours, as long as it was not caused craft. The team has helped develop new and gentler methby gross negligence on their part. ods for this work, for example using dogs. The bird controllers also use vehicle-fixed broadcasting of bird distress calls The reporting system was introduced in late 2011 and in and warning shots; as a last resort, they will shoot birds to 2012 45% of all reportable incidents were reported through keep them out of the area. this system. Our goal was for this percentage to increase 48 Safety and security Bird strikes Trends in bird strikes Reduction of bird strikes The number of strikes involving ‘red’ species has declined We have special focus on species that involve both a over the past five years. This is partly due to our targeted high risk and a high frequency of bird strikes, and we efforts to scare these birds away and control their numtake what we can of corrective steps to prevent strikes bers in the airport area and on the island of Saltholm, involving those species. The higher-risk species are where CPH collaborates with the Danish Nature Agency marked in red in the figure. We also take preventive to reduce the number of breeding cormorants. steps against moderate-sized species involving a moderate level of strike frequency to prevent them from Calculation method becoming a greater risk over time. The moderate-risk CPH uses an internationally recognised method for bird species are marked in blue. strike risk assessment that provides a detailed description Risk evaluation of bird strikes in cph. status january 2009 – november 2013 of what the challenges are with respect to frequency and Every month, we evaluate the numbers of birds involved The development in risk categories. Species found on the airport’s premises. severity. in bird strikes and determine their species if we can. This 60 allows us to remain up to date at all times on bird strike• Frequency is measured as the average number of bird trends and take additional steps, if there is an upward 50 strikes per year (measured over the past five years) for trend in frequency or severity. 40 each species. 30 Copenhagen Airport is also currently looking into the use • Severity is stated as the percentage per species of of 3D bird radars, i.e. a type of radar that can detect sig20 strikes involving aircraft damage. So if ten out of 100 nals from flying birds and show both distance to the birds collisions involving a certain bird species result in air10 and the altitude at which the birds are flying. In this concraft 0 damage, the severity rate is 10%. As the weight text, CPH is monitoring tests currently being conducted of a bird makes a great deal of difference in how in the United States on systems from different manufacJAN-09 FEB-09 MAR-09 APR-09 MAY-09 JUN-09 JUL-09 AUG-09 SEP-09 OCT-09 NOV-09 DEC-09 JAN-10 FEB-10 MAR-10 APR-10 MAT-10 JUN-10 JUL-10 AUG-10 SEP-10 OCT-10 NOV-10 DEC-10 JAN-11 FEB-11 MAR-11 APR-11 MAY-11 JUN-11 JUL-11 AUG-11 SEP-11 much damage is done to a plane, heavier birds will turers. The idea is to determine whether it would be adOCT-11 NOV-11 DEC-11 JAN-12 FEB-12 MAR-12 APR-12 MAY-12 JUN-12 JUL-12 AUG-12 SEP-12 OCT-12 NOV-12 DEC-12 JAN-13 FEB-13 MAR-13 APR-13 MAY-13 JUN-13 JUL-13 AUG-13 SEP-13 OCT-13 NOV-13 naturally represent Lavere risiko Høj greater risk. a risiko vantageous for Copenhagen Airport to use one of these radar systems. CPH is also working with the University of Aarhus and a private company to develop a new type of radar, with the airport as a test area for the prototype. Development in birdstrikes 150 120 90 60 30 0 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Lower risk High risk In addition, we are currently investigating the possibility of nutritional value for insects and mice: this reduces the volcarefully reducing the number of birds in the air over the ume of food available to birds and in turn limits the number airport by limiting the food available to them in the area. of birds in the area. For this purpose, in 2012 we investigated the possibility of sowing grass that contains endophytes. Some types of grass In 2013, we replanted about 20 hectares with the new EN 1 contain endophytic fungi as a natural defence against overgrass. We are testing mixes of two strains and are also lookgrazing. Grass that grows with the fungi inside it has a lower ing at which care measures promote the best growth of Safety and security 49 the grass. We will continue this testing until we identify the methods best suited for sowing and care of the new grass. Target for safety and security CPH is affiliated with a botanist from the University of Copenhagen as an advisor to the project. • Aircraft damage incidents involving CPH: a maximum of 0.1 incidents per 10,000 operations. Status CPH’s security tasks for 2013: on average 0.2 per 10,000, which is Our responsibility as an airport involves handling all tasks due to a few aircraft injuries where CPH b ­ oarding involving access, area, personal and baggage security at the bridges have been involved and made minor airport. This work is performed by the Security department, ­damage to aircrafts. whose staff screen passengers, patrol the airport, security screen checked baggage and monitor the entire airport area. • Number of reported near-incidents: a maximum of 25 per 10,000 operations. Status for 2013: The airport covers an area of more than 12 square kilome9 near-incidents reported per 10,000 operations. tres, with a perimeter fence that is about 28 kilometres long. In addition to surveillance employing more than 800 cam• 85 percent of the passengers shall be through the eras outside and inside the buildings and 220 cameras in the central security check in less than five minutes. multi-storey carparks and the other carparks, the airport is Status for 2013: 87,1%. guarded by round-the-clock walking patrols and car patrols both inside and outside the buildings. A total of 930 employees were working within the Security We believe that we can always improve, so we are constantdepartment’s area of responsibility at Copenhagen Airport ly working to improve our security process. An important in 2013 (an increase from 924 in 2012), and the figure for element of this work is CPH providing training for its own Roskilde Airport was 12, making this by far the largest emsecurity staff. To qualify as a security officer at Copenhagen ployee group at CPH. and Roskilde Airport, employees must complete a six-month theoretical and practical training course and attend regular CPH’s security training supplementary training. The training course is planned and 2.10 At CPH, we want to handle our responsibility for security in organised by CPH and approved by the Danish Transport a way that meets both our requirements and those of our Authority to ensure compliance with applicable regulations business partners, with respect and a general high level of in the field, ensuring that all security staff are always up to service. In 2013, we received an award for our work in this date on new regulations and guidelines and are familiar with field, i.e. for the world’s best and friendliest security process, CPH’s policies for compliance with human rights requireawarded by the rating agency Skytrax, which had surveyed ments as they relate to the Security department’s areas of more than 12 million passengers worldwide. In its motivaresponsibility. tion for the award, Skytrax emphasised that the security screening staff at Copenhagen Airport are friendly but also Because our security staff gain insight into security Name Name matters efficient, which leads to short waiting times. that must be treated as confidential, the Danish Transportxxxx xxxxx Johnnie Müller Head of Security Services, Copenhagen Airports A/S Safety must be top level at an airport and a workplace like Copenhagen Airport. Our key focus is on ensuring that service and security go hand in hand, and we want our passengers to know that we mean it when we wish them a good trip. 50 Safety and security ” Lars Name Haugaard Name Police Deputy Chief xxxx Superintendent and Head of the Border Control Department xxxxx We work closely together with several departments at Copenhagen Airport, both at the management level and in connection with specific issues. This helps us ensure that the level of security is high while also allowing traffic to be handled in a flexible manner, both of which are key to the operation of the airport, in which we all play a role. Authority and the Danish Security and Intelligence Service number of employees have access to these recordings, and (Danish acronym: PET) perform background checks on all any access to using the recordings and how long they may security officers. This helps ensure that security services at be stored for is highly regulated. Copenhagen Airport are handled by professional and responsible employees who can live up to the responsibility the CPH did not receive any complaints about the use or hanPR 8 airport has to provide security. In 2013, Security trained 55 dling of personally sensitive information and data in 2013. new employees and provided supplementary and brush-up training for 820 employees. Security also held courses for a Respect for human rights number of other airports and third-party companies. In 2013, we reviewed our security procedures and guideHR 8 lines to ensure they do not infringe on international human SO 3 Handling of personally sensitive information rights. The review did not give rise to any changes to CPH’s HR 6 A department under Security, the ID Card Office, handles procedures and guidelines for security. issuing ID cards to all persons working permanently in the airport area. In this connection, the ID Card Office receives Our employees meet passengers at eye level, with a basic HR 4 the applicant’s full name, personal registration number, adrespect and understanding of human rights. Our security ofdress and workplace. This information is then processed and ficers screen travellers with caution, careful to avoid any kind stored in a separate system according to procedures laid of discrimination or insulting behaviour, especially towards down in the Danish Personal Data Act. persons with reduced mobility or persons who for religious or cultural reasons have special needs that must be taken The handling of data collected in connection with surveilinto account. lance of the Copenhagen Airport area is regulated by the Danish Act on CCTV Monitoring and the Danish Personal Data Act. There are clearly defined and specific procedures for how CPH is to handle its CCTV recordings: only a limited Our responsibility for security CPH has a number of obligations to mitigate threats Accident at Roskilde against aviation security. These obligations are laid down in international as well as national regulations. In early March 2013, a serious accident occurred at Under the Danish Air Navigation Act and associated exRoskilde Airport when an aircraft crashed due to a ecutive orders, CPH holds the sole right and obligation pilot error. Both pilots died in the accident. It was a to handle security at its airports in Copenhagen and tragic incident that underlines how important it is Roskilde. The Danish Transport Authority and the EU that our EMS services are always in place and ready. ensure CPH compliance with regulatory requirements. Safety and security 51 ” Mette Villebro Sievers Head of Procurement, Copenhagen Airports A/S It’s actually quite simple: when we as a company have the opportunity to make a difference by procuring goods and services in a responsible manner and to influence our suppliers and sub-suppliers to act responsibly – well, then we also have the responsibility to do so. We have a responsibility to do what we can to promote responsible supplier conduct towards people and the environment. Procurement CPH purchases goods and services from more than 3,000 suppliers for a total of more than DKK 1 billion per year. This brings with it a responsibility to combat corruption and protect the environment, climate and the people our procurement affects, throughout our supply chain. As part of CPH’s CSR strategy, we defined a number of speTo ensure that also our current suppliers commit to following HR 2 cific targets in 2012 that systematise our next few years of the guidelines, we defined a target that 85% of our prowork with responsible supplier management. These targets curement volume must be covered by our Code of Conduct are intended to ensure that we make ethical, moral and environmental demands on our suppliers and thus help encourage responsible development and change in both our suppliers and sub-suppliers. Excerpt from our Committing suppliers procurement policy HR 2 In 2012, we specified our requirements to suppliers in a HR 4 Supplier Code of Conduct which is based on the Global In early 2011, CPH became a signatory to the UN HR 5 Compact principles and obliges our suppliers to comply with Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.com). We HR 6 generally accepted ethical rules, to work towards a good occonsider it very important that our suppliers and their HR 7 cupational health and safety culture, to fight corruption and sub-suppliers operate in compliance with these princito protect the environment. CPH’s Supplier Code of Conduct ples and values, and we strongly urge all our suppliers has since been a permanent annex to all our standard conto sign the Global Compact, incorporate its principles tracts, and in early 2013 we made it publicly available on and report annually on their progress to stakeholders cph.dk. in general and to us in particular. 52 Procurement in 2016. This goal was met already in 2013, when 89% of HR 4 our annual spend was covered by compliant suppliers at year-end. Whistleblower scheme SO 3 Concurrently with the launch of the Employee Code Our targeted efforts to encourage our suppliers to commit of Conduct, we also rolled out a whistleblower to the guidelines has given us a better insight into our supscheme, in compliance with general corporate govpliers and created a solid platform for our continuing work ernance principles. Under the scheme, employees to promote responsibility in supplier management. and other CPH stakeholders can submit anonymous or non-anonymous reports made in good faith of Fighting corruption any concerns they may have about serious matters. SO 3 On 1 January 2013, we introduced an Employee Code of The portal is hosted by an independent party, Human Conduct as well. Its purpose is to provide support to our Time, which guarantees the security, anonymity and employees in situations when dilemmas arise and ensure user-friendliness of the system. that our interaction with the world around us and with each other is based on sound ethical principles. The guidelines provide a summary of the expectations we have to the way our employees handle situations such as attempts at blackmail, bribery and corruption. The document also contains rules prohibiting managers and employees from receiving and Through a close collaboration across the CPH departments giving presents that can affect collaboration with a supplier. that handle procurement, legal affairs, communications and quality assurance, we will tighten our procedure for handling Continuing efforts critical supplier conditions in 2014. In 2014, we will continue our targeted work to have our suppliers commit to responsible behaviour towards their Our goal of developing a system for monitoring supplier CSR employees, business partners and the environment. All new performance has been advanced to implementation as early suppliers will be required to comply with our Supplier Code as in 2015. Also in 2015, we will be evaluating the potential of Conduct, which means it will apply to a steadily growing of incorporating new social and environmental criteria in our proportion of our suppliers. calls for tenders. Michael Lynenskjold CEO, Houlberg Instrumentering A/S Requirements to security are tightened all the time in places where people cross visible and invisible borders. For this reason, as a supplier of scanners for security and baggage screening at Copenhagen Airport, we constantly increase the demands we make on ourselves. However, this doesn’t just apply on the product side. Like CPH, we also have requirements to the way we treat people and the environment. For example, it is important to us that our employees are always balanced and happy people: it makes it much easier to make our customers happy. Procurement 53 03/ Financial responsibility It is vital that CPH is run in a financially responsible way – that we are generating profits that can be used in our continuing investment in the World Class Hub of the future. We must be able to afford to build the airport of the future and we are currently investing more than we earn to strengthen our northern European hub for air transport. Procurement 55 Financial summary It is the responsibility of CPH to operate and develop its business in a sustainable manner – financially, socially and environmentally – in order to safeguard Copenhagen Airport’s position in the international competition. Only by ensuring a sound and strong performance by CPH can we fulfil both our World Class Hub business strategy and our Responsible growth CSR strategy. 2.8 We describe CPH’s financial performance in the manageOther income decreased by DKK 759.9 million as a result of EC 1 ment report in the CPH Group Annual Report 2013, which is the divestment of CPH’s interest in NIAL Group Ltd., NewcasCPH’s financial report. The following is a summary in which tle, resulting in a profit of DKK 759.1 million in 2012. the Company’s financial performance in 2013 is compared with its performance in 2012. Operating costs, including amortisation and depreciation, increased by DKK 105.0 million (4.8%) to DKK 2,272.8 milPages 59-60 contain the financial highlights and key ratios lion. Excluding one-off items, operating costs including amshowing CPH’s financial performance and key financial perortisation and depreciation increased by DKK 102.7 million formance indicators for the years 2009-2013. to DKK 2,260.4 million. 2013 compared with 2012 This increase on DKK 102.7 million was primarily caused by a CPH’s consolidated revenue rose DKK 128.7 million to DKK DKK 39.1 million increase in staff costs due to wage indexa3,644.5 million, which was mainly attributable to a 3.1% tion and an increase in the number of employees by 49 fullincrease in passenger numbers and an increase in revenue time equivalents as a consequence of the rise in passenger from the hotel operation of 7.7% and an increase of 2.8% numbers and the need to comply with regulatory requirein revenue from parking. ments to security. 56 Financial summary ” Lars NameJønstrup Name CFO, Copenhagen Airportsxxxx A/S We must do what it takes to xxxxx build the airport of the future. We are currently investing more than we earn to strengthen our northern European hub for air transport. For this reason, it is vital that we are profitable, generating profits that can be used in our continuing investment in the World Class Hub of the future. Excluding one-off costs, external costs decreased by DKK 0.4 increase in the number of locally departing international pasmillion or 0.1% primarily due to the continued focus on cost sengers, also from CPH Go, and the price-index adjustment efficiencies, partially offset by higher snow-clearing costs and of charges on 1 April 2013. a higher level of hotel activity. Amortisation and depreciation was up by DKK 64.0 million as a result of CPH’s continuing Revenue from security and handling increased by a comhigh investment level, as described on pages 20-21. bined DKK 48.6 million to reach DKK 647.9 million, or 8.1%, a rise mainly due to the increase in the number of loEBIT for 2013 was DKK 1,373.2 million, a decrease of DKK cally departing international passengers and the price-index 736.2 million year on year. Excluding one-off items, EBIT was adjustment of charges on 1 April 2013. up by DKK 25.2 million year on year. EBIT for the aeronautical business increased by DKK 58.3 Net financing costs were up by DKK 7.3 million to DKK million year on year to DKK 355.8 million. EBIT grew at a 201.4 million, a decline primarily attributable to interest rate lower rate than revenue, which was mainly attributable to movements in 2012. This was partially offset by an increase higher staff costs due to the high level of activity, snowin the capitalisation of interest on non-current assets. clearing costs and increased amortisation and depreciation due to the continuing high level of investment. Profit after tax was down by DKK 638.7 million to DKK 976.1 million. Excluding one-off items, profit after tax rose Investment by 4.1% to DKK 985.4 million. Up to the summer peak season in 2013, Copenhagen Airport completed two large projects which involved an Aeronautical business: financial performance increase of check-in capacity and improvement of the flow Aeronautical revenue was up by DKK 139.2 million (7.2%) at the eastern end of Terminal 2 by converting the former to DKK 2,070.9 million, driven by the increase in passenger arcade between Terminals 2 and 3 into a dedicated checknumbers, a change in the passenger mix because of a higher in area. Copenhagen Airport also completed an extensive share of locally departing international passengers, and the modification and expansion of its baggage system in 2013. price index adjustments of passenger-related charges on 1 Both projects are part of CPH’s World Class Hub strategy, April 2013. which includes measures to increase the airport’s capacity to 30 million passengers per year. Take-off revenue was up by 5.1% year on year as a result of a 0.8% year-on-year increase the number of operations, Passengers while aircraft take-off weight increased by 3.5% year on The total number of passengers at Copenhagen Airport year. Passenger revenue rose by 7.9%, mainly driven by an increased by 3.1% to 24.1 million, which was the third conFinancial summary 57 secutive record year for Copenhagen Airport in this respect. Revenue from the letting of premises was down by 7.2%, The airport also saw the busiest summer in its history, which while revenue from land rental was up by 3.7%. Overall, helped drive the growth. rent was down by 4.5%, mainly owing to leases terminated in connection with the bankruptcy of Cimber Sterling in The number of intercontinental passengers rose by 3.8%, 2012. mainly driven by new routes from SAS, Norwegian and easyJet. Hotel operation revenue was up by 7.7%, primarily because last year’s refurbishment of the Hilton Copenhagen Airport Underlying this was an increase in transfer passengers of 0.3 was completed and all levels of the hotel were in use. In percent. This growth emphasises that CPH World Class Hub addition, the hotel has seen a higher level of meeting and strategy is effective. conference activity, and the room occupancy rate remained higher than the general rate for hotels in the Copenhagen See page 14-17 for additional information on route developcity centre. ment. EBIT for the non-aeronautical business decreased by DKK The number of locally departing domestic passengers de18.2 million, mainly due to the increase in staff costs and decreased by 0.4% due to a general decline in the number of preciation, partially offset by revenue and a continued focus seats available on Danish domestic services. on cost efficiency. The total number of low-cost passengers at Copenhagen International business: Financial performance Airport was 24.1% higher in 2013 than in 2012. The higher After the divestment of NIAL in November 2012, CPH Innumber of low-cost passengers stemmed mainly from pasternational now focuses on providing consulting services to senger-number increases of 18.7% for Norwegian, 24.3% airports and airport investors. In 2013, CPH International for easyJet and 89.7% for Vueling, the three largest low-cost focused on developing and expanding its pipeline of new carriers operating at Copenhagen Airport. consulting jobs. In 2013, CPH International provided services to customers in Mexico, the United States, the United KingNon-aeronautical business: Financial performance dom, the Philippines, Italy and Lithuania. Revenue from the non-aeronautical business increased by 0.5% to DKK 1,570.7 million. The many new restaurants, As a result of the change in focus, CPH International genercafés, bars and specialty shops Copenhagen Airport has esated revenue of DKK 2.9 million in 2013 (2012: DKK 21.1 tablished in the shopping centre have had a positive effect, million). and revenues from hotel operation and parking also grew year on year. The hotel operation especially benefited from a Operating profit fell by DKK 776.3 million to a loss of DKK higher level of meeting and conference activity and a higher 1.6 million, mainly due to the sale of NIAL Group Ltd., UK, in occupancy rate, although this was partly offset by the ef2012 and costs related to the focus on development of the fect of the refurbishment of the dutyand tax-free shops in advisory and consulting business. the first half of the year as a result of the new contract with Gebr. Heinemann, which came into effect on 1 March 2013. The refurbished Tax Free main store opened in April 2013. Concession revenue from the shopping centre was down by 1.0%. New restaurants and specialty shops and an increase in the number of international departing passengers had a positive effect on revenue. This was offset by the effect of a major refurbishment of the Tax Free main store in the first half of the year, which had a negative effect on revenue, and lower concession revenues. Parking revenue rose 2.8%, primarily driven by the online segment, where CPH achieved an increase in the average ticket price through campaigns and optimisation and an increase in the number of transactions. 58 Financial summary Group financial highlights and key ratios Pax (passengers) Revenue (excluding one-off items) Passengers (’000) Transfer in % of local departures DKK million DKK/Pax 25,000 36 3,800 155 24,000 30 3,600 150 23,000 24 3,400 145 22,000 18 3,200 140 21,000 12 3,000 135 20,000 6 2,800 130 19,000 0 2,600 125 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Passengers Transfer % Revenue Revenue/Pax OPEX (operating costs excluding one-off items) EBITDA (excluding one-off items) DKK million DKK/Pax DKK million DKK/Pax 1,800 70 2,200 84 1,600 67 1,900 82 1,400 64 1,600 80 1,200 61 1,300 78 1,000 58 1,000 76 800 55 700 74 600 52 400 72 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 OPEX OPEX/Pax EBITDA EBITDA/Pax CAPEX (investments in non-current assets) FCF (free cash flow) DKK million DKK/Pax DKK million DKK/Pax 1,200 48 1,500 63 1,000 44 1,250 54 800 40 1,000 45 600 36 750 36 400 32 500 27 200 28 250 18 0 24 0 9 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 CAPEX CAPEX/Pax FCF FCF/Pax Finansiel information 59 Group financial highlights and key ratios DKK million 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Income statement Revenue 3,645 3,516 3,344 3,239 2,923 EBITDA 1,996 2,668 1,775 1,964 1,518 EBIT 1,373 2,109 1,263 1,472 1,047 Profit from investments 27 14 Net financing costs 201 194 206 271 242 Profit before tax 1,172 1,915 1,057 1,228 820 Net profit 976 1,615 756 909 614 Statement of comprehensive income Other comprehensive income (3) (101) (87) 86 (99) Comprehensive income 973 1,514 669 995 515 Balance sheet Property, plant and equipment 8,669 8,420 7,883 7,699 7,471 Financial investments 1 1 1 1 146 Total assets 9,559 10,012 8,946 9,283 8,630 Equity 2,901 3,602 2,916 3,480 3,191 Interest-bearing debt 4,204 3,863 3,909 3,830 3,490 Capital investments 739 936 591 621 514 Investment in intangible assets 172 133 182 154 80 Cash flow statements Cash flow from operating activities 1,384 1,672 1,456 1,116 984 Cash flow from investing activities (910) (349) (769) (257) (552) Cash flow from financing activities (1,270) (837) (1,243) (407) (25) Cash at end of period 37 833 347 903 450 Key ratios EBITDA margin 54.8% 75.9% 53.1% 60.6% 52.0% EBIT margin 37.7% 60.0% 37.8% 45.4% 35.8% Asset turnover rate 0.39 0.40 0.39 0.39 0.37 Return on assets 14.7% 23.7% 14.9% 17.9% 13.2% Return on equity 30.0% 49.5% 23.6% 27.2% 19.2% Equity ratio 30.3% 36.0% 32.6% 37.5% 37.0% Earnings per DKK 100 share 124.4 205.8 96.3 115.8 78.3 Cash earnings per DKK 100 share 203.7 276.9 161.5 178.5 138.3 Net asset value per DKK 100 share 369.6 459.0 371.5 443.5 406.5 Dividend per DKK 100 share 124.4 205.8 96.3 160.6 78.3 NOPAT margin 29.1% 49.6% 28.7% 36.1% 29.3% Turnover rate of capital employed 0.42 0.41 0.40 0.39 0.38 ROCE 12.1% 20.4% 11.4% 14.1% 11.1% The definitions of ratios are in line with the recommendations from 2010 made by the Association of Danish Financial ­Analysts, except for the ratios not defined by the Association. Definitions of ratios are published at www.cph.dk The above financial indicators are an extract of the Company’s Annual Report for the parent company, Copenhagen Airports A/S. The Annual Report has been prepared as a separate publication, which is available on request from Copenhagen Airport A/S or at www.cph.dk. 60 Finansiel information Taxation With more than 2,000 employees, CPH is an important contributor of taxes. This applies to taxes expensed by CPH as well as to taxes collected (in transit) by CPH. As one of Denmark’s very largest companies, CPH’s tax conTax contribution tribution totals DKK 1,150 million annually, which includes In 2013, CPH paid DKK 1,150 million in taxes (2012: DKK corporation taxes, environmental/energy taxes, people taxes, 1,118 million), of which DKK 300 million was expensed by taxes on revenue and property taxes. CPH (2012: DKK 336 million). CPH collected DKK 850 million (2012: DKK 782 million) of taxes (in transit) in the form of Group structure, ownership, tax strategy and risk manVAT on revenue, payroll taxes and environmental and energy agement taxes, among others. The primary share of the taxes expensed CPH and its subsidiaries operate two airports in Denmark and by CPH comprises profit tax (corporation tax1) levied on the own a hotel, and as such are primarily subject to Danish taxes. profits of the Company. Corporation tax amounted to 87% of One associated company in Denmark is subject to independtotal taxes expensed by CPH in 2013 (2012: 89%). Other taxent taxation. es expensed by CPH comprise planet tax2, people tax3 (payroll tax) etc., VAT4 (product/services), and property taxes5. People Copenhagen Airports Denmark ApS (CAD) holds 57.7% of taxes are primarily paid by CPH employees. Public airports in the shares in CPH. CAD is indirectly controlled by Kastrup Denmark are generally exempt from property taxes. Airports Parent ApS (KAP), the head of the Danish holding company group. CPH is jointly taxed with these holding comCorporation tax panies. In Denmark, the corporation tax rate is 25%. In June 2013, the Danish parliament adopted legislation to lower the DanKAP, as the administrative company in the joint taxation ish corporate tax rate from 25% to 22% over the period scheme, is responsible for the filing of corporation tax returns 2014-2016. The effective tax rate for CPH amounted to 17% and related communication with the Danish tax authorities. in 2013 (2012: 16%) due to non-deductible expenses includIn this context, CPH reports to KAP. The tax strategy and risk ing the effect of a limit on deductibility of financial expenses management of CPH relates to CPH and its subsidiaries only, including interest swaps. CPH maximises tax depreciation not to the holding companies. on fixed assets, thus reducing corporation tax payments and increasing deferred tax liability. Approximately half of the tax Tax compliance is paid during the year, while the balance is paid in the followCPH has adopted a clear compliance approach that ensures ing year. CPH pays surcharge interest on the balance. See the that both corporation tax and other taxes are reported and Group Annual Report, note 10 page 53 for further informapaid on a timely basis and according to law. This also applies tion. to taxes collected (in transit). CPH’s tax contribution Tax contribution 2013 2012 2011 Expensed Collected Expensed Collected Expensed Collected DKK million by CPH in transit Total In % by CPH in transit Total in % by CPH in transit Total In % Profit1) 262 262 23% 298 298 27% 222 222 21% Planet2) 6 26 32 3% 8 26 34 3% 8 37 45 4% People3) 19 373 392 34% 17 361 378 34% 16 345 361 33% Products/services4) 1 455 456 39% 1 394 395 35% 1 425 426 40% Property5) 12 -4 8 1% 12 1 13 1% 16 1 17 2% Total 300 850 1,150 100% 336 782 1,118 100% 263 808 1,071 100% In % 26% 74% 100% 30% 70% 100% 25% 75% 100% 1) Profit tax comprises current corporation tax for the year, paid on profits, either on account during the year or in the following year. 2) Planet tax comprises environmental and energy taxes (e.g. CO2) expensed by CPH. At Copenhagen Airport, CPH distributes energy to tenants and collects the related energy taxes. 3) People tax comprises various minor taxes related to labour expensed by CPH. Most of the people tax relates to paye taxes paid by the employees. 4) Product/services taxes comprise non-deductible VAT on telephone-related and certain other costs. The product/services taxes collected comprise primarily VAT on revenue that is subject to VAT. Most of the aeronautical charge revenue is not subject to VAT, but most of the remaining revenue for CPH is. 5) Property taxes expensed by CPH comprise property taxes on certain properties owned by the Company. The majority of the airport properties are not subject to property taxes. Property taxes collected relate to property taxes paid on behalf of the tenants. Taxation 61 3.12 Profile indicators Indicator Reported Page 1 1.1 Statement from the CEO 5 2 2.1 Name of the organisation 7 2.2 Primary services 7 2.3 Organisational structure 7 2.4 Location of headquarters 7 2.5 Countries of operation 7, 43 2.6 Ownership 7 2.7 Markets served 17 2.8 Scale of organisation 7, 56-57 2.9 Changes during reporting period 7, 70 2.10 Awards received in reporting period 14, 26, 50 3 3.1 Reporting period 6 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report 6 3.3 Reporting cycle 6 3.4 Contact information 2, 5, 6 3.5 Definition of report content 6, 7 3.6 Boundary of report 7 3.7 Limitations on scope or boundary of report 7, 70-71 3.8 Joint ventures etc. Note 1 3.9 Accounting policies 70-71 3.10 Restatements 70-71 3.11 Changes from previous reporting 6, 69 3.12 Table of GRI indicators 62-69 3.13 Report of independent auditors 6, 73 4 4.1 Governance structure Corporate Governance 2013 ( http://www.cph.dk/ om-cph/investorer/corporate-governance/) 4.2 Highest governance body Corporate Governance 2013 ( http://www.cph.dk/ om-cph/investorer/corporate-governance/) 4.3 Unitary board structure Not relevant for CPH 4.4 Recommendations from shareholders/employees Corporate Governance 2013 ( http://www.cph.dk/ om-cph/investorer/corporate-governance/) 4.11 Precaution integrated 32, 48, 69 4.12 Connected initiatives 6, 34, 42 4.13 Memberships 23 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 23 4.15 Identification and selection 6 4.16 Approach to stakeholder engagement 6, 23 Note 1: C  PH does not participate in any joint ventures; reports consolidated figures; has no leased facilities; has oursourced a minimal amount of operations. Accordingly, none of these areas have a significant impact on period-to-period comparability with other organisations. 62 Indicator tables Financial indicators Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Page Reported EC 1 Generated economic growth 56-58 Value generated Revenue DKKm 3,344 3,516 3,645 Other income DKKm 13 761 2 External costs DKKm 607 574 576 Amortisation and depreciation DKKm 512 559 623 Total DKKm 2,238 3,145 2,447 Breakdown of value generated Staff DKKm 975 1,035 1,074 Sources of funding DKKm 206 194 201 The Danish State (corporate income tax) DKKm 301 301 196 Other shareholders DKKm 756 1,615 976 Total DKKm 2,238 3,145 2,447 Donations Key figure for efforts not produced EC 4 Government subsidies received 7 Government subsidies DKKm 0 0 0 Ownership by the Danish State per cent 39 39 39 AO 1 Traffic performance, passengers 16-17, 71 Arriving International passengers number 10,164,331 10,704,790 11,091,114 Domestic passengers number 1,204,979 975,347 959,807 Total number of passengers number 11,369,310 11,680,137 12,050,921 Of whom transfer/transit number 2,555,393 2,760,137 2,859,072 Departing International passengers annually number 10,159,921 10,696,264 11,073,264 Domestic passengers annually number 1,196,286 959,786 942,845 Total number of passengers number 11,356,207 11,656,050 12,016,109 Of whom transfer/transit number 2,594,549 2,784,278 2,792,363 Total International passengers number 20,324,252 21,401,054 22,164,378 Domestic passengers number 2,401,265 1,935,133 1,902,652 Total number of passengers number 22,725,517 23,336,187 24,067,030 Of whom transfer/transit number 5,149,942 5,544,415 5,651,435 Roskilde Airport Passengers number 33,120 29,804 30,384 AO 2 Traffic performance, operations and cargo 16-17, 71 Total annual operations number 253,758 242,997 244,944 Total annual operations, domestic number 42,622 29,065 28,440 Total annual operations, international number 211,136 213,932 216,504 Arriving Commercial passenger Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 117,813 112,677 113,641 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 4,275 4,526 4,455 Commercial cargo Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 1,367 1,181 1,250 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 788 705 842 Government aviation Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 131 134 97 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 7 12 7 General aviation Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 1,833 1,719 1,695 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 666 549 483 Indicator tables 63 Financial indicators (continued) Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Page Reported Departing Commercial passenger Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 119,428 114,347 114,576 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 2,805 2,994 3,616 Commercial cargo Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 1,279 953 1,268 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 874 939 812 Government aviation Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 125 142 93 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 8 5 6 General aviation Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 1,855 1,730 1,740 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 504 384 363 Total Commercial passenger Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 237,241 227,024 228,217 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 7,080 7,520 8,071 Commercial cargo Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 2,646 2,134 2,518 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 1,662 1,644 1,654 Government aviation Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 256 276 190 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 15 17 13 General aviation Aircraft movements by day (06-23) number 3,688 3,449 3,435 Aircraft movements by night (23-06) number 1,170 933 846 Roskilde Airport Operations number 66,751 73,867 72,649 A03 Total cargo tonnage 17, 71 Arriving by flights (import), total metric ton 41,809 45,258 46,290 Import, cargo (cargo flights) metric ton 12,419 12,462 12,559 Import, passenger (belly cargo) metric ton 12,930 14,829 15,642 Import, cargo arriving by truck metric ton 16,460 17,967 18,074 Transfer total metric ton 234,583 249,249 255,173 Transfer, cargo (cargo flights) metric ton 48,343 45,602 51,532 Transfer, passenger (belly cargo) metric ton 60,823 66,395 69,792 Transfer, cargo by truck metric ton 125,416 137,252 133,850 Arriving by flight (import), total metric ton 115,499 121,247 127,010 Departing by flight (import), total metric ton 119,084 128,002 128,164 Departing by flight (export), total metric ton 56,485 59,763 59,527 Export, cargo (cargo flights) metric ton 17,380 17,215 15,130 Export, passenger (belly cargo) metric ton 18,661 22,296 23,149 Export, cargo departing by truck metric ton 20,444 20,252 21,247 Total metric ton 332,877 354,269 360,991 64 Indicator tables Employee indicators Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Page Reported LA 1 Workforce number 7, 71 Total (FTE) number 2,037 2,073 2,122 Total (individuals) number 2,155 2,203 2,246 Copenhagen Airport (FTE) number 1,965 2,157 2,083 Roskilde Airport (FTE) number 35 36 36 CPH Parkering (FTE) number 42 discontinued discontinued International department (FTE) number 6 4 3 Full-time employees number 1,907 1,928 1,964 Part-time employees number 248 275 282 Temporary employees number 49 42 38 Permanent employees number 1,999 2,161 2,208 Salaried employees number 611 623 654 Hourly paid employees number 1,544 1,515 1,559 Public servants number 41 38 33 Middle managers, level 4-6 number 158 154 170 Managers, level 1-3 antal 28 30 31 LA 2 Employee turnover 44, 71 Employee turnover per cent 10.5 8.6 9.8 Employee outflow, KLH number 224 183 214 Employee outflow, RKE number 0 5 7 Employee outflow, CAI number 1 2 0 Employee outflow, men number 138 125 140 Employee outflow, women number 86 65 81 Employee outflow, 0-17 years number 0 0 0 Employee outflow, 18-25 years number 36 21 24 Employee outflow, 26-35 years number 58 49 50 Employee outflow, 36-49 years number 93 84 88 Employee outflow, 50-99 years number 34 36 59 Employee inflow, KLH number 278 252 Employee inflow, RKE number 6 8 Employee inflow, CAI number 0 0 Employee inflow, men number 173 152 Employee inflow, women number 111 108 Employee inflow, 0-17 years number 2 1 Employee inflow, 18-25 years number 33 41 Employee inflow, 26-35 years number 74 66 Employee inflow, 36-49 years number 136 116 Employee inflow, 50-99 years number 39 36 LA 4 Collective bargaining agreements 43, 71 Employees covered by collective per cent 72 68 68 bargaining agreements Employees covered by collective number 1,514 1,515 1,521 bargaining agreements LA 6 Employee representation on formal committees 44, 71 Employees on works council 27 27 29 Managers on works council 7 7 7 Employees on health and safety committee 48 48 51 Managers on health and safety committee 31 34 38 LA 7 Occupational injuries and lost days Occupational injuries involving lost days number 44 54 52 43-44, 46, 70 Rate of injury number per 1m 13.4 15.9 15.0 working hours Days lost per cent 4.99 5.3 4.87 Days lost due to occupational injuries per cent 0.17 0.17 LA 8 Measures to prevent serious diseases 37-38, 43-47, 70 Assistance for smoking lessions number 217 completed completed Assistance for smoking lessions per cent 40 completed completed Health examinations number 193 344 341 Air quality Key figure for efforts not produced Physiotherapy treatments/massages number 380 799 Indicator tables 65 Employee indicators (continued) Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Page Reported LA 11 Policy for older employees 42, 71 Programme for seniors per cent 7.6 0 12.8 LA 12 Career development 44-45, 71 Talent development, men number 52 39 52 Of which balance boost 12 Talent development, women number 17 48 47 Of which balance boost number 27 13 LA 13 Employee diversity 41-43, 71 Women per cent 32 33 34 Men per cent 68 67 66 Managers, total number 186 184 201 Managers, women per cent 25 25 27 Managers, men per cent 75 75 73 Managers, 0-17 years number 0 0 0 Managers, 18-25 years number 0 0 0 Managers, 26-35 years number 17 14 14 Managers, 36-49 years number 119 118 130 Managers, 50-99 years number 50 52 57 Average seniority number of years 43.1 43.7 44.4 +50 years per cent 25 27 29.2 Average seniority number of years 8.2 8.1 8.4 LA 14 Equal pay 43 Measures to ensure equal pay Key figure for efforts not produced to men and women LA 15 Maternity and paternity leave 43, 70 Women on maternity leave number 19 13 11 Men on paternity leave, 2 weeks number 64 73 51 Men on parental leave, 2-10 weeks number 23 33 42 Human rights indicators Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Page Reported HR 2 Agreements and contracts 29, 52 Code of conduct included in contracts per cent 0 89 HR 4 Non-discrimination 51-53 Number of incidents of discrimination number 0 0 HR 5 Freedom of association 41, 43, 52 and collective bargaining Procedures to ensure freedom of association Key figure for efforts not produced among employees HR 6 Child labour 41, 51, 52 Measures to contribute to the elimination No risk of child labour deemed of child labour to exist in the Group HR 7 Forced and compulsory labour 41, 52 Measures to contribute to the elimination of No risk of forced or compulsory forced and compulsory labour labour deemed to exist in the Group HR 8 Training of security personnel 48, 51 Training in policies and procedures concerning per cent 100 100 100 relevant aspects of human rights SO 3 Anti-corruption policies and procedures 51, 53 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption Key figure for efforts not produced SO 5 Public policy 15, 17, 22, 24 Measures to promote tourism and business PR 5 Customer satisfaction 26 Passenger interviews, Copenhagen Airport number 131,400 104,100 94,570 Passenger interviews, Roskilde Airport Passenger interviews are not conducted at Roskilde Airport PR 8 Customer complaints about right number 0 0 51 to privacy and sensitive information 66 Indicator tables Environmental indicators Copenhagen Airport Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Page Reported AO 5 Air quality 37-38, 47, 71 NO µg/m³ 4 4 5 NO2 µg/m³ 18 16 16 PM2.5 µg/m³ 16 11 12 AO 6 De-icing of runways 71 Formiate metric ton 809 1,294 1,143 Glycol used m3 386 534 684 Glycol collected m3 228 294 377 AO 7 Aircraft noise 38, 71 Engine run-ups number 955 974 985 of which idling number 506 472 577 Deviations number 0 0 3 TDENL dB 144.7 144.7 144.4 Night-period maximum noise levels >80 dB number 19 22 23 EN 1 Materials 49, 71 Herbicides litres 178 196 178 EN 3 Direct energy consumption 37, 70, 71 Gasoline m3 16 13 11 Diesel m3 689 752 752 Heating oil m3 0 0 0 Natural gas (3) m3 1,448,016 1,199,477 1,120,885 Total direct energy consumption MWh 22,904 20,765 19,886 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption 34-35, 70 Power purchased MWh 98,337 98,659 97,463 Power, share of renewable energy (4) % 27 28 28 Power consumption MWh 54,324 54,181 51,843 District heating purchased GJ 220,558 229,049 238,735 District heating consumption GJ 82,548 103,681 101,178 Total indirect energy consumption MWh 77,254 82,981 79,948 EN 5 Total energy savings 34-35, 70 Energy MWh 2,716 3,082 3,608 EN 8 Water consumption 38, 71 Drinking water purchased m3 309,860 327,207 326,216 Drinking water consumption m3 186,012 200,561 194,732 Second-quality water m3 25,839 36,076 34,586 EN16 CO2 33-34, 70 Total emissions(5) metric ton 30,850 31,505 30,881 CO2 per passenger (Scope 1+2) kg 1.4 1.4 1.3 Scope 1 metric ton 5,114 4,716 4,538 Scope 2 metric ton 25,736 26,789 26,343 EN17 Other relevant indirect CO2 36-37, 70 emissions per passenger (Scope 3) District heating/electricity metric ton n/a 27,707 24,557 Aircraft metric ton n/a 244,568 245,175 Airside traffic metric ton n/a 6,657 6,615 Catchment area traffic metric ton n/a 29,076 30,134 Total emissions (Scope 3) metric ton n/a 308,008 306,481 CO2 per passenger (Scope 3) kg n/a 13.2 12.7 Note 3: Natural gas is used for local production of central heating and power for CPH’s power grid. Production of power using natural gas was discontinued in mid-2012 Note 4: Rolling 5-year average Note 5: In 2012, historical data for 2010 and 2011 were restated Indicator tables 67 Environmental indicators (continued) Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Page Reported EN18 Initiatives that reduce 36-37, 70 greenhouse-gas emissions Savings in Scope 1 (EN 16) metric ton n/a 0 22 Savings in Scope 2 (EN 16) metric ton n/a 1,332 2,059 Savings in Scope 3 (EN 17) metric ton n/a 0 0 Total CO2 emissions metric ton 1,379 1,332 1,081 EN20 Aircraft emissions 38-40, 70 CO metric ton 743 710 827 NOx metric ton 961 975 932 SOx metric ton 101 100 101 THC metric ton 122 121 110 EN21 Water discharge 40, 71 Surface water to the Øresund m³ 2,612,528 2,005,597 2,069,283 Wastewater to treatment plant m³ 335,699 363,283 360,802 Lead kg 0.2 0.1 0.2 Cadmium kg 0.1 0.1 0.1 COD kg 100,175 123,016 137,623 Detergents kg 788 725 713 Copper kg 5.6 4.5 5.0 Chromium kg 0.3 0.3 0.5 Oil and grease kg 2,886 4,364 4,509 Total N kg 22,462 23,197 25,771 Total P kg 1,474 1,760 2,068 Nickel kg 0.7 0.9 0.7 Zinc kg 23.6 23.8 26.8 EN22 Waste volume 38, 70 Recycling metric ton 696 779 762 Other recovery metric ton 3,199 3,107 3,312 Disposal(6) metric ton 362 394 314 Total metric ton 4,257 4,280 4,388 EN23 Significant spills 71 Registered spills number 154 116 106 Volume litres 2,671 1,839 1,626 Of which significant number 0 0 0 Roskilde Airport AO 7 Aircraft noise 71 Engine run-ups number 424 444 498 Engine idling number 235 217 195 Deviations number 1 0 1 EN 3 Direct energy consumption 71 Natural gas m3 71,116 73,881 79,678 Gasoline m3 0 0 0 Diesel m3 34 31 34 Total direct energy consumption MWh 1,125 1,125 1,221 EN 4 Indirect energy consumption 35, 71 Power consumption 849 840 792 EN 5 Total energy savings 35, 70 Energy MWh 0 301 143 EN 8 Water consumption 71 Drinking water m3 6,319 4,903 5,091 EN16 CO2 70 Total emissions metric ton 692 657 630 Scope 1 metric ton 251 249 271 Scope 2 metric ton 441 407 359 EN18 Initiatives that reduce greenhouse-gas emissions 70 Total CO2 reduction metric ton 0 68 65 EN23 Significant spills 7, 71 Number number 0 0 1 Note 6: Due to a new executive order on waste, this category, formerly ‘incineration’ has been renamed ‘other recovery’ and ‘special treatment’ and ‘landfill’ have been merged to ‘disposal’. Recycling remains the same 68 Indicator tables Human rights 3.11 Global Compact See also: principles Incorporated GRI indicator 1. CPH supports and respects human rights Employee Codes of Conduct LA4, LA6-8, LA13-14 Supplier Code of Conduct HR2, 4-8 2. CPH does not take part in any activity Employee Codes of conduct HR2, 4-8 violating human rights Security procedure handbook (D4) and corresponding training materials PR 8 Working conditions 3. CPH employees are free to join associations CPH business activities are only in Denmark, and all its employees are subject to LA4, HR5 and exercise their right to collective Danish labour law. In accordance with this, employees are free to join bargaining associations and bargain on a collective basis. As descibed in collective labour agreements and local agreements employees that are active on behalf of the trade union and/or the Works Council receive payed time off to conduct these activities.” 4. CPH eliminates all forms of forced labour The type of work, working conditions and work times are set out in the collective HR2, HR7 labour agreement and Danish labour law Supplier Code of Conduct 5. CPH eliminates child labour CPH does not conclude employment agreements with people under the age of 15 HR2, HR6 Supplier Code of Conduct 6. CPH eliminates discrimination based on Remuneration conditions for men and women are the same LA12-14 profession Employee Codes of Conduct on Desirable Behaviour HR4 Whistle Blower function Supplier Code of Conduct Environment 4.11 7. CPH focuses on environmental challenges Environmental Policy and Risk management AO5-7, as a precautionary measure EN3-4, 4.11. Monitoring programs, e.g. for aircraft noise, air quality, ground water, soil, waste water and storm water. The purpose of monitoring programmes is to prevent pollution from operation of the airports. Supplier Code of Conduct 8. CPH takes initiatives to enhance CSR strategy, Energy Policy: CO2 reduction targets, energy saving target, EN1, EN3-6, responsibility for the environment initiatives targeting scope 3 activities EN8, EN16-18, EN20-23 Examples include ATES, energy activities targeted to customers, campaigns targeting idling with aircraft and vehicle engines Supplier Code of Conduct 9. CPH promotes the development and Tests with solar panels, test of gas as propellant, Nordic Initiative for EN3, EN-6, introduction of environmentally friendly Sustainable Aviation (biofuel) EN16-18, technologies EN20 Test of nano coating in parking lot Anti-korruption 10. CPH combats all forms of corruption, Employee code of conduct, whistleblower function, anti-fraud regulations SO2, SO5 including bribery and extortion Supplier Code of Conduct Indicator tables 69 CSR accounting policies Materiality, scope and significance 3.7 The selection of data and GRI G3.1 indicators included in this basis of our calculation. The data for 2010 and 2011 have been 3.9 reporting was made based on management’s annual evaluation restated. However, it was necessary to estimate the number of 3.10 of what is considered to be material to report to CPH’s stakeholdovertime hours for 2010. The industrial injury frequency is calculaters. The management’s assessment is based on an evaluation of ed both by number of injuries and as a percentage of total hours the previous year’s report as well as input and comments from the worked. Absence due to illness is determined on the basis of CPH’s owners, authorities and other internal and external stakeholders. HR system records. As required under GRI G3.1, this report covers the entire Group Health prevention is determined as the number of persons who LA 8 with respect to CSR data and disclosures. Newly established comhave participated in preventive health activities. panies are included from the start-up of operations, and acquired companies are included from the date CPH assumes operating Maternity/paternity leave control. Companies are eliminated from the reporting from the The number of women on maternity leave is determined as the LA 15 date when they are no longer under the operating control of CPH. number of women who have commenced maternity leave in the year. Paternity and parental leave is determined as the number of The same measurement and calculation methods are applied for persons who have been on paternity or parental leave in the year. all CPH’s reporting sites and companies. Data disclosures are recorded continuously based on reporting from the individual areas CO2 and functions at the airport and are, in all essentials, based on exThe volume of CO2 emitted (scope 1+2) is calculated based on EN 5 ternally documented records, internal records, calculations and, to the consumption of power, natural gas, district heating, heating a lesser extent, estimations. The specific method of calculation for oil, consumption of fuel for vehicles and diesel generators, and each indicator is stated in these accounting policies. emission factors for the individual sources of CO2. Emission factors are provided by VEKS (Vestegnens Kraftvarme Selskab) for district For certain indicators where information is not supported by data heating and by Energinet.dk for power. Emission factors for other indicators, reference is made in the GRI G3.1 table to the page in sources of CO2 are provided by the Danish Energy Authority. For this report where detailed information can be found. CPH has depower, natural gas and district heating, a rolling average for the fined levels of significance for a number of indicators and for varifive calendar years immediately before the reporting year is used. ous disclosures, so that data and disclosures for a specific area of activity or subsidiary of the Group are only included if the entity’s The determination of other relevant indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) EN 17 impact on society exceeds the triviality limits set and therefore is is based on measurements, traffic counts, questionnaire surveys, EN 18 material for CPH’s stakeholders to know. In connection with each key figures and assumptions. Based on materiality, assumptions indicator, it is indicated whether triviality limits have been applied. were primarily used for the smallest sources. Historical data are only restated if the change accounts for more The determination is limited to the island of Amager and, with than 2% of the consolidated figure and, if so, the reason is disrespect to flights, to operations below an altitude of 3,000 feet. closed in a note. See “Aircraft emissions”. It is also limited by source to utilities and transportation. Changes as compared with 2012 EN 22 One change to the existing accounting policies was made in 2013. Aircraft emissions 2.9 Waste handling is now divided into recycling, other recovery and Emissions data from CPH’s traffic statistics system are entered and EN 20 disposal. The definition of recycling is unchanged from prior years. tracked using an electronic data management system (EDMS) deOther recovery is roughly equivalent to incineration and disposal veloped by the US aviation authorities. The EDMS includes perforfor special treatment plus disposal to landfill. mance and emissions data for a large number of types of aircraft and aircraft engines. Emissions are determined for aircraft operaWaste tions below an altitude of 3,000 feet (approximately 1 kilometre). EN 22 The amount of waste is calculated on the basis of annual stateNo aircraft emissions figures are reported for Roskilde Airport bements from the waste recipients used. The volume of waste at cause the amounts are considered insignificant. Roskilde Airport is deemed to be below 50 tonnes and is therefore not reported separately. Energy consumption CPH procures energy for the entire airport and distributes it to othEN 3 Injuries, absence due to illness and health checks er companies within the airport area. CPH’s energy consumption EN 4 LA 7 The number of injuries is the annual number of reported injuries is calculated as the volume procured less the volume of energy causing one or more days of absence. The industrial injury fredistributed to other users. Each type of consumption, including quency rate is calculated as the number of industrial injuries per power, natural gas and district heating, is calculated based on own one million actual working hours. A change was made in 2012 records checked against invoices received. to the method of calculating working hours: instead of applying a standard year, CPH began using records of actual hours worked Renewable energy is defined as energy plant on CPH’s land that in the calculation of working hours. Actual hours worked is calcuproduces heat or power and is based on wind and/or solar energy. lated as planned working hours less holidays, plus overtime. For Any production is measured by CPH’s energy meters. salaried employees, we continue to apply a standard year as the 70 CSR accounting policies Air quality and of fuel for vehicles and diesel generators is calculated on the EN 20 The air quality at Copenhagen Airport is monitored and logged by basis of the volumes purchased, adjusted for inventory change. AO 5 CPH’s air quality monitoring system in compliance with CPH’s enviBased on materiality, glycol for de-icing of aircraft, runway de-icing ronmental approval of air quality for air traffic at Copenhagen Airagents and herbicides used at Roskilde Airport are not reported port. The concentrations reported reflect the average of the mean separately. figures for the year at Station East and Station West and are measured to show the air quality at the airport’s perimeter fence. Based Noise on materiality, no air quality figures are reported for Roskilde AirThe total noise exposure from departures and arrivals at the airAO 7 port. The regulatory authorities have not set any requirements for port is calculated using the TDENL method, and calculations are monitoring air quality at Roskilde Airport. based on each aircraft operation, including aircraft type and time of day. The calculations are based on the three months of the year Oil and fuel spills with the highest level of traffic. TDENL is an acronym for Total EN 23 The number of oil and fuel spills is calculated as the number of reDay Evening Night Level and is a method of calculation used for ports filed by CPH’s internal organisation or the fuel delivery comongoing monitoring of noise exposure in and around airports and panies. The calculation of the volume of spills is subject to some airfields. The method, which expresses the noise exposure in a uncertainty, as it is rarely possible to measure the exact volume of single number, the TDENL value, is recommended by the Danish a spill. Material spills are spills that have caused an environmental Environmental Protection Agency and is based on DENL, which impact. is used for noise mapping around airports. DENL is the constant, equivalent A-weighted noise pressure level during an average 24Employees working under collective bargaining agreements hour period with the addition of 5 dB for noise events during the and employee representation evening (7.00 – 10.00 pm) and 10 dB for noise events during the LA 4 The number of employees working under collective bargaining night (10.00 pm – 7.00 am). In the airport’s environmental permit, agreements is determined on the basis of CPH’s own records as the Danish Environmental Protection Agency has set a threshold the number of hourly paid employees whose employment condivalue equivalent to 147.4 dB in TDENL (with a tolerance of 1 dB) tions are regulated by collective bargaining. for noise impact. The number of noise events resulting from night LA 6 Employee representation on formal committees is determined as flights to and from Copenhagen Airport is monitored and logged the number of employees who have hours recognised for parby CPH’s noise monitoring system. The number of engine testings, ticipation on formal committees such as the works council, local including the number of engine run-ups, idle-runs and deviations communication committees, the health and safety committee, from rules on engine testing, is stated in the report based on relocal health and safety groups and the like. Representatives on the ports received from the airlines. committees are divided into employees and managers. Employeeelected representatives on CPH’s Board of Directors are not inTraffic growth (passengers, operations and cargo) cluded in the calculation. Traffic growth is calculated on the basis of data in CPH’s traffic AO 1 statistics system and includes all aircraft operations (take-offs and AO 2 Personal data landings), aircraft type, take-off weight, use of runway and flight AO 3 LA 1 Information on employees such as age, gender, etc. is generally time. The compulsory registration of the number of passengers is based on CPH’s HR system records, in which an employee’s data calculated by the handling companies on behalf of the airlines and are recorded from the date the employment contract is signed, includes passengers who have arrived in transit or travelled out of and information is no longer included in the consolidated figures Copenhagen Airport. The statement of time is based on standard from the date an employee is no longer on the payroll. hours. Import cargo is cargo that has Copenhagen as destination. Export cargo is cargo departed from Copenhagen Airport. It is norLA 2 Employee turnover is determined as the number of employees mal practice that cargo is trucked to and from hub airports. This LA 13 who retired from the Company during the year relative to the cargo is also considered air cargo. LA 1 average number of employees. The number of employees is determined as the average number of employees during the period. Water discharge LA 12 The number of persons in career development programmes is The volume of wastewater is determined on the basis of and EN 21 determined on the basis of the records of CPH’s HR function of equivalent to the volume of drinking water supplied and utilised persons who have participated in specific activities during the pemeasured volumes of water from remedial drillings. The volume riod for the purpose of personal or network development or the of matter discharged is determined from periodical samples taken development of their business or organisational understanding for from “Sample Well A” (Målebrønd A), which discharges roughly the benefit of CPH as well as the employee. half of the airport’s wastewater. Sample analysis is handled by a third-party laboratory. The volume of surface water discharged LA 11 The programme for positive senior employee process is determined into the Øresund is measured at the largest outlet and is calculated as the percentage of seniors (55+) who have elected to accept the based on areas and precipitation data for the other outlets. No offer of a senior seminar. Normally, one seminar is held per year. water discharge figures are reported for Roskilde Airport because However, no senior seminar was held in 2012, so two were held the amounts are considered immaterial in 2013. Water consumption Resources Water consumption is calculated on the basis of volumes purAO 6 The volume of glycol used for aircraft de-icing is calculated by chased/registered less volumes distributed on to other companies the companies that handle de-icing. The annual volume of glycol at the airport. Water is procured from public water supply comEN 8 recovered is determined on the basis of the registered volume of panies. The calculation also includes CPH’s use of second-quality each truckload removed, adjusted for tank contents at the beginwater from a remedial drilling. EN 1 ning and end of the year. The consumption of runway and taxiway EN 3 de-icers is calculated on the basis of the volumes purchased as CPH has a consignment inventory. The consumption of herbicides CSR accounting policies 71 Management's statement The Board of Directors and the Executive Management today The Company prepares the CSR report in accordance with considered and approved the CSR report of Copenhagen the UN Global Compact principles and according to the reAirports for 2013, CPH and Society 2013. porting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3.1) including Airport Operators Sector Supplement at applicaThe Board of Directors and the Executive Management have tion level C+. the overall corporate social responsibility for Copenhagen Airports A/S, including the respective subsidiaries and all In our opinion, the CSR report gives a true and fair view of CSR activities. Information on the members of the Board of the status of the Company’s CSR work in the areas described Directors and the Executive Management is included in the in the report. annual report of Copenhagen Airports A/S for 2013, CPH Group Annual Report 2013. Copenhagen, 25. February 2014 Executive Management Thomas Woldbye CEO Board of Directors Henrik Gürtler David Stanton Simon Geere Chairman Deputy Chairman Deputy Chairman Christopher Timothy Frost Janis Kong Chris Ireland Stig Gellert Ulla Thygesen Jesper Bak Larsen 72 Management's statement Independent auditor’s report on non-financial information 3.13 We have assessed Copenhagen Airports A/S’ report CPH and • The reporting for 2013 has been prepared in accordance Society 2013 with a view to issuing a statement on the reliwith the GRI G3.1 guidelines including the Sector Suppleability of data on pages 62-68 and whether the reporting is ment for Airports, hereunder if the reporting contains the prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI required information about the Company’s profile and as G3.1 including the Sector Supplement for Airports) at an apa minimum 10 performance indicators split with at least plication level C. one indicator in each of the areas of economics, environment and social issues. Criteria for the preparation of the supplementary report The assurance obtained is limited as our work has been The CSR report, CPH and Society, comprises CSR issues limited compared with an audit engagement. Our work has and impacts of the Company’s airports in Copenhagen and primarily comprised inquiries, accounting technical analyRoskilde. The criteria for the preparation of the supplemenses of accounting figures and other information. Moreotary report appear from the accounting policies described ver, we have tested data and underlying documentation on pages 70-71. In these sections is stated the basis for the and checked whether the accounting policies have been choice of CSR issues and impacts for reporting, the reason observed and whether the documentation is adequate in for the activities chosen and the recognition and measurerelation to the requirements in the GRI G3.1 guidelines, inment methods used for presenting non-financial data in the cluding the Sector Supplement for Airports, at an application supplementary report. level C. Furthermore, on pages 62-68, Copenhagen Airports A/S’ Opinion self evaluation index states Company Management’s choice Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe of reporting indicators, based upon GRI G3.1 guidelines inthat the non-financial data disclosed on pages 62-68 in the cluding the Sector Supplement for Airports, for sustainability have not been stated in accordance with the criteria dereporting. scribed. Responsibilities Nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to The CSR report is the responsibility of Company Managebelieve the information stated in Copenhagen Airports A/S’s ment, including the establishment of registration and inself evaluation index on pages 62-68. Thus we can declare, ternal control systems to ensure a reliable reporting basis, that nothing has come to our attention causing us not to the fixing of acceptable reporting criteria and the choice of believe that the reporting is sound and balanced and in acdata to be collected. Furthermore, Company Management cordance with the GRI G3.1 guidelines including the Sector is responsible for preparation of the GRI G3.1 reporting in Suppplement for Airports at an application level C+. accordance with the guidelines including the Sector Supplement for Airports. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the reliability of data and information in the supplemenCopenhagen, 25 February 2014 tary report. PricewaterhouseCoopers Basis of Opinion Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab We have planned and performed our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 with a view to obtaining limited assurance that: Brian Christiansen Jens Pultz Pedersen • The data stated on pages 62-68 in CPH and Society 2013 State Authorised M.Sc. (eng.) has been documented and stated in accordance with the Public Accountant methods described for recognition and measurement in the accounting policies; Independent auditor’s report 73 Glossary Airside The area after Security where only travellers and Landside The area before Security where everyone are staff are allowed. alowed. ATES Aquifer Thermal Energy Storage. CPH’s groundwater NO Nitrogen monoxide. cooling system. NO2 Nitrogen dioxide. De-icing Removal of ice and snow from paved areas at the airport or removal of ice from aircraft wings. NOX Nitrogen dioxide. CO Carbon monooxide. Occupational accident frequency Number of industrial ­accidents per million working hours. CO2 Carbon dioxide. Operation Aircraft movements used in air traffic statistics COD Chemical Oxygen Demand, a method of analysis to to refer to a take-off or landing. ­determine the content of organic material in water Particulate Small solid or liquid particles of soot, dust, COP Coefficient Of Performance. Ratio of supplied cooling smoke, exhaust gasses or aerosols. energy to power consumption. PM2,5 Particles with a diameter of less than 2.5 µm. DB Decibel: a logarithmic unit of sound measurement. The A-weighted sound pressure level dB(A) is often used: it is SOX Sulphur oxides. a measurement of the ability of the human ear to perceive sound energy. Stands 'Parking spots' for aircraft while they are at the ­airport. May or may not have a passenger bridge. Detergents Added to washing and cleaning agents to lower the surface tension of water. Taxiways The paved 'roads' between runways and aircraft stands. Direct sources of energy Sources of energy used within the organisation's operating area. For the purpose of this TDENL method TDENL is an acronym for Total-Day-Eveningreport, they are petrol, diesel and natural gas. Night-Level, a method of calculation used in continual monitoring of noise in and around airports and airfields. Engine testing Testing of aircraft engines in connection The method, which expresses the noise exposure in a single with inspection, maintenance and repair. Testing can either number, the TDENL value, is recommended by the Danish be run-ups (starting the engine and running it faster than Environmental Protection Agency and is based on DENL, idle) or idle-runs (starting the engine and letting it run idle). 'Day-Evening-Night Level', which is used in mapping noise around airports. DENL is the average A-weighted noise Feeder service Air traffic coming for instance from Norway, expression of the sound pressure level over the course of Sweden, the Baltic states, Poland and Northern German, and an average 24-hour day, with 5 dB added for noise events 'fed' into the hub Copenhagen Airport. From there, a large occurring between 7 pm and 10 pm and 10 dB added for part of the traffic goes on to other destinations in Europe or noise events occurring between 10 pm and 7 am. to overseas destinations. THC Total hydrocarbons. Formiate De-icing agent used for runways and taxiways. TOTAL-N The total content of nitrogen. Glycol A de-icer for aircraft. Copenhagen Airport uses ­propylene glycol. TOTAL-P The total content of phosphorus. Handling Handling of passengers, baggage, freight, etc. Turnaround time: The time an aircraft is parked at one of the airport’s stands. Inbound Incoming passengers travelling into Copenhagen Airport who have started up their trip at another airport with Ultrafine particles Particles with a diameter of less than Copenhagen as their final destination. 0.1 μm. 74 Glossary Published by Copenhagen Airports A/S Concept, design and graphical production: Meyer & Bukdahl as Photos: Ernst Tobisch Translation: Fokus Translations ISSN printed edition: 1904-8130 ISSN online edition: 1904-8122
