Aéroports de Paris CSR at the core of our organisation Corporate social responsibility report 2013 contents 1 —  Editorial 2 — Our identity in 2013 4 — Becoming a leader in our businesses corporate social responsibility 7 — Didier Hamon, Group Secretary 10 —  Our roadmaps General: strengthening our 14 — A policy led at the highest level 20 — How we meet the expectations commitments to corporate social 18 —  Robust governance of our stakeholders responsibility 19 —  Managing performance by controlling 24 — Projects tackling social issues 8 — Four key themes with 20 priorities activities employee satisfaction 27 —  Shirley Ding and Noémie Lemaire: 31 — We are preparing for the future 33 — We protect our employee’s health motivating & personalised 32 — Fair compensation 34 — We achieve a work-life balance career paths 32 — Profit sharing and savings 35 — Promoting equal 28 — 2013 in pictures 33 — We place high importance opportunities 30 — We rely on everyone’s on effective social performance dialogue controlling impacts and making continuous progress 37 — Joël Davidas and Sébastien Maréchal: 41 — A five-step improvement plan 45 — We promote using shared building an eco-efficient airport 42 — We are ready to use other sources transportation is a collective effort of energy 46 — We manage the water cycle 38 — 2013 in pictures 43 — HQE and planning 47 — We are reducing waste 40 — We aim for excellence within Europe 44 — We help control emissions 47 — We protect wildlife 40 — we closely manage in the air our operations customer satisfaction and ethical purchasing 49 — Pierre Marol and Charles Telitsine: 53 — Getting around easily 56 — Companies: services for an expanding innovating together to better 54 — An airport you could live in airport population address customers 55 — An ongoing dialogue 57 — A responsible purchasing policy 50 — 2013 in pictures with the airlines 52 — A global service creating value for society 59 — Maria Gomes and Patrick Dugard: 62 — Monitoring centres on employment 68 — Living in harmony with local residents voluntary measures to help people 63 — We provide easier access to jobs 69 — Aid for soundproofing re-enter the workforce 64 — We help people join the workforce 70 — The Aéroports de Paris Foundation 60 — 2013 in pictures 65 — Living at our airports 70 — Our in-kind and skill 62 — Our aid and economic and social 66 — The Grand Roissy and Pole d’Orly sponsorship cooperation strategy 67 — We support SMEs 72 — Our  subsidiaries, a proactive 76 —  Opinions from the stakeholders’ panel CSR approach 77 —  Indicators – Reporting methodology 73 —  Governance Indicators 78 — Table of indicators 74 —  International agreements 80 —  GRI summary 74 —  A responsible label 81 —  Honours and Awards 75 —  Social responsible indices 81 — Glossary, abbreviations and acronyms and rankings digital version: this document is available under the «Group» section on our website www.aeroportsdeparis.fr editorial our objective is within reach Augustin de Romanet Chairman and CEO We have worked hard since we began to roll out our To meet the needs of our clients, airlines first environmental protection programmes, almost and passengers, we continuously invest, and have twelve years ago. Our corporate social responsibility developed recognised collaborative processes policy is now fully integrated throughout our entire in order to grow along with all of our operational organisation. Each year, we have continually focused partners. Our development and corporate social our attention and efforts on strengthening this project, responsibility are integral parts of a specific in order to identify, control and reduce risks. We have governance and ethical framework. In 2003, aimed at innovating by creating a new approach to our we signed the UN Global Compact, which was mission and businesses by imagining the sustainable based on the Universal Declaration of Human airport of the future that is responsible, eco-efficient Rights, and which calls on businesses to make their and offers opportunity for everyone. We set ourselves sustainable best practices publicly available. We have the objective of becoming an industry standard further strengthened our commitment through our in Europe in terms of CSR. Today, our results are membership of the NGO Transparency International something we are proud of. France. We regularly and voluntarily have our corporate social responsibility policies evaluated in We accomplished this by undergoing ISO 14001 order to obtain a non-financial rating. certification for the environmental management of our airports; beginning with Paris-Charles de Gaulle, then Our current objective, that of being a European moving on to Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget. Since industry standard in terms of CSR, seems close to then, not only have we continued in this direction, but becoming reality. Our presence in the international we also have actively contributed to the fight against indices and ratings for socially responsible climate change. We use and produce renewable investment, as well as the financial community’s energies; we build green buildings; and we encourage positive support, reinforce our confidence. our employees to use the least polluting forms We intend to continue our development with integrity, of transport. responsibility and confidence, core values that we must nourish. The cornerstone of our corporate social Our economic and social cooperation programmes responsibility project is to preserve the confidence of started in the 2000s, supporting the regions where our shareholders, employees, clients and civil society; we are based. We have strengthened and extended performance, leadership, notoriety and excellence them over the years, with our ever-loyal partners— are the linchpins of its success. We must nurture associations, local councils and businesses. Together and grow these plans, fine-tuning them by relying on with our employees, we are proud to have supported the women and men of Aéroports de Paris. volunteer efforts towards helping people get back into work (PlanètAIRport), and to have participated in the success of the Grand Roissy international promotion programme, Hubstart Paris Région®, alongside the Paris Region Economic Development Agency. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 1 number one in the airport sector in Europe a major international 6,686 Aéroports de Paris air transport hub As the gateway to France, the world’s most popular tourist destination, Aéroports de Paris is a major international air transport hub. As a result of its location, world-class infrastructure and owns 6,686 hectares competitiveness, it is ideally positioned to take full advantage of the in Ile-de-France expected growth in air traffic over the medium and long term. 1,000 Aéroports de Paris owns and operates the three major airports in the Paris area (Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly, and Paris-Le Bourget). The company provides airlines, passengers and freight and mail operators with high quality facilities and a range Nearly 1,000 companies of services tailored to their needs. The Group conducts business at our three airports in five key areas: aviation; airport retail and services; real estate; in the Ile-de-France region directly managing and investing in international airports and design employ over 114,000 people and engineering. 351 Since it became a shareholder of the Turkish airport management company, TAV Airports, in May 2012, the Aéroports de Paris group is one of the top ranked airport groups in the word, with 37 airports under management and close to 200 million passengers handled. Flights take off for 351 cities located in 120 countries from the Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly airports main subsidiaries and investments (% of holding) companies with significant business activities 157 within the Group Aéroports de Paris Management 100% ADP Ingénierie 100% close to 157 airline customers Alyzia Sûreté 100% in 2013* Hub One 100% Honours TAV Airports 38% (1) and awards** TAV Construction 49% (1) The 2013 Marianne d’Or Roissy Continental Square 60% in Sustainable Development («State-owned firms, public corporations Société de distribution aéroportuaire 50% and public services» category) Média Aéroports de Paris 50% (see page 40) Relay@ADP 49% (2) 2013 CSR Challenges Award («Stakeholder dialogue» category) (1) Held directly for the Planèt’AIRport programme (2) Held directly and indirectly (see page 60) Award for the best 2011 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1st 2 nd from the French National Association of Chartered Accountants («Companies Aéroports Aéroports not listed on the CAC 40 index of the de Paris de Paris French stock exchange» category) * Companies having made more than 12 movements during the year at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. ranked first ranked second ** See page 81 for the list of the main awards and honours among airport groups among airport groups that Aéroports de Paris received in 2013. in Europe for freight in World for and mail passenger traffic 2 Our identity in 2013 consolidated revenue (in e millions) our identity in 2013 + 4.3% 2,640 2,754 2,502 2011* 2012* 2013 * proforma number of passengers handled at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly (in millions) + 1.7% 88.8 90.3 88.1 the airport city Airports are specially designed to handle all the operations involved in the landing and take-off of aircraft. This requires 2011 2012 2013 a whole range of related services and creates business activities that are directly or indirectly linked across the airport. Several hundred companies are involved in airport operations and providing services to passengers. average staff at Aéroports de Paris Group • O rganising and operating 0.1% the airport • Retail and services 9,092 Aéroports • Property (leasing, construction) 9,035 9,026 de Paris • Airport services to airlines and professionals industrial services, water/energy supplies • Car parks 2011 2012 2013 • A irline companies and ground community involvement handling service suppliers (in e millions) • Security companies Entreprises companies • Air cargo and mail suppliers • Shops, restaurants, hotels, banks, car rental, cleaning 2.2 2.2 2.2 and maintenance companies 2011 2012 2013 • A ir traffic management: DGAC: French civil aviation authority Services government • Safety and security: Department de l’État services of the border police (DPAF) and air for more information: transport gendarmerie (GTA) the «Group» section on our website • Customs services www.aeroportsdeparis.fr Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 3 becoming a leader in our businesses Under our 2011-2015 strategic plan, we have defined a strategy aimed at maintaining the competitiveness of our airports and strengthening our positions in light of changes in air transport and the intensifying competitive pressure from other airports. A medium-term ambition Given its assets, competitive position, particularly in terms of market capitalisation, level of traffic and level of revenue, as well as its experience in airport management, engineering and construction, the Group’s ambition is to become the leader in airport design, construction and operation over the medium term. Our two main objectives Our ambition is based on two main goals: optimising our three Paris airports and gradually expanding abroad. It is grounded in a policy of financial discipline and societal responsibility and an active policy of human resources management. Six strategic concepts To meet these medium-term objectives, in 2013 we reformulated and refocused the strategic directions defined for the period 2011-2015, for more information: in relation to six aspects: please consult the Aéroports • improving the quality of service provided to Group customers; de Paris Registration Document, • improving employee satisfaction; which can be downloaded • strengthening the operational robustness of our airports; from the «Group» • improving economic performance; section of our website • becoming the European benchmark for corporate social responsibility; www.aeroportsdeparis.fr • seizing opportunities for international development. DISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH (in e millions) e 72 million Property tax (1) e 815 million Suppliers e46 million Economic contribution (1) e 205 million Dividends paid (2) e68 million Other taxes (1) e344 million Reimbursement of debt e 444 million e 183 million Net financial expenses Capacity, renovation and quality, property Government and local authorities e 721million Personnel costs Purchase of tangible and intangible assets (salaries, social charges, shareholding, Employees incentives, provisions for labour commitments) Shareholders and banks Suppliers (1) paid in 2013 for 2013 taxes. (2) paid in 2013 for 2012. Information about financing is presented in the Aéroports de Paris Registration Document, available on our website. 4 Economic strategy number one in the airport sector in Europe non-financial rating requested, produced by Vigeo Enterprise AN ACCOUNTABILITY FRAMEWORK (scale from 1 to 4) We are featured on several social responsible investment indices. In 2013, we received several awards in recognition 3+ A HIGH LEVEL OF COMMITMENT of our actions plans for the environment, economic and social development in our 33 42.5/60 33/60 An overall score of 3+ for the Group on a scale of 1 to 4 representing an increase local communities and our customer services. (See page 75.) 35.5/60 30/60 of 7 points over 2010. Overall Group score 2010 2012 focus the Group’s large-scale projects Aéroports de Paris SA or specialized newsprint. They can also pick from a wide Paris-Orly selection of novels, new children’s literature and comic books available on the tablets. More than 30,000 books a New Departure and news articles have already been viewed in the first few months since the reading rooms opened. We are completely making over Paris-Orly to keep apace with the developments in air traffic. A four-point overview ADPI • A new 20,000 m2 departure lounge; • The complete renovation of the external access a new terminal areas – currently underway for the south terminal; • An HQE® – certified building of nearly 80,000 m2 in Mauritius linking the south and west terminals at Orly; In August 2013, the new terminal at the Sir • The ground transportation plans are transforming Seewoosagur Ramgoolam International Airport Paris-Orly into a multimodal hub: T7 tramway line, was inaugurated in Mauritius. In cooperation the Grand Paris Express project, extension of Paris with Aéroports de Paris Management, ADPI drafted metro lines 8 and 14 and, in the longer-term, the architectural designs, conducted feasibility a future TGV train station. studies and helped oversee the construction of the terminal. This 56,900 m2 terminal can accommodate 4.5 million passengers per year. Paris-Charles de Gaulle The building boasts 264 solar panels and rainwater the Group’s future catchment systems. headquarters Aéroports de Paris Management Our future headquarters right in the centre of Paris-Charles de Gaulle will come to life in 2016. Concession The 13,500 m2 building will be HQE® certified. Employees will benefit from the heightened quality for the Zagreb Airport of life offered by its foot paths on the plant-covered in Croatia green roof, 700 m2 atrium, bright façades, The ZAIC-A Ltd international consortium, of which spacious offices and gym. Aéroports de Paris Management is a shareholder, signed the final agreements related to the Zagreb SUBSIDIARIES airport concession in December 2013. These agreements relate to the financing, the design Hub One and the construction of an airport terminal with e-reading rooms a total five million passenger capacity to be delivered in 2016 as well as to the thirty-year operating period Hub One helped set up a passenger reading room of the concession. Aéroports de Paris Management at the south terminal of Paris-Orly. Since opening at the and TAV Airports provide technical assistance end of 2013, passengers can now borrow digital tablets under an agreement for operating and maintaining or e-readers to browse regional, national, international the airport. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 5 corporate social responsibility 6 Corporate social responsibility corporate social responsibility strengthening our commitments to corporate social responsibility Didier Hamon Group Secretary General The key themes of 2013 were maturity and GroupOur CSR work takes the form of project management wide initiatives. We continued to roll out our corporate in the same way as we already undertake the responsibility policy, which involves all Group divisions planning or environmental management of our and every Group employee. We have made considerable airports. A sort of virtuous contagion has infected progress. We are coming close to achieving the major our teams, the best example of which is the recent strategic objectives that the company set itself for 2015, award of the «responsible supplier relationships» thus becoming, by that date, the European airport label to our Purchasing Division, or the decision to industry standard in terms of CSR. include social inclusion clauses in the tenders for works on our «Nouvel Envol» project at Paris-Orly. We can see the results in our growing presence We have chosen a guiding force with the creation in the socially responsible investment ratings and of a Group Secretariat General in 2013, which indices, a mark of outside recognition, and the success will have a direct influence on our CSR approach: of our in-house training session for managers in environmental and sustainable development corporate social responsibility. This determination to management, risk management and internal control. place awareness of our social responsibility at the heart of our organisation and operations is led from the very In 2014, our roadmap for the environment and top of the Group. Augustin de Romanet reaffirmed social commitment comprises two objectives: rolling this in his inaugural speech on taking up his duties in out energy management at our airports and trying December 2012 and made regular reference to it to twice as hard in the area of social and economic employees and outside partners throughout 2013. cooperation, in conjunction with the Île-de-France We now have a common awareness of our social Region, the Regional Economic Development responsibility that naturally leads us to combine our Agency and the State, as we did in 2013, by signing forces and pool our skills. We have set up thematic the Ministry of Urban Affairs’ Business and Local working groups between each of the divisions Neighbourhood Charter. concerned and the Environment and Sustainable Development Division. Aéroports de Paris in the socially responsible investment (SRI) indices and rankings Ethibel Sustainability Euronext Vigeo MSCI World ESG / SRI GLOBAL 100 Index (ESI) Europe 120 / Euronext Aéroports de Paris is on the Aéroports de Paris joined Aéroports de Paris has been Vigeo France 20 MSCI World ESG (environment, the Global 100 ranking on the ESI index since 2009 Aéroports de Paris has been on social, governance) and MSCI in 2012, in 39th place, and rose and was included in the Ethibel the Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 World SRI (socially responsible to 14th place in 2013. Sustainability Pioneer and and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone investment) indices, and its (See page 75) Excellence Investment register 120 indices since 2012, and rating was increased from AA in 2013. (See page 75.) joined the Euronext Vigeo to AAA at the end of 2013. France 20 index in 2013. (See page 75.) (See page 75.) Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 7 responsible development corporate governance we aim to become the European benchmark for corporate a proactive, social responsibility une gestion ethical and équilibrée transparent by building on: policy 4 key themes with 20 priorities THE BENEFITS OF CSR As a structured management approach, Our convictions the ISO 26000 standard gives the We are building our future by combining our business strategy with responsible company the means to innovate by practices in respect of our stakeholders. We have set ourselves the objective anticipating stakeholder requirements of integrating their expectations into our decision-making. Corporate social and optimising its processes, to responsibility (CSR) puts the principles of sustainable development to work differentiate itself through the quality in the enterprise. Becoming a European benchmark for CSR is one of its performance, to reduce its risks of the six elements of our strategy for 2013-2015, which we see as a powerful and costs and to gain the trust of its driver of value creation for all. We target employee satisfaction as a source stakeholders in so doing. As well as of their performance. We attach great importance to enhancing the quality benefiting civil society, a CSR approach is of our services and our safety processes for passengers and airlines. We protect also advantageous for companies. our environment on both a local and a global scale. We make investments that contribute to the prosperity of the areas in which we operate. An improvement process non-financial rating requested, We fulfil our social responsibility by adhering produced by Vigeo Enterprise (scale from 1 to 4) to a structured approach that cements good Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA practice and responsible behaviour in our day-to-day activities. We have identified priority areas for our improvement plans based on the recommendations of ISO COMMITMENT APPROACHING 3+ EXCELLENCE 26000, which we have adopted as our 33 43/60 33/60 up five points on 2010. framework 38/60 30/60 Transparency is our aim Every year, we update our stakeholders on our sustainable development activities Overall score of Aéroports de Paris SA through this corporate social responsibility report. This document is drafted in 2010 2012 accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. It is widely circulated and available on our website. STRONG COMMITMENT 3+ Key points: the prevention of corruption; Ethics 33 49/60 33/60 the consolidation of the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee; the reconciliation of risk Our policy is conducted in accordance with human rights and the fundamental 44/60 30/60 and internal control policies; and the inclusion rights defined by the International Labour of sustainable development criteria in Organisation (ILO). determining the variable portion of corporate Corporate governance officers’ compensation. 2010 2012 8 Corporate social responsibility — responsible development corporate social responsibility 1 employees 2 environment 3 customers/purchasing 4 community controlling impacts satisfaction customer création creating value une gestion employee un and making : objectif des clients satisfaction de valeur for society pour équilibrée satisfaction l’excellence continuous etandéthique des purchasing laatsociété large progress achats ethics civile 1 6 11 16 professional energy customer social cooperation development satisfaction and employment 2 7 12 17 employment air, emissions passengers regions conditions and climate 3 8 13 18 social water airlines dialogue dialogue 4 9 14 19 health and quality waste companies noise of life 5 10 15 20 promoting equal biodiversity sustainable solidarity opportunities purchasing and diversity Since 2003, we have been a signatory to the Global Compact, a UN initiative that lays out ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We ensure compliance with these principles and demonstrate this through our commitments by reporting FACT In accordance with Decree no. 2012-557 on the implementation of our good practices. We have developed an ethics of 24 April 2012 on the transparency strategy and related action plans in partnership with the NGO Transparency obligations of companies in the area International France. of employment, community and the environment, in November 2013, KPMG was Assessment of third parties appointed as the independent organisation We have our performance independently assessed by third parties on a voluntarily in charge of verifying the employment, basis by requesting a non-financial rating. This assessment measures our progress community and environmental information in six areas: corporate governance, the environment, community involvement, contained in the Group’s management human resources management, human rights and market behaviour. We publish report. It delivered a conclusion of moderate the results in our annual reports. assurance on the 2013 report. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 9 our roadmap employment progress objectives for 2015 status professional • Quality of job management 1 development • Skills development and employability 2 employment • Objective and transparent remuneration systems conditions • Promoting social dialogue and collective bargaining 3 social dialogue • Promoting employee participation health and quality • Protecting health and safety 4 of life at work • Organising work time carefully • Preventing discrimination promoting • Promoting gender equality 5 equal opportunities • Promoting equal opportunities for vulnerable groups and diversity • Preventing human rights violations Starting Ongoing Advanced Attained main achievements in 2013 page No. • Roll-out of the 2013-2015 jobs and skills management programme (GPEC) 31 professional • Online appraisal and career development meeting for non-managers 31 1 development • Consolidation of strategic business sectors 31 • Development of career mobility 31 • Implementation of professional career path management tools and processes 31 employment • Recognition of skills in management remuneration schemes 32 2 conditions • Elimination of the pay gap 32 • Consultation of employee bodies on the company’s strategic directions 33 • 2013 employee survey 33 3 social dialogue • Joint creation of the «Values» project 31 • Employee innovation: 83 ideas assessed in 2013 33 health and quality • 2013-2016 «occupational well-being» agreement 34 4 of life at work • Draft agreement on preventing difficult working conditions 34 • Signing of the diversity charter 35 promoting • 4th agreement on gender equality 35 5 equal opportunities • 8th agreement on the integration of disabled people 35 and diversity • Action plan on the generation contract 35 non-financial rating requested, produced by Vigeo Enterprise (scale from 1 to 4) Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA 3 33+ 3 3 37/60 41/60 TANGIBLE COMMITMENT Key points: a precise roadmap 33/60 for 2013-2015, an internal control system 30/60 for HR processes, substantial resources allocated to training and the development of a management culture. Human rights Human Resources 2010 2012 2010 2012 10 Corporate social responsibility — roadmap corporate our roadmap environment responsibility social progress objectives for 2015 status • 1  5% renewable energy in our final consumption • 12.5% reduction in internal consumption per square metre (compared to 2009) 6 energy • Design, construction and refurbishment of buildings in accordance with high environmental quality (HQE) standards air, emissions • Climate: Airport Carbon Accreditation retained for our three main airports 7 and climate • Implementation of inter-company travel plans • 5  % reduction in internal consumption per passenger (compared to 2010) 8 water • Improve rainwater management • R  eduction at source 9 waste • 30% recycling of non-hazardous waste • Sorting of passenger waste • 5  % reduction in pesticide use (compared to 2010) 10 biodiversity • Protection of biodiversity Starting Ongoing Advanced Attained main achievements in 2013 page No. • P  reparation for implementation of ISO 50001 42 • Commissioning of a solar energy plant 42 6 energy • Production of renewable energy from geothermal sources and a biomass power plant 42 • HQE® certification for Hall M in Terminal 2E at Paris-Charles de Gaulle 43 • R  enewal of the level 3 Airport Carbon Accreditation for Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle, and level 2 for Paris-Le Bourget 44 air, emissions • Paris-Le Bourget inter-company travel plan (PDIE) in 2013, 7 and climate in addition to the Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly plans 45 • 10.2% reduction in CO2 emissions from our light passenger vehicles between 2009 and 2013 45 • 3 .2% reduction in internal consumption of drinking water per passenger in 2013 (compared to 2010) 46 8 water • Inauguration of a wetland filtration facility at Paris-Orly for treatment of rainwater 46 • Recruitment of platform managers at Paris-Charles de Gaulle 47 9 waste • Information film on sorting items for recycling screened in terminals 39 • Introduction of a bio-waste collection at our company restaurants 47 • 5  0% reduction in the quantity of pesticides used thanks 10 biodiversity to a new weeding system 47 • Endangered flower transplanted at Toussus-le-Noble airfield 47 non-financial rating requested, produced by Vigeo Enterprise (scale from 1 to 4) Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA DEEP COMMITMENT AND 3+ PERFORMANCE APPROACHING EXCELLENCE 3 48/60 Key points: new environmental policy, energy management, production of renewable 45/60 energies, high environmental quality (HQE) construction (Hall M, freight station); Airport Carbon Accreditation Level 3. Environment 2010 2012 Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 11 our roadmap customers and purchasing progress objectives for 2015 status • Be among the leading benchmark companies in Europe 11 customer satisfaction • Develop a customer culture within the company and in our partners • Quality standards 12 passengers • Innovation • Quality standards and collaborative approaches 13 airlines • Modernisation of infrastructure and installations • Innovation • Improve the satisfaction of companies 14 companies • High standards (retail, etc.) • Purchasing ethics 15 sustainable • Factor CSR into tenders and contracts purchasing • Purchase from SMEs • Solidarity-based responsible purchasing Starting Ongoing Advanced Attained main achievements in 2013 page No. • Implementation and continued design of quality structural benchmarks 52 • Quality operational committees 52 11 customer satisfaction • Service University: reception of foreign passengers (China, India, Japan, North Africa, Russia) 53 • Expansion of reception teams 53 • Airport Helpers® 50 12 passengers • Gradual roll-out of comprehensive information and signposting for passengers in arrivals 50 • Launch of restaurant operator awards (quality) 55 • Extension of Airport Collaborative Decision Making to Paris-Orly 55 • First discussion seminar between airlines and operational units at Paris-Orly 51 13 airlines • Initiative encouraging airlines to open new routes from our airports 55 • Pilot project for organising the space at Paris-Orly 54 • Supporting innovative SMEs 57 14 companies • First «Real Estate Business Meetings» at Paris-Charles de Gaulle 56 • Environment and employment provisions and provisions 15 sustainable on integration in our contracts 57 purchasing • Purchasing policy favouring SMEs/SMIs 57 non-financial rating requested, produced by Vigeo Enterprise (scale from 1 to 4) Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA 3+ DEEP COMMITMENT 33 44/60 33/60 to respecting the interests of customers and suppliers and to sustainable 39/60 30/60 purchasing. Key points: Service University, tools for dialogue with airlines; development of sustainable purchasing. Market behaviour 2010 2012 12 Corporate social responsibility — roadmap corporate our roadmap community responsibility social progress objectives for 2015 status social cooperation • Portfolio of training and support 16 and employment • Communicating the information to job stakeholders • Contributing to the economic development of Grand Roissy and Pole d’Orly 17 regions • Supporting SMEs • Cooperation with local and regional authorities • Cooperation with local and regional elected officials and authorities 18 dialogue • Consultation with local residents on employment, airport activity, the environment and noise • Managing the funds generated by the tax on noise pollution from aircraft 19 noise (TNSA) to help with soundproofing • Monitoring of sound levels by our laboratory 20 solidarity • Financing local solidarity projects Starting Ongoing Advanced Attained main achievements in 2013 page No. • The work of the employment observatories for the three airports 62 social cooperation • Planèt’AIRport programme 63 16 and employment • Signing of the «Companies and Neighbourhoods» charter 61 • Reorganisation of the Roissy CDG Public Interest Group for Employment (GIP) 64 • Strengthening of Hubstart Paris Région® 66 • First «Real Estate Business Meetings» organised by Orly International 66 17 regions • Contracts accessible to SMEs: «Grand Roissy Business Meetings» and information meetings on contracts for the Paris-Orly «New departure» project 67 • Partners in the regional CSR programme for SMEs createdin 2013 67 • Exhibitions, seminars and presentations at the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre 68 • 57 partnership agreements with local authorities (of which 3 in 2013) 68 18 dialogue • Information meetings with local residents and elected officials on the commissioning of the T7 tramway line at Orly and on the renewal project for Paris-Orly 68 • Soundproofing: free assistance with the contracting process 69 19 noise • Assistance rate for diagnosis increased to 100% of the regulatory ceiling 69 • New plans to combat noise nuisance at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly 69 • Provisions for integration in our contracts 64 • Aéroports de Paris Foundation 70 20 solidarity • Adife regional endowment fund 60 • «Tourism and disability» award received 68 non-financial rating requested, produced by Vigeo Enterprise (scale from 1 to 4) Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA 3 33+ TANGIBLE COMMITMENT 39/60 48/60 Key points: promotion of the 35/60 45/60 attractiveness of Grand Roissy from an economic perspective, actions enabling local residents to access jobs and training, Community involvement relationships with stakeholders. 2010 2012 Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 13 a policy led at the highest level The Group’s corporate social responsibility policy is driven from the highest level of senior management. It is proposed by the Environment and Sustainable Development (ESD) division to the Executive Committee. Chairman and Chief Chief Operating Chief of Staff Group Secretary Executive Officer Officer to the Chairman General and CEO Augustin de ROMANET (1) Patrick JEANTET (2) Didier HAMON (4) Patrick COLLARD (3) Finance, Director of Development Strategy and Communications and Facilities unit Administration unit Benjamin PERRET (6) Bernard CATHELAIN (7) Edward ARKWRIGHT (5) un objectif : ESD l’excellence Marketing Management and Retail Director IT Director Control Director Pascal BOURGUE (8) Director, Delegated Project Accounting Management Assignments Director Human Resources Engineering and Architecture Security, Director Director Risk Management Finance and Strategy and Compliance Director Catherine BENET (9) Director Purchasing Director Customer International Business Satisfaction Director Member of the Executive Committee Legal Affairs and Shareholdings and Insurance Director Director Other divisions Internal ESD: Environment and Sustainability Audit Director Laurent GALZY (10) Development Director Managing Director Managing Director Real Estate Managing Director at Paris-Charles de of Paris-Le Bourget airport Director at Paris-Orly airport Gaulle airport and the civil airfields for Franck MEREYDE (11) general aviation François CANGARDEL (13) Franck GOLDNADEL (12) 6 13 10 1 9 7 3 11 8 12 4 2 5 14 Corporate social responsibility — CSR management corporate focus on the organisation social responsibility of the Environment and Sustainable Development divisions three entities and five units The Environment and Sustainable Development (ESD) division operates through several entities. • The Environmental and Energy Policy unit oversees strategic directions for environmental and energy policy, monitors technical and regulatory compliance and provides technical support to the other divisions. • Two regional sustainable development teams (one for Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget and one for Paris-Orly) roll out the economic and social cooperation, solidarity and information strategies to local and territorial stakeholders. They organise discussions with partnership un objectif : ESD l’excellence structures and local networks. They represent the company before local public and private stakeholders. • Five cross-functional units handle specific campaigns to inform stakeholders and provide assistance to local residents, in synergy with the regional units. oversees 1 environmental and energy key roles policy division • Draw up the support agenda for environmental management • CSR coordination across the entire Aéroports • Environmental and energy policy de Paris S.A. Group. 5 economic and social • Environmental management • Provide optimal management cooperation units • Energy management for noise pollution aid financed by the tax on aircraft noise. • B usiness, employment and training Develop strategies that observatories enable local businesses and • Management of information disclosure governments to benefit from to local residents the dynamism of Paris airports. • Management of soundproofing aid • Help local communities • Management of partnerships in difficulty. • Aéroports de Paris • Keep local residents informed. 2 regional Sustainable Development teams The Paris-Charles de Gaulle team and the Paris-Le Bourget team for Paris-Orly • Economic and social cooperation • Regional relationships Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 15 5 steps to implement our CSR policy 1 2 3 4 5 Departments un objectif : Executive Management and Executive Committee ESD l’excellence All divisions and operational units Components of Scoping paper the CSR policy: action CSR aspects 2015 objectives plans, cross-functional Implementation addressed to divisions of the strategic broken down into annual for operational planning initiatives, CSR objectives Roll-out of measures plan objectives and list of objectives for individual managers Reporting to the Executive Committee by the Group’s General Secretariat • quarterly results • annual performance assessment and feedback Reporting to ESD Reporting to divisions Each year, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer prepare a scoping paper and a list of objectives covering CSR aspects, which are sent to all divisions. Reporting Every three months, the Environment and Sustainable Development division presents a dashboard with information supplied by the divisions to the Executive Committee, with the support of the General Secretariat. At the end of the year, the Environment and Sustainable Development (ESD) division and the other divisions provide feedback and prepare an annual assessment of performance. The conclusions are presented to the Executive Committee, which uses them to implement relevant measures. Audit The Audit and Security, Risk Management and Compliance divisions ESD: Environment and Sustainable ensure that risks are identified and taken into account, and they evaluate Development division them periodically. 16 Corporate social responsibility — CSR management corporate focus on social responsibility the divisions’ areas of CSR competence Each division applies our CSR policy within in its areas of responsibility, but also shares its expertise with other divisions in the context of joint projects. This cross-functional approach meets the requirements of a sustainable development approach that combines three aspects: employment, business and the environment. The drafting of social and environmental provisions, which are now included in many of our contracts is the result of the joint work of three of our divisions: the Human Resources, Purchasing and Environment and Sustainable Development divisions. Functioning in a project mode is an innovation in the field of CSR which promotes the exchange of ideas, the sharing of knowledge un objectif : ESD l’excellence and ensures that we find suitable solutions to meet our objectives. It is also a valuable source of innovation. Human Resources Policies on CSR employment, human management Environmental and energy policy and workers’ rights, equal opportunities, diversity, health and training Customer satisfaction tion Purchasing a ethics, CSR criteria inno Airport management Quality of service to passengers, airlines in contracts, sustainable purchasing v Implementation of environmental, and employees human resources and customer ement satisfaction policies Purchasing Real estate (Finance, Strategy Services to business users and Administration unit) in airports and environmental quality of real estate assets ag an m p ro j e c t Services Environmental for airlines, quality quality of buildings of service of retail outlets Security and protection Marketing Engineering and architecture, of personal and retail delegated project management information (Development and Facilities unit) IT Innovation Service attached to the Development Innovative projects for attached to the Customer and Facilities unit passengers, airlines University Satisfaction division Customer culture and employees Operational departments Functional departments Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 17 Robust governance Aéroports de Paris is a French public limited company governed by a Board of Directors (Société Anonyme à Conseil d’Administration). Internal regulations set forth the scope of the Board’s responsibilities and its operating procedures. A director’s charter specifying the rights and powers of each director, and a code of ethics relating to securities transactions and compliance with French regulations on insider trading, breach of insider trading and market manipulation, are schedules year in the bylaws. Board of Directors The Board of Directors is a collegial body that determines the Company’s business strategy and ensures its implementation. The Board of Directors reports on its activities to the General Meeting of Shareholders. It consists of 18 members, including six directors appointed by the General shareholders’ Meeting, six directors representing the French government and six directors elected by employees. Three censors participate in the Board meetings in an advisory capacity. The current term of office of the directors and censors will end in July 2014. In April 2009, the Board decided to apply the AFEP-MEDEF guidelines for the corporate governance of listed companies. Committees attached to the Board of Directors 5 women sit on the Three advisory committees contribute to the quality of the decisions made by the Board of Directors: the Audit and Risks Committee, the Strategy and Investments Committee and the Remuneration, Appointments and Governance Committee (see page 73). Board of Directors, a representation of 42%. Executive Committee This calculation does not take into account board members elected by employees. The Executive Committee is chaired by Augustin de Romanet, Executive Committee, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and provides strategic and operational management of the company. It meets every week. In 2013, the Executive Committee had 13 members, including one woman. FACT Management involvement objectives, particularly in the area of equality at work A Group General Secretariat and the prevention of psychosocial risks, In 2013, we complemented our organisation with the creation of the are included in the criteria for the variable Finance, Strategy and Administration unit, the International, Subsidiaries and portion of senior executives’ remuneration. Shareholdings division and the Public Affairs division, which reports to the Chief of Staff to the Chairman and CEO. We have also brought together within the Group General Secretariat, which is on the Executive Committee, the company functions that contribute to risk management, sustainable development EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF THE BOARD and the implementation of corporate The latest external assessment of the Board of Directors, overseen by an independent responsibility. The Environment and director, was presented to the Board of Directors meeting of 24 October 2013. Sustainable Development and Security, A comparison with previous assessments reflects a steadily increasing satisfaction Risk Management and Compliance and the high quality of the Board in terms of the way in which its work is organised divisions are directly attached to it. and its understanding of Aéroports de Paris business activities. Board members This new entity will organise the crossare satisfied with the Board’s working methods and the way in which discussions functional culture and the drafting and between members conform to the principles of collective responsibility: more implementation of good practices in particularly, there was a higher level of satisfaction in terms of listening, dialogue conformity with our strategic directions. and dynamics in meetings. Finally, the Board of Directors intends to fully involve itself It will also oversee relationships with civil in the definition and implementation of Aéroports de Paris strategy and, in particular, society and coordinate the CSR policy. its international strategy. 18 Corporate social responsibility — governance corporate social responsibility managing performance by controlling activities A comprehensive approach Aéroports de Paris has a comprehensive approach to internal control, risk management, and internal audit, which is aimed at boosting performance and ensuring proper implementation of activities and achievement of objectives. Internal control contributes to the smooth functioning of the company’s internal processes, the effectiveness of its operations and the efficient use of its resources. It is aimed at ensuring compliance with laws and regulations and the application of the strategic directions set by the Executive Management. Risk management is tasked with identifying the risks that can affect the Group’s various activities, keeping them at a level deemed acceptable by the Executive Management and ensuring that the main risks are controlled. The internal control and risk management systems are audited periodically to ensure that the significant risks are taken into account in an appropriate manner and that all the conditions are in place to safeguard and develop the Group’s business. The certification issued in 2011 by the French Audit and Internal Control FACT Institute (Ifaci) for internal audit activities was confirmed in 2013. The internal control guidelines of the Aéroports de Paris Group and the risk A tailored organisation management standards contain the key organisational elements of these systems: In October 2013, the Internal Control team joined the Risks and Compliance regulatory reference frameworks and department within the Security, Risk Management and Compliance division, internal standards, key players, roles attached to the General Secretariat. The Audit division, which reports to the and responsibilities and associated Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has refocused solely on the audit function governance. The group’s internal audit so that it can carry out its tasks with full independence. The system is based charter defines the mission, powers on the internal control guidelines, risk management standards and the internal and responsibilities in that area. audit guidelines and has access to the network of Audit-Risks-Internal Control coordinators that covers the parent company and subsidiaries. Our work in 2013 ETHICAL RULES The Aéroports de Paris S.A. internal In 2013, our work focused on: regulations define the permanent rules • sending a self-assessment questionnaire on corporate governance of general discipline and lay out the to the directors and managers of strategic functions: enforcement process for hygiene, health • supporting the divisions to establish their internal control standards relating and safety. They include rules of ethics to the management and governance of their activities and, periodically, and specific rules specified in the to analyse their business processes, in order to strengthen internal control; procurement code of ethics, the code of • helping the divisions obtain certification of their management systems, ethics for trading and market activities, particularly the management at Paris-Orly airport; and the code of ethics for information • appointment of a person responsible per Group risk, in order to strengthen security. In 2013, the code of ethics was the risk management system. updated to include the fraud prevention policy (in the introduction to the rules of ethics) and the concept of ethical TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL FRANCE, A SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIP standards. All employees must The six-year partnership between Aéroports de Paris and Transparency International understand the ethical standards. France has proved to be very positive. With the support and expertise of this NGO, we have equipped ourselves with sustainable systems to prevent the risk of fraud and to fight against corruption. In 2013, the Group promoted the fight against corruption with all of its stakeholders by presenting this commitment in all of its marketing materials, including those of subsidiaries. The speech of the Delegate General of Transparency International France at the Grand Roissy Business Meetings for more information: 2013 was symbolic of this approach. These meetings have been organised since 2009 see our 2013 Registration for local SMEs/SMIs, and are also attended by other large groups. In 2014, Aéroports Document, available and de Paris will continue to be a member of Transparency International France, downloadable on our website, and therefore subscribes to its transparency principles. www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, («Group» tab). Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 19 how we meet the expectations of our stakeholders employees EXPECTATIONS Our employees: environment, gender equality, career paths, motivation, health and quality of life at work – All employees: environment, services in the airports RESPONSES Our employees 35 — C  ompany agreements on gender 31 — Employee skills development policy, equality and disability, and action encouragement of job mobility plans for the employment of young 32 — Fair compensation people and older people 33 — Social dialogue, participatory All employees innovation 41 — Environmental management 34 — Policy on preventing occupational 45 — Inter-company travel plans Aéroports de Paris employees, risks and protecting health and safety, 65 — Inter-company nurseries, transportation works council, trade unions, social benefits network employee representatives, employees of airport-based companies customers EXPECTATIONS Passengers: safety, fluidity, comfort – Airlines: quality of airport services, their contribution to business competitiveness – Retailers and companies using the airports: quality of services as concession provider, services RESPONSES 52 et 53 — Q  uality of service standards 55 — Renovation of terminals for passengers and airlines; and new capacities Service University 56 — Services to companies operating 53 et 55 — Partnership arrangements at the airports with airlines, service providers, 57 — Innovation Business partners government services and agencies Passengers and those accompanying them, airlines, companies using the sites, ground handling companies and airport retailers business partners EXPECTATIONS R eadability of our practices, our values and our selection criteria, respecting their interests in public tenders RESPONSES 57 — P urchasing code of ethics 57 — S ME charter 57 — Selection  criteria based on our 63 — Entertainment: Plato network, quality of service standards and good business meetings practices in CSR 57 — Sustainable purchasing policy Service providers, sub-contractors, suppliers 20 Corporate social responsibility — stakeholders corporate our tools for dialogue social responsibility employees stakeholders INFORMATION TOOLS METHODS OF CONSULTATION •  roup Committee G • A nnual Social Climate Survey • Websites • Committee for Health, Safety and Working Conditions • In-house journal, newsletters • Works council • Information and awareness-raising booklets • Employee representatives • Service University • Trade union delegates customers INFORMATION TOOLS METHODS OF CONSULTATION Passengers Passengers • www.aéroportsdeparis.fr and online services • Website aeroportsdeparis.fr • MyWay.fr, Twitter, facebook • Dedicated information line number (3950) • Customer guides • Satisfaction questionnaires at departures and arrivals • Aéroports de Paris LifeStyle magazine • www.dites-nous.fr/en • E-newsletters Companies Companies • Collaborative Décision Making (CDM) • Websites and intranet, e-newsletters • Quality of service operational committees • Customer guides • Local quality committees • Airport orientation committee (AOC) • Operational meetings • Airport Players’ Club • Satisfaction questionnaires • Service University Companies using the airports Companies using the airports • Meetings • Websites and intranet, e-newsletters • Environmental Partners’ Club • Conferences • Satisfaction questionnaires business partners INFORMATION TOOLS METHODS OF CONSULTATION • Seminars and conferences •  ww.tendersmart.com (consultation of suppliers) w • www.tendersmart.com • Self-assessment questionnaires • www.aéroportsdeparis.fr • Tenders and consultations • Welcome guide for airport-based companies • Environmental Partners’ Club Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 21 how we meet the expectations of our stakeholders civil society EXPECTATIONS The environment, noise and soundproofing, economic and social benefits for the territories, partners in the development of airports in the Ile-de-France region RESPONSES 8 — CSR policy 68 — Information tools and spaces 41 —  Environmental policy and certified for dialogue management systems 69 — Management of soundproofing 57 — Solidarity purchasing assistance funds 62 —  Economic and social cooperation policy Residents, associations, local authorities, NGOs, influential parties and opinion leaders, and business analysts financial partners EXPECTATIONS Economic performance, shareholder interests, risk management RESPONSES 4 — E conomic regulation agreement, 19 — C  ode of ethics, board member real estate diversification guidelines, internal control guidelines and retail development strategy, and riisk management international growth 75 — Ranking in socially responsible 8 — CSR policy, non-financial rating investment indices Main shareholder (French government), banks, investors, individual shareholders the French government, public bodies EXPECTATIONS Compliance with laws, economic regulation contract, risk management, economic and social cooperation, implementation of public policy RESPONSES 4 — E conomic strategy of the Group 41 — E nvironmental, energy and climate 8 — CSR policy, non-financial rating policies 19 — Code of ethics, board member 62 — Regional promotion policies guidelines, internal control guidelines and support for urban policies and risk management guidelines, compliance monitoring and control system The French government, European institutions, public bodies and of general interest 22 Corporate social responsibility — stakeholders corporate our tools for dialogue social responsibility civil society stakeholders INFORMATION TOOLS METHODS OF CONSULTATION • W ebsites: • F orums and exhibitions www.aéroportsdeparis.fr • Environmental advisory committees www.entrevoisins.org • Meetings with elected officials and representatives • Annual reports: Corporate Social Responsibility Report, associations and local and regional authorities Registration Document, Activity and Sustainable Development • Aéroports de Paris Foundation Report, Management Report. • The press • Environment and Sustainable Development Centres • Airport visits financial partners INFORMATION TOOLS METHODS OF CONSULTATION • A nnual reports: Corporate Social Responsibility Report • G  eneral Meeting of Shareholders Registration Document, and Sustainable Development Report, • Shareholders’ Club Management Report. • Shareholders’ meetings • Shareholder newsletters and internet guide • Site visits • Quarterly results • Half-yearly results the French government, public bodies INFORMATION TOOLS METHODS OF CONSULTATION • A nnual reports: Corporate Social Responsibility Report • W  orking groups Registration Document, Activity Report and Sustainable • Participation in regional groups Development Report, Management Report. • Dialogue with government ministries and agencies • www.entrevoisins.org. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 23 projects tackling society issues 2 Hubstart centre Paris Région 3 Aérovert Serving the business district of Grand This green space, which opened Roissy, the Hubstart Paris Région® in 2013 around the Environment Association, which is supported by Centre, welcomes visitors and airport Aéroports de Paris, moved to new employees for a walk or a jog premises at Roissy in 2013 (page 66). (page 38). CSR challenges: local economic CSR challenges: quality of life cooperation Stakeholders: employees, visitors, Stakeholders: civil society, elected local residents officials, the French government 1 1 hall M Hall M, the departure lounge in Terminal 2E, was awarded HQE® (High Environmental Quality) certification in 2013. The building is emblematic of the services in our airports: clear 2 pathways, retail outlets, restaurants and 3 levels of comfort and leisure meeting the highest European standards (page 43). CSR challenges: sustainable construction, customer services 4 headquarters Stakeholders: passengers, airlines Paris-Charles By moving its headquarters in Paris de Gaulle to the heart of its airport by 2016, Aéroports de Paris will get closer to its customers, bring together its teams and offer a new quality of life to its employees (pages 43 and 43). 6 5 CSR challenges: quality of life Stakeholders: employees, visitors, local residents 4 6 solar farm A photovoltaic power plant close to the Environment and Sustainable 5 Aéroville Development Centre opened in 2013 Aéroports de Paris contributed to (page 42). the sustainable construction approach adopted for this shopping CSR challenges: renewable energy centre built at Roissy, which opened Stakeholders: employees, civil society, in 2013 (pages 43 and 56). the French government CSR challenges: sustainable construction, local economic cooperation Stakeholders: employees, local residents, customers 24 Corporate social responsibility — CSR action corporate social responsibility 2013-2018 1a new departure This renovation project, which began in 2013 and will be completed in 2018, will bring a high quality 1 of service to Paris-Orly airport (pages 5, 43, 55, 57, 67, 68). CSR challenges: the environment, 3 Cœur d’Orly sustainable construction, quality of customer service, employment 2 The construction of the first high Stakeholders: civil society, customers environmental quality (HQE) office building in the Paris-Orly business district began in 2013 (page 56). 2wetland CSR challenges: sustainable construction, services for companies Paris-Orly filtration Stakeholders: civil society An additional rainwater treatment system for the airport based on a marshland planted with reeds came on stream in 2013 (page 46). 3 CSR Challenges : environment Stakeholders: civil society, the French government 4 Starfruit In 2013, the Toussus-Le-Noble airfield (Yvelines) was the location for the transplantation of the starfruit plant, which is classified as endangered (page 47). CSR Challenges: biodiversity Stakeholders: civil society 4 6 Paris-Le Bourget and the airfields 6 50th Paris Air Show In 2013, the Paris Air Show chose employment as the theme of its conference, with an exhibition 5 presenting the aeronautics industry (L’Avion des métiers) and forums 5 soundproofing to meet aeronautics employers. The first noise pollution map for Paris-Le Bourget airport CSR challenges: promotion of airlines was developed in 2013 (page 69). and construction companies, employment, recruitment CSR challenges: aid for soundproofing Stakeholders: civil society, airlines Stakeholders: local residents Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 25 employee satisfaction 26 Employees employees  motivating & personalised career paths Shirley Ding Noémie Lemaire Reception agent Manager of the Career Path at Paris-Charles de Gaulle cluster Operators, Supervisors & High Level Supervisors At the end of her work-study contract at In 2012, the Human Resource Department the Aéroports de Paris, 24-year old Shirley created a specific cluster to assist Ding, was hired as a reception agent. employees throughout their career in the «My job is always full of surprises.» company. «We want each employee to discover his or her potential skill set.» In January 2013, Augustin de Romanet invited ten of us young new permanent hires in reception over to Aéroports de Paris has set itself the goal of becoming his table to welcome us. Not only was I very touched a leader in its industry both in terms of customer that I was able to talk freely to the Chairman and Chief satisfaction and corporate social responsibility. Executive Officer, but this encounter also highlighted To achieve this, it relies on its employees’ skills, how the company values our work and young new professional development and dedication, and it hires. provides them with the necessary resources. The Career path cluster that I manage is one of the A message was made clear during that day: we will not entities devoted to this approach. stagnate in our careers. Aéroports de Paris is a large company that encourages us to move ahead and will In addition to frequent meetings with his or her help us get there through defined career paths, in-house supervisor and human resource manager, each training tailored to our needs, and role playing to test employee can also call upon the assistance of our out our mobility plans. teams throughout his or her career at the company. We review together his or her profile and career goals I am really enthusiastic about these opportunities. and match them up with the company’s needs in order I don’t like getting stuck in a routine. I chose to work to offer motivating career opportunities. We also offer in reception as it puts me in contact with a lot of in-depth career assessments as well as immersion different people, cultures and languages and each day courses to discover and learn about different careers. is different. Of Chinese origin, I am very aware and see On top of that, we are committed to one-to-one each day how the passengers arriving from abroad guidance, mentoring and training. We systematically depend on us. We are their first contact with the country offer these programs when an employee starts a new and we are also their last one when we wish them position. It’s the key to a successful mobility program «goodbye». In a certain way, we represent France for for both the employee and the company. them. contents 28 — 2 013 in pictures 32 — Profit sharing and savings 34 — We find a work-life 30 — We rely on everyone’s 33 — We place high importance balance performance on effective social dialogue 35 — Promoting equal 31 — We are preparing for the 33 — We protect our employee’s opportunities future with our employees health 32 — Fair compensation Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 27 2013 in pictures SOCIAL DIALOGUE participatory innovation The special Initiative Day was held on 13 December 2013 at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle Service University. Out of the 21 ideas canvassed from among a hundred submitted to our Innov’idées program, eight were selected to compete during the special Initiative Day. A fall-protection device, adaptable to 150 kg of heavy rigging from the technical facilities, received the people’s choice award. Invented by an employee at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, this device will be soon tested out by Apave. The jury prize was awarded to two employees at Paris-Orly for their illuminated signposting for passenger boarding gangways. The prototype was tested out over two months and proved to be quite helpful: passengers now know exactly which gangway to take. SOCIAL DIALOGUE ongoing innovation In May 2013, a contest on «Innovating for quality of service» was held for employees in the west terminal at Paris-Orly. As a way to gear up for this contest, a training module was offered for the first time to about fifteen managers. On how to tap into their teams creativity and encourage new ideas. A «coffee-break challenge» was attended by more than 35 people each week to discuss this topic. This experiment marked a first step in the ongoing innovation process. TRAINING getting our managers involved in CSR We organised on 19 November 2013 the first CSR forum for managers. The morning session focused on first-hand accounts given by in-house experts and the forum was the opportunity to learn about or gain a deeper understanding of corporate social responsibility and how it is implemented within our Group. For the afternoon session, large companies such as La Poste, EDF and Orange came to share their experiences and best practices. Our managers were able to learn how comprehensive the CSR strategy is as well the different approaches in relation to the each company’s strategic challenges. 28 Employees — 2013 in pictures employee satisfaction TRAINING executive induction days Each year, we bring together over a three-day period all newly hired or promoted executives. They learn about the challenges facing the company, its achievements and plans both at workshops and round table discussions as well as at social events, such as the dinners and the closing-night party. In the same vein, we organised in 2013 induction days for operators, supervisors and high level supervisors. HEALTH a special joint conference In September 2013, the Human Resources and the Environment and Sustainable Development Departments held a joint conference during the Mobility and Road Safety Week. This event, which took place at Paris-Orly, demonstrated the utmost importance that the company attributes to its employees’ safety and to promoting environmentally-friendly transport. The Week took place across our three hubs with the assistance of about fifty business partners. Numerous trainings were offered such as a fast-track session on driving manoeuvres and postures and a hands-on demonstration using twoand four-wheeled driving simulators. Guidebooks on business and inter-company travel plans were distributed. EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS employee savings In 2013, 188 participants attended our interactive training sessions on employee savings and 134 participants attended the retirement information sessions provided by the CNAV (National Pension Fund). Our employees can also consult the «Employee Savings» Intranet page and other useful publications such as our booklet Employee savings and retirement. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 29 bringing together and bringing out the best in our employees 1 professional development we rely on everyone’s performance Improve employee satisfaction To achieve our corporate vision, our best assets are the talents and dedication of our employees. This is why in 2013 we included increased employee satisfaction in our strategic guidelines and our employment policy. We will achieve it by encouraging them to evolve in their jobs and skills, spurred on by 9,026 our development, and by better responding to their expectations, particularly in terms of career prospects, work life quality and more competitive compensation. We are therefore building upon a tested and proven policy that makes room for dialogue and maintains balanced management-labour relations founded on Group employees diversity, equal opportunity and safeguarding health. at 31 December 2013. An evolving organisation We are continuing to modernise our organisation to make it simpler and more 2013 EMPLOYMENT FIGURES efficient. After restructuring the Human Resources department in 2012 to make it 2013 more proactive with respect to managers and employees, we are now updating the role of local Human Resources departments. Group workforce (1) 9,026 This plan aims to streamline the practices across the board and to provide an increased sense of professionalism and responsibility to Human Resources New permanent hires 108 representatives. Resources will be made available to them to facilitate the 17 including transition into their new roles of supporting and advising employees on a more Manager incubators (2) 7 new hires direct level. This development plan, unveiled to the Works council in July 2013, is currently being rolled out. Work-study contracts 221 The Human Resources Department is also involved at the Group level. It (1) Excluding business joint ventures (2) Aéroports de Paris SA defines common strategy and is supported by a committee of human resources directors at the subsidiaries, which strengthens the ties between Aéroports de Paris and its subsidiaries. The Group Committee presents the company’s INCUBATOR PROGRAMME strategic directions to the social partners. In order to attract candidates with hardto-find skills, we have an incubator programme for young managers coming CSR stakeholders from prestigious universities or having The Human Resources department makes sure that human and workers’ specialised Master’s degrees. Before being rights are respected within the Group and promotes these values to the assigned a position within the company, the Company’s stakeholders. It implements the CSR policy through program candidates are exposed to a cross-sector and that it has co-developed with the Environment and Sustainable Development multidisciplinary career path. department during the monthly steering committee meeting. In 2013, we identified several courses of action: the environment and business travel plan; skills sponsorship and paid leave for • Developing skills and employment policies corporate volunteering assignments; • Prevention and labour relations CSR goals and training for managers and • Remuneration and benefits sustainable procurement. We signed the • Recruitment and development of strategic Ministry of Urban Affairs’ Business and managers Local Neighbourhood Charter in June 4 clusters 2013 (see page 61). for the Human Resources department 30 Employees — our priority areas employee satisfaction we are preparing for the future with our employees Career paths In 2012, we unilaterally rolled out the jobs and skills management system (GPEC). As the linchpin of the proactive policy promoting employment, the GPEC is striving to meet two objectives over 2012-2015: firstly, continually upgrade our employees’ skill sets to meet the company’s needs, by encouraging mobility, as well as safeguard their employment and secondly, meet their expectations by offering them a clear and motivating career outlook. In this context and to balance out the employee age distribution, we presented to the labour representatives in September 2013 a voluntary departure plan impacting a maximum of 370 jobs. At the same time, we are still recruiting in our core businesses such as reception and maintenance. Our performance drivers INCREASED BUDGET FOR Our employment policy uses two specific performance drivers: training PROFESSIONAL TRAINING Succeeding as a group also depends on and internal mobility. These two procedures are based on the performance personal development. A new training evaluation meeting (EAP) conducted by managers. Introduced to managers in agreement was signed. It will focus on 2011, the online performance evaluation has been rolled out to non-mangers developing skills in relation to business since 2013. Training and career development as well as mobility requests can needs and employee career development. therefore be aligned to the company’s needs. In addition to updating the job The agreement also provides that a reference guide, we worked on consolidating the business sectors in 2013. committee be set up on career management We can better manage career paths by business sector and have made and upgrading skills. access to internal mobility more transparent. The mobility guidelines will be drawn up in 2014. Discussions with staff were ongoing in the Group, in our subsidiaries and with our partners, particularly the TAV Group and the Schipol 6% Group. The tools for mobility In 2013, we set up a career department as part of our efforts to promote about 6% of payroll mobility and professional development. The mobility committee is involved in is earmarked for training pooling together and matching up the company’s needs with employee career each year. plans. Our employees have an Intranet site to help them prepare for their job mobility. The site contains online job listings, job information, prerequisites and training programmes. They can also take CV workshops and upload their EMPLOYER IMAGE CV to the CV library. The MAP (mobility and professional areas) computer tool As well as participating in job forums is currently being rolled out. It lists similar positions with identical skills sets targeting areas where we operate, for a specific job. we design media and materials to better communicate on our jobs and our new partnerships with schools and universities. THE «VALUES» PROJECT Our managers are actively involved in our employment policies. They foresee how jobs will evolve and develop their employees’ skills and prepare them professionally. We get them involved in the discussions on our employee-related policies so that they fully embrace the strategic and human dimensions. In 2013, we launched our «Values Project» to ramp up our management policy via a shared vision of corporate values and job fundamentals. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 31 2 employment conditions Our wage policy is based on fair compensation in line with the employees’ contribution to the Group’s performance. It also includes attractive compensation packages with good health insurance and retirement benefits. We are updating our compensation arrangement in line with our strategic objective of controlling costs defined in 2013. Fostering a culture of managers in this area will be one of our priority initiatives. fair compensation Remuneration system for managers The remuneration system for managers effective since 1 January 2011 rewards the extent of their contribution as well as skills development. A variable portion is related to percentage of the achievement of individual goals. In 2013, the managers were rewarded for out-performing their goals: a goal attained at 150% was rewarded 170%. Managers were also allowed to set a goal for their teams based on one of the six components of the CSR policy. Wage agreement 80% the employees Negotiations with the labour representatives broke down in February 2013 and such disagreement was recorded in the minutes. Pursuant to the 2012 wage agreement, the fixed portion of the wage premium for non-managers and the management bonuses, i.e., 3.5% of the base salary, was therefore included into of the Aéroports the base salary. The average increase in fixed annual compensation was 1%. de Paris group are Shareholders via the Women and Men Aéroparts company mutual fund. For the third consecutive year, we conducted an analysis of the wage gap They owned 1.67% between men and women and closed in a few remaining gaps. During the term of the share capital of the gender equality agreement, this upgrade involved 225 female employees. at 31 December 2013. The APEC (National Agency for the Employment of Managers) conducted a survey in the summer of 2013 indicating that there was no wage discrimination at 2013 OVERVIEW the Aéroports de Paris SA. 2013 Discretionary profit sharing (€k) * 13,512 profit sharing and savings Average gross bonus (€) 2,042 Profit sharing Agreement Compulsory profit-sharing For 2013, Aéroports de Paris SA paid its ninth share-holding premium and its 26th (€k) 15,028 incentive bonus. The profit sharing agreement negotiated for 2012-2014 takes into account three criteria: economic performance, quality of service and the lost-time Average gross bonus (€) 2,271 work accident rate. An amendment to the profit sharing agreement signed in June 2013 increases the compensation related to collective objectives. Diversified employee savings 83,833 at 31 December (€k) Employee savings Number of investors 7,722 We have established a balanced and comprehensive employee savings Employee shareholding programme consisting of a Group savings plan (PEG) and a retirement savings at 31 December (€k) 132,867 plan under the collective Group pension plan (Percog). In 2011, the percentage for matching contributions made to the employee share ownership fund under the Number of investors 6,417 PEG and into the PERCOG funds was negotiated for a period of five years. Figures from Aéroports de Paris SA * Paid out to the Employees for the achievement Solidarity mutual fund of 2013 targets In 2009, we selected a solidarity investment fund, the FCPE Amundi Label Actions Solidaire. The socially supportive part of the fund is invested in the FACT investment company France Active that finances projects for the environment, Aéroports de Paris is a member of the social integration and fighting social exclusion. This fund has been certified as a Employee Savings Club. socially responsible investment (SRI). 32 Employees — our priority areas 3 social dialogue employee satisfaction constructive social dialogue is of utmost importance to us An open dialogue with management and employees We place high importance on the social climate at the Company and how we communicate with our employees. Discussions take place with the Group’s committee, the Works council, eight local health, safety and working conditions committees (CHSCT), an interdepartmental CHSCT (established in 2013) and a central body of employee and union delegates, under a union rights agreement. We have involved our managers and human resources network in drafting and negotiating corporate agreements since 2012. We monitor all of our corporate agreements using indicators identified during specific assignments. In 2013, labour and management discussions were tenser in relation to employee downsizing. This is the reason why certain negotiations broke down (generation contract). Actions plans will be used when agreements could not have been reached. Employee satisfaction survey HOW WE COMMUNICATE WITH OUR EMPLOYEES The employee satisfaction survey is a way to listen to our employees. All • R  éseau intranet dont nos lettres our employees are regularly asked to share their view of the company via an électroniques internes sectorisées anonymous poll conducted by an outside firm. This survey helps managers identify • Journal interne d’Aéroports de Paris meaningful action plans with respect to employee commitment, motivation and • Guides et livrets d’information work/life quality. In 2013, it included ten questions related to psychosocial risks. et de sensibilisation Successful employee-driven innovation EXPATRIATES Every year our employees submit about a hundred new and innovative proposals Group expatriates and French staff working to our Innov’idées programme. The top ones are tested out and presented during abroad are covered by a special protection the special Initiative Day. In 2013, we processed 83 ideas for improvement in our scheme that permanently monitors security priority action areas: efficiency, customer satisfaction, working conditions, the conditions in the countries in question. environment and sustainable development. The employees who submitted ideas This alert system operates in real time. and their managers can track the status of the proposals transparently using the Expatriates and French staff working data collection software tool. We plan on coordinating this programme with the overseas have access to an intranet site and ones organised by our Innovation cluster and Customer Satisfaction Department. are given safety awareness training. CONCURRENT ACTIVITIES 4 We have developed operating procedures or prevention plans for premises leased to third parties, particularly freight and waste-sorting areas. Prevention plans for baggage sorting and handling have been entered into with the health and quality of life airlines’ service providers. at work we protect our employee’s 44% health of employees took the satisfaction survey in 2013 In 2011, Our workplace health and safety policy is based on prevention and the notion the rate was 40%. that work should be adapted to the worker. It is communicated to employees on a regular basis. Our airports Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly are certified OHSAS 18001 (health and safety at work). Our 2013 annual plan for the prevention of occupational risks draws on the 2010-2014 Health at Work plan (Plan santé au travail) of the French Ministry for Labour, Employment Professional Training and Social Dialogue on the regulatory provisions applicable to work hardship. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 33 An interdepartmental CHSCT Eight committees on health, safety and working conditions (CHSCT) are spread across the Aéroports de Paris sites, and 22 safety officers have been assigned to operating and functional departments. An interdepartmental CHSCT, up and running since 2013, advises on a wide range of issues. A multidisciplinary medical and technical commission, chaired by the Human Resources Director, brings together occupational health doctors and practitioners specialising in occupational-hazard prevention. This commission identifies the additional areas of study and research in the annual prevention plan. Conventional safety hazards We have tracked the risk of asbestos at the three airports and in 2012 we developed a training course that addresses this issue specifically. Traceability procedures for chemical risks are operational, as well as for exposure to asbestos, noise, vibrations and ionising radiation. Our staff are made aware of the new labelling of chemicals to protect them from the risk of carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic agents (CMRs). In 2013, we set up a plan to substitute CMR products and finished writing the safety instructions and notices. In addition to our methodology to track employees’ exposure to chemicals, we are designing -5% another one to control exposure limit values. We have also identified isolated hazardous workstations. We are currently selecting the alert equipment for the members of staff who have been affected. is our goal to reduce Difficult working conditions work accidents between 2013 and 2014 We have completed an audit on the jobs that may be exposed to risk. In 2013, a draft agreement entitled «Preventing difficult work conditions» was negotiated with the trade unions. This draft, which was in the final stage, has currently been put on REPÈRE hold due to the provisions of the new French retirement law. This law will require • We  are a member of a network of large that individual accounts be set up to mitigate difficult working conditions and may companies, moderated by Anact, focused call into question the exposure levels that we set and used in our initial audit. on sharing experiences on occupational risks. • Our Occupational Health Department has joined the national oversight board we achieve a work-life on occupational health Evrest (Évolution et relations en santé au travail). • The intranet site of our Health Protection balance Committee offers nutritional and fitness advice. Day-care nurseries, CESU and housing assistance • We are continuing to roll out our tool to Several programmes are available to achieve a work-life balance. Two oversee and monitor regulatory inter-company nurseries have been available to employees since 2006 and compliance for the environment, health 2009, respectively, at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. Our employees and occupational safety. can also take advantage of vouchers (Cesu) allocated by the company to pay for services related to day-care, housing, after-school programmes and assistance to individuals with disabilities. The Company has allocated €450,000 to the Cesu programme. In 2013, the amount was increased from €800 to €1,000 for employees with disabilities. We also help fund renovations to their homes and cars or pay for a mode AN OCCUPATIONAL WELL-BEINGAGREEMENT of transportation. We set up in 2012 an Following the 2010 agreement on prevention methods for psychosocial risks, we signed Internet site for our employees for the in 2013 an «Occupation Well-Being» agreement for 2013-2016. Our prevention system affordable housing programme known is based on developing benchmarks, good management practices, educating and raising as 1% logement. The employees can employees’ awareness and improving the conditions in which we work. We are setting up choose from more than 400 housing ads, forums to discuss and exchange ideas freely across divisions and hierarchy levels. which are updated frequently. They can We are reinforcing the tools we use to communicate on an ongoing basis. Several entities also take advantage of the resources will manage how the agreement is applied: our interdisciplinary alert network consisting that we share with our subsidiaries, other of health professionals, social services, managers, staff representatives and a mediator; large companies and the Comité Habitat a coordination and support group and a joint commission of experts. A «prevention of (a Planèt’AIRport association providing psychosocial risks and reorganisations» specialist will lead the communications and housing assistance). awareness raising campaigns. 34 Employees — our priority areas 5 promoting equal opportunities employee and diversity satisfaction promoting equal opportunities Our corporate agreements and proactive policy require that we promote social and gender diversity and equal professional opportunities. We share and exchange our feedback with our subsidiaries to devise a joint strategy to address these issues. Our managers, staff representatives and human resources receive regular training and our employees are educated on these issues. Gender equality In early 2014, we signed our fourth agreement on gender equality covering 2014-2016. The analysis of the prior agreement showed that it addressed the wage gap, made progress in achieving a more balanced representation of women and men in managerial positions and encouraged female promotions. The future agreement aims to increase to 40% the percentage of female managers and female executives on the governing board, hire more women and achieve an average diversity rate of 40%. DISABILITY Disability Newly-hired disabled workers The eighth agreement on the integration of disabled people was signed in (number of individuals) December 2012 for the 2013-2015 period. It also applies to anyone caring for Agreement Completed a disabled child or spouse. It provides for housing and mobility assistance, 2013-2015 in 2013 a 6% employment rate and increased purchasing from the relevant protected employment sectors (see page 57). The Disability team serves as the special, Long-term 15 4 contracts (minimum) dedicated point of contact for disabled workers. Employee volunteers act as «integration coaches» for new hires with disabilities. Assisted/fixed24 11 term contracts The generation contract Work-study 8 contracts (minimum) 1 In 2013 we drafted a unilateral action plan to help combat youth unemployment, safeguard job security for older members of staff and pass Interns 20 1 on skills. The plan sets a hiring rate of 30% of young employees aged 26 or Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA. less on permanent contracts, 15% of whom are on work-study contracts. All of them will be assigned to a mentor and will receive on-board training to facilitate their integration into the workforce. The former provisions Gender equality of the agreement on senior-aged employees have been renewed, including Female managers and high-level a 4% hiring rate, flexible working hours, career counselling and assistance supervisors in purchasing retirement points. (in %) Diversity We signed in April 2013 the Charter on Diversity chaired by the association 38.2 IMS-Entreprendre pour la Cité. This charter upholds six commitments 34 which we have already integrated into our business. We also participated in 31.3 compiling the guide «Diversity, employing young people, equal opportunity: the best companies to work for», published by Nora communication. We have disseminated this guide within the company. We will work toward attaining the Diversity Label certification in 2014. Our human resources 2011 2012 2013 tools and procedures reflect the findings of the audit, carried out in 2010 by the association IMS-Entreprendre pour la Cité, and help foster diversity Women promoted throughout our company. (in %) TYPE OF JOB AND WORKING CONDITIONS 6.2 5.4 5.4 (1) In 2013, our multidisciplinary medical and technical commission launched a survey on the relationship between type of job and working conditions: 161 one-on-one interviews were conducted with 69 men and 82 women working at our two main airports. The findings will be released in early 2014. 2011 2012 2013 Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA (1) Men promoted: 4.4% Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 35 controlling impacts and making continuous progress 36 Environment environment  an eco-friendly airport is a collective effort Joël Davidas Sébastien Maréchal Director of WFS’ Environmental Environmental Manager Quality, Safety and Security at Paris-Charles de Gaulle department, runway operations WFS is specialised in ground handling The Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport has activities for airline companies and places been ISO 14001 certified for almost fifteen special emphasis on environmental years. «To become eco-friendly, we need management. to rally all the players in the airport around «We will be involved in building environmental issues.» an eco-friendly airport.» The Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport’s management WFS has been a member of the Environmental system has been ISO 14001 (EMS) certified since 2001 Partners’ Club of Aéroports de Paris since January and its integrated management system (IMS) since 2013. We are a French company that has established 2008. In fifteen years we have gained experience in itself as the world leader in ground and cargo controlling risks and reducing our impacts, which has assistance for airline companies. Based in Roissy led us to adopting a very natural approach to progress (France) and with operations in 22 countries, we and ongoing improvement. What at the very beginning generated revenue of €580 million in 2013 for just concerned experts or specialists has now become 10,000 employees worldwide. Our main environmental everyone’s shared concern. Whether it relates to impacts relate to our runway operations: greenhouse environmental or integrated management, we strive gas emissions from our tow units and vehicles; to meet objectives set each year by the Environment production of non-hazardous waste and fluid drainage. and Sustainable Development department in In 2004, we started to take our first steps in accordance with our company’s environmental policy. environmental management as part of the environment The main advantage of the integrated management component of the ISO 9001 certification process. system is that each project receives an overall We are currently getting a comprehensive prevention analysis from a cross-section of the all the environmental management procedure up and parties involved. This analysis encompasses all the running with our goal of becoming ISO 14001 certified environmental, quality and health components. in 2015. In 2012, we appointed an environmental manager in the department that I head up and We can’t, however, become eco-friendly all by we have environmental officers throughout all of ourselves. As managers of the airport, it is our duty our subsidiaries. The forums promoted by the to get everyone involved. This is the goal of the Environmental Partners’ Club and the tools and Environmental Partners’ Club at Paris-Charles de resources available on its website www.ecoairport.fr Gaulle. Does this necessarily mean that all partners have helped us greatly. We believe that as a member must be ISO 14001 certified? I don’t think so, but the of this Club we will be actively involved in Aéroports de certification delivered by an independent third-party Paris’ goal of designing eco-friendly airports. acts as a stimulus. Once you have embraced such an approach, you never want to stop moving forward. contents 38 —  2013 in pictures 42 — We are ready to use other 46 — W e manage the water 40 — We aim for excellence sources of energy cycle within Europe 43 — HQE and planning 47 — We reduce our waste 40 — We closely manage 44 — We help control emissions 47 — We protect wildlife our operations in the air 41 — A five-step improvement 45 — We promote the use of plan shared transportation Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 37 2013 in pictures SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT WEEK – WASTE teaming up recycling and employing protected workers SUSTAINABLE In partnership with an adapted company employing disabled workers, our DEVELOPMENT trophy subsidiary Hub One has set up a recycling program for used paper and plastic (Ademe) cups at its four sites at Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle. The company employs 80% of disabled workers and is located in Le Blanc-Mesnil, France. This initiative was awarded the trophy for «Sustainable Development» and has two goals: increase non-hazardous waste recycling and support local companies employing disabled workers. Under this partnership, nearly 5.4 tonnes of paper was recycled in one year, thereby conserving 11 tonnes of wood and preventing 2.7 tonnes of CO2 emissions. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT WEEK – ENERGY a runway lighting system using solar energy SUSTAINABLE The installation of a lighting system on an unequipped DEVELOPMENT CERTIFICATE runway would require trenches to be dug to install kilometres (Ademe) of cables and connect to the electricity grid. Further to tests conducted by the technical department of the civil aviation authority, we installed 36 LED runway lights using electricity generated by photovoltaic cells at the Persan-Beaumont airfield. This system designed by Heurtevant Aerosytmes, is completely autonomous and is less expensive than standard runway lights in terms of purchase, installation and maintenance. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT WEEK – BIODIVERSITY taking in nature at Paris-Charles de Gaulle In 2013, we inaugurated our recreational park and nature walk located in the heart of the Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport. This footpath, called «Aérovert», winds across 3.7 kilometres of wooded areas completely cut off from traffic. SUSTAINABLE It is easily accessible and is completely safe for joggers and runners. Walkers can DEVELOPMENT enjoy the gardens, the bee hives, the composting plant and the Environment CERTIFICATE (Ademe) and Sustainable Development Centre’s mini farm which is equipped with a photovoltaic park. These three programs above were certified during the Sustainable Development Week which we participated in from 2 to 5 April 2013. In an effort to raise awareness among employees, customers and local residents, we staged shows and organised visits (Air France’s Airbus A380 hangar, tramway line T7 and the swimming pool at Orly that recycles its water). The week was capped off by awarding nine certificates and a «Sustainable Development» trophy to Paris-Charles de Gaulle, selected in partnership with the Ademe (French agency for the environment and energy management). During our ten-year commitment, we have worked alongside our partners to raise awareness of environmental and sustainable development issues among close to 50,000 employees at our three airports. 38 Environment — 2013 in pictures controlling impacts and making continuous progress WASTE teddy bears in the spotlight In 2012, we filmed a short video unveiling our new recycling bins for aluminium cans and plastic bottles at the passenger terminals. This film, shown online and in the passenger terminals, encourages people in a fun and unconventional way to sort recyclable waste. Soft toys, made from recycled plastic bottles, are acting like passengers using our in-terminal services to raise other passengers’ awareness. In 2013, this film received the Green Awards prize at the International Film Festival at Deauville in the best corporate film for ecology and sustainable development category and the Dauphin d’Argent at the Cannes Film Festival in the corporate films category. ENERGY at Headquarters, we are tracking down waste Raising the consciousness of our employees is the key to success for our energy savings programmes. In March 2013, we organised a contest within the company. A system to closely gauge electricity consumption was installed on the third floor. The meter readings revealed that the two main sources of energy consumption were office lighting and computers. Over a two-week period, the workers on this floor were encouraged to reduce their energy consumption by turning off lights in vacant rooms and their computers before leaving in the evening. Contest goal: reduce energy demand by one-third. The goal was achieved by the end of the contest: energy consumption for lighting was reduced by 28% and by 6% for computers. ENERGY towards a higher-performing lighting system Representing 21% of our energy consumption, lighting is a priority area for us to save energy. Our Energy division initiated a review in 2013 to determine the best strategy to replace the existing lighting system. LED lights would significantly improve the energy efficiency of the lighting system of Aéroports de Paris. Based on a series of tests, a new in-depth study at our hubs will help us define how to roll out this system upgrade. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 39 reducing our carbon footprint we aim for excellence within Europe A long-term commitment For twenty years, we have been involved in reducing the direct and indirect environmental impacts of our business as well as those of our partners. The environmental management system of our three airports is certified ISO 14001. In our 2011-2015 strategy plan, we are striving to become the European benchmark for the airport industry in terms of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. A focused team The implementation of our environmental policy depends on our units and workers’ daily involvement, as well as on the steady flow of resources allocated to it. The Environment and Sustainability Department is supported by a network of environmental officers, energy managers and environmental managers. It reports directly to the Group’s general management and ensures that our environmental Marianne d’Or policy is applied throughout all sectors of the company. The department publishes At the French Mayors’ Convention an annual performance journal and draws-up a quarterly dashboard, based on in 2013, we received the Marianne several indicators, which is reviewed by the members of the executive committee. d’Or award for sustainable The Sustainable Development Steering Committee, created in 2010, is the development in the «state-owned decision-making body for our environmental policy. firms, public corporations and public services» category. This award honoured our sustainable development policy particularly with we closely manage respect to using renewable energies in our airports and other initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas. our operations We approach the environmental performance of our hubs from a global perspective, striving to manage all of the risks in accordance with the legal and regulatory requirements that govern our activities and operations. It is from € 5.1 million this standpoint that Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly have set up an integrated management system (IMS). This comprehensive system focuses on ongoing progress and leveraging the best business practices. allocated in 2013 to A multi-sector approach environmental monitoring. The IMS incorporates the requirements of the international quality management standards (ISO 9001), environmental management (ISO 14001) and occupational health and safety management systems (OHSAS 18001) as well as the airport FACTS safety regulations set forth by the French civil aviation authority (DGAC). • 1 0 environmental officers at Paris-Charles The IMS at Paris-Charles de Gaulle has been certified since May 2008 and since de Gaulle and 12 at Paris-Orly. 22 October 2013 at Paris-Orly. The ISO 14001 certification of the environmental • 149 received technical environmental management system (EMS) at Paris-Le Bourget and the heliport at training in 2013. Issy-les-Moulineaux has been renewed for a three-year period. Dedicated employees Every employee who deals with environmental issues in his or her job receives technical training. This training provides an overview of the regulatory framework and offers special theme-based modules: waste management, air quality, classified facilities, contaminated soil and managing energy. Managers and newly hired employees are sensitised to environmental issues. In addition, certain environmental and occupational safety officers have distributed in their operating units brochures on sorting and managing waste, environmental impacts from work sites and what to do in the event of pollution. 40 Environment — our ambitions controlling impacts and making continuous progress Monitoring We are continuing to roll out our tool to oversee and monitor regulatory compliance for the environment, health and occupational safety. Both the Environment and Sustainable Development and Human Resources departments adopted this application in 2011. It is compatible with our future environmental and energy management software which was deployed in 2013. Measuring, quantifying Evaluating performance means measuring it as well. Our lab engineers and technicians monitor outdoor air quality, especially the gaseous emissions from our thermal energy plants. They check on the dikes confining the rainwater retention ponds and draw up noise maps. They also analyse ambient air quality at the passenger terminals, monitor the water from cooling systems and the radiation from the tomography-based system to check baggage. a five-step improvement plan Our environmental and energy policy focuses on five themes: energy, water, air and emissions, waste and biodiversity. It will be coupled with a sustainable urban planning strategy. An energy management system meeting the requirements of ISO 50001 is also being rolled out. our 2015 objectives • 2 5% reduction in internal CO2 • R educe by 5% the internal emissions (compared to 2009). consumption per passenger • 12.5% reduction in internal primary (compared to 2010). energy consumption per m2 • Offset newly sealed surfaces (compared to 2009) by storage capacities. • 15% minimum increase in • Improve rainwater management. renewable energy in final internal energy consumption. water • 1 0% reduction in CO2 emissions • R educe all of our waste at source for our fleet of light and commercial • 30% recycling of non-hazardous vehicles (compared to 2010). waste. • Implementation of inter-company • 5% reduction in paper consumption travel plans. (compared to 2010) and procurement • 10% reduction in aircraft taxiing of strictly recycled paper. times at Paris-Charles de Gaulle air, emissions (compared to 2007). waste and climate • Contribute to limiting the use of auxiliary power units of aircraft motors (APU). • Renew Airport Carbon Accreditations for the three airports. • M ake an inventory of the flora • Continuous monitoring of ambient and fauna at our main sites. air quality at airports; real-time • 5% reduction in pesticides information in collaboration (compared to 2010). with Airparif. • Include recommendations on preserving biodiversity biodiversity in the planning guides. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 41 6 energy we are ready to use other sources of energy Our goal In accordance with the national objectives set by Grenelle Environment summit, we have voluntarily committed to reducing by 25% our CO2 emissions between 2009 and 2015. In order to achieve this, we are tackling two challenges: developing renewable energies and reducing our consumption. By 2015, we are striving to increase to 15% the portion of renewable energies in our energy mix. We are also working towards reducing by 12.5% energy consumption per m2 of building over the same period. Energy management To improve our energy performance, we are stepping up the way we manage energy. In addition to our own EMSs, the Energy unit of the Environment and Sustainable Development Department is developing an EMS that will meet the requirements of ISO 50001. An energy handbook will provide guidance on Two wood-fired boilers at Paris-Charles how to implement an EMS in preparing for ISO 50001 certification. This handbook de Gaulle provide 25% of the heating defines how to organise the energy management and describes the procedures needed at the airport without releasing and steps that will improve our performance. It also emphasises the importance of fossil-fuel CO2 emissions. educating stakeholders on energy issues. Productive audits RENEWABLE ENERGIES Our energy action plan systematically includes energy audits to clearly identify IN OUR FINAL INTERNAL CONSUMPTION initiatives that could lead to significant energy savings. Since December 2012, (in %) our real estate division has audited and inspected 385,000 square meters of 6 points buildings. Based on this audit, we were able to take direct measures to reduce by 5% to 10% our energy bill for the hundred buildings inspected. The return on investment of these implemented measures is less than one year. 14 Geothermal energy and wood-fired boilers 8 4 To diversify our energy mix, we commissioned in 2011 a geothermal power plant with a capacity of 10 MWth at Paris-Orly. The only one of its kind in the aviation world, it generates 32,500 MWh of thermal energy per year. It provides 60.4% of our internal heating needs and cuts down on 2011 2012 2013 9,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. In 2012, we inaugurated two wood-fired boilers with a capacity of 7 MWth each at the biomass power plant at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. They provide about 25% of the airport’s heating FACTS needs without releasing any fossil-fuel CO2 emissions. They burn daily • €  480,000 in savings since December 80 tonnes of wood chips coming from the surrounding forests outside Paris. 2012 following the energy audits The Ademe subsidised the two projects for the geothermal power and at our facilities. biomass power plants. Developing the use of wood-fired boilers also fell • Electricity consumption at Paris-Charles within the scope of our partnership with the National Forestry Office (ONF). de Gaulle is similar to that of a city We have created a supervisor position to manage our wood supply. of 125,000 inhabitants (source: Ademe). The solar farm at Paris-Charles de Gaulle In 2013, we inaugurated a photovoltaic park with an output of 190 kilowatt peak (kWp). Its 792 solar panels produce an average of 157 MWh per year. It provides the equivalent of the electricity consumption of the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre at GREEN ELECTRICITY Paris-Charles de Gaulle without emitting In 2013, one-third of our electricity consumption came from renewable sources. any greenhouse gas. We subscribed to a plan pursuant to which GDF Suez has undertaken to provide 30% of our electricity from renewable French sources. Green certificates are issued attesting that this 30% comes from hydroelectric power. We will renew this program in 2014. 42 Environment — our priority areas controlling impacts and making continuous progress HQE and planning focus Our real estate development policy is in line with our concept of the FACTS airport City. This concept defines the type of urban environment that an • In May 2013, Hall M in the departure airport needs both on-site and within close proximity: air traffic operations lounge of terminal 2E at Paris-Charles (car parks, cargo, catering, maintenance, support, hotels) and within de Gaulle was awarded the HQE close distance to the airport hub (logistics, conference and expositions certification for commercial buildings: halls and office space for international companies). We are building and the first ever for an airline terminal. renovating our main buildings according to a demanding approach in • The Altai building, construction completed compliance with France’s High Environmental Quality (HQE) and Low in 2012 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Energy Buildings (BBC) guidelines. We urge our partners and investors to has dual HQE and BBC Effinergie have the buildings that they construct on our hubs certified. certifications. HQE energy-efficient headquarters Geothermal energy at AEROVILLE After having widely consulted with employees, the executive committee The Aéroville shopping centre selected on 12 November 2013 one of three projects submitted for at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, opened this the future corporate headquarters of Aéroports de Paris to be built at year by Unibail-Rodamco, is heated Paris-Charles de Gaulle. Designed by the company’s architects and using low-temperature geothermal engineers, this building will be HQE® certified. The headquarters will be energy extracted from shallow ground. close to public transportation connecting to the airport (RER, the future The recovered kilowatts will power CDG Express train station, etc.) and is expected to be finished in 2016. the building’s 174 heating pumps. HQE A new departure for Paris-Orly The «New Departure» project at Paris-Orly includes the construction of a building linking the south and west terminals, a new international departure lounge and the renovation of the terminal access areas. Passengers will have an extra 100,000 m2 of reception area. Building on the experience we gained from the most recent terminal completed at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, we are striving that it will be HQE® certified. On top of energy and environmental performance, the priority target areas of this certification also include maintenance, waste management and the quality of water. Virtual image Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 43 7 air, emissions and climate we help control emissions in the air The fifth report published in September 2013 by a consortium of intergovernmental experts on the evolution of climate change (Giec) emphasises once again how urgent it is that we collectively reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. This objective is one of the pillars of our sustainable development policy. Reducing airplane emissions Decarbonising our operations entails not only reducing the emissions under our control, but also working with partners. We have adopted the Collaborative Decision Making (CDM) concept in cooperation with Eurocontrol, a European organisation for the safety of air navigation. By adopting this tool, we have worked with the DGAC and the airline companies in optimising plane traffic on the ground at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. The CDM is currently being rolled out at Paris-Orly. INTERNAL CO2 EMISSIONS Testing out green taxiing (in tCO2) (1) We have been working for several years on optimising the taxiing times of 29.9% planes in order to reduce emissions. Largely due to the CDM, the average 80,288 taxiing time decreased by 10% between 2007 and 2011 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, thereby cutting back on 17,0000 tonnes of indirect CO2 emissions. 66,290 In 2013, we tested out the green taxiing systems, designed by several 56,237 manufacturers, to evaluate their results. These systems, which are either fitted in the airplane or deployed on demand, significantly reduce the emissions related to taxiing. 2009 2011 2013 Towards a smoother traffic flow Our emissions equivalent to our internal We are involved in the Single European Sky project for which the European energy consumption decreased by 29.9% Commission decided to step up in June 2013. This set of measures will in 2013 compared to 2009, the 2015 goal facilitate the flow of air traffic and will work on reducing the airplanes’ carbon being 25%. consumption by 10% per plane by 2020. (1) according to 2011 data from the National Union of Urban Heating and Cooling (Syndicat national Electrical outlets for aircraft at the stands du chauffage urbain et de la climatisation urbaine). Even on the ground, an airplane consumes energy to satisfy its needs for electricity and air conditioning as well as for rebooting the engines. Three types of supply sources are possible: auxiliary power units fitted Quotas on-board an aircraft (APU), aircraft ground power units (GPU) or 400Hz Our annual emissions do not exceed the power sockets at the stands, the only option that does not pollute the local amount of greenhouse gas emissions environment. At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, the CO2 emissions from APUs quotas that we are allocated each year as represented up to 6% of the airport’s emissions. In line with the revision of the we produce renewable energies on our sites Ile-de-France plan to protect the atmosphere, we are continuing to equip our and effectively manage our CO2 emissions aircraft stands with electrical outlets: 100% of the aircraft stands at Paris-Orly from our power generation plants. and 90% at Paris-Charles de Gaulle are equipped. Our Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) has been renewed ADAPTING TO CLIMATE CHANGE All of these efforts, including those made Under the National Programme for the Adaptation to Climate Change, the French civil in close collaboration with our partners, aviation technical service (Stac) was commissioned to assess the vulnerability of have earned recognition. Our level 3 French airports to the after-effects of heat waves, rising sea levels, extreme climate Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) was change or a change in wind patterns. The Stac created a matrix of the climate renewed on 28 July 2013 for Paris-Orly vulnerability of the airports by cross-referencing their likelihood of occurrence and Paris-Charles de Galle and our level 2 against their potential impact on the infrastructures (longer distances for take-off and ACA for Paris-Le Bourget. The ACA is one rapidly-deteriorating runways). This method which has already been tested out at of the three finalists for the «World You Nice airport is currently under review for Paris-Orly. Like» Contest organised by the European Commission. 44 Environment — our priority areas controlling impacts and making continuous progress Air quality available online The regional environmental health plan provides for the analysis of the impact of the air traffic surrounding Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget. We participated in air quality modelling at our three airport hubs as a part of the «Survol» study conducted by the regional prefecture. These important efforts were carried out by Airparif, the network in Ile-de-France monitoring air quality. The daily data on air quality (nitrogen dioxide, fine particles, ozone and benzene) are now available on a specific website. Our own laboratory also publishes the air quality measures of our three airports on our website http://www.entrevoisins.org, intended mainly local residents. This assignment was entrusted to it by the French state as a part of our technical specifications. for more information on air quality – www.entrevoisins.org we promote using shared transportation In France, transportation is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases. Managing mobility issues involves cutting down on the carbon emissions from our operations. During the Mobility and Road Safety Week from 4 stops at the 13 to 20 September 2013, we showcased alternative transportation methods Paris-Orly airport instead of cars. We set up, in association with our 43 partners, several are part of the T7 conferences on mobility issues and alternative transport such as our Papa tramway route. Charlie programme. In cooperation with the RATP (Paris Public Transport System), we invited the attendants to visit tramway line T7, inaugurated in November 2013, connecting Vitry-sur-Seine to Athis-Mons. This line THE CDG EXPRESS PROJECT has four stops at the Paris-Orly airport: Orlytech, Orly fret, Coeur d’Orly The fast-link project between Paris and and Orly Sud. Paris-Charles de Gaulle was revived. Aéroports de Paris expects to sign on as Revitalising the Corporate Travel Plan (PDE) partner alongside Réseau Ferré de France and Inter-Company Travel Plan (PDIE) to build this railway line. This railway service is expected to be opened in 2023. More than 80% of the airports’ employees commute to work by car. Beginning in 2005, we adopted a corporate travel plan (PDE) to reduce the carbon footprint of commuting to work. The plan was extended to the companies set up at the airport hubs by rolling out the inter-company travel CO2 emissions from OUR LIGHT plan (PDIE) at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in April 2011, Paris-Orly in September PASSENGER VEHICLES 2012 and Paris Le-Bourget since 2013. We are also involved in the PDIE (in tCO2) at the Toussus-Le-Noble airport in the Yvelines. In 2013, we updated our three-year PDE action plan which strives to reduce business travel needs (teleconferencing and working remotely) and encourage using shared 10.2% transportation (inter-company commuter buses or carpooling) and green 1,530 modes of transport (walking and cycling). 1,354 1,374 100% electric cars We are continuing to add electric cars to our fleet of light passenger vehicles. Having taken part in the national call for tenders launched by La Poste in 2010, we signed on to purchase around 200 Peugeot Ion passenger vehicles 2009 2011 2013 and Renault Kangoo ZE utility vehicles. The entire order should be delivered Our electric vehicles and updated fleet by 2015 and we will be able to reduce by one-third the carbon emissions from have helped us reduce by 10.2% the CO2 our fleet. In 2013, about fifty electric cars and charging stations were installed emissions from our light passenger vehicles at our airports. between 2009 and 2013. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 45 8 water we manage the water cycle At our airports, we manage the entire water cycle from the drinking water supply to the treatment of rainwater. This not only involves our own activities but those of our partners as well. Collected waste water is discharged into regional networks routing it to treatment stations in the Paris urban area. Continuous monitoring Our Cofrac-accredited laboratory regularly monitors the quality of water tables located beneath the three airports. Using a network equipped with piezometers, we are able to track their physical and chemical profiles. We also oversee closely the quality of the discharges released back into the natural environment. Conserving water € 4 million We have set ourselves the goal of reducing our internal drinking water consumption by 5% between 2009 and 2015. By 2015, our demand should not exceed the equivalent of 16.7 litres per passenger. We have developed a metering system to better track consumption and to take action in the invested to set up a event a problem occurs. At Orly Sud, we installed meters in the 19 rest room system to treat winter facilities, accounting for 70% of the terminal’s drinking water consumption, water using a wetland in order to detect any leaks, deficiencies or improper settings. Minor filtration system maintenance related to this metering system has led to decreasing by one (20% in subsidies from the Seine-Normandy half the per-passenger consumption in certain public areas. We also reuse Water Supply Agency) rainwater such as at Paris-Orly where it powers the cooling system of the cooling production plant. Each year 70,000 m3 of water is conserved by reusing rainwater. (See water consumption table on page 79). RAIN WATER Together, Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly airports contain approximately Wetland filtration for rainwater 1,500 hectares of sealed ground surfaces. Following a two-year trial period, we implemented at Paris-Orly Rainwater, which may be polluted, is collected a breakthrough, innovative filtration system for rainwater. Water containing then treated, if necessary, before being de-icing chemicals from the planes and runways (propylene glycol and released back into the natural environment. potassium formate) are filtered into a 13,000 m3 buffer pond to be As a part of the development plans of our pre-treated (bacteria culture and aeration). The final decomposition is airports, we have committed to limiting and completed in a 6,500 m2 filtering wetland composed of reeds. The treated offsetting new sealing by creating rainwater water is then discharged back into the natural environment. retention ponds with a capacity of 500 m3 per hectare. An industrial ecosystem for our waste Pursuant to an agreement signed in 2013 with the Inter-regional urban area FACT waste water treatment authority (Siaap), we send our heavily concentrated At the three airports combined, Aéroports waste to one of the water treatment facilities at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. de Paris and its partners consume nearly These waters containing winter products provide the Siaap plant 2.6 million cubic metres of drinking water, with the carbon and nitrogen that it needs to decontaminate our waste nearly 30 litres per passenger. In 2010, water and sewage. this consumption amounted to 2.8 million cubic metres. PREVENTING SOIL POLLUTION Conserving the water supply involves limiting, preventing and treating pollution of sites and soil. Spearheaded by the Environment and Sustainable Development Department, a working group has consolidated the company’s strategies on this issue. This working group drafted new agreements and new training on these issues will be developed. Two operating handbooks, one on prevention and the other on decontamination, have been published and distributed. 46 Environment — our priority areas 9 controlling impacts and making continuous waste progress we are reducing waste As the owner and operator of our airport hubs, we manage the waste produced by our operations as well as that our partners. The Grenelle laws require a 15% reduction in waste sent to landfills or incineration and the recycling of 75% of non-hazardous waste by 2020. Our goal is to recycle 30% of our waste by 2015. Sharing best practices with our partners We manage the collection of non-hazardous waste and define the rules for sorting it and the placement of containers. We also provide instructions on how to transport non-hazardous waste. We have put forth a proposal to our partners to collectively manage hazardous waste. We encourage them to adopt best practices in reducing waste at the source and in recycling their waste. Promoting proper waste sorting Our platform managers, hired from an organisation that assists the long-term unemployed find work, help the waste producers at Terminals 1 and 2E at Paris-Charles de Gaulle properly sort waste. With their help, the waste recycling REPLANTING AN ENDANGERED rate increased by five points in just a few months. In June 2013, the platforms FLOWER: A SUCCESS STORY The starfruit (Damasonium alisma) were redesigned to make sorting easier. We won several trophies in 2013 for our is an extremely rare flower included video featuring soft toys showing passengers how to sort waste (see page 39). in the European endangered species list of the International Union for the Environmentally-friendly clipping and mowing Conservation of Nature. One of its main We have large grass-covered areas and generate large quantities of green «breeding grounds» on the plateau waste that we recycle (700 recycled tonnes in 2013). At Paris-Orly and de Saclay in the Paris suburbs was Paris-Charles de Gaulle, the grass clippings are composted and reused for being threatened by the opening of a our green spaces. During the summer, farmers from the surrounding areas construction site. Under an agreement in Paris can help themselves to up 350 tonnes of hay from the lawn strips signed with the Paris-Saclay public around the restricted area. entity and in cooperation with the firm Ecosphère, we rebuilt the small Bio-waste ponds where the starfruit flourishes on the grounds of the Toussus-leArticle 204 of the Grenelle II law is progressively rolling out the requirement Noble airfield. Several hundreds of for large waste producers to sort and recycle their bio-waste. True to our cubic metres of soil enriched with the belief in anticipating change, we have begun to collect the bio-waste from flowers’ seeds have been planted. our company cafeterias and will extend our collection efforts to the airport During the summer of 2013, the restaurants. Paris-Charles de Gaulle may soon be able to recover starfruit adapted to their new «wet 1,400 tonnes of bio-waste. patches», sealing the success of this special operation. 10 FACT We are members of Ecofolio, an biodiversity environmental organisation appointed by the French state to increase the recycling of paper. we protect wildlife WORKING ALONGSIDE ESSONNE We signed a regional charter for the Owner of more than 6,000 hectares of land in the Ile-de-France region, prevention of waste with the general council we finalised our biodiversity policy in 2012 and our planning guides contain of the Essonne during the Sustainable specific recommendations. Since 2008, France has been working toward halving Development Week. its pesticide use within ten years. We are actively involved in this nation-wide initiative. Our goal is to reduce by 5% our pesticide use between 2010 and 2015. ECO-GRAZING Since 2012, we have been using a weeding device at Paris-Orly that detects At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, nine shaggy the weeds on the aircraft runways using an infra-red light. We therefore apply black sheep keep up with the landscaping weed remover only in the areas where the weeds are growing. The system also maintenance by grazing in the fenced-in automatically remembers, within one metre, the areas that have already been green area of approximately 4,000 m2, treated. Up to 95% of pesticides can be reduced. located between the runways and Terminal 2F. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 47 customer satisfaction and purchasing ethics 48 Customers and purchasing customers and purchasing  innovating together to better address customers Pierre Marol Charles Telitsine Chairman and CEO of Alstef Director of the Orly West terminal As a supplier of Aéroports de Paris since The automated baggage drop-off system 1997, Alstef has contributed to the success was installed at the Orly West terminal. of the automatic baggage drop-off system «This innovative product is the result of installed at Paris-Orly since 2012. «It has close cooperation between our engineers, been a rewarding experience.» Air France and our supplier.» Alstef has been operating for more than 50 years; it Offering innovative products is one of the key factors in employs 200 people and posted revenue of €40 million customer satisfaction. It is also the natural heritage of in 2013. We specialise in the design and maintenance the pioneering spirit of aeronautics. To identify needs of automated airport baggage sorting systems and and formulate our ideas, we use several channels: warehouse pallet storage systems, which we provide there might be a request from an airline, or information on a turnkey basis. In 1997, we delivered one of the first obtained from the monthly qualitative surveys of hold baggage control systems capable of carrying out passengers, or ideas coming from our reception agents automatic checks at Orly West. or our partners, for example. We never work in isolation. Innovation is a collective state of mind, which involves We had begun to think about designing an automated all the participants in a project, from the person who baggage drop-off system when we were selected by had the idea or identified the need to the end user. Aéroports de Paris to participate in the development of its product. Based on this concept and the specification This is how we defined, developed and tested the defined by its engineers and by the Air France automatic baggage drop-off system located at Orly teams, we developed the mechanical and electrical West. Stemming from a request by Air France, this components and the automated elements. Aéroports system is the result of the partnership between our de Paris provided the design, passenger interface and Innovation unit, our engineers and the Air France IT integration. The terminal-based tests were carried engineers, our operations and maintenance technicians out over two and a half years. The result was a success: and the manufacturer Alstef. We worked on this product excellent ergonomics and a high level of reliability. and tested it for more than two years As the manufacturer, we much appreciated the quality There are now five machines set up at Orly West. and high level of information exchange with the Passengers are very happy with them. I would like to Aéroports de Paris engineers. Although investing in highlight, on the one hand, that the company gives its innovation with a large company has a considerable Innovation unit the financial resources it needs to be cost for an SME such as ours, we benefited in terms of able to take risks without fear of failure, and on the other image, reputation and the acquisition of skills. hand, that we are delighted that the manufacturer is In addition, Aéroports de Paris also gave us an French. exclusive licence agreement for the distribution of this product in Europe for five years. contents 50 —  2013 in pictures 55 — An ongoing dialogue 57 — A responsible 52 — A global service with the airlines purchasing policy 53 — Getting around easily 56 — Companies: services 54 — An airport you could for an expanding airport live in population Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 49 2013 in pictures PASSENGERS a decor that sets the pattern in Satellite 5 The fully-refurbished Satellite 5 at Terminal 1 of Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport was inaugurated in June 2013. The security checkpoints have been improved in order to reduce waiting times. On the departure level, which covers 2,400 m2 the sound and lighting environment has been redesigned and colour has replaced bare concrete. Three departure lounges have been merged into one spacious, comfortable area with 340 seats. Travellers have access to more than 250 m2 of commercial areas and restaurants. It was the first satellite of Terminal 1 to be renovated according to these quality standards; Satellite 7 was awarded the Silver trophy for the living environment at the Fimbacte Festival, in October 2013. PASSENGERS at arrivals, all the information passengers need At Paris-Orly, we are testing a comprehensive information system for arriving passengers. As soon as they leave the aircraft, passengers are directed by large screens welcoming them in their own language and providing practical information. In the baggage claim area, three new screens display where and when their baggage will be delivered, the means of transport available as well as their lead times and average costs. In the public area, passengers have access to a transport information zone where they can use «interactive terminals» to choose the type of transport that matches their needs and budget, locate it and print out their route. Tickets can then be bought at a self-service terminal. Should passengers have any enquiries, our reception staff is available at all times. PASSENGERS Airport Helpers, volunteer employees to assist passengers Each person who works in one of our airport can be a potential source of information for customers using our terminals. Airport Helpers© are therefore on hand to inform or reassure passengers, as well as the people accompanying them or waiting for them. To date, 600 volunteer employees wearing a «Happy to help you» badge, from 35 different companies including Aéroports de Paris, perform this service. In order to be efficient, they have made themselves familiar with the passenger pathway and have followed an awareness-raising course. Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle will each have more than 1,000 of these ambassadors in 2014. 50 Customers and purchasing — 2013 in pictures customer satisfaction and purchasing ethics AIRLINES dedicated dialogue In May 2013, the «Airline development strategies and prospects» seminar held at the Orly South Terminal was attended by 66 managers, including operations managers, ten airlines, experts from the French civil aviation authority (DGAC) and representatives from the organisation that allocates airport slots in France (Cohor). This dedicated meeting was an initiative from our teams, who wished better understanding of the expectations and business models of the airlines that operate at their terminal. The quality of the discussions with the airline representatives led to requests from other operating units to repeat the exercise at Paris-Orly and introduce it at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. CUSTOMER-CENTRIC CULTURE learning about services while having fun To enable our employees to discover the variety of services offered by our airports, our Service University has designed an on-line educational game. In less than 20 minutes, the game «Services Gagnants» (winning services) exposes the player to enquiries made by different types of virtual passengers: how to get directions, find flight information, a foreign exchange counter, or special telephone point for disabled people. Since its launch, 2,000 people have logged on to play the game. PURCHASING a close link with innovative SMEs Our Innovation unit regularly works with innovative SMEs to develop new services and has a resource budget that enables it to carry out testing in terminals alongside them. As a partner of the Parisian association Paris Région Lab, the units have made numerous contacts with start-ups in the Île-de-France region. Our smart terminals for information and directions and our geolocalisaton application «MyWay» destined to help passengers around the terminal, are the results of these partnerships. In 2013, we put in place a qualification system for suppliers, enabling them to find out what types of innovation we were working on. We also co-founded an incubator dedicated to regional tourism. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 51 we place our customers at the heart of our strategy 11 customer satisfaction a global service Customer satisfaction is at the top of our list of strategic objectives. Managing airports is a complex activity. We integrate a multitude of services on behalf of and with the support of numerous partners. This global service is provided to passengers, airlines and the companies based at our airports. Our business and financial performance relies on a high level of quality. Our fundamental principles PASSENGER SATISFACTION Our progress plans are based on strategic and operational programmes, while (as a percentage) adhering to quality standards and the «P’RéférenCiel» service reference guide 88.0 that we have been drawing-up since 2012. This document contains 85.8 two sections: operations and infrastructure. It describes the level of service 82.4 and quality that customers can expect while they are in our airports – in arrivals, departures or in transit. The reference guide for arrivals has been completed and is operational. The part on departures of the infrastructure section was completed in 2013. The «operational» section and the while the 2007 2010 2013 «in transit» part are currently being drafted. The company is therefore ensuring CRE 2 aims to achieve a rate of 87.1% that its commitments are being kept; it measures its improvements and in 2015. updates its objectives depending on the results obtained. Our organisation AWARD Our Customer Satisfaction division drives our progress plans with one main Aéroports de Paris received the award objective: making Aéroports de Paris a European benchmark recognised for «Best customer service of the year» for for its quality of service by 2020. Within each of the management teams at 2013 and 2014 (airports category) from Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle, a director of Customer Quality is Viséo Conseil. tasked with meeting this objective on a local basis. Collective action in the common interest FACT • In 2013, we created a «Signposting» unit Since 2011, quality of service operational committees have brought together within the Planning and Development the airlines, the ground-handling service providers and Aéroports de Paris. division. Within each operational unit, they monitor the indicators in our second • In 2013, we joined the «Tourism economic regulation contract (CRE 2) and carry out action plans. and Travel Mediation» system, which was More generally, we coordinate joint actions with our partners so that established for the purpose of settling together, we improve the quality of service to passengers and airlines. In this disputes between tourism operators respect, since 2010 we have led the Smart operation, that brings together and consumers representatives from the French border police (DPAF), several airlines and airport service providers, and our own staff. In 2012, alongside airlines such as Emirates, Air Canada and easyJet, we created the «My favourite flight» initiative: our teams monitor the entire rota of major flights with the airline companies NEW PREMISES that provide them in order to improve In 2013, the Service University moved to a 2,000 m2 collaborative space in the Aéronef operating methods. office building at Roissypole. These premises include meetings rooms, multimedia spaces and a technological innovation showroom. A branch has also been opened at Paris-Orly to boost contact with the local area. The participation of external partners increased from 22% to 45% between 2011 and 2013. 52 Customers and purchasing — our priority areas customer satisfaction and purchasing ethics Our Service University Our Service University invites all airport staff employed in the customer service chain to work together in order to share best practices. It offers dynamic courses for regular training and immersion in real-life situations. Its «cultural approach» forums, designed in conjunction with the airlines, raise awareness of the cultural codes of other countries. After covering the Russian, Chinese, North African, Japanese and Indian cultures in 2012 and 2013, the programme will focus on Brazilian culture in 2014, with the spotlight on the football World Cup. The Service University also organises lectures, meetings, themed open days and forums. 12 passengers RECEPTION AGENTS ARE AVAILABLE TO GIVE DIRECTIONS getting around easily Our reception agents have tested a tablet app at Orly South, which provides similar information to that Whether in departures or arrivals, passengers want to find their way around available at the counters. They are easily, without obstacles or delays, in a calm, comfortable and enjoyable also able to direct passengers from environment. To meet this requirement, we are continually improving the any part of the airport. quality of each stage in the passenger’s journey through our airports. A high quality welcome We are developing a high quality welcome to meet the complex need for ATTENTIVE TO DISABLED PEOPLE information, signposting and human contact. To ensure that passengers feel We provide assistance to passengers with that they are welcomed in the same way every time, we have provided training a disability or reduced mobility. In 2013, to our own teams and are running, in conjunction with our service providers we modified the ergonomics of the external and partners, campaigns to raise the awareness of their staff. This approach, information points. We are currently working which has been ongoing for two years with the security companies, has just on a check-in desk suitable for people using been introduced for customer service agents at the taxi stations. A charter wheelchairs. New waiting areas have been reflecting this has been in place since 2011 for security agents at screening created for disabled and reduced mobility check points. In 2013, we began to work on a set of standards for good passengers in transit areas. We have also practice in welcoming passengers, strengthened our teams and harmonised harmonised our assistance procedures for uniforms for airport personnel through the wearing of an orange tie or scarf so disabled and reduced mobility passengers that they can be easily identified. in all our terminals and strengthened our reception teams. An uncluttered path provides faster access Being able to move quickly and easily through the airport is a major DISABLED AND REDUCED expectation of passengers. We make this possible by simplifying each stage MOBILITY PASSENGERS of the formalities. The airlines have provided travellers with self-service • P ersonal assistance between the special check-in points. Passengers can print their own boarding cards, as well telephone point and the aircraft seat as – since 2013 – their baggage labels. Our automatic baggage drop-off and vice versa; completes this system. We are reorganising the police and security check • Car parks and drop-off areas: areas by enlarging them and increasing the amount of shared space where 92 interactive signalling kiosks adapted possible. For EU citizens from the Schengen area who are in transit, we have to all types of disability; rolled out the one-stop security link, which means passengers no longer need • Reception areas in each terminal; to be screened a second time when making flight connections, as well as • Dedicated reception counters, screening the Parafe automatic biometric recognition system, which reduces screening checkpoints and departure lounges. time to just 30 seconds. An ergonomic layout of tables at security and the presence of reception staff tasked with helping passengers prepare for screening shortens waiting times. A queue is reserved for families during the busiest periods. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 53 The right information at the right time We are also improving passenger flows using information and signposting systems in departures and arrivals. We are rolling out touchscreen terminals for information and directions, mobile services at “m.adp.fr” and the “My Airport” smartphone application. Available in nine languages, these free services provide practical information in real time. The My Way geolocation app helps passengers find their way around the airport. In addition to the signage and voice announcements, we are also installing screens to indicate waiting times for screening checkpoints and baggage claim areas. In 2013, we focused on improving the information available to passengers arriving at our airports, from the moment they get off the aircraft until they leave the airport. Welcoming foreign passengers For Chinese, Korean and Japanese speakers who don’t speak English or French, we are testing an instant translation system called «My Speech», so that they can talk to a reception agent in their own language. In 2012, we developed a smartphone app in Mandarin, which includes translations for more than 150 airport signs. All the user has to do is take The quality of the departure lounges a picture of the sign for the translation to appear. at Paris-Charles de Gaulle compared with an airport you could live in European airports of a similar size was highlighted by passengers in a survey by Airports Council International. Comfortable, clean, ergonomic MULTILINGUAL STAFF Our programme for improving comfort is ongoing, with unencumbered In 2013, several retailers recruited staff spaces, an increase in the number of seats, a new decor for departure who speak the rarer languages and lounges and new toilet blocks. These measures are based on quality changed their opening times to ensure standards, methods and monitoring tools that are currently being developed. access to all passengers from the first to The toilet facilities are a benchmark in terms of cleaning and maintenance. the last flight. Our airports have 56,700 We have included demanding quality obligations in our cleaning services m2 of commercial areas, 33% more than contracts. Since 2012, we have been using the Schiphol Performance in 2007. Measurement (SPM) tool to measure cleaning standards. This tool was inspired by the system used by our Dutch partner and counterpart Schiphol PARKING AND ACCESS which manages the Amsterdam airport. We promote a culture of responsibility Most of our car parks have a guidance among all airport workers. system that indicates where spaces are available, on each level and in each row. Leisure Thanks to our «Find my space» system, We offer a wide variety of services in our departure areas: home cinema, visitors to Paris-Orly can also find their car music, children’s play areas and video games, Internet cafes and Wi-Fi by typing their registration number into one terminals, power sockets for recharging computers and smartphones. of the geolocation terminals. In 2013, reading areas, an express hair salon and free shoe cleaning services were added. An area of some 56,700 m2 is dedicated to shopping. We also launched our Espace Musées art exhibition area in Terminal 2E A METHODICAL APPROACH TO DECLUTTERING of Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport. Passengers like clear spaces. In 2013, we ran a pilot project to declutter the Air Caraïbes There was a Rodin exhibition in January, check-in areas at the Orly South terminal. The people working in this area all contributed: followed by «Jean Dubuffet – The the airline company, its assistants and cleaning managers, check-in staff and trolley Hourloupe Cycle, from Painting to operatives. The lean management method used, inspired by the automotive sector, was Monuments». At Paris-Orly, passengers based on two main principles: «sorting, organisation, cleaning, standardisation and have been treated to Jazz Thursdays compliance»; and planning the work at a daily meeting involving all participants. every week since 2011. The participants analyse any issues that arise, and propose and test simple solutions that will then become standard practices for everyone. The reception agents, who used to lift 4,600 kg of guidance ropes for passenger queues, now have to move only half that amount. The area has become more welcoming for passengers and easier to navigate. 54 Customers and purchasing — our priority areas customer satisfaction and purchasing ethics Better quality restaurants We place particular importance on the quality of the food served at the airport. In 2013, with the aim of continuously improving our offering, we launched our inaugural customer satisfaction workshops intended for bars and restaurants with our concession holders. An action plan and guidelines have been defined, and our first restaurant awards went to the best outlets in October. 13 airlines an ongoing dialogue MAJOR PRIZE with the airlines We were awarded the «Grand Prix Stratégies Amaury Médias du Luxe Awards 2013» in the social media Airlines expect us to be attentive to their needs, to provide high-level airport category for our online promotion of services and first-rate services for our shared customers, the passengers. platforms on major social networks We meet these needs through ongoing dialogue and consultation. in China. This event highlighted the commercial appeal of Paris-Charles Operational efficiency de Gaulle for Chinese customers. A tool for daily consultation with the airlines and Air Navigation Department has been available at Paris-Charles de Gaulle since 2010. This is the «Airport-CDM» (Airport Collaborative Decision Making), which is used to make 11 collective operational decisions. It ensures the availability of the infrastructure and contributes to strengthening the security culture. The Airport-CDM was previously used for runway operations only, but from 2014 it will also cover processes in terminals. Paris-Charles de Gaulle has been a certified user of Airport-CDM since 2010. The tool is being rolled out at Paris-Orly, which new regular routes will apply for this certification in 2015. Since March 2013, a CDM website opened in 2013 has been providing information for all partners in real time. More generally, we have implemented communication systems to collectively manage unforeseen events or particular situations and inform passengers OPENING NEW ROUTES as soon as possible. In 2013, we put in place incentives to help airlines launching new routes from our About our major structural projects airports. In 2012, we provided them with a business section in English called The airline companies are keen to be associated with our major projects. «Route Development» on our website. When we are implementing projects to improve the terminals, we take into account their comments to shape our programmes. In 2013, the «New departure» project brought together 70 partners during 27 workshops, CLOSER TO THE ACTION New offices have been provided to staff with the aim of including their expectations in the plan to expand the jetty and their assistants at Terminals 2C and 2D at the eastern end of Orly South. in close proximity to their operational areas. By shortening their journeys, they are able to Getting to know our airline customers better react more quickly to customer requirements. Every year, an independent organisation carries out a satisfaction survey of the airlines. The results are sent to the airlines and to our operational teams. The survey, which is flexible and scalable, is a precious tool for managing our FACT progress plans. We have also created summary forms relating to the airlines 75% of airlines are satisfied with their and set up a database, which is open to our operational units so that they all dealings with Aéroports de Paris, especially have access to the same information that can be used to assess the business in terms of day-to-day contact, according to model, expectations and strategies of the airlines. Ahead of each season, we the 2013 BVA satisfaction survey of airline hold meetings to discuss these strategies. In 2013, we organised a seminar companies. entitled «Airline strategies and development» (see page 51) at the South Terminal at Paris-Orly. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 55 Anticipating long-term developments in the transport sector To enhance our knowledge of airlines and their business strategies, we have designed a tool that enables us to cross-check global flow data and produce targeted studies in a very short space of time. This system, which facilitates rapid analysis of the air transport markets, gives our teams good visibility on medium-and long-term market opportunities for airlines. 14 companies services for an expanding ACTIVITIES OF COMPANIES USING airport population OUR AIRPORTS We host almost 1,000 companies at our three Paris airports, and more than • tertiary activities 114,000 employees. These figures are set to increase with the development of • retail business districts and retail operations around our airports, e.g.: the opening of • hotels the Aéroville shopping mall in 2013 and the increase in the number of companies • freight renting space at the Roissypole district for Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport; the • industry Cœur d’Orly business district for Paris-Orly, slated to open in 2015. We play an • airport services active part in the planning, development and investment required for all of these • security and maintenance services development projects. As lessors of office and retail premises, we attach great importance to providing a quality service to the companies that are our customers FACT and meeting their expectations to the best of our ability. This extends to the • 9  37,000 m2 surface area leased follow-up of leases and the intrinsic quality of the buildings. • 412 hectares of undeveloped land Top quality renovations Renovating our buildings remains one of our priorities. We are gradually upgrading our real estate portfolio (offices, freight terminals, warehouses and retail space) at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. In addition to the work required for compliance purposes, these renovations meet the highest environmental quality standards in terms of climate control and low-energy use. These choices, in line with our environmental and energy policy, have positive effects on quality of life as well as on rental charges. In 2013, we also continued the landscaping of the areas around buildings, installed efficient road signage and made access points more secure. More dialogue with the companies that use our airports Our Real Estate division is developing a policy of fostering closer relationships with the companies that operate at our airports, based on site visits, regular meetings and a dedicated extranet platform. Mystery visits check that the services provided comply with our quality standards. Our fourth annual satisfaction survey of these companies was conducted between 25 September and 15 October with 194 respondents. The overall satisfaction rate increased to 81% in 2013 (77% in 2012). The first «Real Estate Business IMPROVING WORKING CONDITIONS FOR OUR PARTNERS Meetings» In 2013, the Marketing and Retail division carried out an audit of the distances that In 2013, our Real Estate division organised retail staff travel between their offices, depots and stores. A reallocation of offices the first «Real Estate Business Meetings» reduced the distance these staff have to walk. Parking spaces and specific hours at Roissypole, for the companies holding have been allocated for deliveries to improve working conditions for store managers, leases at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. More than delivery personnel and courier firms. A number of places have been reserved for staff 150 people, representing 80 companies, with a disability/reduced mobility. were able to discuss commercial and technical issues with our teams. 56 Customers and purchasing — our priority areas 15 customer satisfaction and purchasing sustainable purchasing ethics a responsible purchasing policy Ethical purchasing Our purchasing policy was formalised in 2012. We believe in a close association between excellence in business, ethics, environmental and social terms, within a sustainable development approach. A purchasing Code of Ethics, annexed to our internal regulations, defines our ethical rules for dealing with suppliers and service providers. Each of our employees must sign an agreement to adhere to these rules. Our subsidiaries have drawn up their own code, in partnership with the NGO Transparency International France (see page 19). Our action plans Our Purchasing division implements our policy in the form of action plans within the scope of Aéroports de Paris SA. Its competencies will gradually be extended to the Group. In 2013, we concentrated our action plans on sustainable purchasing and ensuring the access of SMEs to our contracts. We have continued the training and awareness-raising programmes for our buyers and purchasing managers on CSR challenges, including a specific module planned for the new CSR training SUPPORTING THE SHELTERED sessions for managers, launched in 2013. We have also strengthened our tools AND PROTECTED EMPLOYMENT used for the management and traceability of contracts, particularly with regard to SECTORS the fight against corruption and the underground economy. In 2013, we renewed our partnership with GESAT, a consortium in the sheltered CSR criteria in our contracts employment sector, which helps us identify the entities that can meet our needs for new Environmental and social clauses are gradually being included in our strategic markets. We regularly call on ESAT, consultations and specifications. The employee-related clauses relate to a protected employment organisation, at labour laws. The environmental clauses cover waste, transport, and water Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle, for the and energy management. In 2013, our evaluation scales for suppliers were upkeep of flowerbeds, vehicle cleaning, multifinalised, taking into account the weighting of these issues depending on site mail distribution and the maintenance of the purchasing segment. In 2014, we will carry out employment audits for beacon lights. the strategic segments. Since 2012, we have been using a tool to verify the conformity of the employment information presented to us. Integration clauses We include clauses covering the integration of certain categories of worker in € 387K our tender documents, whereby the service provider undertakes to implement in revenue was an integration initiative over the term of the contract. In 2013, two tenders were recorded in 2013 carried out at Paris-Orly on a test basis. Under the «New departure» project at this with the sheltered airport, which will begin in 2014, several of the tenders include these clauses. and protected employment sectors. Our commitment to SMEs As part of the «New departure» projects at Paris-Orly, we have attempted to IN FIGURES make some of our tenders accessible to SMEs. Our buyers meet with SMEs • 3 ,000 suppliers on a regular basis, to present our purchasing policies. Regardless of their size, • 687 contracts per year prospective suppliers can submit a bid using our TenderSmart web platform. • €1,393 million in purchases As a member of the SME Pact since 2012, we support innovative SMEs. Our Innovation unit identifies the SMEs with the capacity to develop ground-breaking solutions with us. FACT • W e are a member of the Monitoring Centre for Responsible Purchasing (Obsar). RESPONSIBILITIES TO OUR SUPPLIERS • In 2013, our suppliers were surveyed The company has been a signatory to the Responsible Supplier Relations Charter since for their perception of our purchasing 2010, and in the same year was awarded its label attesting to our adherence to the practices. They were asked about the commitments of this charter (see www.entrevoisins.org). The Ministry for Industrial quality of contractual relationships, Renewal devised the charter in 2010 in order to encourage companies to adopt responsible payment times and the clarity of processes. practices in their dealings with suppliers and build long-term and equitable relationships between the two parties in a framework of mutual trust. The charter has now been signed by more than 455 companies and organisations, representing a purchasing volume in excess of €450 billion. Only 20 companies have so far been awarded the Responsible Supplier Relations Charter label. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 57 creating value for society 58 Community community  voluntary measures to help people re-enter the workforce Maria Gomes de Barros Patrick Dugard Airport security agent employed CSR partnerships by Alyzia Sûreté and corporate Following a free training course offered For almost twenty years, the Partnership by the AERO Compétences, a skills unit of the Environment and Sustainable consortium headed up by the AIR Development department has been actively association and sponsored by Aéroports involved in programmes to help job seekers de Paris, Maria Gomes was hired on a get back to work in the areas where permanent contract. «I really enjoyed Aéroports de Paris is firmly established. the high calibre of the training that was «We are motivating, providing support and provided.» nurturing hope for those who have been out I lived in the United States for eleven years and I began of the workforce to quickly come back to it.» a training programme to work in an airport. I speak five Aéroports de Paris is involved in creating economic languages French, English, Spanish, Portuguese and growth focused on local populations, which are widely Cape Verdean Creole. I am drawn to the airport because diverse but seriously disadvantaged. Our role is to it is international. When I came back to France, I signed work to increase these local residents’ employment myself up as a job seeker and had the opportunity to prospects, help them discover their talents as well as attend information sessions on airport jobs, organised «fix» any shortcomings and give them options for the by the Pôle Emploi (the French employment agency) at future. the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre We help create and steer innovative programmes to at Paris-Orly. motivate these individuals of all ages to quickly rejoin This led me to apply to AIR to take an AERO the corporate world and strengthen social ties at the Compétences free training course on airport jobs. The same time. We form partnerships with anyone who comprehensive training lasted six months with a skills can contribute financially and/or donate their time and upgrade followed by an intense apprenticeship on skills to head up the collective volunteering projects. working as a security agent. I discovered how important Aéroports de Paris has rallied, for its part, the teams at this profession is in the everyday comings and goings at the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres, airports. I was hired on a permanent contract by Alyzia its Human Resources department and its subsidiaries. Sûreté following a three-month internship and two Since 1996, our community-based partnership has short-term contracts. continued to grow and includes a comprehensive I was one of the first security agents to be certified offer of services under the Planèt’AIRport brand. in 2013. The job of a security agent is difficult as we This led to the creation of the AERO Compétences have a considerable amount of responsibility and we skills consortium, a member of PlanètAIRport. The have to constantly be on the lookout while remaining consortium offers job applicants the largest selection of good-natured when situations are tense. But I am really free degree training for airport jobs. This course offering passionate about my work. I really want to emphasise has been financed by the Ile-de-France region. Despite both the first-rate training that I received and how the economic recession, we recorded in 2013 a success helpful the AIR association was in managing our rate of 45% of unemployed workers finding jobs. applications and finding internships. The information offered by this programme should really be more widely publicised. contents 60 — 2 013 in pictures 64 — We help people enter 69 — A id for soundproofing 62 — Our assistance and the workforce 70 — T he Aéroports de Paris economic and social 65 — Living at our airports Foundation cooperation strategy 66 — Le Grand Roissy and Pole 70 — In-kind and skills 62 — Monitoring centres to track d’Orly sponsorship employment 67 — We support SMEs 63 — We facilitate access to 68 — Living in harmony with employment local residents Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 59 2013 in pictures REGIONS for sustainable airport sites Building a better future for the region and its residents was the theme of the annual international seminar devoted to sustainable airport sites organised by the Hubstart Paris Région® alliance. The third edition of the seminar took place in 2013 at our Service University at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. The participants exchanged ideas and feedback during workshops and conferences focused on new economic sectors, job creation, sustainable and urban planning, local presence and best practices in sustainable development. Asia was also a frequently discussed topic. A business tour of Grand Roissy topped off this seminar which brought together 250 participants and 50 lecturers, including 25 from abroad. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY a trophy for Planèt’AIRport In April 2013, the Planèt’AIRport program was awarded the trophy for initial 2013 CSR targets in the «Dialogue with stakeholders» category. Thirty companies competed in this challenge launched by Nora communication, a consultancy firm specialised in corporate communications and corporate sponsorship. This trophy was awarded by the CSR committee of the French parliament under the auspices of the Minister of Labour and the Minister for Industrial Renewal. Straight after this event, we helped set up the club of socially responsible companies. EMPLOYMENT AND REGIONS establishing a regional endowment fund Adife, formerly an urban social development public interest group, became a regional endowment fund in March 2013. The urban Val-de-France area and the town of Gonesse are included in the scope of its governance along with Aéroports de Paris. Established for a renewable five-year period, Adife remains under the Planèt’AIRport brand and stays committed to the same mission: «working to develop training initiatives and employment opportunities for the east Val-d’Oise region.» The endowment fund is used to co-finance regional projects for local initiatives related to the airport business. In 2013, Adife had a budget of €80,000 and we contributed up to €40,000. 60 Community — 2013 in pictures creating value for society DISABILITY a forum for employment As for each of the past four years during the Employment Opportunities for the Disabled Week, the southern delegation for the Environment and Sustainable Development organised its fourth Employment for People with Disabilities. Under the patronage of Miss Handi France, 350 local residents with disabilities met with 30 exhibitors companies and employment agencies and 200 job offers were showcased at the event. This forum is publicised by employment centres and local associations and on our site www.entrevoisins.org. A coffeetime exchange of achievements made addressed the topics of mobility in modes of transportation. The forum is teamed up with a Handisport event where attendees can take beginner courses on wheelchair football, dart blowing, the Japanese sport chanbara or wheelchair country line dancing. EMPLOYMENT AND SMEs the «Companies and neighbourhoods» charter In June 2013, we signed the «Companies and neighbourhoods» charter of the Ministry of Urban Affairs alongside 39 other companies. We are committed to providing access to jobs and creating businesses as well as to the economic, social and cultural development in the priority neighbourhoods under the city’s policy. Our initiatives will stem from existing programmes pursuant to our cooperative strategy with the regions. We will also be involved in a new inter-company network to support business creation and development, as requested under the government action plan related to this charter. INTEGRATION toys for a good cause As partner of the back-to-work association Rejoué, the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre at Paris-Charles de Gaulle collected toys from local children and airport employees. The refurbished toys are resold at a discount of 50% to 70% of the original price. Almost a tonne of toys was collected in 2013. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 61 listening, discussing, building together Our business activities and those of the airport stakeholders as a whole directly shape the local economic development and living environment. Our airports generate more than 8% of the paid employment in the Ile-de-France region with more than 340,000 direct, indirect, induced and catalytic jobs (2011 data). More than 114,000 people work for nearly 1,000 companies located in the airport hubs. This is why we have built ties with these areas so that the local populations benefit from the economic advantages of our industry. Three challenges and a goal for 2015 As a land developer and major economic player in the Ile-de-France region, we have built our corporate social responsibility commitment around three major challenges: • support of employment policies to provide opportunities to the local inhabitants of the regions in which our airports are located; • economic development and promotion of Grand Roissy and Pôle d’Orly areas at a regional, national and international level; and • a reciprocal relationship based on trust with local elected officials, not-for-profit organisations and inhabitants. We invest approximately €2.2 million each year in our partnerships with local authorities, socio-economic players in the areas surrounding the airports, € 2.2 million not-for-profit organisations, elected officials and state representatives. We are working to become the European benchmark for the airport sector in terms of corporate social responsibility. allocated each year Organisation at community-level to our community-based initiatives. Spearheaded by the Environment and Sustainable Development Department, our economic and social cooperation policy is implemented by two delegation units one at Paris-Orly and the other at Paris-Charles de Gaulle which present it to regional authorities and socio-economic partners. Our Environment and Sustainable Development Centres are our principal means of informing and maintaining dialogue with local residents and not-for-profit organisations. The Aéroports de Paris Foundation backs our community-based projects in our main focus areas. These organisations receive the full support of all of our departments in their relevant areas of expertise. Monitoring centres OUR AID AND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COOPERATION STRATEGY on employment Trade, employment and training • S upport employment opportunities observatories improve visibility with respect • Vocational training to employment and changes in the nature of Partnerships to give local residents • Integration through economic activity/ access to airport jobs jobs in the Paris airports. They oversee and community and solidarity economy publish: • Mobility • a biannual comprehensive survey of businesses and public services at the • R egional marketing, tourism three airports; • Incubators, support for innovative projects • forecasts on future job trends in major The appeal and promotion of territories and business creation airport employment sectors. • Mentoring and coaching SMEs/SMIs They create partnerships with other business intelligence agencies such as the Ile-deFrance regional observatory on employment • N urseries and training (Orefi), and with key social and Airport employees – quality of life • Transportation economic players in the surrounding areas • Housing such as with the Pole d’Orly and the Roissy CDG public interest group for Employment. In 2013, they published a study on European • A éroports de Paris Foundation airport activities. They have been involved • Disability and illness in the research and initiatives of the Grand • Job integration and training – preventing Sponsorship and support Roissy Observatory on Employment, headed for charitable projects ad combating school dropout up by the Roissy CDG public interest • Citizenship and the fight against exclusion group for employment. They have also • Adife regional endowment fund participated in a workshop on the economy • In-kind and skills sponsorship organised by the general council of SeineSaint-Denis. They also came and spoke at our employment conferences sponsored by our two Environment and Sustainable Development Centres. 62 Community — our ambitions 16 creating value social cooperation for society and employment BREAKDOWN OF JOBS BY SITE we provide easier access 2013 data will be released in 2014. to jobs NUMBER OF COMPANIES 2012 Total: 989 A major portion of our economic and social cooperation budget is dedicated to 2011 2012 providing employment opportunities for local people. For the past twenty years, Paris-Charles de Gaulle 656 663 we have been investing in employment programmes tailored to the requirements of the airport industry. We also convey public policy by signing agreements Paris-Orly 238 255 recommended by the French government. After the Espoir Banlieues programme ended (2008-2011), we signed on, in 2012, to a three-year commitment Paris-Le Bourget 75 71 providing employment opportunities in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. We further extended these commitments by signing in June 2013 the «Companies TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES and neighbourhoods» charter of the Ministry of Urban Affairs and its 2014-2015 2012 Total: 114,531 implementing agreement in December 2013. 2011 2012 «Discovering airport jobs» Seminars Paris-Charles de Gaulle 87,200 85,000 In 2013, we restructured our «Discovering airport jobs» seminars to better Paris-Orly 27,200 26,200 respond to the job seekers’ needs; the seminars were shortened but offered more frequently. The workshops included more material and were refocused on Paris-Le Bourget 3,115 3,331 subjects that had not been really addressed by employment agencies: English vocabulary specific to airport activities, image and behaviour. However, the core basics of this programme remain unchanged information on airport jobs and Employee typology one-to-one meetings at the end of the course with companies and partner training • 80% of employees work staggered hours organisations that may help the candidate’s job search. In 2013, 222 interns at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, 69% attended these seminars at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. at Paris-Orly and 56% at Paris-Le Bourget; • 96% of staff have permanent contracts Planèt’AIRport (excluding temporary employees). A ticket to an airport job With a comprehensive range of services, the Planèt’AIRport programme has been GENDER BREAKDOWN (as a percentage) helping 2,000 local residents find a job each year since the 1990s. This strategic programme offers tailored training, skills assessment, diagnostic reviews of labour Paris-Charles de Gaulle matters, follow-up, advice and ongoing socio-professional assistance. Joining forces of six partnership structures that we head up, the programme includes 38 measures related to integration, mobility assistance and housing. Teach’AIR® provides short-term training and extended its offer in 2013 to include e-learning courses. The public interest group Adife became an endowment fund in 2013. As part of the public policy for future sustainable jobs (emplois d’avenir), our Human Resources Department agreed to give first priority, starting in 2013, to interns who have taken one of these training courses. Planèt’AIRport also helps companies 62 with recruitment, branding their image, and preparing employment-related paperwork. This programme was the top pick at the 2013 CSR Challenges Paris-Orly 36 (see page 60). Training at the regional level With our partners in the regional consortium, AERO Compétences, we submitted a bid to Ile-de-France’s call for tender for a regional «Skills» degree programme in 2014-2016, intended for job seekers. AERO Compétences offers free 64 long-term degree training, as a paid internship, on fourteen airport trades. The consortium’s training offer has significant resources in terms of classroom Paris-Le Bourget space and e-classroom tools. This course included in the PlanètAIRport offering brings together the Human Resources department, the Environment and 19 Sustainable Development Centres and our subsidiary Alyzia Sûreté. PHILANTHROPY We co-authored the reference book Regional Foundations for Local Philanthropic Work, published by the French Centre of Funds and Foundations (Centre français 81 des fonds et fondations (CFFF)) in 2013. Women Men Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 63 FINANCIAL MEMBERS SUPPORTING Getting involved at the regional level the Roissy CDG public THE ROISSY CDG PUBLIC INTEREST interest group for Employment GROUP FOR EMPLOYMENT Since its creation, we have been partners with the Roissy CDG public interest (in €K per year) group for Employment that works on behalf of the local populations in Grand 70 Roissy. It launches and provides support for jointly-led initiatives to satisfy local needs for employment, job insertion, safeguarding career development and training. To improve its responsiveness and its assistance, it strengthened and 220 streamlined its management to five financial members. It also created a strategy committee on employment and training (Cosef), which acts as an advisory board bringing together employment and training agencies in Grand Roissy. It continued to move ahead with the action plan defined before its reorganisation: a certificate course in airport English developed by the training organisations The French government, Greta, CCIV and Afpa; the professional development «Step» programme, Île-de-France region and departments; a work-study program and the Grand Roissy employment and training Aéroports de Paris SA observatory. It registered Grand Roissy Emploi Formation® as a trademark. AERO COMPETENCES we help people join the PARTNERS AIR (sponsor and operator), Afpa, Camas Aéroformations, Greta BIP 93, Prom’hôte, workforce the Seine-Saint-Denis Chamber of Trades and Priority education Crafts, Prom’hôte and Aéroports de Paris We give our support to the priority education Éclair network established for primary and secondary students in disadvantaged urban neighbourhoods. In 2013 OVERVIEW the past five years, we have organised for more than 8,500 students on-site Budget : €2,215K visits at Paris-Charles de Gaulle as well as educational and scientific workshops and conferences on airport-related issues and CSR. We welcome students in Year 10 during the Career Discovery Week. We have partnered with the No. of places per year 665 French national education system for the following towns: Sarcelles, Villiersle-Bel, Garges-lès-Gonesse and Goussainville (French department Val-d’Oise), Preparatory and degree 1,493 Meaux and Mitry-Mory (French department Seine-et-Marne) and, since 2013, courses (2011-2013) Pierrefitte-Villetaneuse (French department Seine-Saint-Denis). Awarded a degree/certificate Schools for a second chance 2011-2013 (2 academic 851 years) In 2010, we signed a partnership agreement with the Val-de-Marne «school for a second chance». An initial site was set up in Orly in 2011 and a second in Créteil in 2012: 250 young people have joined or attended this school in 2013. We are a co-founder of «schools for a second chance» in La Courneuve, Cergy-Pontoise, Argenteuil and Sarcelles. The aim of these schools is the professional integration of young people PLANET’AIRPORT AT A GLANCE who left the school system more than a six PARTNERSHIPS year previously. • AIR, an Association for Regional Interest • First Stade, a government-approved job • AERO Compétences, a skills integration company providing on-request consortium which is currently being parcel transport service for member Integration by economic activity renewed; companies We have been working towards integration • Adife, which became a regional • Papa Charlie, an association providing through professional experience for endowment fund in 2013; not-for-profit car rental several years. First Stade, a government• Comité Habitat, an association approved job integration company, employs providing access to affordable housing. individuals living on the margins of society. This Planèt’AIRport partnership hires them FINANCING 2013 OVERVIEW as local couriers serving the 26 member (in €K) 330 Total number of beneficiaries: 5,793 companies in 2013. First Stade has three vehicles. Since AIR established this Mobility 277 program in 2009, 44 local residents have been hired. We began adding in 2012 social Reception, information, 4,284 inclusion clauses into our tenders for work. advice 1,200 Support towards employment 421 The French government, the Ile-de-France region, CCI, the national employment agency Vocational training 763 (Pôle emploi); Housing 48 Aéroports de Paris companies 64 Community — our priority areas creating value for society We also give our support to several initiatives, such as the back-to-work project La Recyclerie, sponsored by the neighbourhood association «Les portes de l’Essonne». We donate used office furniture and supplies to the workers so that they can refurbish and resell them. living at our airports Our Nurseries We have set up two inter-company nurseries open to residents of the surrounding cities and towns: P’tits Loup’ings at Paris-Orly (60 places) and Globe-Trotteurs, a childcare centre, at Paris-Charles de Gaulle (100 places). Globe-Trotteurs has two facilities: l’Ombr’aile, which is open during nights and weekends, and l’Envol, which is open during standard working hours. In 2013, Globe-Trotteurs accommodated an average of 212 children each month and P’tits Loup’ings.185 children. Priority is given to parents who work staggered timetables, live more than two hours from their place of work, or have no facility close to home. The nurseries are managed by the local authorities, the DGAC (French civil aviation authority), public services and companies on site and Aéroports de Paris. FILÉO AT A GLANCE • O ur partners: STIF, General Councils Our social housing offering of Seine-et-Marne and Val-d’Oise, and the Terres de France urban area Comité Habitiat, a partner of Planèt’AIRport, has created a social housing • 500,000 reservations, 15% of which programme for employees working at our three airports as well as for local were made on www.fileo.com member-communities. On top of offering affordable rentals, it also provides • 23,000 customers, 351,703 journeys legal and financial advice on how to become a home owner. A social residence • overall satisfaction rate: 90.5% containing 213 apartments was established on the Paris-Charles de Gaulle site in 2008 to house young workers. Another residence is expected to be built at Paris-Orly in 2015. In 2013, Comité Habitat found housing for 48 people, including PAPA CHARLIE AT A GLANCE 13 young recruits and has housed a total of 1,748 people since 1995. • R ecognised as a best business practice under the UN Global Compact Our on-demand bus system • 160 vehicles of which 50% will be replaced in 2014 by energy-efficient Filéo, established in 1998 by the STIF (Ile-de-France Transport Union), vehicles is an on-demand shared transit service for employees at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. In conjunction with the standard shared transit system, this network has eight bus routes running 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We are the only private FACT company who helps finance the running of these bus routes (€329,000 in 2013) We are currently looking into building and have renewed our financial commitment until 2016. an Employment and Training Centre in partnership with the General Council A vehicle for employment of Ile-de-France and the, Roissy CDG public interest group for Employment. The European social fund granted Papa Charlie €30,000 in subsidies in 2013. Each year, this not-for-profit organisation assists 300 people who do not have a car or access to public transportation, by loaning them out a car for a short period 4,300 at a low rental rate. In this way, job seekers or job candidates in the Ile-de-France region can easily get to the airport hubs or their future workplace. FedEx has been giving its support to this organisation for the past seven years and signed a partnership agreement with Papa Charlie in 2012 and 2013 to help employees experiencing economic hardship. Going beyond the Ile-de-France region, the number of hires the employment office in Picardie-Pays de Valois also signed a partnership that Papa Charlie has agreement to set up this service locally. facilitated in fifteen years in Ile-de-France: 92% on a long-term basis. TWO CORPORATE CONCIERGE PROJECTS Under our agreement with the Seine-et-Marne General Council, we are developing a corporate concierge project. This service for employees at Paris-Charles de Gaulle will offer local services provided by employees on outreach programmes. We are currently reviewing rolling out the same project for the employees at the Paris-Orly airport. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 65 17 regions Grand Roissy and Pole d’Orly Our three main airports Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget have been identified as major economic sites (TEM) in the Ile-de-France regional plan (Sdrif). Activities from our airports generated over €30 billion in added value in 2011, representing nearly 5.8% of the region’s GDP (according to a 2011 study). The Roissy and Orly hubs have been classified as strategic in the Grand Paris project. As a member of several governance bodies, we contribute to the sustainable economic development of these regions. We participate in joint projects to promote the region and encourage companies, particularly international ones, to set up in airport hubs or surrounding areas. The Grand Roissy Buoyed by the growth from the two airports at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget, Grand Roissy is a fast-growing economic hub benefiting from € 886K national ground-breaking projects. We are actively involved in its governance bodies, drafting the regional development contracts, including the «Cœur économique Roissy Terre de France» (CERTF), as well as in other main regional projects. We lend our support to the research and working groups of the public the 2013 budget for development authority, EPA Plaine de France. We are actively helping to achieve Hubstart Paris Région®. a common goal: making Grand Roissy a world-class sustainable and profitable Aéroports de Paris airport site for its inhabitants. contributes €140K and donates office space. Hubstart Paris Région® promotes Grand Roissy on an international scale GRAND ROISSY ÉCONOMIQUE We have been actively lending our support to Hubstart Paris®, since its creation NETWORK in 2009. It was transformed into the Hubstart Paris Région® alliance in July 2013. • M ore than 200,000 private Rallying together more than thirty institutional partners from both the non-profit and public jobs; and private sectors, this alliance works to boost Grand Roissy’s international • More than €6 billion to be invested by 2025 appeal and its global competitiveness. With its offering of shared infrastructure by the private sector to create and services, it attracts international companies to set up operations in the area. 100,000 new jobs. The alliance spearheads thirty initiatives per year, including its annual international seminar focused on sustainable airport areas, promoting and prospecting opportunities at international trade shows and conferences and setting up FACT business tours at Grand Roissy. Hubstart Paris Région® collaborates on joint Hubstart Paris Région® joins forces projects with the Atlanta (United States) and Shanghai Pudong (China) airports. with the local and regional authorities, It has designed numerous promotional materials such as its interactive model the French government, development of the Grand Roissy, available on tablets and smartphones since 2013. agencies, chambers of commerce and industry (CCI), public planning agencies, companies and associations. The Orly Paris® agreement Under the regional chairmanship, it is Since 2099, we have been involved in the governance of Pôle Orly’s regional managed by the Ile-de-France Regional agreement for employment, training and economic growth. The Orly Paris® Development Agency. agreement has been extended to 2015. As a signatory to its sustainable development charter, we have committed to working together to achieve for more information: ambitious measures. In 2013, Orly International, the coordinator of the www.hubstart-paris.com agreement, kicked off a series of initiatives to boost the region’s appeal and facilitate access to jobs. Prior to the second edition of its job fair «RendezAEROPOLE AND DATAGORA JOIN FORCES UNDER THE HUBSTART vous pour l’Emploi» on 14 November PARIS REGION® 2013, career advisers were given training To achieve its ambitious agenda, the Hubstart Paris Région® alliance has been on airport jobs. Meetings to promote the relying on the support of the not-for-profit organisation bearing the same name since professional real estate included in the July 2013. This alliance was formed by joining the forces of two partners: Datagora, agreement were first held in June 2013. a Grand Roissy resource centre (established in 2000) and Aéropôle, a business Orly Paris® also participated in the Simi incubator (founded in 2000). The organisation oversees the management of the professional real estate conference incubator, Hubstart Paris Region Centre (located at Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport) in December 2013. and provides backing to partner initiatives. 66 Community — our priority areas creating value for society we support SMEs We deploy urban policies In connection with the Ministry of Urban Affairs’ Business and Local Neighbourhood Charter, we have become involved in the government action through measures helping create an inter-company support network to promote the establishment and growth of SMEs in the city’s disadvantaged neighbourhood (see page 61). Our buyers meet with SMEs We organised the fourth edition of the Grand Roissy business meeting on 11 June 2013 in cooperation with the Regional CCI (Seine-et-Marne, Seine-Saint-Denis and Val-d’Oise). More than 150 SME and SMIs met with the purchasing representatives from nine large companies and, for the first time ever, from four urban areas surrounding the greater Grand Roissy metropolitan area. At Paris-Orly, we held an evening information session on the airport’s «New Departure» development project for a hundred SME and SMIs during which we laid out the market opportunities and introduced them to our buyers. Young innovative companies in Val-de-Marne THE ORLY PARIS II AGREEMENT Signed in December 2012, the regional We are members of the Val-de-Marne’s «Entreprendre» network fostering Orly Paris II agreement for 2013-2016 the start up of businesses. We have renewed our support to Fidep 94 which brings together the Ile-de-France region, helps entrepreneurs to create an SME or take over an existing one. the General Councils of Essonne and ValWe grant €15,000 annually in subsidies over a three-year period. On top of de-Marne, the French government, consular this, we have participated in the Cap’Jeunes programme of the Val-de-Marne offices, ADOR and the Pôle emploi regional organisation supporting business initiative (VMAPI), which provides mentoring division. and a start-up grant to companies founded by entrepreneurs under 26 years old. We are looking into launching an incubator for businesses devoted CORPORATE SPONSORS OF to social issues at the Paris-Orly airport. We are also a founding member CAP’JEUNES of a tourism incubator. Acofi, Air France, Cofin’Audit, Memup, Société Générale and Aéroports de Paris. Plato networks We are members of the Plato networks where large companies share their BUYERS AT THE GRAND ROISSY experiences and insight with SME and SMIs. The Plato Grand Roissy BUSINESS MEETING Air France, FedEx, Groupe 3S, Groupe Accor, Économique network for the 2013-2015 period was launched in June 2013. Le Bourget, Léon Grosse, Roissy Porte This network brings together the Chambers of Commerce and Industry (CCI) de France, Servair, Terres de France, of the Val-d’Oise, Seine-Saint-Denis and Seine-et-Marne areas, which have been Val de France, Volkswagen, WFS, grouped into a single regional CCI. From September 2011 to December 2013, Aéroports de Paris. we took part in the Plato eco-jobs network, sponsored by the Ile-de-France’s CCI. CSR WITHIN THE SME’S REACH We are partners in the first regional support programme known as «Socially Responsible Companies in Ile-de-France», alongside the CCI and ARD (regional development agency) of Paris-Ile-de-France. With the backing of the Ademe, this two-year programme will offer assistance to SMEs, located in the airport areas, to incorporate on a voluntary basis a CSR approach in their business model. The programme consists of an audit and guidance on how to incorporate the CSR recommendations of ISO 26000. Two information sessions were held in December 2013 at the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 67 18 dialogue living in harmony with local residents Consulting with local residents close to our airports is registered in our set of operating duties. We have chosen to build a trusting relationship with the local authorities, associations and residents. The Environment and Sustainable Development Centres, which are located on-site at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly, are the principal means of conducting dialogue with local communities. Each year about 30,000 local residents visit them. Joining forces together for challenges facing society The Centres organise or hold on-site educational seminars, employment forums and conferences and career opportunities at the airports. Each year several job fairs and information sessions are held. Their permanent and temporary exhibits and events invite local residents of all ages to learn more about environmental, social and civic issues. These events provide them the opportunity to discuss with us our sustainable development practices as well as what they expect from us. In 2013, the Centres set up several exhibits: «DISCOVERING AIRPORT JOBS» «The ecosystems in Paris and its surroundings»; «Renewable energies»; SEMINARS «What energy!?», co-produced by Arene (Regional Agency for the Environment • 4 per year and New Energies) and featuring a conference; «The Earth and Nature at • 222 participants in 2013 our Feet», with Natureparif, exposition on natural heritage; two exhibits on women’s issues. Local residents were invited to attend a conference on PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENTS tramway line T7 six months prior to its commissioning in November 2013. • Paris-Charles de Gaulle : 39 • Paris-Orly : 18 Consulting and working with elected officials The Environment and Sustainable Development Centres get involved in local 2013 FORUMS AND EXHIBITS and regional measures related to environmental and employment issues that Paris-Charles de Gaulle directly involve our airports. They frequently hold consultations with local elected • 1 job fair officials. More than 60 meetings were held with elected officials from Val-de-Marne • 1 seasonal and summer jobs fair and Essone for the «New Departure» development project at Paris-Orly. The • 1 information day for job seekers Environment and Sustainable Development Centres regularly invite the elected with disabilities in partnership with officials to visit the airports. They were therefore able to meet in 2013 the strategic the Pôle Emploi agency in Roissy and companies located at our airports and learn about the economic side of the airport the Cap Emploi (network of agencies business. Since 2008, we have entered into partnership agreements with towns that help disabled people find work) and cities that have expressed a desire to establish with our airports an ongoing in Aulnay-sous-Bois. exchange of information and as well as take joint action on environmental, social • Permanent exhibit on Aéroports de Paris’ and economic issues. Nearly 60 municipalities have signed these partnerships corporate social responsibility sponsored by the Centres in the past six years. Paris-Orly • 5th work-study and summer jobs forum • 4th Disabilities forum Tourism and Disability Award • 2 Children Municipal Councils (CME) As a partner of the national institute for young deaf people, we devote special • 12 environmental and sustainable attention to disabilities. In November 2013, the Environment and Sustainable development conferences Development Centre at Paris-Orly received the Tourism and Disabilities award • 12 environmental workshops for its efforts on behalf of four types of disabilities (hearing, visual, motor and cognitive). The Paris-Charles de Gaulle Environment and Sustainable Development Centre works with staff from «Vivre Autrement», a training centre for the disabled, to landscape its flower beds and vegetable gardens covering 1,650 m2. Environmental advisory www.entrevoisins.org committees The website www.entrevoisins.org is intended for local residents, elected officials, In 2013, 12 environmental advisory companies and the public at large. It publishes the findings from our laboratory on air committee meetings (CCE) were held: quality and noise. It has tab headings on the aviation section, current events at the three two at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, one airports and our programmes focused on economic and social cooperation. at Paris-Orly, two at Paris-Le Bourget A tab dedicated to young people («Entre Jeunes») profiles various airport jobs along and eight at the civil airfields. These local with testimonial videos. consultation bodies convened by the Prefect give opinions on issues concerning the impact of development or operations at the airport on the environment. The secretariat is provided by Aéroports de Paris. 68 Community — our priority areas 19 creating value noise for society aid for soundproofing In France, the management and control of airborne noise falls within the remit of the French aviation authority (DGAC), i.e., the French government. As an airport operator, we are responsible for running the scheme to soundproof the surrounding neighbourhoods of our airports in Ile-de-France. A special unit in our group implements and coordinates this scheme. Our laboratory provides the authorities with measurements and noise analysis that they need in their decision-making process. Financing The tax on aircraft noise (TNSA) paid by airline companies for each take-off is used to finance the noise analyses and soundproofing of homes and commercial buildings located within the noise pollution map (PGS). In 2013, TNSA revenues totalled more than €37.82 million. The noise pollution map for Paris-Le Bourget was drafted in 2012. The ones for Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly were expanded at the end of 2013 and are applicable starting in 2014. This represents an additional 31,150 residential homes that may be eligible (+4,230 for Paris-Orly and +25,920 for Paris-Charles de Gaulle). FACTS Members of the Advisory Commission on Coverage of costs Aid to Residents (CCAR) include the regional A coverage rate of 100% applies to diagnosis and work which meet certain prefect, the French Civil Aviation Authority conditions. Since 2010 funding may be payable in advance. Detailed information (DGAC), local authorities, associations and the is available on www.entrevoisins.org. boards of professional aviation organisations. Assistance with the contracting process and quality ASSISTED HOUSING AND BUILDING After completing an acoustic diagnosis, this aid is granted on the basis of a UNITS favourable opinion of the Advisory Commission on Aid to Residents (CCAR). since Our free helpline guarantees local residents that the contractors will perform 2013 2004 the adapted work in a satisfactory manner and cost-effectively. Under a partnership with several professional organisations, we developed in 2012 Paris-Charles de Gaulle 2,835 24,488 a «company quality» charter to harmonise these services. In 2013 we included Paris-Orly 2,187 13,464 under this scheme a training programme for the contractors, co-designed by Val-de-Marne Chambers of Trade and Crafts. The number of diagnostics almost Paris-Le Bourget 425 455 doubled in three years: 2,700 in 2011, 4,900 in 2012 and 4,300 in 2013. GLOBAL AMOUNT OF CONSTRUCTION Our laboratory FROM 2004-2013 (FIGURES ROUNDED) Our laboratory takes acoustic measurements on behalf of the French government €403 million for 38,347 housing units and using a network of 50 permanent or temporary stations. Such work is carried out 60 commercial buildings including: under the supervision of the ACNUSA (Airport noise nuisance control authority). • €248 million for Charles de Gaulle This data assists us in drafting the aircraft noise mapping. By using this mapping, • €148 million for Paris-Orly authorities can establish noise pollution maps (PGS) and noise exposure maps • €6 million for Paris-Le-Bourget (PEB) for urban planning purposes in the areas where the airports are located. TNSA (in e million) INFORMATION ABOUT NOISE 43.51 Our website www.entrevoisins.org provides local residents living near our airports 42.21 detailed information on noise updated continuously in real time; At Environment 37.82 and Sustainable Development Centres, the French Civil Aviation Authority provides information for local residents about the noise conditions around the airports using visualisation software displaying traffic and noise levels. One of these software tools Vitrail was updated in 2013, and displays aircraft trajectories within 30 minutes 2011 2012 2013 of take-off. Vitrail has also been set up in 24 town halls in France. The self-service software Visiobruit also provides local residents living near Paris-Charles de Gaulle CONSTRUCTION BUDGET information on noise levels. Each year we kick off an information campaign on (in e million) soundproofing assistance in conjunction with the French Civil Aviation Authority. 73.3 54 41.5 2011 2012 2013 Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 69 20 solidarity Foundation Aéroports de Paris We have built up sponsorship through the creation of the Aéroports de Paris foundation, which celebrated its tenth anniversary in 2013. The Foundation co-finances local initiatives in favour of the most vulnerable populations near the airport sites. Under the aegis of the Fondation de France, it is financially involved in local solidarity projects. Its Executive Committee, chaired by the Chairman and CEO of Aéroports de Paris, has identified three priority areas: integration and training, citizenship and anti-exclusion efforts, and disability and illness. In 2013, we thus lent our support to: • France Active’s Cap’Jeunes programme that assists young job seekers in the Ile-de-France region start up their own company. • a mobile discovery workshop for young children living in disadvantaged areas, developed by the Intermèdes Robinson association, • outreach initiatives for autistic children who are transitioning into or waiting for an opening in a suitable programme, created by the REPIES network in Val-d’Oise. Each of these projects received an average aid of €10,000 from the Aéroports de The Aéroports de Paris granted a Paris Foundation. scholarship to Marie Bochet, four-time gold medallist in alpine skiing at the 2014 Paralympic Winter Games in Sochi. Combating school dropout We also continued to support in 2013 initiatives combating school drop out at the local secondary schools near our airports. As part of this support, €150,000 has COMBATING POVERTY been allocated to 12 new projects implemented in favour of secondary schools in REACHING OUT TO YOUNG the Val-de-France area and the towns of Gonesse and Goussainville. CHILDREN The foundation supports the Intermèdes Robinson association, which offers outreach Cultural access and enrichment to impoverished families – communities In order to give young disadvantaged people access to culture, the Foundation living in slums or to travellers in four also enters into partnerships with well-known patrons or with the organisers of towns of the Essone department. It sets renowned festivals such as the Royaumont Foundation and the theatre festivals at up early childhood intervention workshops Val-d’Oise and Auvers-sur-Oise. for children under six conducted in a safe and protected environment located close to where the children live. This project in-kind and skills was awarded honourable mention by the national advisory commission on human rights at the 2012 French Republic’s Liberté sponsorship – Égalité – Fraternité Human Rights Awards. The partnership management unit of the Environment and Sustainable Development division is responsible for skills sponsorship and voluntary work, as well as sponsorship in-kind. We have a pool of 150 Group employees ready to volunteer on projects proposed by community and general interest groups that we support. Our employees are actively involved in the Plato network, which for more information: advises and assists SMEs or are members of not-for-profit organisations such as www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, Aviation Without Borders. They also frequently volunteer their skills to think tanks under the «Sustainable (see page 67). All permanent employees within Planèt’AIRport structures are also Development» tab actively involved in skills sponsorship, in particular by providing socio-professional assistance to persons with significant problems re-entering the workplace. For the past two OVERVIEW OF THE 2013 INITIATIVES OF THE AEROPORTS DE PARIS years, our in-kind sponsorship has been put into action by collecting and distributing NUMBER OF SPONSORED PROJECT BY SECTOR TOTAL AMOUNT OF AID BY SECTOR equipment and materials from Aéroport de (in €K) Paris to associations working to prevent social 14 14 113 215 exclusion. We donate furniture, computers, agricultural equipment and fire vehicles either in their original state or after repair. 25 270 Illness / disability Illness / disability Integration / Training Integration / Training Citizenship and the fight against exclusion Citizenship and the fight against exclusion 70 Community — our priority areas appendices contents 72 — O  ur subsidiaries, a proactive 76 — O  pinions from 80 — GRI summary CSR approach the stakeholders’ panel 81 — Honours and Awards 73 — Governance indicators 77 — Method for reporting 81 — Glossary, abbreviations 74 — International agreements indicators and acronyms 74 — A responsible label 78 — Table of indicators 75 — Socially responsible indices and rankings Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 71 our subsidiaries a proactive CSR approach Hub One, Aéroports de Paris Management and ADP Ingénierie, all wholly owned by Aéroports de Paris, have adopted CSR approaches, at different levels of advancement, under the partnership with Transparency International France. This partnership was renewed in 2013 with Aéroports de Paris Management and ADP Ingénierie. In line with the Group’s undertakings, the subsidiaries have been disclosing their specific commitments to the fight against corruption in their own communication materials since 2013. Hub One Hub One brings together under a single commercial brand the offerings of Hub non-financial rating requested, Télécom, telecommunications and electronic communications expert specialising produced by Vigeo Enterprise in highly-frequented complex sites such as airports, and that of Nomadvance, (scale from 1 to 4) the leader in hardware and software traceability solutions and an expert in professional mobility, which was acquired in 2012. Since 2008, the company has Since 2010 the subsidiaries have been rated been rated on a non-financial basis showing significant improvement made in on a non-financial basis which highlighted for 2012 with respect to all criteria assessed. As a signatory to the Telecom sector’s each one of them in 2012 a consolidated level of voluntary commitment charter on sustainable development since 2010, Hub commitment of 3on a scale of 1 to 4. One has formalised its CSR policy with the assistance of a 22-person internal network. It has adopted a code of ethics, drafted with the assistance of the NGO Transparency International France, as well as implemented internal control procedures. The company has a tool for evaluating its suppliers in terms of 3 3 CSR. In 2012, it signed its first agreement on gender equality and an agreement 34/60 33/60 on teleworking with a two-fold social and environment objective. It has also 32/60 30/60 implemented a car share facility. It encourages its employees to take paid leave to go on corporate volunteering assignments with Planète Urgence, an Hub One score international aid organisation. 2010 2012 ADP Ingénierie ADP Ingénierie is an architecture and engineering company specialised in the airport sector: project design and development, project management and assistant project management. With revenue of €54.6 million in 2013, 3 3 it has 141 on-going projects worldwide. Its CSR commitments have been 33/60 formalised with its governance and human resources which are the most 29/60 30/60 advanced areas. ADP Ingénierie has been gradually rolling in its sites abroad into its CSR policy. It systematically attaches as appendices to its contracts an environmental study and related action plan. It promotes sustainable development ADP Ingénierie score measures for the construction industry abroad. 2010 2012 Aéroports de Paris Management Aéroports de Paris Management is directly or indirectly responsible for the operation, management and development of 23 airports with traffic of over 43.3 million passengers. The Airports Council International (ACI) 3 awarded the 2013 Airport Service Quality Award to three airports managed by ADPM and its partners in recognition of their customer service. Its 2012 2 3+ 29.5/60 33/60 non-financial rating points to a considerable improvement in its overall 25/60 30/60 performance, up 4.5 points on 2010, demonstrating the progress made in corporate governance and market behaviour due to the new control and audit schemes and a strong anti-corruption policy. The company has also set up Aéroports de Paris Management score ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications for its customers. Several airports under concession have been OHSAS-certified. It also heads up economic 2010 2012 and social cooperation initiatives. COOPERATION throughout THE GROUP Aéroports de Paris SA held several meetings in 2013 with its subsidiaries to discuss corporate social responsibility issues. At the beginning of the year, the parent company met with each of the CSR correspondents at the subsidiaries in order to draw up actions plans based on the recommendations of the non-financial rating agencies. All of the subsidiaries came together at a plenary session in July 2013 to identify the main focus areas that we share in common. Breakout sessions then focused on sustainable purchasing, coordinated by the Purchasing and Human Resources Departments, and on risk management and internal control, led by the Airport Security, Risk Management and the Compliance Department. Our new International Business and Shareholdings executive management team also helps roll out the CSR policy at the Group level. 72 Corporate social responsibility — appendices governance indicators appendices stakeholders • T he Chairman of the Board of Directors Members of the Board fulfils the role of Chief Executive Officer. Term of Office 5 years • T hree directors are deemed independent Status: 6 under the criteria specified by the AFEP18 members Appointed by the Shareholders: 6 MEDEF code of corporate governance. Elected by the employees: 6 The independent directors account for half Jurisdiction Registration of directors with the IFA(1) of the directors appointed by the General Assembly and less than one-third of all Independence Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors Board members. Auditors • B oard membership is balanced in terms The auditors cannot provide consulting services of composition, to guarantee shareholders Yes except for ancillary audit services. and the market that its tasks will be carried out with independence and Shareholders objectivity. One share equals one vote. Yes • In addition to independence with respect to the criteria in the AFEP-MEDEF code, involvement in decisions it should be noted that each director Board of Directors and each observer has agreed, in Number of meetings and average 10 meetings the directors’ charter set out in the attendance rate 79% appendix to the internal regulations of Internal Regulations and Code of Ethics Yes the Board of Directors, to retain his or her independence in terms of analysis, Remuneration, judgement, decision-making and action Strategy Audit and Risk Committees appointments and and investments governance (Article 6 of the charter). The annual evaluation questionnaire relating to • Number of members 4 6 4 the operation of the Board of Directors • Number of meetings 9 3 5 satisfies Aéroports de Paris as to the independence of directors. • Attendance rate 93% 94% 100% • Introduction in 2010 of a first nonExternal assessment led by an independent director financial criterion in determining the Annual assessment of Board, result of the 2012 annual (confidential questionnaire and interview) High level of and assessment presented in 2013 constantly growing satisfaction variable portion of corporate officer compensation. General Assembly • T he scheme for executive compensation Turnout at the last General Assembly 88% of voting rights tied to performance, the management of conflicts of interest and the directors’ Percentage of votes cast at the General Assembly qualifications are described in the Report Resolutions adopted by over 80% (16 May 2013) by shareholders of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, appendix 2 of the Aéroports de Paris financial and non-financial information Registration Document. Publication of criteria and amounts of corporate officers’ Yes (management report, registration document) Compliance compensation with AFEP-MEDEF code regarding compensation Publication of the amount of fees Yes (management report, registration document) Stock-options, free shares granted to corporate officers No for more information: (1) French Institute of Directors. in our 2013 Registration Document, available and The publication of information concerning the Company’s capital structure and any downloadable on our website, information liable to have an impact in the event of a public offering is set out in the www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, 2013 management report. («Group» tab). Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 73 international agreements We comply with UN and ILO principles Aéroports de Paris develops its business in accordance with the principles of the UN’s Global Compact, of which it has been a signatory since 2003. The Group confirms its adherence with the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Each year, we provide proof of our compliance with these commitments by publishing our best practices recognised by the UN. These best practices correspond to one of the ten principles of the Global Compact and can be accessed on our website www.aeroportsdeparis.fr («Group» tab, «Sustainable Development» section). Principles of the Global Compact and the ILO Actions undertaken Human rights 1. Support and respect the protection of international law on human rights • A éroports de Paris SA’s codes of ethics and the codes of ethics of its four wholly-owned within the sphere of influence of the Group. subsidiaries (ADPI, ADPM, Alyzia Sûreté and Hub One). • A éroports de Paris SA’s codes of ethics and the codes of ethics of its four wholly-owned 2. Ensure that the Group’s companies are not complicit in violations of human rights. subsidiaries (ADPI, ADPM, Alyzia Sûreté and Hub One). LABOUR STANDARD / ILO PRINCIPLES 3. Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right • Individual right to union training. to collective bargaining. • Agreements on trade union rights. 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Ethical criteria in our specifications applicable to our suppliers and service providers. 5. Ensure the effective abolition of child labour. • Purchasing code of ethics to reduce the risk of child labour. • F requently renewed agreements on gender equality, the integration of disabled persons, 6. Eliminate discrimination in the workplace and profession. and the employment and retention of seniors. RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT 7. Support a preventative approach to environmental challenges. • Aéroports de Paris environmental policy. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Training and environmental awareness raising for all ADP employees. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Technological monitoring and innovation. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION • 2 011-2012 partnership agreement between Aéroports de Paris Group and the NGO 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Transparency International France on combating corruption. • Second three-year programme to prevent fraud (2012-2014) for Aéroports de Paris SA a responsible label Aéroports de Paris was awarded the «Responsible Suppliers Relations Label» in 2014. Since 2010, it has been a signatory to the Responsible Suppliers Relations Charter of the Minister for Economic Regeneration. This label, created on 20 December 2012, is awarded for a three-year period. Its framework is based on the ten charter commitments and on the list of 36 unfair market practices published in the Volot report in July 2010. Companies voluntarily enter the selection process to be awarded the label. The company requests that the company Vigeo conduct an evaluation and it draws up a convergence plan incorporating the evaluator’s recommendations. A joint awards committee decides which company will be awarded the label. Follow-up audits are conducted yearly to ensure that the best practices have been permanently incorporated by the certified company. 74 Corporate social responsibility — appendices socially responsible indices and rankings appendices We are listed on several national and international socially responsible indices and we were included in the Global 100 Index in 2012. Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) The Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Europe includes 200 companies considered leaders in CSR. It is based on ethical and sustainable criteria and provides a comprehensive perspective on the financial performance of the world’s leading companies in terms of sustainability for institutional investors. Aéroports de Paris has been on the ESI index since 2009 and was included in the Ethibel Sustainability Pioneer and Excellence Investment Register in 2013. Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 et Euronext Vigeo France 20 Aéroports de Paris has been on the Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 and Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 indices since 2012, and joined the Euronext Vigeo France 20 index in 2013. Vigeo Rating launched in November 2012 a new range of indices recognising listed companies that have given best performances in corporate responsibility: Euronext Vigeo World 120, Euronext Vigeo Europe 120, Euronext Eurozone 120, Euronext Vigeo France 120 and Euronext Vigeo United Kingdom 120. These indices have been established on the basis of a universe of companies belonging to the Stoxx 1800 index. Companies obtaining the highest aggregate score in their benchmark universe are eligible for inclusion in a Vigeo index. The Euronext Vigeo France 20 Index regroups the 20 most advanced French companies in corporate responsibility and the Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 Index regroups the 120 most advanced European companies in this area. The Euronext Eurozone 120 regroups the 120 most advanced European companies in the Euro zone in this area. MSCI World ESG et MSCI World SRI Aéroports de Paris has been featured on the MSCI World ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) Index since 3 June 2013 and on the MSCI World SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) Index since 1st June 2012. Our ranking went from AA to AAA in December 2013 and we are one of the top 3 in the «Transportation Infrastructure» grouping. Global 100 The Global 100 groups together the 100 most sustainable companies in the world. Companies are ranked with respect to twelve key indicators such as energy production, emissions, and investments in innovation. Aéroports de Paris joined the Global 2012 ranking in 2012, in 39th place, and rose to 14th place in 2013. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 75 opinions from stakeholders’ panel Since 2006, we have asked a panel of stakeholders to assess the quality of Factoring in the 2012 our Corporate Social Responsibility Report and our means of communicating comments our CSR strategy. The follow-up of suggestions and comments from In 2012, the stakeholders’ panel requested stakeholders from one year to the next illustrates our systematic determination that we provide clearer differentiation to continuously improve. Three women were asked to form the stakeholders’ between the various priority actions to panel in 2013. They deem that the report is comprehensive and contains make them easier to identify. We took this accurate and reliable information. Most of them believe that they have been suggestion into consideration when drafting represented in this report and that their opinions have been expressed this report. Pages 2 to 25 have been laid out transparently and accurately. However, one of the panel members who was a with numerous outlines, tables, graphics so little more critical found that the report was overly abstract on the company’s that the following subjects could be easily employment policy without sufficiently giving concrete examples. They all understood: believe that the 2013 report shows the continued efforts made over each year • the 20 focus areas to roll our corporate by the Company and marks an important milestone in the intensification of the social responsibility policy; Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. • our roadmaps and review; • the communication and dialogue tools The report’s strong points that we have developed for our various stakeholders; The readers found that the information was clear and pertinent and that • the inclusion of our stakeholders’ interest presentation of topics was balanced, to the point and comprehensive. in our projects; The report is easy to understand and well-presented and enables • the ongoing improvement of our comparisons to be made with previous years. Among strong points in 2013, governance. the stakeholders found that the document is enjoyable to read on the whole despite the density of the information. They like the straightforward format, the text flow, the relevant illustrations and a clean and simple layout. One METHOD reader finds that the 2013 report is a real educational tool making it easy to The report complies with the Global Reporting understand Aéroports de Paris’ CSR approach as well as the concept of a Initiative’s (GRI) authoritative third generation corporate social responsibility to those unfamiliar with this complex topic. management and reporting guidelines. She pointed out the relevance of the tables and graphics on the first few Collecting stakeholder opinions pages that provide an overall image of the company’s approach in connection Opinions were canvassed on four chosen with its stakeholders, its major challenges, its medium-term objectives and its areas, which are used as an analytical 2013 review. The general consensus was that the reader could easily grasp framework for the stakeholders consulted: the essentials and draw a conclusion from the items of interest to him or her • the relevance of the policies and actions as well as gain an overall understanding of the Group’s global approach. described; • stakeholder involvement, their Areas for improvement identification and the attention paid to their This year, the three stakeholder representatives suggested thee areas for expectations in the treatment of the topics; improvement. • factoring in performance in a long-term • Provide more information on the labour-management discussions by global view; reflecting the views of the employees or their delegates and explain • ensuring completeness to provide a wherever possible the reasons why decisions are made unilaterally when balanced performance assessment negotiations with the staff delegates and trade unions break down before (strengths and weaknesses). reaching an agreement. It is also recommended that greater emphasis be placed on the commitment of the people leading the community initiatives. Five quality principles underlying • Organise formal events to present the report to local authorities and also the report rely on the report to respond to any potential criticism that the Group, 1 – Balance: the various types of as is the case for all large companies. information must be able to be • Develop one or several plain-language versions broken out by topic. compared objectively. 2 – Comparison year on year. Factoring in the comments in the next report 3 – Accuracy: the information must be specific and detailed. We will carefully review the comments that we canvassed and will factor them 4 – Clarity: the information must be in as much as possible in our 2014 corporate social responsibility report. available, easy to understand and use by the stakeholder parties. 5 – Reliability: based on how it is compiled. MEMBERS OF THE 2013 PANEL • D elphine DESPREZ, a sustainable development leader at Cofely GDF-SUEZ • Christelle MARTIN, a sales agent at Aéroports de Paris and secretary of the «Force Ouvrière» trade union • Véronique SCHOENTJES-OLLIVIER, a regional development manager in charge of the CSR policy, La Poste Île-de-France. 76 Corporate social responsibility — appendices indicators reporting methodology appendices This report covers Aéroports de Paris’ activities from 1 January to 31 December VERIFICATION 2013. It has been based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) third generation OF THE MANAGEMENT management and reporting guidelines. This is co-led by the United Nations REPORT Environment Programme (UNEP) to harmonise the consolidation of data Pursuant to the French decree dated on sustainable development. These guidelines provide principles that help 24 April 2012 regarding the transparency organisations deliver a balanced and reasonable presentation of their economic, requirements of publicly traded companies, environmental and social performance (see page 80). the social, environmental and social responsibility information published Control and consolidation in our management report have been The Environment and Sustainable Development Division consolidates the verified by KPMG, appointed in November sustainable development indicators on the basis of data submitted by 2013 as the independent organisation the departments in question. In light of the different collection methods and in charge of verifying the data contained operating systems in the various airports, the scope of the reporting may vary in Aéroports de Paris’ management for certain indicators. report. KPMG reviewed the quantitative and qualitative data published in section Social indicators 4 «Social, environmental and social responsibility data» of Aéroports de Paris’ • For indicators of the number of employees at airports, the census has been 2013 management report, with a moderate carried out by the Trade, Employment and Training Observatories. level of assurance as set out in the report • Social indicators use a social reporting protocol that defines the applicable appearing in appendix 3 therein. scope and methods. The Human Resources Department sends them to the Environment and Sustainable Development Department. Environmental indicators • For the environmental indicators, Aéroports de Paris uses a specific reporting protocol to define the indicator and the scope and method of the calculation. For 2013, the frequency of certain environmental indicators has been adjusted year to year from October n-1 to September n and they are identified by an asterisk. • For air and emission quality indicators, the data is provided by the Aéroports de Paris laboratory, Cofrac-accredited and certified to ISO 9001, using methodological guides that include the instructions used. They are then sent to the Environment and Sustainable Development Department. • For aircraft emissions, the calculations have been made on the basis of a methodology established by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) for calculating the Landing and Take-Off (LTO) Cycle. • The transportation data is compiled from the surveys of arriving and departing passengers conducted by the Passenger Observatory. Community-based indicators • Night traffic data are collected by Aéroports de Paris. The «curfew exemption» data for Paris-Orly is collected from the French civil aviation authority (DGAC). • The indicator on «beneficiaries of employment assistance» (training, support, mobility assistance) is provided by AERO Compétences (see page 63). • For soundproofing aid indicators, the data comes from the review published in December 2013. CHANGES IN SCOPE For the presentation of financial statements, Aéroports de Paris Group has adopted a new presentation of its consolidated accounts with effect from financial year ended 31 December 2013. Pro-forma accounts for 2011 and 2012 have been drawn up in accordance with these changes. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 77 table of indicators Aéroports de Paris in figures Indicators 2011 pro forma (a) 2012 pro forma (a) 2013 GRI REF. AÉROPORTS Aéroports AÉROPORTS Aéroports AÉROPORTS Aéroports DE PARIS de Paris DE PARIS de Paris DE PARIS de Paris GROUP SA GROUP SA GROUP SA Revenue e millions 2,502 2,473 2,640 2,607 2,754 2,733 EC1 EBITDA e millions 981 na 1,036 na 1,075 na EC1 Net income: Group share/annual profit e millions 345 312 339 272 305 312 EC1 Investments* e millions 687 656 647 616 444 431 EC1 economic data Indicators 2011 2012 2013 GRI REF. CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL Number of companies in the airports number 656 238 75 969 663 255 71 989 nd nd nd nd EC9 Jobs at airports (excluding temporary) number 87,200 27,200 3,115 117,515 85,000 26,200 3,331 114,531 nd nd nd nd EC9 Compensation fund for airport 4.57 e millions 2.80 1.77 nd 4.57 nd nd nd 4.57 nd nd nd EC9 noise (FCNA) Aéroports de Paris Foundation: amount granted by the foundation e na na na 573,700 na na na 623,650 na na na 597,230 EC8 MARKET PRESENCE Passenger air traffic millions 61.0 27.1 nd 88.1 61.6 27.2 nd 88.8 62.0 28.3 nd 90.3 EC6 Number of aircraft movements thousands 506.9 228.5 nd 735.4 491.3 230.6 nd 721.9 472.2 229.6 55.5 757.3 EC6 employee-related data Indicators 2011 2012 2013 GRI REF. Effectif total moyen Aéroports de Paris number 6,879 6,851 6,836 LA1 Subsidiaries number 2,213 2,184 2,190 LA1 Aéroports de Paris Group number 9,092 9,035 9,026 LA1 Disabled workers (2) number 335 345 363 LA13 Average age (2) year 45.3 45.8 46.4 LA13 Proportion of women (2) % 38.3 38.2 38.1 LA13 HIRES AND DEPARTURES Permanent contract hires (1) number 263 320 188 LA2 Hires of under 25 years old (2) number 35 29 17 LA2 Departures all reasons (1) number 613 478 686 LA2 Promotion rate (2) % 5.9 5.2 4.8 LA2 Replacement rate 2.2 % 2.3 2.0 LA2 for permanent jobs (2) TRAINING Percentage of payroll spent on ongoing 5.99 % 6.6 6.01 LA10 training (2) ABSENTEEISM Absenteeism for 6.4 % 6.6 6.6 LA7 all causes (2) Absenteeism (2) hours 715,671 713,555 691,926 LA7 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WORKING CONDITIONS Accidents at work (2) number 114 141 137 LA7 Deaths (2) number 0 0 0 LA7 Accidents at work frequency rate (2) % 11.1 13.6 13.7 LA7 Accidents at work severity rate(2) % 0.6 0.75 0.8 LA7 societal data Indicators 2011 2012 2013 GRI REF. Participants in «Airport jobs» seminars number 268 305 222 SO1 Beneficiaries of employment assistance 5,793 number 2,002 2,972 SO1 (training, support, mobility assistance) *Investments in tangible and intangible assets excluding acquisition of subsidiaries (€668 million in 2012 for the acquisition of TAV Airports). (a) The Aéroports de Paris Group adopted a new presentation of its consolidated financial statements with effect from financial year ended 31 December 2013. Pro forma accounts for 2011 and 2012 have been drawn up in accordance with these changes. (1) for Aéroports de Paris Group. (2) for Aéroports de Paris SA. For further information see the notes to the consolidated financial statements available at www.aeroportsdeparis.fr. 78 Corporate social responsibility — appendices appendices environmental data Indicators 2011 2012 2013 GRI REF. CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CURFEW EXEMPTIONS (PARIS-ORLY) Number of exemptions number na 69 na na na 24 na na na 103 na na SO1 between 11.30 pm and 11.45 pm number na 45 na na na 15 na na na 32 na na SO1 NIGHT TRAFFIC BY TIME SLOT (PARIS-CHARLES DE GAULLE) 10 pm midnight local time number 27,922 na na na 27,126 na na na 27,930 na na na SO1 midnight 5 am local time number 21,062 na na na 20,371 na na na 21,066 na na na SO1 5 am 6 am local time number 10,226 na na na 9,847 na na na 9,651 na na na SO1 Total number 59,210 na na na 57,344 na na na 58,647 na na na SO1 NOISE Cases handled number 1,578 1,272 na 2,850 1,445 1,204 30 2,679 2,313 2,003 290 4,606 SO1 Soundproofed homes and premises number 1,762 1,292 na 3,054 3,131 1,820 30 4,981 2,835 2,187 425 5,447 SO1 Aid granted (1) e millions 21.2 19.0 na 40.2 32.7 20.8 0.45 54.01 38.7 28.8 5.8 73.3 SO1 AIR QUALITY, EMISSIONS AND WASTE Air quality at the airports Nitrogen dioxide rate (NO2) μg/m3 28 29 nd na 28 28 nd na 26.8 25.8 nd na / Particle rate (PM 2.5) μg/m3 19 19 nd na 14 16 nd na 15.4 16.9 nd na / Ozone rate (O3) μg/m3 41 43 nd na 40 44 nd na 37.9 39.5 nd na / Nitrogen monoxide rate (NO) μg/m3 11 12 nd na 11 13 nd na 11.4 12.0 nd na / Aircraft emissions CO2 emissions tonne 894,600 301,700 nd 1,196,300 878,071 298,838 nd 1,176,909 871,300 302,700 nd 1,174,000 EN17 NOx emissions tonne 4,225 1,241 nd 5,466 4,225 1,217 nd 5,442 4,237 1,235 nd 5,472 EN20 Plant emissions CO2 emissions (3) (a) tonne 93,318 10,708 3,849 107,875 107,913 11,743 4,162 123,818 76,088 10,637 4,216 90,941 EN16 NOx emissions (a) tonne 67,272 6,774 2,427 76,473 88 7 2 98 203 6 2 2,011 EN16 Vehicle Emissions CO2 emissions (b) tonne 1,458 1,177 263 2,898 1,766 1,067 251 3,084 2,390 1,211 265 4,072 EN16 ENERGY Share of renewable energy in our final % – – – 3.86 – – – 8.05 – – – 14.0 EN6 internal energy consumption (b) Thermal generation (2) (a) MWh 259,168 102,531 13,251 374,950 287,968 113,473 18,664 420,105 299,126 110,234 23,041 432,401 EN4 Refrigeration (2) (a) MWh 118,135 20,162 na 138,297 118,541 19,277 855 138,673 117,670 19,607 544 137,821 EN4 Portion of cogeneration in energy consumption designed to produce heat at Paris-Charles % 42.6 na na na 50.0 na na na 30.0 na na na EN4 de Gaulle (a) Total electrical power purchased per platform GWh 329 100 29 458 338 111 28 478 349 112 26 488 EN4 (internal + external) (2) (a) Internal energy consumption GWprimary 961 290 9 1,260 1,055 306 8 1,370 1,077 334.6 8.8 1,420.4 EN3 Aéroports de Paris (hot, cold, electricity) (b) energy Percentage of green electricity % na na na 0 na na na 0 na na na 30 EN3 in our electricity purchases (a) WATER Water consumption (2) (a) thousands of m3 2,406 492 84 2,982 2,359 519 96 2,974 1,919 580 74 2 ,573 EN8 Aéroports de Paris portion (2) (b) thousands of m3 1,252 309 13 1,574 1,238 322 14 1,574 1,075 381 14 1,470 EN8 WASTE HIW volume collected (2) (a) tonne 35,386 10,548 1,362 47,296 34,465 7,036 1,485 42,986 34,768 7,129 1,426 43,323 EN22 Aéroports de Paris’ internal NHW volume (2) (5) (b) tonne 9,440 6,051 nd 15,491 9,169 5,720 nd 14,889 9,242 6,029 456 15,271 EN22 Landfill (2) (5) (b) % 1 6 49 3.6 1 4 nd 6.2 9.5 9.7 9.4 9.5 EN22 Recyclable (2) (5) (b) % 22 20 23 21.7 23 22 nd 24.8 24.2 21.2 38.1 23.0 EN22 Incinerated (2) (5) (b) % 76 75 28 74.7 76 75 nd 68.9 66.3 69.0 52.4 67.3 EN22 HIW volume collected (2) (4) tonne 2,208 124 70 2,402 2,484 89 21 2,594 2,364 75 27 2,466 EN24 TRANSPORTATION Share of public transport for passenger access % 45.3 36.6 na 42.1 45.4 36.5 na 42.3 48.0 39.0 na 45.0 EN29 to airports na = not applicable; nd = not available. (a) Aéroports de Paris SA and some external. (b) Aéroports de Paris SA. (1) Amounts at 31 December 2013 do not include the potential increase in coverage rate for certain files. (2) For 2012 and 2013, data calculated from October n-1 to September n (refer to the methodological note on page 77). 2011 data have been calculate over a calendar year. (3) Volume verified by a third party. (4) Paris-Charles de Gaulle data over calendar year. (5) LBG data represents a volume of less than 1% of ADP SA’s volume. Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 79 GRI summary 1. Strategy and analysis FACTS 1.1 Statement from decision-maker p . 1 Description of impacts, risks p. 4-5, 8-13, 18-25, 31, 33-34, 36-47, 52, 55-57, • The  Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 1.2 and opportunities 72, 73 guidelines, version 3.1, have been 2. Organisational profile implemented using Application B. 2.1 Name of organisation Cover • This  application level has been the subject 2.2 Products and services p. 4-5, 48-57, 72 of external verification by KPMG Audit. 2.3 Operational structure p. 2, 4, 8-9, 14-19, 73 2.4 Headquarters Outside Back Cover 2.5 Countries of operation p. 2 and outside Back Cover 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Outside Back Cover, p.18 2.7 Markets p. 2-3, 4 2.8 Size p. 2, 4 2.9 Major changes p. 4-5, 14, 18-19, 72, 77 2.10 Awards received p. 2, 7, 28, 38, 39, 40, 50, 52, 55, 60, 75 Levels of the implementation 3. Report parameters of the report PROFILE OF REPORT MANDATORY OPTIONAL 3.1 Period 2013 3.2 Latest report 2012 Checked Checked Self-reported by a third 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual by the GRI party Mr Didier Hamon, 3.4 Contact person Group Secretary General 2006 Guidelines SCOPE OF REPORT C 3.5 Process of deciding on content p . 76, 77 3.6 Scope of report p. 2-6, 76 REPORT CHECKED BY A THIRD PARTY C+ 3.7 Limits of scope p. 2-6, 77-79 B 3.8 Principles of communicating data p. 77 3.9 Measurement methods p. 77 REPORT CHECKED BY A THIRD PARTY B+ 3.10 Reformulations and consequences p. 18-19, 77 A 3.11 Major changes p. 1, 14, 18-19, 77-79 GRI CONTENT INDEX REPORT CHECKED BY A THIRD PARTY A+ 3.12 Table of information location p. 80 VALIDATION BY THIRD PARTIES 3.13 Validation policy and practice p. 9, 77, 80 4. Governance, commitments and dialogue GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure p . 14, 18, 73 4.2 Chairman of the Board of Directors p. 73 4.3 Independence of the Board of Directors p. 18, 73 4.4 Supervisory procedures p. 18, 19 4.5 Scheme for executive compensation tied to performance p. 73 4.6 Managing conflicts of interest p. 18-19 4.7 Qualifications of directors p. 18, 73 4.8 Values, codes of conduct p. 8-9, 18-19, 57, 73, 74 4.9 How to manage opportunities and risks p. 18-19 4.10 Performance evaluation by the Board of Directors p. 18, 73 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS 4.11 Precautionary principle p . 8-9, 16, 18-19, 33-34, 40-41 p. 8 -9, 18-19, 30, 32-35, 40-41, 44-45, 47, 4.12 Charters, principles and other initiatives 52-53, 55, 57, 61, 63, 66-67, 68, 70, 73 4.13 Membership of associations p. 1, 19, 34, 44, 63, 66 DISCUSSIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 4.14 List of stakeholder groups p. 20-23 4.15 Selection of stakeholders for dialogue p. 76 4.16 Dialogue (frequency, type, etc.) p. 20-23 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 4.17 p. 10-13, 20-23, 24-25 engagement 5. Performance indicators p. 78-79 INFORMATION ON MANAGERIAL APPROACH – Economic performance p. 2, 4-5, 78 – Environmental performance p. 9, 11, 36-47, 78 – Employment, social relations and decent work p. 9, 10, 26-35, 78 – Human rights p. 8-9, 18-19, 26-35, 57, 62, 65, 70, 72, 74 – Society p. 9, 13, 58-70 – Product liability p. 9, 12, 48-57 80 Corporate social responsibility — appendices honours and awards in 2013 appendices February April April September Award for the best 2013 CSR Challenges Award 2013 Deauville Green Awards Dauphin d’argent at the sustainable development • Winner: Planèt’AIRport • Winner: Aéroports de Paris Cannes Film Festival and corporate social Programme video on sorting waste in • Winner: Aéroports de Paris responsibility report • Category: Stakeholder the passenger terminals video on sorting waste in • Winner: Aéroports de Paris dialogue. broadcasted over the the passenger terminals 2011 Corporate Social • Organiser: Nora Internet and the airport. broadcasted over the Responsibility Report. communications. • Category: best corporate film Internet and the airport. • Category: «companies not for ecology and sustainable • Category: corporate films. listed on the CAC 40 of the development. • Organiser: 2013 Cannes Film French stock exchange». • Organiser: 2013 International Festival. • Organiser: French National Film Festival at Deauville. Association of Chartered Accountants. September October November December The Grand Prix Stratégies/ Silver trophy for living The Marianne d’Or in Best customer service Amaury Médias du Luxe environment Sustainable development of the year 2014 Awards • Winner: Satellite 7 • Winner: Aéroports de Paris’ • Winner: Aéroports de Paris • Winner: Paris-Charles de in Terminal 1. Sustainable Development customer helpline, internet Gaulle’s digital advertising • Organiser: Fimbacte festival. Policy. and email services. via Chinese social media • Category: «state-owned • Category: airports. • Category: social media firms, public corporation and • Organiser: Viséo Conseil. device. public services». • Organiser: Stratégies/ • Organiser: Mariannes d’Or Amaury Médias. de la République française. Glossary, abbreviations and acronyms ACA: Airport Carbon Accreditation for economic information and réussite (program for primary PEB: plan d’exposition au bruit ACI: Airports Council International forecasts) and secondary student fostering (noise exposure map) Adapt: Association pour CCI: Chamber of Commerce and ambition, innovation and PGS: plan de gêne sonore (noise l’insertion sociale et development Industry achievement) pollution map) des personnes handicapées CCIP: Paris Chamber of Esat: Établissement et service PHMR: personne handicapée ou (association for the social and Commerce and Industry d’aide par le travail (establishment à mobilité réduite (people who are professional integration of the CDG: Airport Paris-Charles de in the protected worker sector) disabled or who have reduced disabled) Gaulle ETI: entreprises de taille mobility) Adife: Actions et développement CDM: Collaborative Decision intermédiaire (medium-sized RAR: réseau ambition réussite (a d’initiatives en faveur de l’emploi Making companies) priority education network) (actions and development of Ceevo: Comité d’expansion FCPE: fonds commun de RRS: réseau de réussite scolaire (a initiatives in favour of employment) économique du Val-d’Oise placement d’entreprise (corporate priority education network) Ador: Association pour le (committee for economic mutual fund) Sesar: Single European Sky ATM développement économique du expansion in the Val-d’Oise region) GIP: groupement d’intérêt public Research pôle Orly-Rungis (association for CHSCT: Comité d’hygiène, de (public interest consortium) Siepor: Syndicat intercommunal the economic development of sécurité et des conditions de Greta: Groupement d’études du pôle Orly-Rungis (joint Orly-Rungis) travail (committee for health, safety d’établissements locaux publics municipal research consortium for Afnor: Association française de and working conditions) d’enseignement (local educational Orly-Rungis) normalisation (French standards CIES: Comité intersyndical de organisation) SME: système de management association) l’épargne salariale (joint union Hub: interchange platform environmental (environmental Afpa: Association nationale pour employee savings committee) ISO: International Organisations management system) la formation professionnelle des CO2 : carbon dioxide for Standardization SMÉ: système de management adultes (national association for Cofrac: Comité français LBG: Paris-Le Bourget Airport de l’énergie (energy management adult vocational training) d’accréditation (French NOx: nitrous oxides system) AIR: an Association for Regional accreditation committee) OHSAS: Occupational Health and SMI: système de management Interest CRE: contrat de régulation Safety Assessment Series intégré (integrated management Anact: Agence nationale pour économique (economic regulation Oref: Observatoire régional de system) l’amélioration des conditions contract) l’emploi et de la formation (regional SO2: sulfur dioxide de travail (national agency for DGAC: Direction générale de observatory on employment and Survol: Health and environmental the improvement of working l’aviation civile (French civil aviation training) monitoring at the Roissy, Orly and conditions) authority) Parafe: Passage rapide des Le Bourget platforms ARD: Agence régionale de EA: entreprise adaptée (company frontières extérieures (fast border tep: tonnes oil equivalent développement (regional employing protected workers) screening facility) VAE: valorisation des acquis de development agency) Éclair (programme): PDIE: plan de déplacements l’expérience (validation of learning BIPE: Bureau d’information et de écoles, collèges et lycées pour interentreprises (inter-company through work experience) prévisions économiques (bureau l’ambition, Innovation et la travel plan) Aéroports de Paris — Corporate social responsibility report 2013 81 Aéroports de Paris 291, boulevard Raspail 75675 Paris Cedex 14 aeroportsdeparis.fr This airport is participating in Airport Carbon Accreditation A French public limited company (“Société Anonyme”) with a share capital of 296,881,806 – SIREN 552 016 626 RCS Paris – APE 52232 – Designed and produced by: Energograd – Written by: Anne Lombard and Aéroports de Paris – Artwork: Pascale Michon – Graphics: Laurent Rullier / comillus.com – Photo credits: © Aéroports de Paris with Éric Ancel, S. Aubry, Stefania Bator, Capa Entreprises, Regis Grman, © INA, Jean-Marc JOUANNEAUX, Grégoire Korganow, Sébastien Le Clézio – Hubstart Paris®, Mikael Lafontan and Olivier Seignette, Gil Lefauconnier, G. Picout, Nora Communication, Gilles Rolle/REA, page 40/© lesmariannedordelarepublique.com – Aéroports de Paris Special Printing Office. Tel: +33 (0)1 49 75 62 70 – Imprim’Vert® – Printed on PEFC-certified paper.
