2 14 Environmental and Social Report 2014 Environmental and Social Report (Previous issue: June 2013) Issued June 2014 (Next issue: scheduled for June 2015) Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/ For further information regarding this report, please contact the Public Relations Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3246-5091 Fax: +81-3-3246-5096 e-mail: sec-pr@shinetsu.jp Your opinions, inquiries, and requests regarding this report are welcomed at our website: URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#environment Table of Contents Editorial Policy Corporate The Group strictly complies with all laws and regulations, conducts fair business practices and The Environmental and Social Report provides information on environmental, safety and quality control programs and CSR Mission contributes to people’s daily lives as well as to the advancement of industry and society by initiatives carried out by the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report also Statement providing key materials and technologies. describes Responsible Care programs1 at the Shin-Etsu Group. The Report has been compiled in accordance with the Environmental 1 Corporate Mission Statement/Basic CSR Policy Accounting Guidelines 2005 and Environmental Reporting 2 Editorial Policy/Table of Contents Guidelines FY2012 released by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan, and the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 3 Message from Management The Shin-Etsu Group: Basic CSR 5 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group Period Covered by the Report 1 Policy (indicated where otherwise) 7 TOPICS : Will do our best to increase the Group’s corporate value through sustained growth and Japan: April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Shin-Etsu Group Products and Technologies that Contribute to Environmental Conservation Overseas: January 1, 2013 to December 31, 2013 make multifaceted contributions to society. Organizations Covered by the Report 2 The report covers the 145 companies of the Shin-Etsu Group. Management Structures The range of entities from which data were collected is in principle Will carry out all of our company activities by making safety always our utmost priority. as stated below. Where otherwise, this is indicated in a separate 9 CSR Promotion Structure note. 10 Corporate Governance 3 (1) Environmental Activity Report Will constantly pursue energy-saving, resources-saving and the reduction of the The report includes data from the 123 companies of 14 Compliance with Laws and Regulations environmental impact, and seek to help create a sustainable future world in which we all live the Shin-Etsu Group (an increase of 6). Compared to the coverage of the 2013 report, there is thus an expansion in scope 15 Information Asset Management in harmony with the Earth. and a difference in content. 16 Risk Management 4 63 domestic manufacturing bases Will endeavor to contribute to the prevention of global warming and the conservation of 114 domestic non-manufacturing bases (increase of 4) biodiversity by means of our cutting-edge technologies and products. 46 overseas manufacturing bases (decrease of 1) Environment and Safety Initiatives 57 overseas non-manufacturing bases 5 (2) Environmental Accounting Environmental Management Will strive to respect human dignity, assure equality in employment opportunities and Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 17 Environmental Management Promotion: (3) Management Structures, Relations with Society support the self-fulfillment of our employees. Shin-Etsu Group, except for the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group2 Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities 6 18 Environmental Accounting 1 Responsible Care program Will appropriately disclose information in a timely manner. A campaign encouraging enterprises that handle chemical 19 Environmental Initiatives substances to voluntarily ensure protection of the 23 Resource Recycling Initiatives 7 environment, safety and health in all processes, from the Will carry out trustworthy corporate activities that are based on the integrity of development of chemical substances through manufacture, 25 Initiatives for Biodiversity Preservation and Pollutant Countermeasures distribution and utilization to final consumption, disposal the Group’s ethical values. or recycling, to publish the results of their activity, and to Environment and Safety engage in dialog and communication with society. 27 Targets and Results 2 For a report on the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group, see “Shin-Etsu Safety Polymer Sustainability Report 2014” (to be published at end of September 2014). 29 Safety, Health, Process Safety and Prevention Plan Initiatives Global Compact Ten Principles The Shin-Etsu Group joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2010. The Group upholds the ten principles Relations with Society advanced by the UNGC in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 30 Results on the Results of the Shin-Etsu Group Social Responsibility Survey The Global Compact asks that businesses should: Principle 7: S upport a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 1: S upport and respect the protection of internationally challenges 31 Shareholders and Investors proclaimed human rights Principle 8: U  ndertake initiatives to promote greater 32 Customers Principle 2: M  ake sure they are not complicit in human rights environmental responsibility 34 Business Partners abuses Principle 9: E ncourage the development and diffusion of Principle 3: U  phold the freedom of association and the effective environmentally friendly technologies 35 Local Communities recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 10: Work against corruption in all 37 Employees Principle 4: U  phold the elimination of all forms of forced and its forms, including extortion and compulsory labour bribery Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition of child labour 41 History of Activities Principle 6: U  phold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 42 Responsible Care Audit of the Report * CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The idea that enterprises, rather than concentrating solely on profit, need to value their relationships with a wide range of stakeholders in the conduct of their business. For information on our Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy and UNGC participation, please refer to WEB GRI Guidelines Comparison Table http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#policy WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#environment 1 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 2 Message from Management Carrying out fair and transparent corporate activities, we contribute to the development of society through our key materials and technologies The Shin-Etsu Group as a materials manufacturer aims of the final products, as we implement comprehensive Participating in the U. N. Global Compact Contributing to local communities around to contribute to the development of society as we strive measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the world to meet the requirements of our customers with our Declaring its strong support, the Shin-Etsu Group production bases located in many countries. Putting • Recycling resources and protecting biodiversity signed the Responsible Care Global Charter of the The Shin-Etsu Group is conducting carrying out many our highest priority on safety and strictly complying T h e Shin Et su Group co ntinu e s to fo cus o n International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) different kinds of social contribution activities in with all laws and regulations is our basic policy for all of technological innovations, for both our products and in 2006. The Group has been actively supporting and countries around the world. One example of such our corporate activities. We are proactively addressing technologies. We endeavor to contribute to energy implementing these Responsible Care activities. In activities is the many staff members of Shintech Inc. important global social issues such as environmental savings and other savings as well as the recycling of 2010, the Group became a participant in the United in the U.S. who are participating in the activities of conservation. Through all our corporate activities, we resources in a wide diversity of fields. Simultaneously, Nations Global Compact ( UNGC) and has been non-profit charitable organizations. By such means, are continuing to make concerted efforts to support we are focusing on such important issues as the voluntarily supporting and practicing in its business the Group is deepening its trust relationship with the people’s lives, industry and society’s development. protecting biodiversity and the control of environmental operations and strategies the UNGC’s ten universally local communities in which it operates. In the future as pollution. accepted principles with regard to the four areas of well, the Shin-Etsu Group will sincerely and proactively Placing our highest priority on safety human rights, labor standards, the environment and address the issues with which society is seeking to deal Practicing fair and highly transparent the prevention of corruption. These principles are all and will continually make vigorous efforts to carry out All of our board members and employees carry out management in line with the Shin-Etsu Group’s corporate mission its corporate social responsibilities as a good corporate their work with safety as their highest priority. When and basic CSR (corporate social responsibility) policies. citizen. designing or modifying facilities, we consistently In order to implement strict internal controls, we have Going forward, the Shin-Etsu Group will continue to We sincerely hope that this Environment and incorporate a stringent safety assessments. In the put in place an internal control and audit system that uphold these commitments and will endeavor to build Social Report 2014 has provided you with a better manufacturing process, we set up work operation precisely meet the requirements of the Reporting an even stronger trust relationship with people around understanding of the extensive range of the Shin-Etsu procedures that ensure safety, and strictly adhere to System on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting the world. Group’s social contribution activities as it fulfills its role these procedures. Furthermore, we constantly work stipulated by the Japanese Financial Instruments and as a good corporate citizen. We would like to ask for on further improving our production technologies, and Exchange Act. In addition, we are making strong efforts your continued strong support in the coming years. at the same time, we continue to improve our facilities to assure the timely release of important information and work procedures, by keeping work manuals in to the public. Furthermore, we receive objective advice June 2014 good order, focusing on eliminating potential risks and supervision of management from an objective, in the workplace and doing everything possible to independent standpoint from our Outside Directors prevent accidents from occurring. In addition, when any and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, all employee feels that there is any risk in his or her daily of whom have deep insight and a wealth of business work, we immediately take action to eliminate the risk experience and knowledge. Moreover, we have made and release reports on such “close-call” incidents on our Auditing Department an independent organization our website. By sharing this information throughout the and have put in place a fair, strict and objective auditing entire company, we seek to further improve our safety system. practices. Strengthening our business continuity Multiple approach working to foundation protect the environment The Shin-Etsu Group is providing its customers with • Promoting environmental conservation and products that have very large shares in the world reducing the environmental impact market. For this reason, we consider the stable As we develop and improve the Group’s manufacturing supply of our products to our customers as our most technologies, the Group’s horizontally-organized important social mission. For quite some time we have technology committee regularly conducts studies from been implementing our strategy of geographically the point-of-view of environmental performance. In dispersing our production bases and diversifying our addition, we are making a strong effort to develop sources of raw materials procurement. We are also and improve products that will contribute to energy working to prepare in advance for such unforeseeable saving and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Also, events as natural disasters. we are carefully analyzing the quantity of our Group’s Chihiro Kanagawa, Ph. D. Shunzo Mori emissions from raw materials production to the disposal Chairman President 3 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 4 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group Contributing to the development of society through the product, sales force, production technology, and development capability that we have cultivated As of March 31, 2014, the Shin-Etsu Group comprises Electronics and Functional Materials Business; and Corporate Overview Shin-Etsu Chemical and 144 Group companies, which Diversified Business. In each of these fields, we have share responsibility for sales, manufacturing and other products with strong market share, with the world’s top Overview of Operations Number of employees (Persons) operations and cooperate to develop their respective share in polyvinyl chloride (PVC), semiconductor silicons, ■Consolidated ■Non-consolidated Trading name Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 20,000 17,892 business activities. photomask substrates for LCDs, and the top domestic Location 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 16,955 17,712 16,302 16,167 These business activities are divided into six fields: share for silicones. Established September 16, 1926 15,000 PVC/Chlor-Alkali Business; Silicones Business; Specialty Shin-Etsu products are a familiar part of our everyday Capital 119,419 million yen Chemicals Business; Semiconductor Silicon Business; lives and they play an essential role in society. Representative Shunzo Mori, President 10,000 Number of employees 17,892 (consolidated) 2,737 (non-consolidated) Business activities Production and sales of polyvinyl chloride, semiconductor silicons, silicones, rare earth magnets, synthetic quartz, 5,000 Technology, Materials, Products Chart cellulose derivatives and other products 2,647 2,656 2,695 2,692 2,737 0 Outstanding materials come from outstanding technology. The Shin-Etsu Group evolve into a variety of sophisticated Principal Shin-Etsu Group Companies 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 technologies developed in the process of creating products that meet ever advancing and diversifying needs. ● Domestic Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Engineering Co., Ltd., Nagano Electronics Industrial Co., Ltd., Naoetsu Electronics Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Astech Co., Ltd., and others ● Overseas Products Cellulose Shintech Inc., Shin-Etsu Handotai America Inc., S.E.H. Malaysia SDN. BHD., Shin-Etsu PVC B.V., SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG, Optical isolators derivatives Shin-Etsu Handotai Europe Ltd., Shin-Etsu Handotai Taiwan Co., Ltd., and others Oxide single Synthetic sex crystals pheromones, (Lithium Aroma Rating: Aa3 long-term debt rating received from Moody’s Investors Services Tantalate) Materials chemicals Pulp Rare Semiconductor Indices for Socially Responsible Investment Compound earths Acetylene encapsulatings semiconductors elements, Others materials Gallium Technology Epoxy Financial Highlights Single-crystal Organic Silane & Semiconductor Poly growing synthesis Silicon Silanes Net Sales (Billion yen) Operating Income (Billion yen) Net Income (Billion yen) silicon technology technology metal ■Consolidated ■Consolidated ■Consolidated Silicon ■Non-consolidated ■Non-consolidated ■Non-consolidated 1,500 250 200 Phenol derivatives 1,165.8 1,200 200 1,058.3 1,047.7 1,025.4 173.8 150 Rare earths, Powdering/ Electrolysis 916.8 149.2 149.6 157.0 Rare earth Rare sintering Photoresists 900 150 113.6 earths technology technology 105.7 magnets 117.2 100.1 100.6 100 83.9 553.9 602.8 579.0 559.5 594.7 600 100 76.8 80.1 Industrial 70.7 77.3 78.5 51.9 56.7 57.3 Silica 44.5 49.0 salt 50 300 50 Silicon Polymerization Chorides, CVD1&PVD2 metal technology Caustic soda 0 0 0 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2010/3 2011/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 Plastic & Film Boron Fluorine processing compound technology Pyrolytic Net Sales by Segment (Fiscal year ended March 2014) Net Sales by Region (Fiscal year ended March 2014) Silane Liquid boron Silane fluoroelastomers Diversified business nitride Molybdenum Chlorine & 94.1（8％） PVC/Chlor-alkali (PBN) Silicon Japan Fluorine Ethylene 427.9 （37％） Asia/Oceania Electronics and 335.6 （29％） polymers functional materials Consolidated Consolidated 332.3 （29％） Synthetic Silicones net sales net sales 171.0 （15％） quartz Overseas 1,165.8 1,165.8 Photomask Polyvinyl Semiconductor silicon billion yen billion yen United States blanks chloride 213.2 （18％） 236.8 （20％） Pellicles Other (PVC) 119.2 （10％） Silicones Europe Specialty chemicals 156.4 （13％） 141.9 （12％） 103.2 （9％） 1 Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) A process for forming thin films on a substrate, involving gas energized by thermal, optical, or electromagnetic radiation to cause excitation or decomposition, and involving steps such as attraction, reaction, and dissociation. Full details of Shin-Etsu Group companies Financial and IR information 2 Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) WEB WEB A method for forming thin films of material on a substrate, using originally solid substances vaporized by thermal or plasma energy. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/profile.html http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir/ 5 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 6 TOPICS Shin-Etsu Group Products and Technologies that Contribute to Environmental Conservation The Shin-Etsu Group not only strives to reduce its environmental impact during the product manufacturing stage, but also designs product with a focus on reducing environmental impact, energy usage, and resource usage during product usage. These products are used in a wide range of fields, including industry, daily life, and renewable energy. Silicones 1 Greenhouse Gas Reduction Effects ■ Fields in Which Silicone Use is Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions, and Major Silicone Uses The Group produces over 5,000 silicone products, Average GHG benefits of using used in familiar products used in daily life, such as CO2-kg/kg average silicone products silicone products Other 10 household products, automobiles, construction, and Silicones Production ●Anti-foaming agent in Paper production solar cells. While being put to each of their uses, these 0 Silicon metal Production ●Antifoaming in detergents products are contributing to reductions in greenhouse -10 Solar cells ●Polyurethane additives for thermal insulation in appliances gas emissions. Ratio production impact ●Silane for glass fiber coating Net abatement In 2012, we, together with other members of the -20 vs. average benefit ●Chlorosilane for solar cell grade silicon = ●Marine coatings global silicone industry, carried out a study of the entire -30 1:9 ●Other silicone market, examining silicone greenhouse gas -40 emissions and how much greenhouse gas emissions are curbed by the use of silicone, in comparison to -50 End-of-life effects silicone substitutes and alternative methods. The study Construction Automobiles found that the amount of greenhouse gas emissions 2 Examples of Greenhouse Gas Reductions ●Sealants windows IG unit ●Rubber in motor construction eliminated through the use of silicone was 9 times 1 The 54 million tons of CO2 greenhouse gas emissions cut each year ●High quality sealants & adhesives ●Green tires greater than the amount of greenhouse gasses through the use of silicone in Europe, North America, and Japan are ●Masonry water repellent Bricks ●Automobile bonding produced by the manufacture and disposal of silicone. ●Masonry water repellent Concrete ●Coating for car exhausts It also found that the use of silicone products in Europe, ●Polyurethane additives for thermal insulation in construction North America, and Japan has made it possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 54 million tons of CO2 per year. 2 Silicone used in automobiles, construction, and equal to the amount of Silicone products reduce greenhouse gas, solar cells account for the greatest share of overall greenhouse gas emissions produced by the heaters of thereby greatly reduce energy and material usage silicone greenhouse gas emissions reductions. Silicone is 10 million households contributing significantly to improved sustainability. per year Source: Silicone Industry Association of Japan “Silicone-Chemistry Carbon Balance” Global Silicones Council Silicone Industry Association of Japan WEB WEB http://globalsilicones.org/ http://www.siaj.jp/en/ Polyvinyl Chloride Rare Earth Magnets Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is a general purpose resin cast-iron pipes*1, PVC pipes have lower total carbonRare-earth magnets are roughly 10 times as strong For example, using rare-earth magnets in air that is less dependent than other types of resin on dioxide emissions*2 over their lifecycles, contributing to as conventional ferrite magnets, offering a great deal conditioning compressors can improve energy efficiency petroleum resources, being composed, by weight, of the prevention of global warming. of magnetic force despite their compact size. These by 5 to 10%. This cuts overall power usage, helping to roughly 40% petroleum and 60% chlorine, which is properties allow them to contribute to making motors reduce carbon-dioxide emissions. Rare-earth magnets found in abundance on earth. Its production has less *1 Ductile cast-iron pipe for hybrid and electric vehicles, energy saving air are also used in wind power generation motors, Pipes made of spheroidal graphite and iron. environmental impact than other types of resin, and conditioning compressor motors, and the like more contributing to the field of renewable energy. the production process uses only around 60% of the *2 Lifecycle carbon-dioxide emissions compact, lightweight, and high powered. Total carbon dioxide emissions for a product, from the gathering of raw energy used to produce other general purpose resins. materials, through the production, use, disposal, and recycling stages. Shin-Etsu rare-earth magnets WEB It is highly durable and easily recyclable, leading to its http://www.shinetsu-rare-earth-magnet.jp/e/index.html Source: Japan Chemical Industry Association “Lifecycle Analysis of Chemical widespread use in construction materials such as PVC Products in Japan and around the World”, third edition windows and water and sewage pipework. Vinyl Environmental Council website “Living with PVC Windows” PVC windows have superior insulation properties, and are resistant to fogging, making them mainstays in Japan Chemical Industry Association WEB developed nations in Europe and North America. Their http://www.nikkakyo.org/ use is also accelerating in China. In Japan, as well, they Vinyl Environmental Council are popular in mainly cold regions. Compared to ductile WEB http://www.vec.gr.jp/english/index.html 7 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 8 Management Structures CSR Corporate Promotion Structure Shin-Etsu Group implements various Governance Corporate governance is one of our most activities to fulfill its corporate social important management tasks responsibility CSR Promotion Initiatives Shin-Etsu Chemical aims to meet the expectations of monthly basis as a general rule. The Board of Directors shareholders by continually enhancing corporate value. sets out the Company principle and deliberates and The mission of the Shin-Etsu Group is “strictly to To achieve this, we formulated our Basic CSR Policy To this end, we have instituted an efficient structural makes decisions regarding key aspects of Company comply with all laws and regulations, to conduct fair and internal regulations, and are implementing various framework and systems designed to enable a more operations in accordance with the Companies Act, the business practices and to contribute to people’s daily CSR activities. In order to promote the Basic CSR Policy prompt response to changes in the business Shin-Etsu articles of incorporation, etc. Meanwhile, the lives as well as to the advance of society and industry by in an effective and appropriate manner at a companyenvironment. Moreover, Shin-Etsu Chemical accurately Managing Directors’ Meeting makes deliberations and providing key materials and technologies”. We believe wide level in all aspects of corporate activity, we have discloses information to shareholders and investors as a decisions on a variety of other operational issues. we have a social responsibility to contribute to our set up a CSR Promotion Committee comprising means of improving management transparency and The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of five many stakeholders, including all of our shareholders managers from the relevant divisions and departments, strengthening audit systems. members including three Outside Audit & Supervisory and investors, customers, business partners, local and have appointed an officer responsible for CSR. Board Members. As well as attending the Board of communities and employees, by realizing this vision. Board of Directors, Managing Directors’ Directors meetings, Managing Directors’ Meetings, and Meeting and Audit & Supervisory Board other important internal meetings, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members inspect documents and ■ Diagram of the Shin-Etsu Group’s Various Relationships Shin-Etsu Chemical has adopted an Audit & Supervisory carry out other tasks in order to audit the execution of Board Member system. The Board of Directors consists operations by the directors. Furthermore the Audit & Shareholders and investors of 25 members, of whom five are Outside Directors Super visor y Board Members also hold monthly with extensive management experience and a high level meetings with the Auditing Department where they of expertise. receive progress reports on activities, internal auditing Two organizations to discuss and decide on the results, and other matters. They also provide advice on execution of operations: the Board of Directors and the topics including these activities and the selection of key Customers IR activities Managing Directors’ Meeting, which are each held on a auditing topics, and request investigations if necessary. General Shareholders’ Meeting Dividend Business partners ■ Corporate Governance System at Shin-Etsu Chemical Product sales Material procurement Product safety General Shareholders’ Meeting Quality control Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Election/Dismissal Environmental management Employees Committee Report Audit & Supervisory Board Local contribution Human rights and employment Officers’ Remuneration Committee Auditing Five audit & supervisory board Local communities Board of Directors members of whom three are outside Process Safety and Education and training Chairman: Outside Director Election/Dismissal 25 directors, including 5 Outside Directors audit & supervisory board members Prevention Plan Welfare Safety and health Judgment of Advice and Requirements Accounting Audit Supervision, Election/Dismissal Adequacy ■ Outline of the Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy, and Our Activities Auditing Representative Directors Accounting Auditors Reporting The Shin-Etsu Group’s Corporate Mission Statement Reporting Basic CSR Policy Managing Directors’ Meeting Instruction Deliberation on operational issues, etc. Auditing Department Reporting Reporting Compliance with Laws and Regulations Auditing Information Asset Management Human Rights and Employment Instruction/Supervision Committees for each main management task Environmental Management Corporate Governance Contribution to society Investigation/Guidance Material Procurement Risk Management Safety and Health Marketing, Manufacturing, Research & Development and Management Departments Product Safety As of June 27, 2014 As of June 27, 2014 9 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 10 Management Structures Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Directors’ Remuneration Operation of Group Companies Supervisory Board Members The Officers’ Remuneration Committee, chaired by an In the spirit of respect for the autonomy of Group For the purpose of the fulfilled advisory and supervisory and are not former employees of our parent company, Outside Director Frank Peter Popoff together with three companies, Shin-Etsu Chemical works for their growth functions on management independently, Shin-Etsu subsidiaries, major shareholders or major business directors as committee members, meets regularly twice and development so as to promote mutual benefit in Chemical engages the Outside Directors and Outside partners. a year and conducts conference calls as necessary to the interest of the business development of the Group Audit & Supervisory Board Members listed below. Support services for the Outside Directors and review and assess directors’ remuneration and make as a whole. Since their appointment, the Outside Directors have Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are recommendations to the Board of Directors in Group companies are managed on the basis of the not only provided adequate supervision from an provided by staff from the relevant divisions. When a accordance with the Regulations of the Officers’ Shin-Etsu Chemical Group Company Operational independent perspective, but have also provided advice meeting of the Board of Directors or other important Remuneration Committee. Regulations. Companies with strong ties to Shin-Etsu across the full range of management operations from internal meeting is to be held, Outside Directors are Chemical in terms of capital, personnel, or materials the points of their broad view. The Outside Audit & informed in advance of the agenda and provided with Internal Control System and undertake prior consultation and submit reports to the Supervisory Board Members bring to the audits high an explanation of its content as necessary, in response Operational Audit parent company with respect to items such as capital levels of specialist knowledge and broad experience, to which they express opinions as appropriate. increase or decrease, merger, liquidation, amendment which contributes to maintain our company’s legal Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Shin-Etsu Chemical has formulated a Basic Policy on of articles of incorporation, proposal of draft budgets compliance system. Board Members who have been unable to attend a Internal Controls to help put in place “structures to and financial results, planning of new businesses or Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory meeting of the Board of Directors receive a report of ensure that the execution of duties by the directors is facilities, and business conditions. Board Members have a high degree of independence the meeitng in the form of the minutes. fully compliant with relevant legislation and the articles Furthermore, by holding meetings which are of incorporation and that other duties are performed attended by the presidents of our main Group appropriately”, as stipulated in Article 362, Paragraph 4, companies three times each year, we actively promote ■ List of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Item 6 of the Companies Act. sharing and exchange of information among Group Position Name Significant other positions held Internal controls are an important management companies. Outside Directors Frank Peter Popoff Former CEO, The Dow Chemical Company (US) responsibility at Shin-Etsu Chemical. Accordingly, the internal control system is structured and implemented Masashi Kaneko Former Director and Chairman of the Executive Board, former Nikko Cordial Corporation in accordance with the above policy. It is subjected to Director and Chairman of the Board, Ikyu Corporation constant review to make the system more appropriate Former Representative Director and President, Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation and efficient. Tsuyoshi Miyazaki Former Representative Director and Chairman, the above Internal operation audits and assessment of internal Adovisor, the above controls over financial reporting are handled by the Auditing Department. The results of these audits and Former Governor, Bank of Japan Toshihiko Fukui Outside Director, Kikkoman Corporation assessments are reported to board members including President, The Canon Institute for Global Studies Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to strengthen coordination between internal Former President, The University of Tokyo audit departments and Outside Directors and Audit & Hiroshi Komiyama Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Outside Director, JX Holdings, Inc. Supervisory Board. In addition, with respect to the Internal Control Outside Audit & Lawyer Report System for Financial Reporting applicable under Supervisory Board Taku Fukui Managing Partner, Kashiwagi Sogo Law Offices the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Members Professor, Keio University Law School Company’s Internal Control Promotion Team takes a Certified Public Accountant, Certified Public Tax Accountant leading role in implementing the internal control system Yoshihito Kosaka Partner, Grant Thornton Taiyo ASG in order to ensure the reliability and transparency of the Representative Partner, HIYU Certified Tax Accountants’ Corporation Company’s financial reporting. Former Representative Director, Chairman and President, former JASDAQ Securities Exchange, Inc. Kiyoshi Nagano Outside Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, LEC, INC. As of June 27, 2014 11 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 12 Management Structures Compliance with Laws and Regulations The Shin-Etsu Group strictly complies with laws and regulations Internal System for Timely Disclosure of Ensuring Full Compliance Awareness Initiatives Aimed at Preventing Corruption Corporate Information In order to comply with laws and regulations, The Shin-Etsu Group has created the Guideline on Fair In accordance with the regulations regarding Regulations on Timely Disclosure of Corporate compliance is incorporated into the Shin-Etsu Group's Corporate Activities and prohibits actions that involve information disclosure set by the stock exchange and Information and the Rules on Regulation of Insider Corporate Mission Statement and its periodical unfair transfer of profit from or to parties such as civil the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, ShinEtsu Trading, which are communicated to all Shin-Etsu management objectives as a means of working to servants and business partners. Moreover, by having a Chemical has formulated internal regulations regarding Chemical departments and Group companies to ensure compliance. Compliance Pledge, we assuredly prevent unfair collection, management, and timely disclosure of promote smooth operations. In the event of promulgation of or amendments to benefits or unfair demands in respect to our customers corporate information. These regulations include the legislation pertaining to corporate activities, the Legal and business partners. In addition, regular internal Department serves in a central role in issuing internal audits for corruption, embezzlement, and bribery are bulletins and disseminating knowledge of these carried out, and the status of compliance with ethical ■ State of the internal system for timely disclosure changes. In addition, to raise awareness of compliance standards is one item included in personnel evaluations. Collection and management of corporate information Timely disclosure of corporate information with laws and regulations, internal bulletins are issued to draw attention to violations of laws or regulations. Cutting Ties with Anti-social Forces Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members or Board of Directors Compliance Pledge/ The Shin-Etsu Group declares in its Basic Policy on Each Department Compliance Consultation Office Internal Controls that the Group shall adopt a Reporting Approval consistently resolute attitude towards anti-social forces Shin-Etsu Chemical Reporting Contact Contact Finance & Timely Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members and and shall take measures necessary to cut itself off from Office of Public Relations the President Department Accounting Department disclosure employees make a Compliance Pledge to the Company any and all associations with antisocial forces. In Person in charge of which represents their commitment as individuals to accordance with this policy, we will endeavor to Consultation handling information practice compliance in their daily work. For the develop internal systems under the leadership of the Group companies Relevant Decisions of the necessity eventualit y of inappropriate ac tion occurring, department in charge of managing these issues. departments and timing of timely disclosures disciplinary measures are available. Working closely with external organizations addressing We have set up a Compliance Consultation Office, these issues, we will strongly push forward initiatives which is available whenever required to provide aimed at eradicating anti-social forces through the consultations or accept notifications regarding signing of letters of confirmation and memorandums compliance. In accordance with the Compliance with business partners. Consultation and Notification Regulations, the Compliance Consultation Office maintains strict Export Control confidentiality to ensure that no employee consulting the office suffers disadvantage. The office then carries From the viewpoint of maintaining world peace and out investigations in response to the information security, Shin-Etsu Chemical complies with the Foreign received and takes corrective action where necessary. Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other exportNo employee suffers any form of disadvantage on the related legislation. To that end, the Internal Control grounds of having made a consultation or notification. Program on Securit y E xpor t Control has been established to classify categories of goods and implement screening procedures for customers and transactions. The Company also conducts internal audits and provides training and guidance for officers and employees as well as instruction to Group companies. Holding of Competition Laws Lectures Yasuhiro Maenaka, Legal Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical The Legal Department creates and examines various contracts, handles litigation, and engages in legal education and awareness cultivation. It is also focused on compliance with the Competition Laws, and has defined guidelines such as Competition Laws compliance guidelines and behavioral guidelines for overseas Group companies. Furthermore, it regularly invites lawyer and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Taku Fukui to give lectures on topics such as compliance with the Anti-Monopoly Act. 13 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 14 Management Structures Information Risk Asset Management We appropriately manage and protect Management We make preparations to counter the information assets risks surrounding the Company Initiatives for Information Asset Protection of Personal Information Risk Management Regulations our products are often used for highly specialized Management applications in cutting-edge industries. An interruption Shin-Etsu Chemical has established the Risk Management of the supply of these products would therefore have a The Information Asset Management Regulations have In order to properly protect personal information in Regulations, precisely defined the potential risks to the major social impact. been formulated under the Basic Policy on Information accordance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Company and the Group, created management systems The Company-wide Business Continuity Management Asset Management established to maintain the Information, we have established our Privacy Policy, related to preventing those risks and other matters, and Regulations have been established so the Company can confidentialit y 1, integrit y 2 , and availabilit y 3 of which is available on our website. set out how to respond to risks after they occur. fulfill its responsibility to supply important products even information possessed by the Shin-Etsu Group. These Moreover, the Group is making exhaustive efforts in in the event of a large-scale earthquake, explosion, fire, regulations stipulate how to protect, utilize, manage the appropriate handling and protection of the personal Risk Management Committee or other serious disaster. The Company establishes a and apply information assets. information of customers, business partners, and other business continuity plan and sets out matters such as Details concerning issues such as the handling, contacts through measures such conducting education According to the Risk Management Regulations, the operations management. Moreover, divisionspecific and management, retention periods, and deletion of all on laws and regulations and holding lectures regarding Risk Management Committee has been created and is plant-specific business continuity plans have been information regarding customers and business partners personal information protection during stratified chaired by a director in charge. It constructs risk formulated that take these matters into consideration. are set out in the Information Asset Management training sessions. management structures, establishes regulations, and Standards and the Trade Secrets Management works to identify and prevent potential risks arising in Systems in the Event of an Emergency Standards. In order to prevent unintentional leaks of Initiatives Concerning Intellectual Property connection with the operations of the Company. technologies due to business development into regions The Risk Management Committee also promotes In the event of an emergency, a Company-Wide with weak protections for intellectual property rights, In order to accomplish strategic business management broad-based activities in risk management areas such as Headquarters for Countermeasures headed by the we have formulated the Standards for Preventing centered on intellectual property, the Shin-Etsu Group busines s continuit y planning, educ ation, and Company president will be set up immediately in line Technology Leaks. has established the Basic Regulations for Intellectual information provision. The Committee reports directly with the Regulations of Disaster Countermeasures We also carry out training and implementation Proper t y, which set out regulations regarding to the Board of Directors, the Audit & Supervisory Headquarters. Below this will be set up Head Office related to the Information A sset Management acquisition, management, and application of intellectual Board, and the Managing Directors’ Meeting on major Supervisory Departments attached to the CompanyDepartment, regularly conduct checks of the status of property. In addition to protecting the Group’s issues. Wide Headquarters for Countermeasures, Division compliance with the Information Asset Management intellectual property from violation by third parties, Headquarters for Countermeasures headed by the Regulations and other regulations, and perform internal these regulations also require respect for the rights Business Continuity Plans relevant divisional general manager, and the audits. regarding all intellectual property of third parties. Headquarters for Countermeasures of the relevant plant Moreover, information in forms such as an annual The Shin-Etsu Group considers the supply of high headed by the relevant plant manager. 1 Confidentiality Information is to be protected from unauthorized users. report is disclosed to allow all persons involved with the quality materials based on superior technologies to be Under this system, each countermeasure headquarters 2 Integrity Group to have a precise collection of the status of the an important contribution to society, and regards and organization is responsible for implementing Information is to be protected from falsification, deletion, destruction and loss. 3 Availability Group’s intellectual property assets. ensuring continuity of supply as a major corporate emergency action procedures in accordance with Ensure authorized users have access to information when needed. responsibility. Many of the Group’s products have high predefined operational criteria and for taking measures to market share not only in Japan but also globally, and ensure continuity of business. ■ Risks Defined in Risk Management Regulations (1) Risk factors related to business activities (1) Business risks (6) Finance and accounting risks (11) Fraud risks Initiatives Concerning the Intellectual Property of Third Parties (2) Research and development risks (7) Personnel and labor risks (12) Country risks Seiko Funahashi, Yutaka Ishizuka, Patent Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical (3) Production and quality management risks (8) Environment and safety risks (13) Legal risks In order to take patents and avoid the infringement of the intellectual property of third parties, Shin-Etsu Chemical performs careful investigations of third-party intellectual (4) Sales risks (9) Information management risks (14) Other property before developing products or technologies or submitting patent applications. (5) Purchasing risks (10) Intellectual property, contract, and litigation risks We maintain a database containing all patents released inside Japan and abroad that we discover through these investigations. The information in the database is updated monthly (2) Risk factors not related to business activities through collaboration with the Industry Information Center, a Group company. This (1) Risks caused by economic factors (3) Risks caused by governmental factors (5) R isks caused by natural environmental database is used when considering the commercialization of new products or the factors and/or disasters submission of patent applications to confirm whether or not there exist any similar products (2) Risks caused by social factors (4) Risks caused by scientific and/or technical factors (6) Other or technologies which are the intellectual property of another companies. Similar initiatives are carried out by Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd. and other Group companies. 15 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 16 Environment and Safety Initiatives Environmental Management Promotion: Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities Environmental Accounting Environmental Environmental Management We are working to reduce the Management We quantitatively measure environmental impact of society as environmental conservation costs a whole by developing advanced and economic benefits technologies Environmental Management e nv iro nm e nt. We re co gnize t hat re s p o n ding Environmental Accounting Promotion Structure appropriately to all environmental laws and regulations in our product development and manufacture is In fiscal 2013, Shin-Etsu Chemical applied the pollution, environmental release of chemical The Shin-Etsu Group incorporates environmental paramount. The officer responsible for environmental Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 prepared by substances, etc.; energy-saving measures to conserve considerations into all aspects of its corporate activities, control and safety has overall company responsibility for the Ministry of the Environment, Japan, to calculate the the global environment; and waste reduction and with the aim of helping to prevent global warming and this area and is dedicated to earning our customers' investments and expenditures involved in reduction of recycling to improve reuse of resources. working towards the establishment of a sustainable trust. the environmental impact of air pollution, water society. We are striving to reduce greenhouse gases and other environment al impac t s as so ciated with Promoting the Reduction of production processes by setting ambitious targets and Environmental Impact ■ Environmental Conservation Costs in Fiscal 2013 (millions of yen) working towards clean production processes. As a key Category Details Investment Expenditure materials manufacturer, our staff in the three areas of Based on the Shin-Etsu Group's CSR Basic Policy, we Plant area costs: 1,621 8,368 research, manufacture and sales are working in unison promote the research and development of products (1) Pollution prevention costs Prevention measures for air, water, noise and other types of pollution 417 4,052 and are highly committed to the development and that contribute to energy-saving, resource-saving, and (2) Global environmental conservation costs Energy saving and global warming mitigation measures 930 2,571 expansion of products and technologies designed to the reduction of environmental impact. (See pages 7 8 (3) Resource recycling costs Waste reduction, recycling and other measures 274 1,745 reduce environmental impact. We see this as a means of this report) Upstream and downstream costs Green purchasing and container and packaging measures 0 53 of contributing to the conservation of the global Environmental management, environmental impact monitoring and Administration costs 0 379 environmental education measures ■ Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities Research and development costs Research and development of environmentally conscious products and 0 1,929 processes Social engagement costs Donations and contributions to environmental saving 0 17 INPUT OUTPUT Environmental remediation costs Assessment, handling and other costs related to environmental pollution 0 36 Energy Air Discharge of Water Total 1,621 10,783 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 4,447,000 CO2-tons Total Discharges of water: 190 million m3 2,433 million liters Ma nufa ct ure Soot: 40 tons COD: 4,774 tons (crude oil equivalent) NOx: 1,213 tons BOD: 635 tons ■ Economic Benefits of Environmental ■ Cost of Environmental Conservation (millions of yen) SOx: 197 tons SS: 615 tons Accounting in Fiscal 2013 Water ■Pollution prevention 17 36 Economic benefit Waste Chemical substance Details of benefits ■Global environmental 4,052 (Millions of Yen) 250 76 1,929 200 million m3 conservation 312 Amount of Waste Generated: 100,000 tons PRTR controlled substances1 Energy savings 591 ■Resource recycling 336 379 Amount of Waste Recycled: 64,000 tons Amount released: 177 tons Improved production efficiency 1,320 ■Upstream and 7 Fiscal 2013 Raw materials Waste Recycling Ratio: 63.8% Amount transferred: 829 tons downstream Fiscal 2002 Amount of Waste for Landfill: 1,700 tons Production process 1,224 ■Administration 5,186 53 10,783 Final Disposal Ratio: 1.7% Products Secondary materials costs 95 ■Research and million yen 2,544 million yen development 1,272 1,745 Reduction in waste treatment costs 38 ■Social engagement Profit from sale of valuable resources 145 ■Environmental 389 1 PRTR controlled substances remediation 2,571 426 substances designated as Class I designated chemical substances from the “Pollutant Release and Transfer Register in the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Total 2,093 Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management.” * In order to clearly define the reduction efforts, the average power CO2 conversion factor from 2000-2009 is used. * A s industrial waste standards and PRTR controlled substances vary from country to country, the figures shown represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s Japanese domestic operations only. * Waste recycling ratio indicates the ratio of an amount recycled to total waste generated. * Final disposal ratio indicates the ratio of an amount of landfill waste to total waste generated. Examples of Environmental Conservation Initiatives Carried out in Fiscal 2013 Treated Water SS Value Countermeasures The Shin-Etsu Group’s Promotion of Environmental Management The Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex is located upstream of reservoirs along the Tone river. Not only does the treatment of water used at the plant need to meet exacting discharge reguratory standards, but we are constantly engaging in efforts to further The Shin-Etsu Group has formulated a basic management policy for environmental safety that reflects our corporate principle of reduce the plant’s environmental impact. “Safety and Environment First,” and communicated this policy to all companies throughout the group, both in Japan and abroad, The treated water from the Gunma Complex meets a high level of discharge standards, but there was a period of SS value1 through Group environment and safety meetings. Group companies create improvement targets based on this policy, and use it to instability. In 2007 filtration equipment was installed to lower SS values and improves discharge treatment operation technologies. implement year-long initiatives. This resulted in the successful stabilization of treated water clarity. Group companies conduct several internal audits each year. During these audits, the validity of their targets is considered, and The filtration facilities were enhanced in order further to improve treated water clarity, and the new, upgraded system went into their progress in achieving them is confirmed in order to further raise the level of these initiatives. The contents and progress of operation from June 2014. these initiatives are also confirmed during the environmental safety audits which are carried out regularly for Japanese and overseas In the future, we will continue to reduce the amount of power and other energy required to treat water, conducting studies and Group companies. making improvements in order to produce treated water that falls far below discharge standards. 1 SS value Environmental Data Suspended solids. This number indicates how clouded water is. WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#houkoku 17 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 18 Environment and Safety Initiatives Environmental Initiatives Environmental Management The Shin-Etsu Group is addressing all issues that are relevant to realizing energy saving and mitigating global warming, including reducing environmental impact, protecting the environment and recycling resources Countering Climate Change Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Shin-Etsu Group’s Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions1 for fiscal 2013 were 3.745 million CO2-tons, Mid-term target Shin-Etsu Chemical reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity to 50% of 1990 level by 2015 amounting for 46% in the supply chain2. 1 Scope 3 released amounts Amount of emissions upstream and downstream from a company. Fiscal 2013 target: Achieve 1% average yearly reduction in energy consumption intensity 2 Supply chain Refers to all stages of a product from raw material production until it reaches the final customer. Fiscal 2013 results: Shin-Etsu Chemical: reduction to 58.5% of 1990 level (1.1% reduction from fiscal 2012), Shin-Etsu Group: reduction to 57.9% of 1990 level (5.1% reduction from fiscal 2012) Fiscal 2013 evaluation: Shintech Inc.’s energy-saving efforts and highly efficient operation contributed greatly to ■ Scope 3 Emissions of the Shin-Etsu Group by Category overall Group energy consumption reductions. Category 5 Shin-Etsu Chemical’s energy-saving efforts are also contributing, producing positive results Waste Generated in Operations 80,000 CO2-tons Category 10 Fiscal 2014 target: Achieve 1% average yearly reduction in energy consumption intensity Category 4 Category 9 Processing of Sold Products Downstream Transportation Upstream Transportation and Distribution and Distribution 686,000 CO2-tons Category 1 As a result of the productivity, heat recovery and yield improvements of the entire Shin-Etsu Group, Group-wide Purchased Goods and Services Category 11 production volume of the reference product increased by 8.3% versus fiscal 2012, but greenhouse gas emissions 2,301,000 CO2-tons Use of Sold Products decreased by 0.5%. Scope 1 1,355,000 CO2-tons Category 2 Scope 2 Capital Goods 3,092,000 CO2-tons Category 12 243,000 CO2-tons End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products Category 3 * Due to category content revisions, Fueland Energy-Related Activities Category 8 emissions calculated as pertaining to Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 Category 6 Category 7 Upstream Leased Assets Category 9 in fiscal 2012 are now included ■ Changes in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 406,000 CO2-tons Business Travel Employee Commuting ■Supply Chain Upstream in Category 4. The degree of reduction in 10,000 CO2-tons 20,000 CO2-tons ■ Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) Relative to Fiscal 1990 Levels ■Supply Chain Downstream Category 8 is extremely minor, so it has been omitted from calculations. Environmental Data Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2007 (%) Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Group) WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#houkoku (Million liters) (% index of GHG emissions intensity) 4,000 100 182 100 168 161 158 146 Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu Plant Energy Saving Example Award for Raw Material Transportation Modal Shift 3,000 85 112 2,426 2,433 2,282 71.2 The Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu Plant uses electrolysis to Shin-Etsu Chemical, together with companies such as the 100 2,007 69.2 2,000 1,884 67.1 66.0 produce caustic soda, chlorine, and hydrogen from salt Japan Freight Railway Company and Japan Oil Terminal 70 64.2 63.0 68.8 57.9 water, but this electrolysis requires a large amount of Company, Ltd., was awarded the Ministry of Land, 1,788 1,750 66.2 66.1 61.6 60.6 power. The plant has therefore implemented various Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Deputy Vice1,000 55 59.6 58.5 50 energy saving initiatives. Minister for Logistics Award at the 12th Green Logistics 2015 target Its transition in May 2014 to cutting-edge energyPartnership Meeting, and the Japan Federation of Freight 0 40 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 saving equipment is predicted to reduce the amount of Industries Logistics Environment and Safety Activity power used annually in electrolysis processes overall by Award. ■ Detailed Chart of Energy Consumption by Energy approximately 12%. This is the equivalent of 3,700 tons In the past, the methanol used by Shin-Etsu's Gunma ■ Greenhouse Gas Emission Volume Trends Type (converted to heat quantity) of carbon dioxide per year. Complex was transported from Kawasaki City, Kanagawa The plant is also striving to reduce overall power Prefecture, by trailer. The awards recognized Shin-Etsu's Unit: peta joule Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2007 (%) usage and normalize overall power demand by timereductions in carbon dioxide emissions by switching over (Thousands of CO2-tons) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 shifting power usage and peak shaving1 during the to using trains to transpor t the methanol to the 6,000 165 Natural Gas 12.9 15.5 18.3 20.3 24.1 24.2 21.1 summer, when power demand is high. immediate vicinity of the plant. 155 148 145 4,500 136 Heavy Oil A + Heavy Oil C 2.6 1.1 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.3 4,470 4,447 SCOPE 1 107 4,269 100 LPG + LNG 2.2 1.4 1.9 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.6 3,581 3,794 3,000 Other 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.7 0.8 3,626 3,372 1,500 Purchased Electric Power 43.3 42.3 45.2 48.3 55.6 61.3 64.7 SCOPE 2 1 Peak shaving Purchased Steam 6.9 6.3 6.0 6.1 5.8 5.6 5.6 Monitoring power demand and curbing power usage during peak 0 power demand hours. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 69.1 67.6 72.8 77.6 88.2 93.8 94.1 19 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 20 Environment and Safety Initiatives Waste Reduction Protection of Water Resources and Reduction of Water Pollutants The Shin-Etsu Group is aiming to reduce water withdrawals intensity, and to reduce the discharge of water pollutants. Fiscal 2013 target: Achieve zero waste emissions (landfill waste 1% or less of all waste generated) Target values in this area are set by each Group company. Although production volume increased in fiscal 2013, water Fiscal 2013 results: Shin-Etsu Chemical achieved a landfill waste ratio of 1.70% (0.53% increase from fiscal 2012), withdrawals, circulated water recycling rates, and amount of discharge of water remained approximately constant. and Shin-Etsu Group companies in Japan achieved 1.74% (0.40% increase from fiscal 2012). Group companies also perform water quality analysis to ensure strict compliance with all legal regulations. Fiscal 2013 evaluation: T he increasing of recycling volume and reductions in final disposal waste of group companies in Japan are positive developments. Fiscal 2014 target: Achieve zero waste emissions ■ Water Withdrawals Trends Rainwater Utilization In fiscal 2013 recycling volume by Group companies inside Japan increased by 7.9%, and the amount of final disposal Water Withdrawals Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2007 (%) Akihito Tsukuno, Asia Silicones Monomer Limited (million m3) waste decreased by 10.6%. Since most of the waste is processed by outside contractors, we also periodically check their 400 141 140 sites to ensure proper handling of waste. 136 Calls are increasing for the protection of the world’s 123 We will continue and expand our exploration of ways to re-use and recycle waste, with the aim of achieving the goal 300 116 water resources, and since its foundation Asia Silicones 100 103 Monomer Limited has been making effective use of the of zero waste emissions 200 200 200 plentiful rainfall it enjoys in its location in Thailand. 200 193 180 174 171 It stores rainwater in storage tanks on-site, using it for industrial water and as coolant for waste gas incinerator. 100 It always maintains a reserve of rainwater for use in fire fighting in the event of an emergency. It also supplies ■ Waste Handling Flow ■ Amount of Waste Recycled Group company Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand and its 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 nearby partners with rainwater for uses such as industrial Amount of Waste Recycled Waste Recycling Ratio (%) (thousand tons) water. Internal 200 ■ Amount of Water Recycled Trends Waste generated: 99,600 tons 70.6 Amount of Water Recycled Recycling Water Ratio (%) 150 66.9 68.2 64.4 65.8 65.0 63.8 (million m3) Incinerated 4,000 24,200 tons 100 91.2 85.1 91.0 90.9 90.9 91.0 85.7 80.0 88.3 90.2 90.6 72.8 3,000 59.0 63.6 Amount of waste recycled: 50 500 tons 1,989 1,991 2,024 2,000 1,743 1,741 1,590 1,449 0 Amount of internal 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1,000 landfill disposal 700 tons 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 External Amount of waste processed by outside contractors: ■ Amount of Waste for Landfill (Shin-Etsu Chemical) ■ BOD Emission Volume Trends 74,200 tons Amount of Waste for Landfill Final Disposal Ratio (%) Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2007 (%) (thousand tons) (tons) Waste reduction 4 1,000 (incineration, dehydrating, etc.): 3.37 157 10,100 tons 153 116 3 750 111 2.56 100 102 635 Amount of external 96 landfill disposal: 2.23 573 2.75 2.04 1.97 1.91 491 1,000 tons 2 1.70 500 409 434 2.00 362 383 Amount of waste recycled: 1.54 1.54 1 1.17 250 63,100 tons 1.26 1.03 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Because standards applicable to waste differ by country, only data for group companies in Japan are given. 21 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 22 Environment and Safety Initiatives Resource Recycling Initiatives Environmental Management We are using cutting-edge technologies to create a recycling-oriented society Many products are thrown away after use, But the Shin-Etsu Group strives to use limited resources efficiently and engage in recycling, achieving sustainable resource circulation. Our Group collaborates with customers and related industry groups, using cutting-edge technologies to recover products, extract resources, and reuse them in our products. Not only do these initiatives make it possible to reduce the waste output of our customers and the Group itself, but they also contribute to resource and environmental conservation. Rare-Earth Magnet Resource Recycling Rare-Earth Magnet Resource Recycling Process Recycling of PVC Products Rare earth is the primary material used in the rare-earth Initiatives for the recycling of products containing PVC magnets used in the motors of energy-saving air are making progress. There are various methods for conditioners, hybrid cars, electric vehicles, and the like. recycling PVC, the most common of which is material The Shin-Etsu Group uses separation and refinement recycling. technology to extract rare earth from rare earth ore as Material recycling uses PVC products as raw Rare earth ore part of its unified system for producing rare earth materials to create new PVC products. PVC pipes, magnets from raw materials. However, reserves of rare Scrap collection flooring materials, and other PVC products have low earth are limited, and mines are concentrated in specific Rare earth separation and refinement plant levels of foreign substance contamination, making them areas, creating procurement risks. Some rare earth ore especially suited for material recycling, of which there mining methods can also damage the environment in are various types. In particular, 60% of PVC pipes and the area surrounding the mine. joints are recycled for use in new PVC pipes and joints, Since 2007, the Group has recycled the scrap and 70% of agricultural film is recycled for use in produced in the process of manufacturing rare-earth flooring material. magnets. These technologies have been further developed, and since March 2013 the Group has engaged in business operations in which rare-earth Examples of Recycling of PVC Products magnets are recovered from disposed of energy-saving Rare-earth magnet material processing Rare-earth magnet processing air conditioners and hybrid cars, the rare earth is extracted, and reused as the main raw ingredient in new rare-earth magnets. As a result, the rare earth waste recycling ratio was approximately 20% in fiscal 2013. Hybrid cars and electric vehicles use a large PVC amount of rare-earth magnets, and the Group expects to further increase this waste recycling ratio by reclaiming rare-earth magnets from their motors when the products have reached the ends of their product lives. Rare earth recycling also produces less carbon dioxide emissions than using separation and refinement to produce rare earth magnets from rare earth ore Rare earth Rare-earth magnets taken from mines, and thereby contributes to the Agricultural film PVC pipes and joints prevention of global warming. Photo provided by Achilles Corporation These initiatives have made it possible to protect the 70% 60% value resource of rare earth, as well as the surrounding environment. As recyclable products, rare-earth magnets create significant economic and social value. Final product collection Flooring material PVC pipes and joints Source: Vinyl Environmental Council Rare earth separation and refinement plant Vinyl Environmental Council WEB http://www.vec.gr.jp/english/index.html 23 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 24 Environment and Safety Initiatives Initiatives for Biodiversity Preservation and Pollutant Countermeasures Environmental Management We are engaged in biodiversity preservation initiatives as part of our responsibility as a chemical company Conservation of Biodiversity Prevention of Soil Pollution The Shin-Etsu Group aims for environmentally considerate product design starting already from the product development Groundwater and soil monitoring at each plant is being carried out in accordance with the Soil Contamination stage. At the same time, we are also meeting our responsibility as a chemical company by working actively to ensure strict Countermeasures Act as necessary. control of chemical substances, mitigate global warming, reduce energy consumption, reduce the amount of waste No soil pollution has occurred at any Shin-Etsu Group company. generated, prevent water pollution, and make other environmental contributions. We are also engaged in activities such as scenic improvement and tree-planting in areas neighboring our plants. Furthermore, we request that our business partners implement environmental conservation initiatives concerning forest conservation and similar activities. Initiatives for Reducing Emissions of Substances Governed by Environmental Regulations Control of Chemical Substances The manufacturing processes used by the Shin-Etsu Group do used as a raw material in electrolysis process. not discharge waste water or waste gas byproducts as-is into This manufacturing process also creates water with high The overall amount of PRTR controlled substances released has decreased by 2.3%, and the amount transferred has the atmosphere or rivers, instead extracting substances which BOD values, containing organic compounds. This waste water increased by 2.0%. can be used as fuel or raw materials, thoroughly recycling is treated by anaerobic water treatment equipment 1, them and rendering them harmless before eliminating them. separating most of the organic compounds in the waste water Below are some examples. into methane gas and carbon dioxide. The methane gas is ■ PRTR Controlled Substance Total Release Trends ■ PRTR Controlled Substance Total Amount The cellulose derivative manufacturing processes of the then used as fuel for the plant's boilers. The amount of Transferred Trends Released amount Transferred amount Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu Plant use caustic soda to process methane gas produced each year is equivalent to 3 million (tons) (tons) pulp created from trees. The result then undergoes reactions liters in crude oil equivalent, and accounts for 20% to 30% of 300 1,000 890 with chemicals such as methyl chloride to produce cellulose the fuel used by the boilers. 813 829 776 derivative products. The waste water discharged from the anaerobic water 214 750 720 200 191 661 The waste gasses created by this process contain treatment equipment contains some undecomposed organic 175 181 177 167 157 518 environmental pollutants such as VOC and PRTR controlled compounds, so it undergoes additional treatment using 500 substances. The processes also create water with a high aerobic water treatment equipment 2, purifying it to BOD 100 concentration of salt. These waste products are incinerated, levels below discharge reguratory standard levels before 250 producing a gas consisting of carbon dioxide and water vapor. discharging it. The waste water is highly concentrated salt water, which is 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Anaerobic water treatment equipment * The figures shown represent the aggregated data from the Shin-Etsu Group’s Equipment which processes water containing high concentrations of organic substances by closed it in an oxygen-free environment and using bacteria which do not require Japanese domestic operations only, based on the Act on Confirmation, etc. of oxygen to break the organic substances down into substances such as methane gas. Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and 2 Aerobic water treatment equipment Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof and the PRTR. Equipment which uses bacteria which require oxygen to break organic substances down into carbon dioxide and water. Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu Plant Prevention of Air Pollution Cellulose derivative The Shin-Etsu Group is working to reduce emissions of air pollutants. Target values in this area are set by each group Cellulose derivative manufacturing process company. The increase in production in fiscal 2013 was accompanied by an increase in releases of soot and sulfur oxide (SOx). Reduce to below VOC and PRTR controlled Pulp processing Group companies perform gas emissions analysis regularly and have confirmed that they are in compliance with all legal substances regulation levels regulations. Waste gas (including VOC and Caustic soda PRTR controlled substances) ■ Soot Emissions Trends ■ SOx Emissions Trends Salt water Electrolysis Chlorine Chloromethane Methyl process process chloride Soot Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2007 (%) SOx Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2007 (%) Highly concentrated salt water Incineration (tons) (tons) 80 2,000 Boiler incineration Discharge 100 Methane gas, etc. 124 140 Water, 118 112 110 carbon dioxide, 60 100 102 1,500 High BOD discharged water Aerobic water etc. Anaerobic water treatment 43 Low BOD discharged water 40 39 40 56 treatment 40 1,000 33 31 33 979 44 37 Reduction of BOD to below 32 476 regulation levels 20 500 24 24 286 281 239 172 197 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 25 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 26 Environment and Safety Initiatives Targets and Results Environment and Safety We are engaged in various activities in accordance with responsible care codes Every year the Shin-Etsu Group creates environmental and safety management plans based on Responsible Care codes. The entire Group works as one on key initiatives such as “environmental preservation,” “prevention of major disasters such as explosions or fires,” and “prevention of work accidents.” ■ Fiscal 2013 Targets, Implementation Status, Evaluation, and Fiscal 2014 Targets Environment Safety Item Major Fiscal 2013 Target Fiscal 2013 Implementation Status Evaluation Major Fiscal 2014 Target Item Major Fiscal 2013 Target Fiscal 2013 Implementation Status Evaluation Major Fiscal 2014 Target 1) Zero environmental accidents • Achieved target of zero environmental accidents ◎ Zero environmental accidents •Achieved target of zero serious accidents (target 1) Zero serious accidents ◎ Zero serious accidents achieved) Process Safety and Prevention Plan •Continued strict compliance with environmental 2) Thorough environmental emission regulations and comprehensive maintenance ◎ Thorough environmental management •Continued risk assessment of key facilities, and management and management of environmental facilities implementation of preventive measures 2) Risk assessment of facilities and •Risk assessment of process abnormal conditions Environmental conservation •High efficiency equipment was installed and waste processes, and implementation ○ Facility and process safety improvements 3) Promotion of energy savings (intensity unit1 reduction of 1%) water reclamation was performed, but the target △ Promotion of energy savings of preventive measures which could lead to emergency shutdowns intensity unit reduction of 1% was not achieved •Promotion of documentation of design concept and 4) Reducing greenhouse gas •Shin-Etsu Chemical reduction to 41.5% of 1990 level. other technologies ○ Reducing greenhouse gas emissions emissions Shin-Etsu Group reduction to 42.1% of 1990 level 3) Improvement of facilities and •Carried out periodical inspections and maintenance Improvement of facilities and maintenance ○ •Landfill waste to total waste ratio of 1.7% maintenance management of aging facilities management 5) Reduce waste •Reduced amount of PRTR controlled substances △ Reduce waste •Establishment of step-by-step emergency measures transferred to the environment 4) Reliable emergency response and judgment criteria ○ Reliable emergency response 6) Reduced emissions of •While overall production volume increased, NOx •Implementation of emergency drills Reduced emissions of substances causing water substances causing water emissions and SS discharge were reduced, and COD ○ •Shin-Etsu Chemical achieved target of zero incidents pollution or air pollution pollution or air pollution levels remained unchanged requiring an absence of a day or more 1) Zero incidents requiring an 7) Reduction in water withdrawals •While overall production volume increased, water ○ Reduction in water withdrawals absence a day or more •Group-wide, there were four incidents requiring an △ Zero incidents requiring an absence a day or more withdrawals remained unchanged absence of a day or more, including two serious accidents •Thorough management of permitted production 1) Thorough new chemical volume (confirmation volume) and production results •Shin-Etsu Chemical achieved its target rate (0.5 or Chemical substance management ◎ New thorough chemical substance management 2) Rate of incidents not less) of incidents not accompanied by an absence of a Rate of incidents not accompanied by an absence substance management •Communication of reporting of harmful substance accompanied by an absence a day or more (target not achieved by Group △ a day or more: 0.5 or less information, etc., at time of acquisition day or more: 0.5 or less companies) •Strict compliance with and response to revisions in the Chemical Substances Control Law2, Industrial •Implemented hazard prediction training, pointing2) Compliance with legal and other Safety and Health Law, PRTR Law3, Poisonous and and-calling safety procedures, and 5S1 activities Compliance with chemical substance control Occupational Safety requirements for chemical Deleterious Substances Control Act. ◎ 3) Promote “zero incidents” drive •Promoted close-call incidents reporting and ○ Improve work safety related laws and regulations, etc. substance control improvement suggestions •Strict compliance with other overseas laws and regulations •Applied past incidents examples 3) Information disclosure on •Information provision and awareness-raising 4) Review and reorganize •Manuals regularly revised based on plans Review and reorganize operation manuals and harmfulness of chemical regarding substances being handled contractors and ○ Information disclosure on harmfulness of chemical operation manuals and ensure ○ substances •Verified manual compliance ensure strict compliance substances subcontractors strict compliance 5) Work risk assessment and •Identified individual work risks and implemented risk ○ Work risk assessment and preventive measures 1 Intensity unit preventive measures reduction measures A measure calculated from the production volume of a reference product. •Created clear work instructions and manuals for 2 Chemical Substances Control Law 6) Construction and non-routine Construction and non-routine work safety non-routine work, thoroughly implemented hazard ○ Short for “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” A law intended to prevent environmental pollution by chemical substances that can work safety measures measures prediction training (rigid enforcement of 3 Key Items) be harmful to human health or to ecosystems. 3 PRTR Law •Carried out skill training and sensitivity improvement 7) Training and drill promotion ○ Training and drill promotion Short for “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof.” A law hands-on training, promoted obtention of qualifications intended to promote improved self-directed control of chemical substances by business operators, in order to prevent the risk of damage to the environment. •Revised safety collaboration system * Responsible Care Codes: codes setting basic conditions for the implementation of Responsible Care in six areas: environmental preservation, process safety and prevention plan, 8) Ensuring subcontracting safety •Disclosed information on hazards and harmful ○ Ensure subcontracting safety occupational safety and health, chemical and product safety, distribution safety, and social dialog (with the public). Alongside conditions in these areas, a Management System Code to substances operate all the above is required. •Carried out working environment measurements and 1) Create and maintain Occupational health promoted creation of appropriate working environments Create and maintain comfortable workplace comfortable workplace ◎ •Implemented hazardous chemical substance handling environment environment training and ensured strict work manual compliance •Used and provided follow-up for health checkup 2) Promote physical and mental results ○ Promote physical and mental health wellbeing health wellbeing •Promoted health improvement programs •Promoted mental health well-being programs 1 5S activities Seiri (sort), seiton (straighten), seiso (shine), seiketsu (sanitize), and shitsuke (sustain). The name “5S” comes from the fact that the first letters of each word begin with “s.” 27 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 28 Environment and Safety Initiatives Relation with Society Safety, Health, Process Safety and Prevention Plan Initiatives Report on the Results of the Shin-Etsu Safety By formulating thoroughgoing safety Group Social Responsibility Survey measures and devoting efforts to daily education and training, we ensure the In November 2013, Shin-Etsu carried out a survey on social responsibility in order to create more positive relations with all ability to respond to any situation those involved with the Shin-Etsu Group. The survey was administered to the main companies and individuals who have relationships with the Shin-Etsu Group. It had them evaluate whether they believed that our Group engaged in business activities rooted in the Group’s Safety and Health Environmental Control and Safety Audits Corporate Mission Statement and Basic CSR Policy, asked their opinions on our products and their quality, and had them evaluate our personnel, as well as requesting their opinions on our 2013 Environmental and Social Report. (58 survey The Shin-Etsu Group performs risk assessment To check that activities directed at environmental requests were issued, and 56 responses were received) activities aimed at identifying various latent workplace conservation, occupational health and safety, and The valuable opinions shared with us will be used in our Group’s future CSR activities and environmental and social risks, improving work safety. We share information, process safety and prevention plan are implemented to reports. both on a company internal basis and with outside best effect at each plant, comprehensive environmental parties, about close-calls experienced by workers safety audits, and special audits on selected themes are through close-call incident and safety concern reports, carried out annually. General Questions implementing countermeasures for unsafe locations. We are also focused on implementing safety Accident and Disaster Reporting (1) O verall, do you think our company engages in (2) What is your overall impression of our company? measures, such as pre-work hazard prediction activities business activities based on our Corporate Mission and pointing-and-calling safety procedures, work In fiscal 2013 there were four lost time incidents in Statement and Basic CSR Policy? manual creation and usage, and the like, and Group companies, including two serious accidents. A per forming regular working environment c aus e analy sis was p er form e d in each c as e. No Don’t know Average measurements with the aim of improving the working Countermeasures focusing on eliminating hazardous 5% 5% 7% environment. operations and providing safeguards were implemented, work manuals were prepared, and Process Safety and Prevention Plan reoccurrence prevention measures were implemented. We will continue to make sure that these decisions are The Shin-Etsu Group gives top priority to preventing closely observed, and to prevent the occurrence of Positive serious accidents before they happen. With this aim in work-related accidents. 26% mind, we continually engage in various process safety and prevention plan activities, to ensure process safety Yes and the reliability of facilities. ■ Number of Lost Time Incidents and Changes in 90% Extremely positive From fiscal 2013 we have worked to enhance voluntary Frequency Rates (Group companies in Japan) 67% safety management by performing risk evaluations, particularly of envisaged plant abnormal conditions, and (Number) Number of Lost Time Incidents Frequency of Lost Time Incidents (%) by implementing effective safety measures. 20 Mediocre 0% Since fiscal 2012, we have been a supporting 0.47 0.50 Negative 0% member of the Hoanryoku (Safety Improvement) Center of the Japan Society for Safety Engineering’s 15 12 0.39 Common Requests and Opinions 1 11 authorized NPO. In fiscal 2013 we used the “Safety 0.28 10 0.26 Evaluation System” designed by the center for use in 8 6 6 0.18 evaluating plant safety systems and technologies, safety 0.09 Some environmental preservation initiatives did not With regard to greenhouse gas emissions, we will 5 4 organizations, safety culture, and the like, to evaluate meet their objectives for fiscal 2012. I hope that continue with our cogeneration and energy saving the safety of the Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu Plant. In 2 they are met in the future. efforts to reduce the number of intensity units. We will fiscal 2014, this evaluation system was used to perform 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (from shareholders, investors, and business also work to lower our final disposal ratio by evaluations of other plants as well. We took steps to partners) intensifying our waste recycling efforts. fur ther improve process safet y and prevention capabilities by systematically improving all plant safety issues, defined as all items which needed to be The understanding of members of the community is 2 addressed, not just those with low evaluation scores. essential for stable plant operation. We consider our The abilities and knowledge of each and every relationships with local communities to be extremely What are your views on relationships with local important to our long-term, continued production employee are important to maintaining stable and safe communities? activities in the areas where our plants are located. We plant operation. In addition to systematically (from members of local communities) will continue to consult with members of the implementing training and drills, we have also focused our efforts on reliably passing on manufacturing facility community, building even stronger relationships with 3 operation skills. We are also working to cultivate a communities. culture of safety by creating workplaces in which rules are scrupulously followed. Please continue collaborating to achieve even We will strive to make ongoing improvements through greater quality improvements. (from customers) our internal improvement activities. Close-Call (Hiyari-Hatto) Incidents WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#security 29 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 30 Relation with Society Shareholders Customers and Investors We have numerous dialogues with The Shin-Etsu Group is entrusted with shareholders and investors via our the safety use of our products from IR activities our customers Information Disclosure Communication Quality Control through the investigation and determination of the causes and the preventive action for recurrence. The Shin-Etsu Group believes the appropriate and General Shareholders’ Meeting Quality control system In particular, the recall and product liability problem timely disclosure of corporate information to Shin-Etsu Chemical holds a General Shareholders’ Each Shin-Etsu Chemical’s division and /or Group that have a social impact is defined as a critical quality shareholders and investors is a way to encourage Meeting once per year according to its articles of company is responsible for the quality of each product claim and given special priority to be distinguished from understanding of the Company, and also leads to incorporation. To ensure that shareholders can fully to the customers. So that we can supply products and other claims. When a serious claim occurs, it is reasonable evaluations by the market. We therefore consider the agenda items, we send notices on the services that generate customer satisfaction, each of immediately reported to the top management so that a implement fair and transparent disclosure by posting convention of these meetings at an early stage. The our plants has its own quality control policy. At the company-wide response can be implemented. information on the Company's website and announcing convention notices, as well as English-language same time, by implementing the Plan-Do-Check-Act it to stock exchanges and news media. We also publish translations, are also posted to the Company’s website (PDCA) cycle, we work to raise the effectiveness of the Quality audits and support the Annual Report and other reports for shareholders. for the greater convenience of shareholders. quality control system, enhance product quality, and To achieve the zero quality problem, the claim and At the General Shareholders’ Meetings we report on improve service. complaint information from the customers are closely financial results, vote on agenda items, and respond to Requests and suggestions from customers are examined. Furthermore, quality audits are carried out various questions from shareholders. reported immediately by points of contact such as the periodically for the improvement of quality and sales departments that are in direct contact with customer service. Quality audits evaluate the quality Other types of communication customers to the R&D Department, Quality Assurance activity of each section from the customers’ viewpoint We hold quarterly conference calls and meetings on Department, and Manufacturing Department. This and the viewpoint of quality cost in order to reinforce financial results for analysts and institutional investors. information is incorporated into new product research the weak point of the quality control system. The In addition, we also accommodate one-on-one meeting and development and is used to improve existing system for the recurrence prevention of claim requests from domestic and international analysts and products. In this way, we have created a system to complaints is established by focusing on evaluating the institutional investors as occasion calls. The Company’s reinforce our relationships of trust with our customers. past claims and investigating the root cause of the management proactively attends conferences organized Almost all Shin-Etsu Group manufacturing plants, quality issue. by securities companies and take part in Q&A sessions both domestic and overseas, have obtained certification The PDCA cycle is applied to problems pointed out with participants. In these and other ways, we make of the quality control systems such as ISO 9001 and on quality audit for improvement and follow-up. The Six Shin-Etsu Report Annual Report efforts to deepn their understanding of the Shin-Etsu ISO/TS 16949. Sigma program1 is also deployed on company-wide as Group through direct dialogues. activity for the improvement in a quality control. Response to complaints Profit-sharing Policy Shin-Etsu makes it an absolute rule to make an initial 1 Six Sigma program Quality improvement method developed by Motorola in the 1980s. Focused on response to all quality complaints from customers processes where quality variation appears, it is designed to minimize variation within the processes and thereby reduce the incidence of quality defects. This The Shin-Etsu Group works to expand business profit within 48 hours of receipt. approach has been adopted across the Shin-Etsu Group. and enhance our corporate quality from a long-term Shin-Etsu Chemical Receives Japan Investor In regards to complaints, each division viewpoint. We distribute dividends based on our Relations Association Best IR Award independently responds to the customers’ complaints standard of sharing the fruits of these management Hanae Matsushima, endeavors to shareholders in a suitable manner. In Shin-Etsu Chemical Public Relations Department addition, financial reserves are appropriated for capital Promoting Quality Management and Quality Control Examination Testing investments, research and development, and other Shin-Etsu Chemical was awarded the Best IR Award in Hidemi Natsume, Shin-Etsu Magnet Co., Ltd. Daisuke Yanagihori, Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer Co., Ltd.Ltd. types of investment. We proactively use these reserves 2013 by the Japan Investor Relations Association. This to strengthen our global competitiveness and for future award is given each year to companies who show a deep As part of our efforts to promote product quality management, the Shinbusiness developments, with the goal of further understanding of the purpose of IR and take an active Etsu Group encourages employees to take the Quality Management and improving our corporate value. approach to IR activities. Our top management was noted Quality Control Examination, administered by the Japanese Society for for its active participation in investor conferences, Our annual dividends in fiscal 2014 (April 2013 to Quality Control. The test is offered twice a year, and is taken by over financial results briefings, and meetings with investors, as March 2014) were ¥100 per share. 40,000 people across Japan each time. Group employees generally take the well as for creating numerous opportunities to engage in Class 2 and Class 3 exams. In 2013, 124 employees took the test, 110 of direct dialogues with investors, seriously and sincerely answering the questions they pose. them passing. The average pass rate for the extremely difficult Class 2 exam is roughly 30% for all test-takers across Japan, but 97% of Shin-Etsu employees taking the exam pass it. Those from our group include Hidemi Natsume from Shin-Etsu Magnet Co., Ltd. and Daisuke Yanagihori from Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer Co., Ltd. passed the Class 3 exam last year, and then went on to pass the Class 2 exam administered a mere six months later. Financial & IR Information List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 9001 certification WEB WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir/ http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/quality.html 31 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 32 Relation with Society Business Partners The Shin-Etsu Group is committed to equitable procurement practices and to incorporating environmental considerations into the supply chain Product Safety Promotion Basic Procurement Policy Procurement Audit FMEA1 and other analyses are carried out at every 1 FMEA (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) Systematic method to identify and prevent problems before they occur in regards to A Basic Procurement Policy has been formulated for the Before and after transactions, the business partner is process from product development to product products and processes. purchasing of supplies needed for production activities, asked to complete a procurement audit checklist, the commercialization to identify potential issues for system 2 SDS (Safety Data Sheet) including raw materials, sub materials including results of which are used for evaluation. Additionally, performance and /or product safety. Quantitative SDS stands for Safety Data Sheet, which lists the physical and chemical properties transpor tation packaging, and machiner y and we visit business partners in Japan and overseas of the chemical substance together with harmfulness and emergency response analysis is undertaken to evaluate issues identified in procedures. Designed to promote safer use of chemical substances and prevent equipment. This policy is ensured in the Group and whenever necessary to carry out audits. order to improve product design and manufacturing accidents and incidents, SDS are supplied by manufacturers, importers and distributors to customers at the point of sales or shipment. posted on the website. Business partners are expected processes. to understand the Basic Procurement Policy and asked Business Continuity Initiatives 3 Yellow Cards We provide SDS2 for each product to customers. The yellow cards on which all relevant information on treatment required in case of to incorporate the content of the Policy into their supply Customers are encouraged to take appropriate safety an accident during transportation of chemical substances is described. The cards contracts. The Shin-Etsu Group has formulated a Business are handed to the transport contractor to be brought by tanker lorry or other precautions for understanding hazardous and harmful means at the time of transportation. Continuity Plan and is prepared for contingencies. We characteristics of the product, undertaking all required 4 Container Yellow Cards Compliance with the Act against Delay would like business partners to understand the legal procedures whenever necessary, installing safety The standard yellow card system is not suitable for use with mixed cargoes and in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. effectiveness and practicality of the Group’s Business small-lot deliveries. Instead, each container carries a label displaying safety systems and /or pollutant treatment facilities, and information such as UN number of chemical name and emergency response to Subcontractors Continuity Plan and draw up a business continuity plan wearing protective gear. procedure number. of their own. As a safety measure during transportation, we issue 5 GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) For all business partners subject to the provisions of the a Yellow Card3 and/or Container Yellow Cards4 that are Internationally standardized system of classification and labeling of chemicals. Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Control of Chemical Substances Used affixed to containers. Moreover, we post warnings 6 REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) Etc. to Subcontractors, the Shin-Etsu Group makes as Raw Materials EU regulation on the registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of about potential hazards and harm according to the chemicals. periodical checks in combination with reporting of new GHS5 method. transactions to ensure full compliance. In addition, The Shin-Etsu Group checks the ISO 14001 status of 7 RoHS (Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances) Directive Within Japan, the Shin-Etsu Group implements EU directive on restricting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and staffs in charge of purchasing and procurement business partners and considers preferential business appropriate management in the research and electronic equipment. frequently attend external seminars and internal transactions with business partners that have ISO development stage by confirming the safety of new training sessions to discuss specific examples of certification so as to purchase materials of lower chemical substances and submitting manufacturing conduct. In this way, the Company works to boost environmental impact. p e r m i t a p p li c a t i o ns in a cco r d a n ce w i t h t h e awareness of compliance with the Subcontractors Act. When contracting specifications on supply of raw requirements of the Act on the Evaluation of Chemical In addition, the Company requests that business materials, we investigate the business partner’s use of Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc. partners who supply raw materials comply thoroughly chemical substances with environmental impact in and other applicable legislation such as the Industrial with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract produc t s and packaging, their environment al Safety and Health Act. The Shin-Etsu Group conforms Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. management systems, their handling of prohibited to the REACH regulation 6 and is working to comply substances as stipulated in the RoHS Directive, and their strictly with the appropriate transmission of information Initiatives Aimed at Eliminating Green Partner certification status. along the supply chain and other aspects of the the Use of Conflict Minerals In addition, we also comply with REACH regulation regulation. The ShinEtsu Group is also committed to registration. developing new manufacturing technologies designed In our Basic Procurement Policy, we have declared our to totally eliminate the use of specified toxic substances dedication to eliminating conflict minerals* from all in conformance with the RoHS Directive7. product procurement. We ask that all business partners adhere to this policy, and we regularly perform studies of pertinent minerals, tracking their production all the way back to the smeltery level. * Conflict minerals Minerals used to fund conflicts between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbor countries. These conflict minerals are tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten, and their derivatives. 33 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 34 Relation with Society Local Communities We maintain communication with local communities FUTI scholarship funding Girls’ and Boys’ Day Company Tours for High School Students Pleas for Fire Hydrant Removal are Met The United States of America Germany Japan Japan Since 2009 Shintech Inc. has funded scholarships In April 2013, SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG participated in In September 2013, second year students from Gunma In response to a request from Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz offered by the Friends of U Tokyo, Inc. (FUTI). In April the annual “Girls’ and Boys’ Day” event. This event Prefecture’s Takasaki High School visited the Shin-Etsu Co., Ltd., located in Fukui Prefecture, to a local ward 2014 Hisashi Kobayashi, president of FUTI and professor provides opportunities for students to tour worksites Chemical Gunma Complex on a company tour. It was a chief, a fire hydrant on a city street which was blocking emeritus at Princeton University, visited Chihiro and engage in hands-on activities, enabling them to wonderful opportunity for these high school students, students’ routes to school was removed and removed Kanagawa and expressed his gratitude for the learn about and enjoy the work being done by who were considering their post-graduation plans, to with an underground hydrant and the school route was company's support. FUTI was established to promote manufacturing companies, universities, and research gain an understanding of the company’s products and cleared. the philanthropic, educational, and scientific activities labs, in Germany. Five girls, aged 11 and 12, visited the the work carried out by chemical’s companies. of the University of Tokyo in America, and supports company, learning about its products and operations joint research between the university and universities in through its production department and product America. development research lab. International Contribution Activities 3rd Local Produce Market Supporting Participation in Dream Chemistry 21 Donation of PVC Carry Bags to Girls in Uganda Raising Funds for UN World Refugee Day Areas Affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake Japan Uganda Japan Shin Et su Chemic al N ao et su Plant employe es Through Millennium Promise Japan ( MPJ ), an In 2013, as well, the Shin-Etsu Group raised funds for Japan participated in the “Children’s Chemical Experiment authorized NPO, Shin-Etsu Chemical donated carrythe UN-established World Refugee Day. This marks In March 2014 the 3rd Local Produce Market, Show in Niigata”, held in June 2013 by the “Dream bags made of polyvinyl chloride to girls in Uganda, to the seventh year of Group contributions. The suppor ting areas hit by the Great East Japan Chemistry 21” Committee, consisting of members of use for carr ying textbooks. MPJ is dedicated collected funds are used to provide assistance to Earthquake, was held in the Asahi Seimei Otemachi Japan Chemical Industr y A ssociation and other eradicating poverty and achieving independence in refugees across the world via the Japan Association Building, the location of the Shin-Etsu Chemical head organizations. The employees taught the children how Africa, as well as grass-roots exchanges between the for UNHCR. This year, as well, the Company donated office. Shin-Etsu Chemical and Shin-Etsu Handotai to create glow-in-the-dark slime. young people of Africa and Japan, and Shin-Etsu an equivalent amount to contributions given by cooperated in running the market, which sold specialty Chemical stands in support of these efforts. employees. produc t s from Fukushima, I wate, and Miyagi prefectures. Communication with local communities WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/society.html 35 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 36 Relation with Society Employees We support the self-fulfillment of our employees The Shin-Etsu Group respects human rights and Respect for Diversity retirement age of 60 years, which allows them to be Performance-based Personnel Evaluation implement s a variet y of approaches to create re-employed until age 65. Systems and Equal Opportunities workplaces that are conducive to work, and where each Childcare and nursing care systems employee is healthy, fulfills his or her potential, and can The Shin-Etsu Group offers a full range of systems to ■ Employment Rate of Persons with Disabilities We have introduced a personnel system that places build a career. support employees who give birth to and are raising importance on employee ability and work performance. children. Our childcare leave system can be used by …… Legally mandated employment rate Shin-Etsu Chemical employment rate This system proves useful for increasing employees’ (Employment rate: %) Respect for Human Rights employees until their children have reached the age of 2.50 m oti vation, as their treatm ent refl e c t s their three, and many employees take advantage of the performance, attitude, and evaluations of how they Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion Committee system. Meanwhile, the shorter working hours system meet their challenges to achieve higher goals. 2.16 The Shin-Etsu Group, from its position as a corporation, allows employees with children up to grade three of To operate the personnel system in a fair and 2.05 organized the Human Rights Enlightenment Promotion elementary school to shorten their working hours by up 2.00 1.95 appropriate manner, evaluation training is provided for 2.00 Committee with the aim of tackling various human to two hours a day. all managers who conduct performance review so that rights issues and creating cheerful workplaces where As for nursing care leave, under certain conditions, they can carry out personnel evaluations in a fair way. 1.80 people are inspired to work. This committee holds employees can take up to one year of leave per eligible To further increase transparency, evaluation standards regular human rights enlightenment training for family member. One employee took advantage of the are made available and the results are also disclosed. directors and employees to promote the improvement system in fiscal 2013. 1.50 2012 2013 2014 Furthermore, a system of interviews between the of human rights awareness. evaluator and the person being evaluated has been In addition, Shin-Etsu belongs to both the Industrial ■ Number of Employees Who have Taken Childcare established to ensure that the two parties can Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, and the Industrial Leave (Fiscal 2013) communicate successfully. Federation for AntiDiscrimination, Osaka. Our Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 7 (Male: 1; Female 6) During interviews, each staff member and his/ her Awarded Gold Medal in the National Sports employees participate proactively in events held by both immediate superior use Communication Sheets to Consolidated companies in Japan 45 (Male: 2; Female 43) Festival for People with Disabilities federations, as well as training sessions put on by other ensure mutual awareness of the superior’s expectations organizations. Consolidated companies total1 117 (Male: 37; Female 80) Ryo Akutsu, Shin-Etsu Handotai Shirakawa Plant regarding what he/she would like the subordinate to accomplish, as well as what challenges the subordinate 1 The length of childcare leave differs from country to country, as the program is Efforts to abolish child labor and forced labor based on local law. Ryo Akutsu, from the Shin-Etsu Handotai Shirakawa Plant, would like to take on. The interviews are also an The ShinEtsu group conforms to international took part in the 13th National Sports Festival held in opportunity to set targets for the next six months and guidelines, and does not approve of forced labor or October 2013 for People with Disabilities (Sports Festival to provide feedback on progress, and serve in this way child labor of any type. We conduct a survey of Group in Tokyo 2013), winning the gold medal in the 50 Meter to promote further development of abilities. companies, including overseas companies, each year. Butterfly competition and the silver medal in the 50 Meter Freestyle Competition. Through this survey, we confirm that our employment Akutsu, who is disabled from the waist down, works Health Considerations conditions are based on the international labor in crystal manufacturing of semiconductor silicon, and standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO) Employee health programs swims at a sports gym as part of his rehabilitation and that no forced or child labor is taking place. activities. He was invited by fellow gym-goers to take part To decrease staff sickness, we are working to offer a in the Fukushima Prefecture tournament, leading up to his fulfilling regular health consultation service, provide victories at the national tournament. health guidance for lifestyle-related diseases, take measures to ensure mental health, and focus on activities that promote fitness and develop physical strength. Users of the childcare system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) We have also established Health Committees at our head office and branch offices, as well as Safety and Promoting active roles by foreign nationals, Health Committees at each plant district. These disabled persons, and the elderly committees undertake activities while receiving As a group engaged in business operations around the information and guidance—including about measures world, the Shin-Etsu Group carries out employment at to improve the work environment and prevent damage overseas Group companies and also makes efforts to to health—from industrial physicians. employ foreign nationals. In addition, our Fitness and Physical Strength The entire Group is also working to proactively Development Promotion Committees work together employ disabled persons and create environments with Medical Treatment Rooms to organize physical where it is easy for them to work. Our level of strength monitoring, and to hold seminars and events employment of disabled persons exceeds legally for physical strength improvement. To provide health mandated levels. support to include employees’ families, the corporate We have created the Internal Re-Employment health insurance society cooperates with expert Program for employees who have reached the organizations to provide the 24-hour Family Health Consultation Desk. 37 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 38 Relation with Society Education/Training and Welfare and Benefits Shinkansen commuting benefits Labor-management Relations Personal Development Since 1989, Shin-Etsu has allowed commuting by Accumulated holidays Shinkansen at company expense. This option has Shin-Etsu Chemical engages in various dialogs with the Auditing student system A certain number of annual paid holidays are granted in allowed more employees to own houses and enables Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor Union to promote mutual In 1962, we established an auditing student system accordance with labor regulations. If those annual paid personnel who are reassigned to headquarters from understanding between labor and management. with the goal of improving workplace cohesion. Under holidays are not taken, a certain number can be treated plants and other business sites in Gunma and Fukushima Meetings of the Central Staff Council are held once a the system, up to about ten employees each year are as accumulated holidays, which are then carried over to prefectures to transfer jobs without changing their month at the head office and are attended by senior chosen from plant manufacturing sites and sent to the next year and may be utilized as family-care leave lifestyles. As of March 2014, 72 employees were taking management themselves, who engage in discussions study at universities for one year. In the 51 years since days or as days off for injury or illness. Employees may advantage of this Company offer. with staff regarding subjects such as management the system was introduced, a total of 511 employees also use these holidays to volunteer in disaster areas or policy, outline information about individual businesses, have completed the program and are now functioning serve as donors for organ or bone marrow transplants. Other systems and the personnel system. Furthermore, each business in various workplaces. The BAKER-KANAGAWA Japan-U.S. scholarship program site holds a monthly Local Labor Meeting with the local Employee Hotline was established by Mr. Robert Baker, founder and the branch of the Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor Union. Training for international adaptation As a counseling service for trouble with work or other first president of Dow Chemical Japan Ltd. and a former Repeated dialogs and discussions between labor and The Shin-Etsu Group is expanding its business activities issues, we have set up Dial Shin-Etsu, which is staffed chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in management deepen mutual understanding and trust throughout the world. Competency to communicate in by experienced and qualified specialist counselors from Japan, and Mr. Chihiro Kanagawa, chairman of Shin-Etsu and facilitate business operations in which staff and foreign languages is therefore an essential skill for out side of the Company. Consultations are received Chemical. It can be used for the children of Japanese management can come together to present speedy smooth operations. To this end, the Group provides anonymously and treated with strict confidentiality, but employees of the Shin-Etsu Group to attend universities responses to the changing business environment. English language training to teach meeting and if requested the counselor will contact the Personnel in the United States and for the children of American presentation skills and of fers intercultural Department to discuss possible solutions. employees to attend universities in Japan. communication training to promote understanding of In addition, we have established asset-building cultural differences commonly encountered overseas. schemes, a shareholding system, and a mutual aid Overseas Group Company is Recognized for its Chinese conversation classes are also held. society to provide support for weddings, childbirth, and Hiring Practices sudden hospitalization of family members. SEH America was presented with the 2012 IAWP* Citation Awards 2012. Over 20% of SEH America’s employees are military 1 QC veterans or currently in the reserves. The company has Quality Control. Or, activities in manufacturing industry that encourage employees to make proactive contributions to workplace management and improvement, also been providing employment opportunities to people with disabilities for over 23 years and internships to over ■ Training system leading to improvements in quality. 50 senior high school students over the past two years. Environment and This award was presented to the company in recognition Training for different staff grades Specialized education General education Special education Quality control education Six Sigma education safety education of its efforts. * IAWP (The International Association of Workforce Professionals) The IAWP is a nonprofit organization, founded in 1913, for the purpose of General Advanced S/M job family improving the specialization of workforce professionals, carrying out surveys manager level management training training Black belt training and research, and fostering mutual collaboration between members. It has • Patent training over 10,000 members in 15 countries around the world. • Training for adaptation to internationCourse for alization Specialized management Section education in enviMiddle management training development QC1 master course manager level English language ronmental control Green belt training trainning training, meeting skills Mental health seminars (external training) and safety Job family change training course I/II Human rights English language awareness training Line management Staff management training, presentation skills Junior manager training training course I/II Supervisor education QC intermediate level course Leader training Chinese conversation classes Auditing student Safety education system (1 year) Special education Intercultural Junior leader training Basic education communication training Regular employees New employee second-phase training QC basic course New employee induction training New recruit education 39 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 40 History of Activities Responsible Care Audit of the Report Awards in the Fields of Safety, Measures taken by the Shin-Etsu Group the Environment and Industrial Health 1926  Founded as Shin-Etsu Nitrogen Fertilizer Co., Ltd. (name changed to Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. in 1940) 1926 2005 Excellent Safety and Hygiene Workplace Award, Minister of Health, Labour and 2005  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Promotion Committee established Welfare (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2005  Installation of cellulose wastewater recovery system 2005 2005 Good Management Program Prize of Occupational Safety and Health, Malaysian (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) Ministry of Human Resources (S.E.H. (Shah Alam) 2005 Superior Prize for Safety and Health, Niigata Labour Bureau (Niigata Polymer) 2005 Environmental Charter revised 2006 Superior Prize for Health, Director of Niigata Prefecture Labour Standards Bureau 2005 Co-generation system further expanded (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) (Naoetsu Precision Engineering) 2006  Hydrochloric acid recovery system installed on silica production line 2006 5th Class Lost Time Incident-free Certificate (Shin-Etsu Film: disaster-free record (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) maintained to date) 2007 Superior Prize, Director of Nagano Labour Bureau (Nagano Electronics) 2006 Signed the Responsible Care Global Charter 2007 Encouragement Prize, Director of Nagano Labor Bureau (Shinano Polymer) 2006  Fuel for boiler system switched (Nagano Electronics/Chikuma) 2007 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award 2007  Installation of system to reduce steam usage by improvement of distillation (Asia Silicones Monomer) process (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Kashima) 2008 Superior Prize for Industrial Safety and Health, Director of Fukui Prefecture Labour Bureau (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2008  Installation of natural gas fuel conversion system (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2008 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award 2008  Augmentation of wastewater biological treatment system (Asia Silicones Monomer) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2009 Special award from Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare for one million 2008  Installation of thermal recovery system for distillation column consecutive hours of Lost-Time Incident-free operation (Japan Vam & Poval) (Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand) 2009 High-pressure Gas Safety Award, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry 2008  Installation of gas turbines (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) 2008  Fuel conversion of bolier (Tatsuno Chemical Industries) 2009 Superior High-Pressure Gas Production Facility Award, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer) 2008  Installation of LNG-fueled through-flow boiler (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2009 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award 2008  Thermal recovery system installed on silica production line (Asia Silicones Monomer) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2010 Encouragement Prize, Director of Saitama Labor Bureau (Urawa Polymer) 2009  Installation of high-efficiency turbo refrigerator (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Isobe) 2010 Committee Chairperson's Award from Committee for Promotion of Electricity Utilization in Seven Tohoku Prefectures (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Koriyama) 2009  Installation of air conditioning system using process based on free cooling 2010 Superior Prize for Environmental Preservation, Niigata Prefecture (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Takefu) (Naoetsu Precision) 2010  Fuel for boiler system switched (Nagano Electronics) 2010 High-Pressure Gas Safety Award, Head of Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency 2010  Installation of inverter turbo refrigerator (Nagano Electronics) (Nissin Chemical Industry) 2010 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award 2010  Participation to UN Global Compact (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2010  Installation of oil clarification system (Shin-Etsu Silicone Taiwan) 2010 500,000 Lost Time Incident-free Hours Award, State of Ohio 2011  Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators Award (Shin-Etsu Chemical) (Shin-Etsu Silicones of America) 2010 Occupational Excellence Achievement Award, National Safety Council (US) 2011  Gold Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National Quality (Shintech) Management Convention (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) 2011 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award 2011  Installation of electricity demand monitoring system (Asia Silicones Monomer) (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2012 Forty-Year Lost Time Incident-free Special Achievement Award, Japan Soda Industry Association (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2012  Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators Award won for second consecutive 2012 Achieved 8.1 million Lost Time Incident-free hours, a 2nd class Lost Time year (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Incident-free record (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Gunma) 2012 Gold Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National Quality 2012 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award Management Convention (second consecutive year) (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2012  Installation of multistage biological wastewater treatment equipment 2013 Achieved 5.4 million Lost Time Incident-free hours, a 1st class Lost Time Incident(Shin-Etsu Silicone (Nantong)) free record (Shin-Etsu Chemical/Naoetsu) 2013 Superior Prize for Safety Measures, Director of Fukushima Prefecture Labor 2013  Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators Award won for third consecutive Bureau (Shin-Etsu Quartz Products/Koriyama) year (Shin-Etsu Chemical) 2013 Encouragement Prize for Hygiene Management, Director of Niigata Prefecture 2013  Japan Investor Relations Association Best IR Award 2013 (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Labor Bureau (Shin-Etsu Handotai/Saigata) 2013  Gold Medal at the Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s National Quality 2013 Recognition for Promotion of Traffic Safety, Governor of Fukui Prefecture Management Convention (third consecutive year) (Shin-Etsu Silicone Korea) (Fukui Shin-Etsu Quartz) 2013 Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare EHS Outstanding Factory Award (Asia Silicones Monomer) 2013  Special award from Thai Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare for 300,000 to 1 million consecutive hours of lost-time and incident-free operation (Shin-Etsu Silicones Thailand) 2013 Energy Management Outstanding Factory Award, Tohoku Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry (Naoetsu Electronics) 2013 12th Green Logistics Partnership Meeting Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Deputy Vice-Minister for Logistics Award (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Membership Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Plastic Waste Management Institute Global Compact Japan Network, etc. Japan Chemical Industry Association The International Friendship Exchange Council Vinyl Environmental Council The Japan Committee for UNICEF As of March 31, 2014 List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 14001 certification WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/csr.html#environment 41 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 Shin-Etsu Chemical Environmental and Social Report 2014 42
