2013 Corporate Responsibility Report Itella Annual Report 2013 Contents Corporate responsibility 1 Indicators and targets 3 Corporate responsibility management 4 Financial responsibility management 5 Social responsibility management 6 People responsibility management 7 Environmental responsibility management 8 Interaction with stakeholders 9 Stakeholder survey 12 Focus areas of corporate responsibility 13 Materiality assessment 14 Corporate responsibility risks 16 Challenges in 2013 17 Responsible sourcing 18 Financial responsibility 19 Tax footprint 22 Research and development 24 Sponsoring 25 CASE: Openness on taxation 26 Social responsibility 27 People responsibility 28 Number of personnel 31 Multicultural workplace 32 Workplace safety 33 The best employer 34 Job satisfaction 35 CASE: Spotlight on occupational safety 36 CASE: Recognition for the personnel 37 CASE: Continuous development 38 Environmental responsibility 39 Vehicle emissions 41 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en Itella Annual Report 2013 Energy and waste efficiency 42 Itella Green services 43 Environmental calculations 44 Environmental reporting 45 CASE: Renewable energy 49 CASE: Driving challenge 50 CASE: Driving habit monitoring 51 Reporting and measuring principles 52 GRI content index 53 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 The megatrends shaping our business environment include the dramatic transformation of the postal industry, the sharp increase in e-commerce, the growing decision-making power of consumers, the period of slow economic growth in Europe and the growth market in Russia. Letter and publication distribution rates are dropping at an accelerating pace as communications becomes digitalized. By 2020, the rates will have fallen to half of what they are today. At the same time, the number of parcels transported is increasing as a result of e-commerce. The growth of e-commerce is driven by the increased purchase of consumer goods from online shops, the development of user devices and the infrastructure of payment systems and logistics, among other factors. Russia’s economic development is influenced by the world market price of oil, WTO membership and foreign investments, among other drivers. The proximity and purchasing power of the St. Petersburg economic region offer new opportunities for Finland. In addition, Russia’s economic growth is fueling consumption in the middle class and particularly the increase in ecommerce. On the other hand, economic growth will be very slow in Finland and the EU in the coming years. The euro crisis and national debt woes are not over. The purchasing power of consumers and the ability of companies to compete in the export markets remain weak. The continued recession is postponing investments by companies. Taking stakeholders’ expectations into account constitutes the core of responsibility and the foundation for the continuity of our business operations. Our corporate responsibility principles define our key areas and commitments, such as the UN's Global Compact principles. We also expect our partners and personnel to comply with equivalent, ethically sustainable principles. We divide our corporate responsibility into four areas: financial, social, people and environmental responsibility. Corporate responsibility is subject to a wide variety of expectations. In terms of financial responsibility, the company should be profitable. In terms of the environment, it should reduce emissions. In terms of society, it should provide high-quality services. In terms of personnel, it should ensure well-being at work and also the sourcing chain needs to be ethically sound. In corporate responsibility, our mission is to strengthen our reputation and competitiveness and manage risks in a controlled manner, taking our stakeholders into account. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 1 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 2 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Indicators and targets Indicators and targets We have determined targets for our corporate responsibility. These targets and their achievements are described in the table below. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 3 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Corporate responsibility management Corporate responsibility management Corporate responsibility is part of our daily work and management. In our company, management is based on our values: succeeding with the customer, driving for improvement and innovation, taking responsibility, and winning together. Good management supports the achievement of these targets and fosters a positive work atmosphere. Corporate responsibility is the responsibility of our Vice President of Stakeholder Relations, who is a member of the Management Board. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 4 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Corporate responsibility management / Financial responsibility management Financial responsibility management Itella wants to grow profitably, as only a financially sound company can implement its responsibilities in terms of society, personnel, the environment and all stakeholder groups. We plan our finances from a long-term perspective, anticipating changes in the market, customer demands and risk scenarios in Finland and abroad. Financial responsibility management is supported by our risk management policy, internal control principles and corporate governance principles. Information security We process all information in strict confidence, taking information security issues into account. Our corporate security policy determines the minimum level for all of our countries of operation. Exceeding legal requirements, our policy is based on international standards (SoGP, ISO/IEC 27001 and TAPA), which determine our targets, responsibilities and implementation methods in information security management. Our policy takes into account the requirements of our customers, the business environment and risk management. In terms of protection, we see as particularly important customer and personnel information as well as our and our partners’ confidential information and the related systems and business processes. Our risk management unit prepares information security guidelines and supports the management in implementing them. In all of our Group companies, the management is responsible for implementing our corporate security policy as part of their daily work. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 5 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Corporate responsibility management / Social responsibility management Social responsibility management Our well-functioning and efficient infrastructure enables us to provide reliable services for all of our customer groups in a socially responsible manner. We deal ethically, openly and transparently with all of our stakeholders. We use various channels to provide our stakeholders with information and enable them to interact with us. Human rights We support and respect the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As an employer, we comply with the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to promoting employees’ rights, environmental protection, anticorruption work and human rights in working life. This lays the foundation for our Group-wide corporate responsibility policy, which is supported by our sourcing policy. We comply with an approved equality plan and all laws and regulations related to equality in order to promote and ensure nondiscrimination and equal treatment. We maintain a system that makes it possible to report any deviations from our principles and guidelines and respond to them. We also expect our partners to comply with equivalent, ethically sustainable principles. We present our environmental and ethical requirements in the tendering phase and ensure that they are addressed when agreements are signed. We expect our suppliers to provide feedback, and we respond to any shortcomings, as necessary. We have not identified any risks related to the use of child, forced or penal labor in our operations. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 6 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Corporate responsibility management / People responsibility management People responsibility management Our human resources strategy provides guidelines for personnel development based on the needs of business operations and employees, in line with corporate responsibility. Our principles of people responsibility and ethical guidelines for personnel are in line with the UN Global Compact initiative. We measure the quality of the management and the state of the workplace community by carrying out annual personnel surveys. We use the results in the development of our organizational culture, processes and operating models. In addition, we use the unit-specific results in the development of the workplace environment, operating methods and supervisory work. We actively cooperate with our personnel, and managers and employee representatives meet regularly at cooperation meetings. The leadership cornerstones lay the foundation for consistent management practices in all of our units. They indicate what is expected of a good manager or supervisor at Itella. Our change management concept supports the management of our business operations. We want to ensure good change management and offer everyone an opportunity to participate in changes. The management of well-being at work is an important part of our human resources strategy. We monitor employee well-being by using various indicators, such as an annual personnel survey, the number of sick leave days and the reasons for sick leave as well as disability, retirement and occupational accidents. Employee Code of Conduct Intended for all of our employees, our Employee Code of Conduct covers laws and regulations, good business practices, nondiscrimination, equality, conflicts of interest, ethical commercial practices and environmental responsibility. It addresses core issues that help our employees choose the appropriate procedure in situations that require them to use their discretion. It also describes notification, investigation and sanction procedures in cases of noncompliance. If we learn of a case of possible noncompliance, we investigate the case discreetly without delay. We communicate our ethical guidelines through internal channels, such as the intranet and our personnel magazine. All employees in all our countries of operation are required to familiarize themselves with the guidelines and comply with them in their work. Online training related to the guidelines is compulsory for all employees. We systematically monitor completion of the training. Our target for 2013 was for at least 95% of our entire personnel to complete the online training. We did not reach this target: a total of 90% of all our employees completed the training. The completion rate of our company's management was 100. Read our Code of Conduct This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 7 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Corporate responsibility management / Environmental responsibility management Environmental responsibility management Our environmental management is based on environmental management standards, particularly ISO 14001, as well as legal and authority requirements and the Global Compact principles. Our environmental policy covers all of our countries of operation. The targets for our environmental work are determined by our corporate responsibility steering group. Our business groups determine more detailed operating programs as part of their management model. Our environmental program aims to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions by 30% by 2020, in relation to net sales (compared to 2007). In addition, we are party to a freight traffic energy-efficiency agreement in Finland and have made a commitment to improve our energy efficiency in our transport by 20% by 2016 (compared to 2008). We will improve the environmental efficiency of our transport by reducing fuel consumption and increasing the use of alternative vehicles, such as electric, biogas and biodiesel vehicles. Transport and emissions from vehicles represent over 80% of our carbon dioxide emissions in Finland. As the largest transport and delivery company in the country, we play an important role in the development of environmentally friendly and energyefficient transport operations. As part of our ISO 14001 management system, we increase our employees’ environmental awareness through training and induction. In addition, environmental issues are continually discussed in our internal communication channels. We have a system that enables employees to make suggestions related to the development of environmental management. Our Management Board monitors the implementation of our environmental program in relation to short-term and long-term targets. In addition, environmental issues are discussed by our Management Board and Board of Directors twice a year as part of more extensive corporate responsibility reporting. Environmental policy We identify, evaluate and manage the environmental aspects of our operations and are committed to: Complying with all applicable environmental laws and standards, including ISO 14001 Reducing the fuel consumption of our vehicles Reducing the energy consumption of our facilities Improving recycling and reducing landfill waste Considering environmental aspects in sourcing, subcontracting and investment decisions Engaging in open discussion with our stakeholders in order to minimize our environmental impact Ensuring sufficient resources for maintaining and continually improving our environmental operations Reporting our environmental impact annually and providing our employees with information and opportunities in order to operate in an environmentally efficient manner. Read more: Environmental policy We are committed to continually improving our operational quality and environmental responsibility. Through certification, we can prove to our stakeholders that our operations meet specific requirements. At the end of 2013, our certified environmental management systems covered 77% (74%) of our employees. During the year, we also built an ISO 14001 environmental management system for our warehouses in Russia. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 8 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Interaction with stakeholders Interaction with stakeholders We engage in active interaction with our stakeholders. Only through interaction can we understand our stakeholders’ needs and expectations and develop our operations accordingly. Our key stakeholders are customers, personnel, the state, as our owner, and the media, as well as our partners in subcontracting, research and the industry. Our industry is undergoing a profound transformation, which is the reason why we must interact with our stakeholders even more actively than before. At the beginning of September, we strengthened our organization in this respect by hiring a Vice President of Stakeholder Relations, who is also responsible for group communications and corporate responsibility. Our company has not had a similar post before. Our employees were a key stakeholder group when we prepared and announced our new vision and strategy during the year. We recruited vision agents internally who worked at workshops on our vision for up until the year 2020. In addition, we worked on our strategy and vision at the G50 meeting, which was hosted by our President and CEO. The meeting was intended for managers and experts from various business groups and countries of operation. After launching our vision, we have organized numerous vision events in different parts of Finland. We have also established a vision channel for personnel, which they can use for submitting questions and ideas. We have reported issues considered to be important by our key stakeholders under Stakeholder survey. This table presents our key stakeholders and their expectations. The table also includes information on key tools and forms of interaction in 2013. Stakeholder groups Stakeholder group Expectations Key interaction tools and results in 2013 Customers Reliable high-quality postal and We made effective use of logistics services and financial customer satisfaction surveys management services for a and feedback.The number of reasonable price Posti's service points was Information security and increased by over 200 during the protection of privacy in all year. services We operate in an Commitment to ethical principles environmentally responsible way Modernization in response to by reducing the emissions of our customer needs vehicles, for example. The Solutions for digitization emissions of Posti’s delivery Environmental efficiency vehicles reduced by more than 3% during the year. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 9 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Interaction with stakeholders Personnel Equal treatment of personnel The bonus plan covers the entire Competitive and fair rewards Group. Investment in well-being Responsible management and at work continued. supervisory work The Group invested in Development of well-being at occupational safety and work launched the Safe Workplace Engagement and flow of project. information Itella had to adjust its operations in response to the strong decline in the demand for traditional mail, as a result of the rapid increase of digital communications. Cooperation negotiations were carried out during the year to adjust the number of personnel to the prevailing situation. Employees have access to an initiative bank, an electronic channel for distributing and processing initiatives within Itella. Employees have a channel for submitting feedback on issues related to ethical guidelines and topics discussed by the equality committee. Feedback can also be submitted anonymously. We continued to actively cooperate with our personnel, and managers and employee representatives met regularly at cooperation meetings. Owner Reliable high-quality postal We continued to provide online services for reasonable prices training related to our Employee throughout Finland. Code of Conduct. Profitability and solvency. The number of Posti's service Good governance and points was increased by more transparency of operations. than 200 during the year. Employees’ status and rights, and environmental responsibility. Increasing ownership value in a sustainable and responsible manner. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 10 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Interaction with stakeholders Partners in subcontracting, research Transparent sourcing criteria and We continued our sourcing and the industry equal treatment of suppliers. development program. Pilot and research projects for Permanent membership of new technologies and business PostEurope, the Universal Postal models. Union (UPU) and the An active role in international International Post Corporation industry associations. (IPC). Membership of the Finnish service sector employers’ association PALTA (a member association of the Confederation of Finnish Industries EK), the Finnish Federation for Communications and Teleinformatics (FiCom) and Finnish Business & Society (FIBS). The media Fast and reliable flow of We issued approximately 300 information. media releases in 2013. High level of availability and swift We organized meetings with services. representatives of the media and offered reporters information on news and current events in our industry. Our MediaDesk serves journalists: we received nearly 600 contact requests from the media. We generally responded to all requests for an interview within 30 minutes. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 11 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Interaction with stakeholders / Stakeholder survey Stakeholder survey During August and September 2013, we examined extensively which corporate responsibility issues our stakeholders consider to be important and how they think Itella has performed in terms of corporate responsibility. We received more than 2,000 responses to our survey from all of our stakeholder groups, including consumers, business customers, personnel, subcontractors, the authorities, the Parliament and the media. We asked our stakeholders how significant they considered various aspects of corporate responsibility to be. All of our stakeholder groups agreed on the importance of corporate responsibility issues. Employees considered all aspects to be more important than did the other stakeholder groups. Our tax footprint was a new aspect included in the survey, and all of the stakeholder groups regarded it as being significant. We began reporting our tax footprint in the summer of 2013. Supply chain responsibility was clearly regarded as being more important than it was in our previous survey, which was carried out three years ago. In terms of supply chains, the need to ensure ethically sound operations in subcontracting has increased. The issues that our stakeholders found to be most important included information security, responsible management and supervision, and transparent operations. Ensuring long-term profitability, providing and developing basic postal services for citizens in Finland and making a commitment to ethical principles were considered to be very significant. Compared to earlier surveys, stakeholders’ expectations had increased in terms of transparent operations and financial responsibility, but their expectations had decreased slightly in terms of environmental issues, for example. However, environmental issues were still considered to be very important. For the first time, respondents also included our customers in Russia. Their expectations were similar to those of our Finnish customers. However, investment in well-being at work and longer careers was not regarded as being as significant in Russia as it was in Finland. In Finland, ensuring well-being at work and raising the age of retirement are frequent topics of public discussion. In addition, the energy efficiency of transport and premises was not considered to be as important in Russia as it was among the other stakeholder groups. However, ensuring information security is a key expectation in terms of corporate responsibility in Russia as well as in Finland. Traffic safety and occupational safety were also regarded as being very important. On the whole, the respondents found our corporate responsibility performance to be fairly good. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 12 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Focus areas of corporate responsibility Focus areas of corporate responsibility In 2013, our focus areas in corporate responsibility included ensuring occupational safety and well-being at work, making a commitment to ethical principles, improving the energy efficiency of transport and properties and ensuring the environmental efficiency of vehicles. Our performance in terms of occupational safety and well-being at work is discussed in more detail under People responsibility. In terms of other targets, our performance is discussed under Environmental responsibility. In corporate responsibility, the focal areas also included audits carried out by our customers and emission calculations carried out for our customers. Two ethical audits were carried out in our facilities by a third-party auditor. We passed the audits and received positive feedback on the management of our occupational safety program, our recording and handling of near-miss situations, our waste sorting practices, our clear management and efficient implementation of corporate responsibility and our active internal communications. In addition, we performed numerous emission calculations for our customers in 2013. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 13 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Focus areas of corporate responsibility / Materiality assessment Materiality assessment We updated our materiality assessment based on the stakeholder survey. In addition, we supplemented the assessment, based on discussions with managers. The materiality assessment has been discussed and approved by our Executive Board and corporate responsibility steering group. Based on the materiality assessment, we have determined key measures in terms of corporate responsibility. For 2014, the focus areas include further improving the customer experience in postal and other services, and ensuring safety, including traffic and occupational safety, as well as being the best employer. This means that we will manage our operations responsibly, develop our employees’ competencies and offer career opportunities. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 14 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Focus areas of corporate responsibility / Materiality assessment This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 15 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Corporate responsibility risks Corporate responsibility risks Risk management serves to safeguard and improve business performance and the achievement of strategic goals by reducing the probability and effects of materialized risks and supporting the utilization of business opportunities. Our corporate responsibility risks are updated twice a year as part of our comprehensive risk management process, and they are reported as a separate item in our risk report. The risk report is processed by our corporate responsibility steering group, Board of Directors, Audit Committee and Executive Board. During 2013, we identified outsourcing measures related to financial responsibility as a potential corporate responsibility risk. In particular, they can have a negative effect on our reputation and, consequently, cause us to lose customers. Another risk that we identified was that of information leaks, particularly those related to sensitive personal information. Information security and privacy protection were also key concerns in our stakeholder survey. Corporate responsibility risks also include those related to corruption and the failure of internal control. These are particularly important in Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries. In addition, investments in Russia may be considered to be unethical because of the social and legal development related to the business environment. Furthermore, accidents that cause extensive damage to the environment were identified as a key environmental responsibility risk. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 16 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Corporate responsibility risks / Challenges in 2013 Challenges in 2013 During the year, our video coding pilot project attracted negative attention for Itella. At the end of May, we launched a cooperation program with PostNL, the national postal service of the Netherlands, on an optical reading system for addresses in deliveries. During the pilot phase of approximately six months, we purchased the coding service from PostNL Shore, a subsidiary of PostNL in the Philippines. Although PostNL pays special attention to corporate responsibility, we wanted to include a clause in the agreement that ensures that all rules of corporate responsibility are respected even in the pilot phase. In addition, we performed an audit in the Philippines to ensure compliance with corporate responsibility. Despite positive experiences, we decided not to continue the cooperation after the pilot project. In addition, Itella’s subsidiary in the British Virgin Islands attracted negative publicity in 2013. In 2008, we acquired the Russian NLC subgroup, which included NLC International Corporation in the British Virgin Islands and three companies owned by NLC International Corporation in Cyprus. We have reported our ownership since 2008 as part of our financial reporting. We have also included the company located in the Virgin Islands in our tax return in accordance with Finnish tax regulations. The company located in the British Virgin Islands was registered in Cyprus in October, and Itella no longer has operations in the British Virgin Islands. In April, we filed a criminal complaint with the police on the suspected use of Posti’s electronic consumer services, which require registration, for fraudulent purposes by using stolen identity information to redirect shipments ordered from online shops. We also reported the incident to the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority. We believe that the criminal or criminals had acquired user IDs and passwords in conjunction with an earlier security breach related to the services of a provider other than Posti. The users whose information had been compromised had used the same user ID and password for several services, which enabled the criminal or criminals to access Posti’s services. Reputation risks that materialized in 2013 included news stories related to the digitization service provided by OpusCapita to business customers, claiming that Itella opens 80,000 postal shipments per day. However, we operate in accordance with the Finnish Postal Act. Some recipients have made agreements with us on opening and scanning letters. If the recipient wants its letters to be converted into electronic format, their digitization does not compromise the recipient’s constitutional right to the privacy of correspondence. Negative public statements also emerged after the media release issued in August by the Finnish Post and Logistics Union PAU. The press release was related to cooperation negotiations at the Finance and Accounting Services unit of OpusCapita, stating that Itella was transferring jobs abroad from Finland. Although some tasks in financial administration may be transferred to OpusCapita’s foreign units at some point, the jobs will stay at OpusCapita and will not be outsourced. In late 2013, we experienced disruptions in our postal service as a result of the failure of the collective labor agreement negotiations, which led to a situation where no agreement was in force. The parties were the Finnish Post and Logistics Union PAU and Service Sector Employers PALTA. Industrial action caused a backlog and delays in postal deliveries around Finland. However, a strike was avoided when a collective agreement for the postal industry was reached at the end of November. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 17 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Responsible sourcing Responsible sourcing More efficient sourcing is an integral part of the new performance improvement program that we launched in April. The program aims to accumulate EUR 100 million in cost savings. During 2013, we adopted a new, Group-wide operating model for sourcing in order to ensure consistent operating methods and more efficient solutions based on business needs. We have centralized all orders in our selected sourcing channels and to preselected suppliers. More efficient operations have enabled us to reduce the number of active suppliers from 17,000 to less than 10,000. Purchases are classified into six main categories which all take corporate responsibility into account. As part of the new operating model, we also implemented SupplyCenter, a new sourcing channel. During the year, we actively communicated changes in the operating model through various internal channels and organized training events and online training for personnel. We have defined a Supplier Code of Conduct that applies to all of our service providers and suppliers. In addition to legality, the Supplier Code of Conduct includes principles related to corruption, human rights, child labor, discrimination, working conditions and environmental concerns. During the year, we monitored how well our suppliers know the guidelines and comply with them. We submitted a selfassessment form to nearly 600 key suppliers. Almost 400 of them completed the assessment. The focus was on the suppliers’ level of familiarity with the general guidelines. Most of the respondents were Finnish suppliers, and the response rate was highest in the transport industry. Russia has not yet been included in the audit. We did not conduct separate human rights audits during the year. We had not performed a similar supplier audit previously. Part of the suppliers, who completed the assessment, will be audited on a more accurate level during the year 2014. With this we want to make sure that the answers given in the self-assessment are correct. The percentage of self-assessments has also been a sourcing performance indicator since the beginning of 2014. In 2013, we joined the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) network as a service provider. We hold B membership of the network. Up until now, we have provided three of our customer companies with ethical data through Sedex. With more than 30,000 members, Sedex is the largest collaborative platform for managing and sharing ethical supply chain data. It shares information in four key areas: health and safety, labor standards, business ethics and the environment. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 18 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility Financial responsibility We implement our financial responsibility by reforming our business operations and improving our profitability in line with our strategy and by supporting the competitiveness of our customer companies and the public sector. We are a state-owned company that operates on market terms, and our operations are entirely based on the revenue received from our customers. About half of our operations are related to postal services. The rest consist of logistics and financial management services provided to corporate customers. Our financial responsibility management is described in more detail under Financial responsibility management. Our financial targets are that our operating profit percentage exceeds 5%, return on invested capital is at least 10%, gearing does not exceed 35% and the annual net sales increases at least to an extent which corresponds to the sector's growth. We also intend to double our net sales in Russia by 2020. The financial impact of our operations is comparable to those of the banking and telecommunications sectors, as our services are used by hundreds of thousands of private and public sector operators every day, in addition to consumers. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 19 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility Financial impact in accordance with the income statement *) Board of Directors' proposal **) more information from the section Tax footprint This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 20 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility The geographical distribution of our employees in Finland on December 31, 2013 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 21 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility / Tax footprint We began reporting our tax footprint Corporate taxes and tax heavens were discussed frequently in 2013. In our survey, all of our stakeholder groups considered tax footprint reporting to be important. We want to lead the way and report our tax footprint as openly and transparently as possible. During the summer of 2013, we calculated our tax footprint for the first time and published our tax information for 2012 on our website. We report our tax information in accordance with IFRS by geographical segments: Finland, Scandinavia, Russia and the Baltic countries and other countries. This information will be reported regularly as part of our corporate responsibility reporting. We are a significant taxpayer. By paying taxes and other public fees, we contribute to improving well-being in society. Because of Itella’s weakened profitability, the income taxes Itella has paid declined remarkably from the previous year. Companies pay significant amounts of other taxes than income taxes. The amount of these other taxes are not dependent on company’s profitability but for example paid salaries. Although 76% of Itella’s net sales come from Finland, Itella pays 84% of all income taxes and similar taxes and fees in Finland. In addition to this, we collect significant amounts of remittable taxes, such as value added taxes, that are remitted as part of business operations to tax collectors in different countries. Taxes paid and remitted by geographical area Income taxes and similar taxes and fees Income taxes and similar taxes Geographical area Income taxes, EUR million and fees, EUR million Finland 2.2 166,8* Scandinavia 7.4 Russia and the Baltic countries 0.9 11.8 Other countries 0.5 Total 3.1 186.5 The figures are unaudited. *) Finland’s figure includes pension insurance payments paid in Finland, EUR 140 million. The figures include income taxes, real estate taxes, production taxes, employer's contributions, pension insurance payments, energy and fuel taxes and other possible taxes. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 22 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility / Tax footprint Remitted taxes paid in 2013 Geographical area EUR million Finland 315.1 Scandinavia 19.8 Russia and the Baltic countries 30.4 Other countries 3.2 Total 368.5 The figures include value added taxes, salary taxes and other remitted taxes. The figures are unaudited. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 23 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility / Research and development We actively research and develop our services Our research and development costs totaled EUR 11.3 million or 0.6% of the operating costs in 2012. In 2012, the corresponding figures were EUR 15.2 million and 0.8%. At Itella Mail Communications, in addition to annual analyses of research operations, research focused on long-term forecasts and the analysis of factors affecting the demand for and profitability of postal operations, which served as background information for our new vision. In addition, we studied the impact of the universal service obligation for Posti’s profitability, the development of customer satisfaction in services provided by Itella in all of our countries of operation, the progress made in electronic invoicing, the structure and digitization of letter traffic, the significance of e-commerce as a channel for shopping and the development of newspaper and magazine subscriptions in the near future. We continued to develop new electronic services and launched the Posti Maksuturva service in collaboration with Suomen Maksuturva for e-commerce operators for the management of online payments and product returns. With regard to physical services, we piloted the delivery of groceries to parcel points in collaboration with the Alepa Kauppakassi online grocery shopping service, and we launched the Termo refrigerated delivery service from small food producers directly to consumers. We completed our electronic delivery pilot project in the archipelago in the southwestern Finland. Itella Logistics invested in a new freight operating system. After VR Transpoint’s groupage logistics and PT Logistiikka became a part of Itella Logistics, we continued to develop the optimization and transport management systems of our domestic transport business. At OpusCapita, we began to develop a new global mail communications platform and continued the development of products designed for cash flow automation by introducing new mobile and cloud service solutions and by investing in the userfriendliness of products. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 24 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility / Sponsoring Cooperation in football and music We want to offer financial and emotional support for projects and operations that touch many people’s lives. Our cooperation with our selected partners is not only about funding, but also about being an active operator. This cooperation is related to sports, culture and social development. Our Board of Directors decides on donations annually. In Finland, we have focused on sponsoring football in recent years. We have systematically provided support at the top and grassroots levels. In January, we extended our agreement with the football association of Finland and continued as their main cooperation partner for 2013. Our cooperation dates back to 1994. In addition, we have collaborated with the Sibelius Academy for a long time, supporting the music culture and the training of young, talented people to become top performers nationally and internationally. Our cooperation offers students an opportunity to perform at a diverse range of events. During the year, we treated our customers to concerts at the Sibelius Academy and actively developed new event concepts with the Sibelius Academy. We also want to contribute to the construction of a new national expert unit in children’s hospital care in Finland. We donated our Christmas gift funds to the hospital project. In Russia, we made a Christmas donation to a foundation that helps children suffering from incurable heart diseases. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 25 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Financial responsibility / CASE: Openness on taxation Greater openness on taxation – Corporate tax contributions have hit the headlines over the past year. However, until now, the public debate has been limited to corporation tax, which companies pay on their profits and which in actual fact makes up just a small proportion of all tax payable by commercial enterprises. In spring 2013, we requested all companies subject to state ownership steering to submit a report on their tax liabilities broken down by tax category and country. The aim of this exercise was to find out how the companies under our steerage would communicate their tax affairs. At the time, few companies volunteered information beyond the statutory requirement laid down in Finnish accounting legislation. A significant shift is now underway, however. Itella began reporting its tax footprint in the summer and I am confident that other companies subject to state ownership steering are planning to expand on the information they provide. I consider this to be an extremely positive development. From our point of view, it is important that companies are as open and transparent as possible in their communications about tax. Full disclosure of their tax footprint is always an advantage for commercial enterprises as it is an opportunity for them to demonstrate their corporate social responsibility and because the information is of interest to all stakeholder groups. The EU policies on corporate social responsibility and the new G4 guidance from the Global Reporting Initiative require a more extensive and detailed approach to tax disclosures. Marja Pokela Senior Financial Specialist, Government Ownership Steering Department This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 26 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Social responsibility Social responsibility Providing premium mail services to everyone across the country continues to be our main mission in Finland. We serve our consumer customers under the name Posti. September 2013 marked the 375th anniversary of the establishment of the national postal service in Finland. We ensure that the letter and parcel services that fall within the scope of universal service obligation are available to everyone. We are the only operator in Finland to provide five-day delivery services that cover the entire country. The universal service obligation covers the entire country, with the exception of the Aland Islands. The obligation is monitored by the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority. During 2013, Itella Posti delivered items that fall within the scope of the universal service obligation on five weekdays to all households in accordance with the Finnish Postal Act. In areas that are difficult to reach, we deviated from the five-weekday obligation of 155 households, with the allowed maximum being 300. In 2013, Itella Post received 9,558 inquiries related to normal letters. Altogether 7,273 inquiries were unresolved, and 135 items were declared as having been lost, while 2,150 lost items were found. Inquiries related to letter items represented 0.001% of the total volume, and the damaged first-class and second-class letters represented 0.0047% of the total volume. According to the decree on postal service points, the nearest service point must be located within three kilometers of the majority (82%) of service users. Reasonable distances are promoted by a policy stating that the distance for a maximum of 3% of people may exceed ten kilometers from their permanent residence. Netposti is a free online transaction service for people aged over 15 in Finland. It enables consumers to receive electronic letters addressed to them by companies and organizations in a secure way. These include invoices, payslips, letters from the authorities and other important messages that consumers would otherwise receive at their home addresses on paper. Small enterprises and organizations can also register as Netposti users. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 27 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility People responsibility At the end of 2013, we employed a total of 25,877 people. Our average number of personnel in 2013 was 27,253. At the end of the year, those employed in Finland numbered 20,263, and the number of employees abroad was 5,614. Women made up 40% and men 60% of our employees. Our Supervisory Board has 12 members and our Board of Directors has eight members. The Executive Board is composed of seven members, and the Management Board is composed of 13 members. Our Board of Directors has an equal number of men and women as members, while men constitute the majority on the Supervisory Board, Executive Board and Management Board. We comply with local laws in all of our countries of operation. Of our total personnel, 81% are covered by collective labor agreements. The Baltic countries, Poland and Russia do not have binding collective labor agreements. In Finland, 99% of our employees are covered by collective labor agreements. The employees represented by the labor protection committee make up 76.6% of our total personnel. In Finland, the ratio between the basic salaries of women and men was 95%. Development in the number of personnel Personnel by business group on December 31, 2013 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 28 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility Additional graphs Breakdown of employment contracts in 2013 Age distribution of personnel Length of employees' careers at Itella in 2013 Number of women and men in leadership roles This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 29 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility Personnel by country on Dec 31, 2013 Finland 20,263 Russia 3,473 Poland 595 Sweden 344 Estonia 381 Norway 223 Denmark 163 Latvia 192 Lithuania 124 Germany 90 Other countries 29 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 30 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / Number of personnel The transformation of the postal industry affects the number of personnel During the year, we had to make difficult decisions related to personnel and launch several cooperation negotiations. In 2013, personnel reductions amounted to a total of 637 person-years. Out of this total, 380 person-years were reduced for reasons related to production and finance, and 20 person-years were reduced through voluntary resignations and pension plans. In addition, 237 person-years related to acquisitions were reduced. Acting in a responsible and controlled manner is important to us. We are seeking solutions to the effects on employment in collaboration with personnel organizations.The ongoing transformation of the postal industry and the continually decreasing volumes require operational changes that may have effects on personnel in the future. In Finland, we have made an agreement on change security with the Finnish Post and Logistics Union PAU. Change security will be applied to all of our personnel groups in accordance with the agreement. It will be implemented in conjunction with cooperation negotiations based on production-related and financial reasons. As much as possible, we seek to reduce the number of redundancies through voluntary arrangements. If redundancies are implemented, the affected employees are entitled to a change security allowance equivalent to their salary during the period of notice. The change security allowance is paid at the end of the employment relationship. At the beginning of 2014, we launched the Uusi polku (New Path) support program for our personnel. The program offers training and support for job seeking, retraining or starting a business. Through the program, we want to support employees in securing employment during the transformation of the postal industry. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 31 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / Multicultural workplace Our employees represent nearly 90 nationalities Multiculturalism is a significant resource for our company. In Finland alone, our employees represent nearly 90 nationalities. Since 2012, we have been a member of Diversity Chapter Finland, which is coordinated by the corporate responsibility network FIBS. We were among the first companies in Finland to sign the charter. Diversity Chapter Finland offers its members information on best practices in the management of diversity and support in business development. The dimensions of diversity include age, sex, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, operational capability and religion, among other aspects. During 2013, we were also recognized for our support and promotion of diversity. In November, the Advisory Board for Ethnic Relations (ETNO) selected Santa Claus’ main post office as Good Employer of 2013. For several years, the post office has hired young people aged under 30 with immigrant backgrounds. As an exemplary employer, we were recognized for our successful employment and promotion of integration and good ethnic relations. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 32 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / Workplace safety A safer workplace Improving occupational safety was determined to be one of our most important areas of development. Altogether 2,613 accidents were recorded at Itella in Finland during 2013. The corresponding figure in 2012 was 2,650. Figures include both accidents that have happened at workplace and during way to and off from work. The figure describing the state of occupational safety at Itella, LTA1 (Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate), was 46.7. In 2013, we launched the Safe Workplace development project, which aims to reduce accidents through new ways of thinking about safety. In the spring, we conducted a survey and interviews to examine the management culture of occupational safety at Itella. Based on the survey results, we determined the focus areas, indicators and a reporting model for the entire organization. We also included the reduction of accidents as one of the performance-based incentive metrics. During the fall, we organized Safe Workplace events in eight locations for a total of approximately 1,000 supervisors and representatives of our labor protection organization. The training addressed roles in occupational safety, the significance of leadership, the importance of good local cooperation and the new tools and principles of safety management at Itella. At the end of the year, we also updated our occupational safety vision and our next steps for the coming few years. In 2014, we will focus on supporting our employees in the adoption of preventative tools of occupational safety management and also in the adoption of new practices. Accidents and sickness related absences 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sickness related absences (%) 5.7 6.0 6.0 5.9 5.9 Lost time accidents (number) 1,197 1,306 1,318 1,329 1,306 Accident frequency 39.6 44.3 45.1 48.7 46.7 Disability pensions 104 78 89 84 76 Part-time disability pensions 74 57 76 103 74 Total disability pensions 178 135 165 187 150 Average age for retiring on disability pension 55.5 56.0 56.1 56.5 56.7 Average retirement age 59.6 60.0 60.4 60.7 60.9 Retired 415 364 400 315 342 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 33 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / The best employer We want to be the best employer We are a significant employer in Finland, and we offer a diverse range of tasks for our personnel. We are an equal, international, multicultural and tolerant workplace community. We actively promote our employees’ well-being at work at every stage of their careers. We want to be the best employer. In 2013, we received approximately 33,000 job applications. In Finland, we entered into 498 new permanent employment contracts in 2013. Seasonal changes are significant in our industry, and we hire the highest number of seasonal employees in the summer and around Christmas. We provided summer jobs for approximately 2,800 people in Finland. Most of them worked in mail delivery, sorting and transportation. We also participated in the national Responsible Summer Job campaign, alongside many other companies, making a commitment to its principles: a meaningful job and reasonable pay, a good applicant experience, induction and guidance, fair and equal treatment and a written employment contract and reference. We prepared for the Christmas season by hiring 3,300 seasonal assistants in different parts of the country. Despite the decreasing volume of letters, Finland continues to be one of the leading countries in Europe in sending Christmas greetings. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 34 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / Job satisfaction We continually work to improve job satisfaction In October, we carried out our annual personnel survey in order to determine and improve the level of job satisfaction. We sent the survey to all of the employees. The response rate decreased slightly to 64% (66% in 2012). Despite a challenging year, we recorded the same overall result as in the previous year: 3.78 (on a scale of 1–5). Management was one of the areas that had improved somewhat. The highest rating was given to the statement: “I know what is expected of me.” The lowest rating was given to the statement: “Itella offers me opportunities for professional development.” The results will be used to set clearer goals and support job rotation between business operations, among other measures. In addition, based on the results, each team will come up with at least one practical development measure for 2014. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 35 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / CASE: Spotlight on occupational safety Spotlight on occupational safety – In 2013, occupational safety was designated one of our key areas of development. Our goal was to significantly reduce the number of workplace accidents and to draw attention to the importance of both acting and thinking in ways that help to prevent accidents. Our key occupational safety principles are: prevention, risk assessment, investigating all occupational accidents, risk elimination and an annual risk elimination plan as well as continuous monitoring. Our shared tools include safety observations, safety walkabouts, safety info sessions, occupational safety discussions and our commitment to investigating and communicating all workplace accidents. We have been monitoring occupational safety at Itella since September 2013. Our benchmarks are accident frequency and the total number of accidents. In this short space of time, we have already succeeded in bringing down the total number and frequency of accidents. Sanna-Mari Myllynen Director of Well-being, Health and Safety at Work, Itella This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 36 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / CASE: Recognition for the personnel Leena Nikkanen and Jarmo Vahlfors recognized Leena Nikkanen Posti’s early morning delivery team member Leena Nikkanen was chosen as the Finnish Newspapers Association’s early morning delivery person of the year. She works in Somero and her job description also includes sorting for the basic daytime delivery slot. According to the jury, Nikkanen is a truly unique and exemplary member of the delivery team, particularly as she has never allowed a severe disability to stop her from pursuing her work. Following a childhood accident, Nikkanen’s legs were amputated from the knee down. Jarmo Vahlfors from the Espoo early-morning delivery team received a special commendation for his exemplary conduct in an emergency. Vahlfors discovered a member of the public suffering from head injuries during his round, called an ambulance and acted in accordance with the dispatcher’s instructions until the paramedics arrived. The jury commented that Vahlfors’s determination to offer help to an injured person is an excellent example of how important it is for both delivery personnel and employers to ensure that all those providing frontline services have the skills to deal with any unexpected situations they may come across in the course of their work. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 37 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / People responsibility / CASE: Continuous development Know-how and continuous development matter at Itella We support the professional development of all our employees by providing them with opportunities for on-the-job learning, support for self-motivated study and access to a range of training courses. – I took part in the Vilopa training provided by Itella. Vilopa is a vocational qualification in mail communications and logistics services. It’s intended for people who work in transport, sorting, distribution, warehousing or customer service roles and who have at least three years of practical experience on the job. The apprenticeship scheme was great for me. It was an excellent way of gaining a more in-depth understanding of this field and to gain a qualification while working full-time. For the most part, all the learning happened on the job and I also did some more formal exercises on the side. The qualification also included some contact teaching time. I did my on-the-job training in Germany. Feedback was a really central part of my learning process. I asked for and received a huge amount of feedback and it really spurred me on. I can definitely recommend an apprenticeship to anyone. Hanna-Kaisa Kröger Planner, Itella Mail Communications This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 38 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility Environmental responsibility The goal of our environmental program is to reduce emissions by 30% by 2020. Between 2007 and 2013, our carbon dioxide emissions in relation to net sales decreased by 20%, which clearly exceeds the goal. We have reduced the fuel consumption of our vehicles, and we have improved the energy efficiency of our premises by reducing our consumption of electricity and heat and purchasing 100% green electricity. According to a sustainability report published by the International Post Corporation (IPC), companies in the postal industry have decreased their carbon dioxide emissions by a total of 19.4% over a period of five years. The replacement of vehicles has had the most significant effect on carbon dioxide emissions. The increasing number of vehicles running on alternative fuels has had the most significant effect. In 2007, the IPC set a common goal for its members to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of the postal industry by 20% by 2020. Environmental damage in Shushary was remediated No significant environmental damage took place in 2013. In the serious warehouse accident in Shushary in St Petersburg in 2012, part of the shelving system collapsed. The accident damaged customer products to a significant degree, and Itella was also required to carry out environmental protection and cleaning measures. We continued to develop our environmental management and acquired the ISO 14001 certification for the Shushary warehouse. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 39 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility Environmental balance sheet This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 40 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Vehicle emissions Vehicles represent the largest part of emissions Our fleet of 4,000 commercial vehicles records a total of more than 125 million kilometers each year. Vehicles represent more than 80% of the total carbon dioxide emissions of our company. We reduce fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions by planning routes efficiently, combining deliveries and driving in an environmentally responsible manner. In addition, our goal is to increase the share of alternative vehicles to 40% of our delivery vehicles by 2020. In the fall, we began the installation of driving style monitoring devices in our delivery and transport vehicles. In total, monitoring devices will be installed in approximately 3,200 Itella Posti vehicles and around 800 Itella Logistics’ vehicles. All of our delivery vehicles will have driving style monitoring devices by the end of June 2014. In November, we acquired 25 biogas vehicles. Most of them are used for mail delivery in the capital region. Biogas produces no harmful particles and practically no greenhouse gas emissions during its life cycle. We also deliver mail by foot and by bicycle. About 1,400 delivery routes are handled by bicycle every day. We also use environmentally friendly electric carts and electric cars and 1,000 electric bicycles. Up until now, increasing the number of electric cars in delivery has been challenging, as electric cars suitable for winter conditions in Finland are not available. About half of the mopeds we use are electric. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 41 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Energy and waste efficiency We improve the energy and waste efficiency of our premises We want to continually improve the energy and waste efficiency of our premises. Completed in early June, the Pennala logistics center was built in accordance with green construction principles. Together with the old warehouse, Pennala offers more than 100,000 square meters of warehouse space for the customers of Itella Logistics. The center has a voice-controlled collection system and automated forklifts, among other features. In addition, it has energysaving external wall panels and a hybrid heating system that uses geothermal heat and gas. Located in the middle of our shop and customer network, the center serves to improve efficiency and reduce the carbon footprint of delivery transports, among other aspects. Our goal is to cut down 2% of the electricity consumption of our properties and 3% of heat consumption annually until 2015. In 2013, we were very successful. Compared to last year, energy consumption of large properties decreased by 2,487GWh, 4.1% and heat consumption of large properties by 1,680 GWh, 4.4% (temperature-adjusted). Large properties such as warehouses, terminals and postal centers use about 75% of all electricity. We actively seek to reduce landfill waste and improve the efficiency of sorting. We monitor the amounts of waste produced by large sorting centers on a monthly basis. Our goal is to keep the share of mixed waste of all waste at a maximum of 2%. We did not reach this goal: mixed waste represented about 10% of our total waste. Number of operating locations 2013 Finland 687 Russia 23 Other countries 37 Total 747 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 42 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Itella Green services 100% carbon neutral choices All of the letters, newspapers, magazines, parcels and direct marketing items delivered by Posti are completely carbon-neutral Itella Green services for our customers. By using Itella Green products, our customers can reduce carbon dioxide emissions in their supply chain processes and communicate to their customers that their operations are environmentally responsible. We primarily reduce emissions through projects that are directly related to our operations. The emissions generated by our services are calculated as part of our annual environmental calculations. We neutralize the remaining carbon-dioxide emissions related to the transport and delivery of Itella Green products by funding climate projects. In practice, if transporting one letter produces 20 grams of carbon dioxide, we use certified climate projects to ensure that an equal amount of emissions is reduced somewhere else. We carry out climate projects in countries that have no emission ceilings. We do not implement climate projects in Finland or other Kyoto Protocol countries that have binding targets. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 43 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Environmental calculations Environmental calculations We use environmental calculations to monitor the environmental impacts of our operations, and we seek to continually improve the quality and expand the scope of the calculations. We use a Group-wide Internet-based tool for the collection of environmental information. Itella's carbon dioxide emissions Carbon dioxide emissions relative to net sales CO₂ hierarchy This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 44 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Environmental reporting Environmental reporting These tables present information on environmental impacts in the following areas: Our vehicles Our premises Subcontracted transport Group's environmental impacts, CO₂ emissions Tons 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Fuel use in buildings – energy generation, Scope 1 9,268 10,724 11,254 13,019 14,463 Fuel use in transport – Itella's vehicles, Scope 1 60,406 46,169 46,005 48,185 48,502 Electricity and heat use in buildings, Scope 2 38,272 46,496 49,604 56,836 51,239 Subcontracted transport by vehicles*, Scope 3 65,606 50,878 42,376 41,479 45,815 Subcontracted transport by air, Scope 3 7,884 8,409 8,442 9,027 8,577 Business travel flights, Scope 3 2,190 2,260 2,221 493** 351** Total 183,625 164,936 159,902 169,040 168,948 *) Includes subcontracted transport in Finland **) Includes international and domestic flights, Finland Graphs Fuel consumption in postal delivery Electricity consumption in sorting centers This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 45 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Environmental reporting Scope 1: Fuel use in buildings and own vehicles 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group Group Group Group Group Finland Finland Finland Finland* Finland* Fuel use in buildings – energy generation TJ 240 220 199 192 165 0 0 0 0 0 Fuel use in transport – Itella's vehicles million liters 18.5 18.4 17.3 18.7 24.4 13.0 12.9 12.7 14.4 19.9 TJ 674 659 628 675 882 473 461 462 520 719 Kilometers driven million kilometers n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 94.7 101.3 99.4 103.8 125.0 *) Inc. VR Transpoint starting October 1, 2012 Emissions to air – Itella's vehicles 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 Tons/year Finland Finland Finland Finland Finland Group CO₂ n/a 33,743 33,545 35,547 49,229 60,406 CO n/a 57 54 56 60 n/a HC n/a 13 13 14 16 n/a NOᵪ n/a 84 84 97 166 n/a Particles n/a 4.2 4.5 4.7 5.9 n/a SO₂ n/a 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.3 n/a Source of information: VTT/LIPASTO emissions of traffic, fuel consumption and kilometers driven of Itella's vehicles. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 46 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Environmental reporting Scope 2: Purchased electricity and heat Carbon dioxide emissions from the use of electricity and heating in Itella's buildings 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group Group Group Group Group Finland Finland Finland Finland* Finland* Electricity use in buildings GWh 146 153 151 153 158 93 97 91 90 97 TJ 513 549 544 550 568 299 346 326 326 348 Heat use in buildings GWh 99 118 94 96 98 77 86 68 72 81 TJ 357 424 337 346 352 256 310 244 258 290 *) Inc. VR Transpoint starting October 1, 2012 Amount of renewable energy in consumed electricity 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group Group Group Group Group Finland Finland Finland Finland Finland Electricity 40% 57% 58% 62% 71% 48% 76% 81% 85% 100% Heat* n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a 17% 18% 21% 26% 29% *) Source of information: Finnish Energy Industries This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 47 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / Environmental reporting Scope 3: Subcontracted transport Carbon dioxide emissions from subcontracted transport The subcontracting emission figures represent the Finnish functions 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Finland Finland Finland Finland* Finland* Subcontracted transport by vehicles, Finland million kilometers 94.7 101.6 99.4 93.9 106.4 CO₂ t 45,815 41,479 42,376 50,878 65,601 Domestic air transports, Finland CO₂ t 3,255 3,288 3,443 3,199 3,074 International air transports, Finland CO₂ t 5,322 5,739 4,999 5,210 4,810 *) Inc. VR Transpoint starting October 1, 2012 Waste management in 2013, Finland Hazardous Recycled Waste tip waste Total Properties included in agreement* 10,415 939 35 11,389 Recycling % 91% *) The figures have been revised since 2012. Excluding properties where waste management is included in the rent. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 48 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / CASE: Renewable energy Renewable energy from agricultural and forestry waste in Brazil The Kitambar Ceramic plant in northeastern Brazil produces renewable energy from agricultural and forestry waste. The plant also produces a range of goods, including roof tiles, to meet local demand. The plant was previously powered by wood sourced from areas where the principles of sustainable forestry were not observed. However, the plant now uses mainly agricultural and forestry waste, including algarroba, walnut tree and coconut waste. The project is intended to reduce logging in Brazil. Deforestation is the single largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in Brazil. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 49 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / CASE: Driving challenge National postal services go head-to-head in driving challenge This autumn, Itella took part in an international IPC Drivers' Challenge competition in Ireland. The Itella team consisted of drivers Tommi Öhman and Jani Häsä. The race, organized by the International Post Corporation (IPC), attracted competitors from six different national postal services and involved driving efficiency and safety tests as well as customer service-oriented tasks. In addition to vehicle handling skills, points were awarded on the extent of the postal companies’ commitment to environmental objectives and sustainable development. The driving challenge was won by the team from Norway. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 50 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Environmental responsibility / CASE: Driving habit monitoring Protecting the environment and improving occupational safety through driving habit monitoring devices – By the end of June 2014, we will have installed driving habit monitoring devices across our entire vehicle fleet. In total, 3,200 devices will be installed in Itella Posti's vehicles and 800 in Itella Logistics' vehicles. The aim is to reduce fuel consumption by 1.1 million liters a year. The driving habit monitoring devices help to reduce fuel consumption and drive down carbon-dioxide emissions. What’s more, it will be possible to set and monitor regional targets for both consumption and emissions. This will also cut down vehicle costs and lead to improvements in occupational safety. We will now be able to identify the location of all delivery personnel, and the number of crashes and other hazardous situations is expected to reduce. We will also be able to step up our existing investment in occupational safety. Sampo Korkia-Aho Development Manager, Itella Mail Communications This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 51 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles Reporting and measuring principles Our corporate responsibility reporting is based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition, we comply with the reporting requirements of our owner, the Finnish State. We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B of the GRI G3 Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application Level B. In accordance with the guidelines, we focus on factors that are key to our operations and essential to our stakeholders. The information on environmental accounting from 2013, concerning postal and transport activities, is verified by an independent third party. The data is reported on an annual basis, and the reporting period runs from January 1 to December 31. We report the key indicators of the corporate responsibility areas to the Board of Directors twice a year. We report on corporate responsibility through our website, annual report and corporate responsibility report. Unless otherwise mentioned, the reporting covers all operations of Itella's parent company and subsidiaries. It also covers all functions in all countries of operation. The reporting does not include the operations of subcontractors or affiliated companies. The coverage of the indicators is reported in conjunction with the indicators. Although we aim for global examination of corporate responsibility, our universal service obligation causes our role in society to be more essential in Finland than in our other countries of operation. For this reason, we have made social responsibility a separate area of responsibility. We mainly report on social responsibility in Finland. With regard to human resources, we are in the process of implementing consistent processes and reporting systems. For this reason, the information on personnel is primarily included in GRI reporting in Finland. With regard to personnel, we have calculated the key indicators in accordance with the Accounting Standards Board’s general guidelines on annual reports. Since 2009, our environmental reporting has covered all of our countries of operation. The indicators for environmental responsibility cover our operations with the greatest environmental impact in all of our countries of operation. In Finland, the environmental calculations also include the environmental impact of subcontracted transport. Carbon dioxide emissions cover all of our business operations. The key standards applied in our environmental accounting are: The WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) Greenhouse Gas Protocol, and The GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector, which includes more detailed instructions for the postal industry. The data and indicators for financial responsibility are obtained from the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards approved by the European Union. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in compliance with the IAS and IFRS standards valid on December 31, 2013, and the related SIC standards and IFRIC interpretations. The notes to the consolidated financial statements are prepared in compliance with Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. As an issuer of two publicly listed bonds, we are obligated to disclose periodic information to a limited extent. Our duty of disclosure is based on the Finnish Securities Market Act and the rules and regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. A more detailed description of our financial communications policy is available on our website at www.itella.com/financials. In connection with our financial statements, we also publish our Corporate Governance Statement, referred to in Recommendation 54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code of the Securities Market Association. This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 52 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index GRI content index We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level B of the GRI G3 Guidelines. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Application Level B. Reported Partly reported Included Reference page Remarks 1. Strategy and Analysis President and 1.1 CEO's statement CEO's review Strategy Focus areas of corporate responsibility 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Corporate responsibility risks Indicators and targets 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Itella Corporation 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Itella in brief Operational structure incl. main divisions, Itella in brief 2.3 operating companies, subsidiaries, joint Group ventures companies 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters Itella's headquaters is based in Helsinki Itella in brief Number of countries and names of Itella Mail 2.5 countries with major operations or that Communications are relevant to sustainability issues Itella Logistics OpusCapita Share capital This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 53 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Share capital and 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form shareholding Owner Itella Mail Markets served (geographic breakdown, Communications sectors served, types of Itella Logistics customers/beneficiaries) OpusCapita Key figures Scale of the reporting organization Itella Mail (Number of employees, net sales, total 2.8 Communications capitalization by debt and equity, quantitity of products/services provided) Itella Logistics OpusCapita Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership (location of, or No significant changes during the reporting 2.9 changes in operations, incl. facility period openings, closings, and expansions; and changes in share capital structure) Itella Logistics 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Multicultural workplace 3. Reporting Principles Report profile Reporting and Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar 3.1 measuring year) for information provided principles The previous annual report and corporate 3.2 Date of most recent report responsibility report were published in April 14, 2013 Reporting and 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) measuring principles Contact point for questions regarding the 3.4 www.itella.com report or its content Report scope and boundary Materiality Process for defining report content assessment 3.5 (materiality, prioritizing topics and stakeholders using the report) About the report Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Reporting and 3.6 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, measuring joint ventures, suppliers) principles This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 54 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index State any specific limitations on the Reporting and scope or boundary of the report (see 3.7 measuring completeness principle for explanation of scope) principles Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Reporting and operations, and other entities that can 3.8 measuring significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between principles organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying Reporting and estimations applied to the compilation of 3.9 measuring the indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to principles apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such No significant changes during the reporting 3.10 re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, period change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, No significant changes during the reporting 3.11 or measurement methods applied in the period report GRI content index GRI content 3.12 GRI content index index 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for specific Governance tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Corporate Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 4.2 governance body is also an executive Governance officer Statement 2013 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 55 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index For organizations that have a unitary Corporate board structure, state the number of 4.3 members of the highest governance body Governance that are independent and/or nonStatement 2013 executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and Corporate employees to provide recommendations 4.4 Governance or direction to the highest governance body Statement 2013 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives Remuneration 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and statement the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance) Corporate Processes in place for the highest Itella complies with the Finnish Corporate 4.6 governance body to ensure conflicts of Governance Governance Code interest are avoided Statement 2013 Process for determining the qualifications Corporate and expertise of the members of the 4.7 highest governance body for guiding the Governance organization's strategy on economic, Statement 2013 environmental, and social topics Strategy Internally developed statements of Interaction mission or values, codes of conduct, and with 4.8 principles relevant to economic, http://www.itella.com/about/company/ethics/ environmental, and social performance stakeholders and the status of their implementation Responsible sourcing Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of Board of economic, environmental, and social Directors 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and Risk opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed management standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest Corporate governance body's own performance, 4.10 Governance particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Statement 2013 This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 56 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the Risk 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is management addressed by the organization Managing Externally developed economic, social environmental, and social charters, 4.12 responsibility principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Environmental responsibility Memberships in associations (such as Interaction industry associations) and/or 4.13 with national/international advocacy organizations stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Interaction List of stakeholder groups engaged by 4.14 with the organization stakeholders Interaction Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 with stakeholders with whom to engage stakeholders Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Interaction 4.16 including frequency of engagement by with type and by stakeholder group stakeholders Stakeholder Key topics and concerns that have been survey raised through stakeholder engagement, Challenges in 4.17 and how the organization has responded 2013 to those key topics and concerns Job satisfaction Economic Performance Indicators Financial responsibility management Management Approach Indicators and targets Risk management This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 57 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Financial costs, employee compensation, responsibility EC1* donations and other community Tax footprint investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Sponsoring governments Environmental Financial implications, risks and responsibility EC2* opportunities due to climate change Itella Green services Coverage of defined benefit plan Pension 2% of the employees have defined benefit EC3* obligations liabilities pension plans Other Significant subsidies received from EC4* operating government income Environmental Performance Indicators Environmental responsibility management Management Approach Indicators and targets Environmental responsibility Materials Energy Direct energy consumption by primary Environmental EN3* energy source reporting Indirect energy consumption by primary Environmental EN4* source reporting Energy saved due to conservation and Energy and EN5 efficiency improvements waste efficiency Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Vehicle renewable energy based products and emissions EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these Itella Green initiatives services Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect green-house gas Environmental EN16* emissions by weight reporting This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 58 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Environmental EN17* emissions by weight reporting Vehicle emissions Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Environmental EN18 emissions and reductions achieved responsibility Itella Green services Total amount of waste by type and Environmental EN20* disposal method reporting Total amount of waste by type and Environmental EN22* disposal method reporting Total number and volume of significant No significant spills occured during the EN23* spills reporting period Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental Itella Green EN26* impacts of products and services, and services extent of impact mitigation Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No significant fines or sanctions during the EN28* for non-compliance with environmental reporting period laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Environmental EN29 and materials used for the organization’s Subcontracting reported for Finland only reporting operations, and transporting members of the workforce Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work People responsibility management Management approach to labor Indicators and practices and decent work targets People responsibility This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 59 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Employment Job Total workforce by employment type, satisfaction LA1* employment contract and region People responsibility Number of Total number and rate of employee personnel LA2* turnover by age group, gender and Employees region The best employer Labor/Management Relations Percentage of employees covered by People LA4* collective bargaining agreements responsibility Minimum notice period(s) regarding Number of LA5* operational changes, including whether it The local legislation is obeyed personnel is specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– 78.3% (84.4%) of total workforce LA6 worker health and safety committees that represented in committees help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Workplace Rates of injury, occupational diseases, safety LA7* lost days, and absenteeism, and number Reported for Finland only People of work-related fatalities by region responsibility Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and People breakdown of employees per category responsibility LA13* according to gender, age group, minority Multicultural group membership, and other indicators of diversity workplace Ratio of basic salary of men to women by LA14* Reported for Finland only, ratio 95% (96%) employee category This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 60 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Human Rights Social responsibility management Responsible sourcing Management approach to human People rights responsibility management Corporate responsibility risks Investment and procurement practices Percentage of significant suppliers and Responsible HR2* contractors that have undergone human sourcing rights screening and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning People HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant responsibility to operations, incl. percentage of management employees trained Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and actions HR4* No reported discrimination incidents taken Child labor Operations identified as having significant Social No significant risks during the reporting HR6* risk for child labor and measures taken to responsibility period contribute to the elimination of child labor management Forced and compulsory labor Operations identified as having significant Social risk for forced or compulsory labor and No significant risks during the reporting HR7* responsibility measures taken to contribute to the period elimination of forced or compulsory labor management This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 61 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Society Responsible sourcing People responsibility management Indicators and Management approach to society targets Social responsibility management Corporate responsibility risks Corruption Employee Code of Percentage of employees trained in antiConduct SO3* corruption policies and procedures People responsibility management Actions taken in response to incidents of No incidents of corruption during the period SO4* corruption under review Public Policy Total value of financial and in-kind Itella does not support any political parties SO6 contributions to political parties, or institutions politicians and related institutions No court decisions during the period under Number of legal actions for antireview. The Finnish Competition Authority is SO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and investigating one case concerning the monopoly practices and their outcomes misuse of the dominant market position Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and number of non-monetary sanctions for No significant fines or sanctions for nonSO8* non-compliance with laws and compliance with laws and regulations regulations This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 62 Itella Annual Report 2013 Corporate responsibility / Reporting and measuring principles / GRI content index Product Responsibility Social responsibility Indicators and targets Management approach to product Our customer responsibility promise Corporate responsibility risks Customer Health and Safety Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of None during the period under review products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Service Labeling Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service None during the period under review information and labeling, by type of outcomes Our customer Practices related to customer satisfaction promise PR5 and results of customer satisfaction Indicators and surveys targets Marketing Communications Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 None during the period under review concerning marketing communications, advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Customer Privacy Number of substantiated complaints Challenges in PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 2013 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and PR9* None during the period under review regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services *) GRI Core indicator This page has been generated from the electronic Itella Annual Report 2013. The report can be read in its entirety at annualreport2013.itella.com/en 63 www.itella.com
