KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Contents Editorial Policy Contents / Editorial Policy 1 The Konica Minolta CSR Report is published to inform all stakeholders about the Group’s corporate social responsibility Introduction 2 initiatives. The report focuses on issues identified as being very Message from the President 3 important to society and having a substantial impact on the Group’s business. It describes, in sections arranged by type of Special Feature stakeholder, the progress made and specific initiatives taken on Creating New Value that Helps to priority goals that have been set. To facilitate communication with Enrich the Quality of Society stakeholders around the world, the report is published in five Theme 1 Effective Utilization of 5 languages: Japanese, English, Chinese, German, and French. Recyclable Resources Initiatives of the Business Technologies Business Report Boundary Theme 2 Contributing to the Advance of Medical Diagnostics 7 This report covers Konica Minolta, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries. When data is given on a specific subset of Initiatives in the Healthcare Business companies, the boundary is separately indicated. Theme 3 Contributing Throughout Society to Energy Savings 9 Note: In this report, “Konica Minolta” refers to the Konica Minolta Group. “Konica Minolta, Inc.” refers to Konica Minolta, Inc., alone. Initiatives in the Industrial Business Reporting Period Overview of the Konica Minolta Group 11 In principle, the report covers activities from April 1, 2013 to Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy 13 March 31, 2014. Some sections may include information on earlier initiatives or more recent activities. Exercising Responsibility for 17 In this report, “fiscal 2013” refers to the fiscal year starting April 1, the Global Environment 2013 and ending March 31, 2014. Green Products 19 21 Publication Date Green Factories August 2014 (Next report: scheduled for August 2015; previous Green Marketing 24 report: September 2013) Close Up 25 27 For Further Information Environmental Data Summary More detailed information on the Group’s CSR activities is Earning the Confidence 29 available at: http://www.konicaminolta.com/about/csr of Customers Assuring Product Safety and Preventing 30 Page on the website Quality-Related Problems Relevant information available on the website Increasing Customer Satisfaction 31 The documents below are available for download at: Cooperating with 33 http://www.konicaminolta.com/about/corporate/ Business Partners document_download.html Promoting CSR Throughout the Supply Chain 34 • Company Brochure • CSR Report • Environmental Report • Annual Report Growing Together with 35 Our Employees Reference Guidelines Leveraging and Developing Diverse 36 The 3rd edition (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Human Resources Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Promoting Occupational Health and Safety 37 GRI/ISO26000/United Nations Global Compact Content Human Resources Data Summary 38 Indices Hand-in-Hand with Society 39 Implementing Social Contribution Activities 40 around the World Disclaimer In addition to facts about past or present circumstances, this report contains Management System 41 descriptions of the Group’s current plans and projections for the future. These descriptions are based on information that is currently available and have been Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report 43 deemed reasonable based on the Group’s current status. The Group’s actual performance could differ from its predictions due to future changes in the External Assurance 44 business environment. 1 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Creating New Value for a Sustainable World Konica Minolta’s mission is “The Creation of New Value.” The company exists for this very purpose: to use creative ideas to deliver tangible new value in order to resolve the challenges faced by customers and the broader society. The days when all a company had to do to survive was manufacture and sell a product are gone. In an age of diversifying values, Konica Minolta is convinced that a sustainable company is one that creates value for both society and itself by integrating its efforts to resolve social issues and improve corporate competitiveness and profits. Konica Minolta is determined to remain a company that is vital to society by continuing to create new value that brings about innovation. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 2 Message from the President Contributing to Social Quality by Continuing to Create New Value for Customers and the Broader Society Pursing Growth through Customer-driven Basic Policy of the Medium-term Business Plan Transformation of Our Businesses At Konica Minolta, we have established a solid presence in our primary markets by carrying out a “genre-top strategy”—concentrating our efforts and investment in fields where we can leverage the advantages we have built over many years of implementing the Konica Minolta Realize sustainable profit growth management philosophy, “The Creation of New Value.” Transform into a customer-centric company Meanwhile, today’s society is undergoing dramatic Establish a strong corporate structure changes, and at an unprecedented pace. While many people lead affluent lives surrounded by an abundance of possessions, we are all also faced with difficult to Konica Minolta’s businesses, refine our manufacturing global-scale challenges. The days when all a company processes, strengthen our human resources, and achieve had to do to survive was manufacture and sell a product further growth as a company. are gone. The only companies that will be able to maintain sustainable growth from here on are those that work Raising the Bar on CSR Management together with customers to resolve challenges—those In order to achieve further growth as a global company, which make a positive contribution to society and the Konica Minolta must intensify its focus on fulfilling its environment. responsibilities to society and gain trust from the We formulated our new medium-term business plan, international community, while transforming its business which starts in fiscal 2014, based on this conviction. The based on the medium-term business plan. plan name, “Transform 2016,” reflects our determination Konica Minolta participates in the UN Global Compact to transform the Group’s businesses by focusing and seeks to fulfill its diverse social responsibilities in the thoroughly on customer-oriented ideas and actions. The areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and plan calls for Konica Minolta to create value that corruption prevention. These efforts have earned the contributes to the quality of society by enhancing its ability company a positive reputation in the international to propose solutions and services that help customers community, for instance inclusion in SRI indexes in and and the broader society resolve challenges. Through this outside Japan. With the start of the new medium-term shift in our business model, which we call business plan, I would like to continue these initiatives “Transformation,” we aim to add even more added value while also raising the bar so that we rise to the next level. 3 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 On the environmental front, for example, we have kicked off a medium-term environmental plan based on the concept of pursuing both the resolution of environmental challenges and enhancing corporate competitiveness. We are working to achieve specific targets in terms of both corporate growth and environmental impact reduction, focusing on our Green Products, Green Factories, and Green Marketing initiatives. With respect to human rights, in 2014 we established a conflict minerals compliance policy to help prevent human rights violations and will continue to bolster our efforts in this area. Going forward, we are committed to proactively fulfilling our responsibilities as a global company and responding to the diverse challenges faced by the international community. Increasing the Ability of Each and Every Employee to Deliver Results Everything—including the outcome of the medium-term business plan and our efforts to raise the bar on CSR management—depends on the ability of our 40,000+ employees around the world to deliver results. That is why we have articulated the Konica Minolta Philosophy as the cornerstone to ensure each and every employee shares the same values while making decisions and taking actions with agility and a proactive mindset. Ensuring we all move forward in the same direction, it shows how the “The Creation of New Value” is at the core of the six values that express Konica Minolta’s strengths and heritage, which in turn underlie our vision for the company. We will also work at reforming our HR policies, focusing on appointing the right people for the right jobs, deploying personnel with a global mindset, supporting female employees, and selecting young employees for challenging roles. In all of these efforts, the goal is to create an environment where we can identify and promote human resources who demonstrate the ability to deliver results. I am confident that these strategies will enable us to achieve our vision of becoming a robust company that is capable of strong growth and vital to society. I invite you to look forward to what Konica Minolta will achieve in the future. Shoei Yamana President and CEO Konica Minolta, Inc. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 4 Special Feature Creating New Value that Helps to Enrich the Quality of Society Theme 1 Effective Utilization of Recyclable Resources Initiatives of the Business Technologies Business Social Issue Limited Natural Resources and Utilization of Recycled PET Forecast of global oil demand Recovery of used PET bottles and (million barrels/day) volume recycled in Japan (thousands of tons) 33% Recovered Recycled in Japan increase in 35 years Volume recycled in Japan: 76.3 87.4 95.4 97.8 99.5 101.4 less than 50% of volume recovered 643 628 654 625 592 233 245 242 265 254 2000 2012 2020 2025 2030 2035 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Source: World Energy Outlook 2013, IEA. Source: Annual Report on PET Bottle Recycling, Council for PET Bottle Recycling. With demand for oil expected to keep increasing despite the threats of resource depletion and climate change, virtually every industrial sector is attempting to use less and recycle more plastic and other petroleum-based resources. One item with a high profile is PET bottles. PET is available in a relatively stable supply and has well-established recycling infrastructure. At present, however, the volume recycled in Japan is growing more slowly than the volume collected; more than half of collected PET is shipped outside the country at low prices. In order to become a recycling-oriented society in the truest sense of the term, Japan needs to find more added-value applications for using PET bottles as a recyclable resource. 5 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Our Approach Using Recycled PET Bottles in the Outer Casing Material of MFPs For some years now, Konica Minolta has been conducting R&D on ways to use recycled plastic, looking to help build a recycling-oriented society. The company created new technology for recycling PET plastic and succeeded in using it in the outer casing of its MFPs, which had previously been difficult to achieve, thus increasing the value of the recycled material. PET bottles/gallon bottles Recycled PC/PET plastic bizhub series of MFPs High rate of recovery, Strong recycled plastic Recycled PC/PET stable procurement with high flame plastic used in possible resistance developed outer casing material Each MFP uses recycled PC/PET plastic equivalent to about sixteen 500 ml PET bottles and two 5 gallon PC bottles.* * bizhub C554e series of color MFPs The biggest challenge when recycling recovered PET PC is used to make gallon bottles for water coolers. Like bottles as recycled PET (polyethylene terephthalate) plastic PET bottles, it is a plastic with a high rate of recycling. By is the deterioration in performance compared to virgin combining recycled PC and PET into a composite material. That is why applications for recycled PET plastic material, Konica Minolta developed recycled PC/PET were limited until now to products with low performance plastic, a material good enough to use for the outer casing requirements, such as sheets and textiles. of its bizhub series of color MFPs. The usage rate of Konica Minolta’s research into using recycled PET recycled PC/PET and other recycled materials continues plastic in the outer casing material of MFPs faced hurdles to increase with every new model. Recycled materials at first in terms of performance. The challenges included make up more than 40% of the total plastic surface area in making it processable enough for injection molding, as the bodies of bizhub C554e series machines, the main well as meeting strength and flame-resistance new models launched in 2013. requirements. The company applied polymer alloy This adoption of recycled plastic in the outer casing technology to obtain better performance by blending of an MFP was an industry first, worldwide. Building on different resins. By mixing it with polycarbonate (PC), the this achievement, Konica Minolta will strive to improve the researchers were able to improve the strength, flame quality and expand the applications of recycled plastic resistance, and processability of the recycled PET plastic. material in the future. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 6 Special Feature Creating New Value that Helps to Enrich the Quality of Society Theme 2 Contributing to the Advance of Medical Diagnostics Initiatives in the Healthcare Business Social Issue Aging Societies with Rising Home Care Needs Societies around the world are Percentage of seniors (65 and older) Patients who have received home care experiencing faster and faster in the population (%) in Japan (thousands) demographic aging, while the total World Japan global population is also growing dramatically. In Japan today, people 65 Senior population The number of home care years and older account for 25% of the increasing patients in Japan has entire population, making Japan one of the quickest-aging countries in the worldwide 28.6 30.7 topped 100,000 110.7 world. The health care situation facing 23.0 98.7 seniors has created various challenges. 17.2 Too many patients have difficulty making 69.5 71.7 64.8 it to see the doctor, there are too few 11.6 9.3 doctors, and medical and nursing costs 6.9 7.7 are increasing for society as a whole. Given this context, there is a great need to supplement the traditional 2000 2010 2020 2030 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 Source: World Population Prospects: Source: Patient survey conducted by the Ministry outpatient and inpatient care systems The 2012 Revision, United Nations. of Health, Labour and Welfare. with a third form, home health care. With home care expected to become more common in the future, observers expect an expansion in the number and type of medical services that can be performed in the home. 7 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Our Approach Making High-precision Diagnostic Imaging Devices Usable in the Home Care Setting Diagnostic imaging devices that use X-rays and ultrasound enable healthcare providers to see inside the body, shedding more light on conditions that cannot be assessed just from outward appearance. Until recently, patients who needed imaging services were required to visit a medical facility, since the imaging devices were not mobile. Konica Minolta has now developed portable devices that make diagnostic imaging in the home possible. Home care patient Visiting treatment Clinic Home care patient AeroDR, SONIMAGE P3, a portable a cassette-type ultrasound digital radiography diagnostic system imaging system Home care patient Making X-ray and ultrasound diagnostics available to home care patients As a pioneer of X-ray film in Japan, Konica Minolta has it easy for doctors to bring with them wherever they go. developed diverse medical diagnostic imaging devices by Seeking to take advantage of the AeroDR’s excellent leveraging its core imaging technologies. In recent years, it portability to make it usable at home care and disaster has driven the digitalization and networking of diagnostic sites, in 2013 Konica Minolta developed a mobile package imaging and contributed to the expansion of its scope of that includes a tablet PC for image diagnostics and a use by making devices more and more user friendly. wireless communications unit. This package was used for The digital radiography system AeroDR, for example, demonstration testing of a health promotion car, features improved operability during image capture, which conducted by Aomori Prefecture in three municipalities as had been a challenge until now, taking advantage of a health care measure in thinly populated areas. This painstaking weight reduction efforts and wireless initiative, which conducts treatment visits, house calls, and technology. The AeroDR makes it possible to take images health checkups using portable medical devices packed not only in the X-ray room but also at the hospital bedside, into a compact car, confirmed AeroDR’s usefulness in in the emergency room, or other locations. The diagnostic home care. ultrasound system SONIMAGE P3 is proving useful not Going forward, Konica Minolta will continue to make only in hospitals but also in home care and disaster these advanced diagnostic imaging devices even more settings, since its ultra-lightweight, compact design make user-friendly to contribute to the advance of home care. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 8 Special Feature Creating New Value that Helps to Enrich the Quality of Society Theme 3 Contributing to Energy Savings Throughout Society Initiatives in the Industrial Business Continually Rising Electricity Consumption Social Issue and the Demand for Low-power Lighting World Electricity Consumption Breakdown of Energy Consumption (trillions kWh) in Offices and Households Up Lighting accounts for 85% in 20 years 17.8 a high percentage Hot water supply 0.8% Motive power Other 5.1% Heating 15.0 8.6% 31.1% 12.6 Heat transfer Offices 12.0% 10.8 Lighting 9.6 Outlets 21.1% 21.3% Source: Energy Conservation in Office Buildings, Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ). Other Air conditioners 32.7% 25.2% 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 Households Refrigerators 16.1% TVs Source: Energy Balances of OECD Countries, 9.9% Lighting Energy Statistics and Balances of non-OECD Countries, IEA. 16.1% Source: Dictionary of Energy Conservation for Households, ECCJ. The need for greater energy savings is in the news worldwide amid growing concerns over climate change and resource depletion, yet electricity consumption keeps going up. Lighting equipment accounts for the second highest percentage of electricity use, following heating and cooling, including air conditioning. Saving more energy on lighting, which is an indispensable part of modern life, would help conserve energy throughout society, including at residences and offices. This potential is driving demand for the development and popularization of next-generation lighting equipment that has better energy efficiency than conventional fluorescent and incandescent lights. 9 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Our Approach Finding Diverse Applications for Cutting-edge Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) Lighting Konica Minolta is working hard to meet the rising demand for next-generation lighting with lower electricity consumption than fluorescent and incandescent lighting. The company is applying its proprietary film-making and optics technology to R&D into organic light emitting diode (OLED) lighting, aiming to create new products which help save energy throughout society. Seeking to identify many promising applications, Konica Minolta is working to improve functionality and luminous efficiency and is already building an efficient mass production system. Conventional lighting Next-generation lighting OLED lighting is thin, lightweight, and flexible, and has many potential Incandescent Fluorescent applications. lighting lighting OLED lighting Lower electricity In-car lighting consumption Building materials Interior décor OLEDs use an organic material that emits light when Next-generation High-efficiency and High-quality Lighting stimulated by an electric current. They do not use mercury implemented by Japan’s New Energy and Industrial like fluorescent lights and are highly energy efficient, giving Technology Development Organization (NEDO). them great promise as a next-generation lighting source In March 2014, it succeeded in increasing the with low environmental impact. OLED lighting also boasts luminous efficiency, which had been a challenge for unique features unavailable in conventional lighting: they achieving broader application of the technology, to 131 are thin, lightweight, and flexible, and they provide a light lm/W, which is better than general LED lighting and is the source surface that evenly lights a wide area. These world’s highest luminous efficiency for an OLED.*1 characteristics create the potential for novel ways to use The company has already started building a mass lighting. It is anticipated that they will be used in diverse production plant at its Kofu site in Yamanashi prefecture in situations, ranging from homes to offices and car interiors preparation for full-scale commercialization in the future. It to outdoor settings. has adopted roll-to-roll processing,*2 which provides From early on, Konica Minolta has leveraged its excellent productivity, and plans to start production in the proprietary technical capabilities, including optics fall of 2014. technology and design and synthesis techniques for organic *1 As of March 1, 2014. Among white OLED lighting panels with a luminance area of materials, to conduct R&D into putting OLEDs into practical 15 cm2 or greater. Based on a Konica Minolta investigation. *2 Roll-to-roll processing: a method of processing electronic devices on a roll as it is use. Since 2010, the company has also been involved in a being rolled up. Compared to the processing of devices cut out individually, there is project called Fundamental Technology Development of no need for time and effort spent on installation and conveyance. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 10 Overview of the Konica Minolta Group Business Domains Konica Minolta leverages its advantages in the field of Business Technologies—its flagship business—as well as its Industrial and Healthcare businesses, to create new value that helps solve social issues. Business Segment Principal Products Applications Office Services • MFPs (Multi-functional peripherals) • Laser printers • Filing devices • Facsimile machines • Offices • Software and peripheral devices • Cloud services Business Commercial and Industrial Printing Technologies Business • Digital color printing systems • Digital monochrome printing systems • Printing companies • Digital color-proofing systems • Corporate printing • CTP (Computer to Plate ) departments • Prepress production systems • Digital printing • Inkjet printheads • Textile dyeing • Inkjet textile printers • Printed electronics • Inkjet print units • Inkjet inks Functional Materials • TAC film for LCD polarizers • VA-TAC film for increasing viewing angle • High-precision photo plates • Barrier film • Functional film for windows • Organic light emitting diode • Electronics industries Industrial Optical Systems for Industrial Use • Auto industries Business • Lens units • Research institutes • Pickup lenses for optical disks • Hospitals / Nursing homes • Spectrophotometers, colorimeters • Illuminance meters, chroma meters • Spectroradiometers • Spectrometers • Pulse oximeters • Solar cell measurement and calibration equipment • Digital X-ray diagnostic imaging systems (CR, DR) • Digital mammography • Diagnostic ultrasound systems Healthcare • Medical imaging filing systems • Hospitals Business • All-in-one medical imaging information • Clinics workstations • Medical management ICT services • Diagnosis medicine 11 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Global Reach Konica Minolta has subsidiaries in 45 countries as of March 31, 2014. Europe United States Number of Number of Sales employees Sales employees 32% 21% 22% 19% 8,328 7,663 Asia (excluding Japan) Japan and other regions Number of Number of Sales employees Sales employees 23% 30% 23% 30% 12,177 12,233 Corporate Data Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Income/ Company Name Konica Minolta, Inc. Operating Income Ratio Head office 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Operating Income Operating Income Ratio (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan 1,200 60 58.1 15 President and CEO Shoei Yamana Established December 22, 1936 943.7 44.0 Paid-in capital 37,519 million yen 804.5 777.9 767.8 813.0 40 40.0 40.3 40.6 10 800 (as of March 31, 2014) Fiscal year-end March 31 Number of employees 5.5 5.1 5.3 5.0 6.2 400 20 5 Non-consolidated: approximately 6,300 (as of March 31, 2014) Consolidated: approximately 40,400 0 0 0 (as of March 31, 2014) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 12 Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy Konica Minolta aims to establish itself as an innovative Rights and the United Nations Global Compact, in which company that is constantly evolving and is vital to society the company participates. by putting into practice its management philosophy, “The Creation of New Value.” This is why the Group strives to The Global Compact’s Ten Principles contribute to the resolution of societal challenges by Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the creating value that improves the quality of society through protection of internationally proclaimed Human its business endeavors. Konica Minolta’s CSR activities Rights human rights; and are guided by this management philosophy and vision, Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. and are based on its Charter of Corporate Behavior. The Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Konica Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Corporate Behavior, which is shared globally, illustrates Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and desirable behavior in each of the categories included in the Labour compulsory labour; Charter of Corporate Behavior Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and as a basis for understanding Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. and putting the Charter into Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary practice. The Group Guidance approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater articulates Konica Minolta’s Environment environmental responsibility; and commitment to acting in Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of compliance with international environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption social norms such as the Antiin all its forms, including extortion and Corruption Universal Declaration of Human bribery. Management Philosophy The Creation of New Value Konica Minolta Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Corporations, in addition to being economic entitles Senior management shall recognize that the fulfillment engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, of the spirit of this Charter is its own role and responsibility, should be beneficial to society at large. For this reason, the and shall take the initiative to ensure that all directors, Konica Minolta Group shall behave in a socially responsible officers and employees fully understand the Charter. In manner and shall have all of its directors, officers and addition, the management shall constantly pay attention to employees clearly acknowledge the spirit of this Charter of the opinions of internal and external parties and shall Corporate Behavior. promote the implementation of effective systems to secure ethical corporate behavior. 1. Beneficial and safe products 5. Contribution to society We shall strive to earn the confidence of consumers and clients We shall, with a global perspective, affirmatively make contributions through the development and provision of socially beneficial to society while respecting local customs and cultures. products and services with the utmost consideration for safety. 6. Respect for employees 2. Fair and transparent corporate activities We shall endeavor to make the lives of employees comfortable and We shall, in the pursuit of fair and transparent corporate activities, fulfilling, provide a safe work environment, and respect each comply with laws and social regulations and act in accordance with employee’s personality and individuality. international rules and the articles of incorporation. 7. Responsible actions 3. Communications with society and information disclosure In the event of a violation of the principles of this Charter, in order to We shall communicate with society at large and disclose corporate solve the problem senior management shall investigate the cause of information fairly and adequately. the violation and develop reforms to prevent its recurrence in accordance with corporate compliance procedures. Prompt public 4. Environmental protection disclosure of precise information and an explanation regarding the We shall acknowledge the seriousness of global environmental violation shall be made and responsibility for the violation shall be issues and shall act voluntarily and affirmatively to protect the clarified. Strict and fair disciplinary action shall be taken including environment. with respect to senior management where necessary. 13 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy CSR Implementation System Establishing Priority Goals for CSR Activities At Konica Minolta, the executive officer responsible for In establishing its priority goals for CSR activities, Konica CSR, who is appointed by the Board of Directors, carries Minolta endeavored to understand the issues that are the duties and authorities concerning the entire Group’s most important to stakeholders by analyzing feedback CSR. Directly reporting to him is the CSR, Corporate obtained by communicating with them in a variety of ways. Communications and Branding Division, which sees to the It also considered international guidelines related to CSR, implementation of CSR management for the entire Group. including the UN Global Compact and ISO26000. Further, This division also coordinates with corporate planning and it summarized and organized risks and opportunities management divisions within the Group to establish and considered when formulating business plans in each monitor the progress of priority goals for CSR activities business field. Based on the results, the Group selected and to oversee the disclosure of information to the public. the issues that are very important to society and have a Corporate Social Responsibility Operations, an great impact on its business and established them as its organization under the direction of the executive officer priority goals. responsible for environmental management, safety, and The CSR Report (print edition) outlines the specific quality control, oversees these important themes across measures being taken and the progress on the goals that CSR activities. are considered most important to stakeholders. It holds meetings of management committees in each of these three areas to create Group policies, Higher construct systems, and manage progress. It also provides Mentioned in the CSR Report Social Importance information and supports policy measures in close (print edition) coordination with other divisions. Every week, the head of the CSR, Corporate Communications and Branding Mentioned on the Website Division submits a report on the progress of CSR activities Issues being addressed to the executive officer responsible for CSR, in which Higher policy measures are reviewed and proposals made. The Effect on Business Management Council and other bodies also meet in a timely fashion to discuss matters of importance and keep CSR front and center in management. Konica Minolta’s Inclusion in Socially Responsible Investment Indexes Konica Minolta was included in both the World and Asia Konica Minolta has received high marks from various Pacific categories of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index other SRI research companies, such as inclusion in the (DJSI) 2013 issued by U.S.-based Dow Jones and Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI), Swiss-based RobecoSAM. The company has also been the Silver Class rating in the RobecoSAM Sustainability included in the FTSE4Good Global index, one of the Yearbook 2014, the Prime rating for CSR by oekom world’s best-known SRI indexes, for 11 years straight. research AG, and Forum Ethibel’s Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence investment universe (as of March 31, 2014). KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 14 Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy The Relationship between Konica Minolta and Stakeholders Targets and Results Stakeholders Tools and Opportunities Important Theme for Communication Konica Minolta does business around the world. •Providing customer service via websites Assuring product safety The major customers of Konica Minolta’s main and call centers and preventing business operations are corporations, government • Providing product information via websites quality-related problems agencies, and hospitals. and newsletters Customers • Conducting customer satisfaction surveys P29 • Exchanging information via visits to customers • Exchanging information at showrooms and Increasing customer trade shows satisfaction • Holding seminars Konica Minolta procures raw materials, parts and •Holding suppliers’ meetings Promoting CSR across components from different companies depending •Procurement Collaboration System the supply chain on the type of business. Over 90% of these suppliers are located in Japan, China, and •Conducting CSR surveys (self-assessment questionnaires) elsewhere in Asia. Business Partners P33 Konica Minolta has 26,191 shareholders. The •Shareholders’ meetings Enhancing communication breakdown highlights relatively high ownership by •Briefings for investors with shareholders Shareholders institutional and foreign shareholders; foreign shareholders own a combined stake of 45%, while •Visits to investors and investors and Investors Japanese financial institutions own 37% (as of •Briefings for business analysts and institutional investors March 31, 2014). WEB •Annual reports •IR website Konica Minolta employs 40,401 people worldwide. •Interactive intranet Leveraging and developing Of those, 30% are in Japan, 21% are in Europe, •Group journal diverse human resources 19% are in North America, and 30% are in China and elsewhere in Asia, and others (Figures are •Employee attitude surveys based on total regular employees of consolidated •Dialogue with labor unions companies, as of March 31, 2014). •Offering internal help line systems Employees •Exchanging opinions during inspection tours of production sites by senior staff P35 Promoting occupational health and safety Konica Minolta operates in some 45 countries •Activities that contribute to local communities Local and Global across the globe, and acts as a responsible •Community briefings and invitational events Implementing social Communities member of every community where it operates. •Sending speakers to lectures and places of contribution activities education around the world P39 •Industry group activities •Environmental reports and websites As a manufacturer, Konica Minolta engages in various operations that impact the environment, for •CSR reports, environmental reports, and Green products websites Global instance generating CO2emissions, which contribute Environment to climate change, using materials derived from • Community briefings and explanatory Green factories meetings P17 petroleum, which is a dwindling natural resource, and affecting ecosystems in various ways. • Collaboration with research institutions Green marketing *1 Serious product-related accidents: Accidents in which products put the lives of product users at risk or cause serious bodily injury and those in which property other than the products is damaged seriously *2 Quality problem index: An index created by Konica Minolta based on the costs related to quality problems that arise in the process of creating products or those involving products on the market 15 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Fiscal 2013 Targets Fiscal 2013 Results Fiscal 2014 Targets 1. Number of serious product-related 1. Number of accidents: 0 1. Number of serious product-related accidents*1: 0 accidents*1: 0 2. Quality problem index: 77% reduction 2. Improve the quality of products, sales and service 2. Quality problem index*2: 80% reduction throughout the product lifecycle*3 compared to fiscal 2008 • Complete product safety education for all • Completed education for all target personnel target personnel • Shared quality problems that occurred anywhere in the • Visualize quality risk management throughout Group and cross-deployed countermeasures the product lifecycle • Achieve management indicators for • Established KPI (depending on business characteristics, e.g. satisfaction, willingness to continue purchasing, advisability strengthening customer relationship management established for each business to others, call center’s rate of issue resolution) for all (e.g., loyalty measurements) businesses and achieved target for willingness to continue purchasing, which is an important item • Incorporate CSR procurement into supplier • Finished incorporating CSR procurement into supplier • Audit Group production sites and suppliers evaluations within ISO 9001 quality management system and start operating it evaluations within ISO 9001 quality management system in all business divisions and started operating it • Support suppliers’ independent initiatives • • Clarify incentives for suppliers Continue training examiners in all business • Provided CSR procurement education to 143 persons, divisions including education to examiners • Continued examining suppliers and completed examinations of 36 suppliers • Joined the EICC to step up CSR procurement activities • Establish management system for • Established management system for compliance with • Establish and promote a conflict minerals compliance compliance with conflict minerals regulations conflict minerals regulations policy • In the Business Technologies Business, conducted a • Expand scope of initiatives conflict minerals survey in conjunction with briefing sessions held for suppliers • Enhance website for individual investors • Renewed website for individual investors • Actively disseminate information and encourage • Released three-minute corporate introductory video understanding of Transform 2016, the new medium-term management plan (both institutional • Won gold prize in the Gomez IR website ranking and individual investors) • Won a Daiwa Internet IR Excellence Award • Expand effective contents and practice PR to encourage individual investors to purchase Konica • Hold briefings for individual investors • Held briefings 12 times at branches of securities companies Minolta stock • Exhibited at the Tokyo Stock Exchange IR Festa 2014 and • Feed individual investors’ opinions back and held briefings in the booth and in the hall. Directly explained disseminate information that helps make Konica the Group’s business, strategies, and shareholder return Minolta a more attractive investment choice policy to about 500 people. • Roll out Group-wide platform for human • Started regional business leader development program • Promote globally shared HR policies based on a resources development and deployment in China platform for human resources development and • Expand business leader development • Established the Global Strategy Council, an organization deployment program to manager-level personnel and to make use of the knowledge and views of senior • Instill principles and promote the development of a offer program in different regions personnel at affiliated companies in group management system for carrying out worldwide human resources • Established Konica Minolta With You, Inc., a subsidiary development and deployment that supports the independence of persons with disabilities by employing them 1. Number of serious accidents*4: 0 1. Number of serious accidents: 0 1. Number of serious accidents: 0 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing absence 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work: In 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing absence from Japan: 0.32, Outside Japan: 0.06 work: 0.1 or less from work: 0.1 or less • Evolution of risk assessment: Expand persons subject to • Enhance cultivation of a culture of safety: • Reduce risk of accidents during working education and enhance identification of and countermeasures to non-regular work risk involvement of senior management in safety, safety hours and prevent recurrences of similar management in the workplace, and raising the safety accidents • Introduced examples of internal accidents and examples from other companies, and enhanced prevention of recurrence of awareness of individuals • Continue making fundamental facility similar accidents through 4M5E method-based analysis of • Improve global health and safety management improvements the causes of accidents causing absence from work • Enhance intrinsic safety of equipment (risk reduction) P.40 Typical examples of fiscal 2013 P27 *3 Product lifecycle: All process from product planning through procurement and production to sales and service *4 Serious accidents: 1. Death, diseases that require or may require long-term care, injuries that cause or may cause disabilities, and specific communicable diseases 2. Accidents that cause three or more employees at one time to suffer on-the-job death, injuries or diseases (including accidents that do not cause absence from work) KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 16 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Konica Minolta’s Eco Vision 2050 is a set of long-term goals that looks all the way out to the year 2050, focusing on the three aims of preventing global warming, promoting resource recycling, and preserving biodiversity. The Group’s Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016, with the target year of fiscal 2016, is the action plan governing its current efforts to make progress towards Eco Vision 2050. Konica Minolta has committed itself to the “Three Green Activities” to help it reach the goals of the medium-term plan. The company is determined to create environmental innovation at each stage in its business processes, from product development to procurement, production, distribution, sales and service, and collection and recycling. This effort is designed to help reduce environmental impact and increase corporate value. Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 Eco Vision 2050 Konica Minolta has established a medium-term environmental plan based on the idea that a company that creates value for 1. Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the product life both society and itself by integrating efforts to resolve social cycle by 80% by 2050, compared to fiscal 2005 levels issues and improve corporate competitiveness and profits— 2. Promote recycling and effective use of Earth’s that is, a company that practices CSV (creating shared limited resources value)—is a sustainable company that can meet the 3. Work to promote restoration and preservation of biodiversity Vision for Reducing CO2 Emissions Increase environmental value Vision •Preventing global warming (%) 100 •Supporting a recycling-oriented society A company that creates value for both society •Restoring and preserving Reducing chemical substance risks and itself by integrating efforts to resolve Products • biodiversity societal challenges and improve corporate 80 competitiveness and profits Procurement Reduction of environmental impact CO2 emissions 60 Fiscal 2016 Manufacturing Goals set for both reduction of 40 Collection, environmental impact and Reduction by distribution, corporate growth sales and services 20 40% Reduction by 80% FY2013 from fiscal 2005 from fiscal 2005 0 levels by 2016 levels by 2050 Increase corporate value 2005 2016 2050 (Year) •Net sales •Cost reductions Corporate growth •Risk avoidance •Branding About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Management at Konica Minolta > Environmental Management 17 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 Fiscal 2016 goals For the Global Environment Important Theme Important issues Corporate value Environmental value (1) Creating and providing the Sales Preventing global warming green products demanded • Sales of Green Products: 640 billion yen •CO 2 reduction during product use: 97 thousand tons Important by customers and society (Share of sales: 58%) Cost reductions • CO2 reduction at suppliers: 100 thousand tons Supporting a recycling-oriented society Theme • Reduce cost of product materials •Reducing Resources used effectively: 42 thousand tons 1 Branding • Increase society’s and customers’ brand recognition chemical substance risks •Control emissions (2) Conforming with government Sales Environment overall Green Products • (planning and procurement standards and environmental label Zero lost sales opportunities •Reduce environmental impact by conforming with standards and label requirements requirements development) (3) Dependably complying with Risk avoidance Reducing chemical substance risks product-related laws and •Zero effect on sales •Reduce hazardous chemical substance risk by conforming Earning the Confidence of Customers regulations with laws and regulations (1) Green Factory operations Cost reductions Preventing global warming that translate into cost competitiveness •Reduce costs of energy and materials (reduce loss) •CO2 reduction during production: 20 thousand tons Supporting a recycling-oriented society Important •Restoring Resources used effectively: 4 hundred tons Theme and preserving biodiversity •Sustainable use of water resources 2 (2) Cooperation with suppliers Cost reductions Preventing global warming Green Factories that translates into cost competitiveness •Reduce costs of energy and materials (reduce loss) •CO2 reduction on supplier side: 2 thousand tons Supporting a recycling-oriented society (procurement and •Resources used effectively: 6 hundred tons production) (3) Dependably complying with Risk avoidance Environment overall production-related laws and regulations •Zero effect on production •Reduce environmental impact by conforming with laws and regulations Cooperating with Business Partners (1) Customer-focused response Sales Environment overall to environmental requests •Branding Seize sales opportunities; zero lost sales opportunities •Reduce requests environmental impact by responding to customer Important Theme •Increase society’s and customers’ brand recognition 3 (2) Sales promotion of ICT services and reduction of environmental impact Sales •Promote sales of ICT services, which reduce customers’ environmental impact Preventing global warming •CO2 reduction on customer side: 42 thousand tons Supporting a recycling-oriented society Green Marketing •Resources tons used effectively on customer side: 2 thousand (distribution, sales and service, (3) Supply chain optimization Cost reductions Preventing global warming and collection and and linked environmental initiatives •Reduce cost of distribution and packaging •CO2 reduction during distribution: 4 thousand tons Supporting a recycling-oriented society recycling) •Resources used effectively: 7 hundred tons (4) 3R initiatives for products Risk avoidance Supporting a recycling-oriented society •Reinforce 3R initiatives •Use resources effectively through product 3R initiatives Growing Together with Our Employees requirements of society in the 21st century. The medium-term themes and important issues. The important themes are the environmental plan sets out goals for both the reduction of “Three Green Activities”: Green Products (planning and environmental impact and corporate growth. development), Green Factories (procurement and production), When defining these goals, a materiality analysis was and Green Marketing (distribution, sales and service, and conducted to identify important issues that affect both the collection and recycling). Important issues were established environment and the company, and the identified material around these themes, with goals set for corporate value and risks and opportunities were incorporated into important environmental value, respectively. Materiality (Opportunities) Materiality (Risk) Tightening of chemical Practicing substance regulations environmentally (products, production) Meeting customers’ friendly business environmental request Energy/climate Depletion of resources change problems Contributing to Society Depletion of resources Addressing energy/ (water resources) (petroleum-based Materiality for stakeholders Materiality for stakeholders Environment-focused Ecosystem climate change problems Air pollution resources) branding destruction Restoring and preserving biodiversity (forests) Environmental requests from Product Water pollution recycling customers (products) Product Addressing resource recycling depletion Environment protection Soil pollution (petroleum resources) Depletion of resources around plants (rare metals) Lagging behind in Management of waste environmentally friendly laws compliance business practices Non-financial information disclosure Lagging behind in government and other procurement standards Materiality for business Materiality for business KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 18 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Important Theme Green Products 1 Background and Issues Key Measures As environmental issues like climate change and various Konica Minolta has introduced a Green Products other social issues loom larger and larger, the times are Certification System for evaluating and certifying changing. The world is moving from an age when the products with superior environmental primary demand was for material affluence to an age that performance. The Group has set numerical finds value in products and services that help to improve targets for increasing the share of total sales the “quality of society.” accounted for by Green Products and has been Seizing the chance provided by this change in promoting environmentally friendly products overall social values, Konica Minolta is focusing on based on its plan. creating products and services that contribute to the Konica Minolta believes this initiative will resolution of social issues. The Group takes drive its creation of environmental value suited to environmental issues especially seriously and is striving to different businesses and product characteristics, develop highly competitive products that help customers thus fulfilling its aim of helping customers and the and the broader society to reduce environmental impact broader society to reduce environmental impact. while simultaneously earning the Group higher profits. Green Products Certification System In operation since 2011, Konica Minolta’s Green Products The Medium-Term Certification System is an original system for evaluating and Environmental Plan sets specific certifying products with superior environmental performance. targets for increasing certified The system aims to create environmental value suited to Green Products’ share of total different businesses and product characteristics in order to sales. Working to achieve these help customers and society at large to reduce environmental targets, Konica Minolta is impact. developing highly competitive To be certified as a Konica Minolta Green Product, a products that help customers product must pass criteria established for different businesses and society to reduce and product characteristics with respect to certification environmental impact while also earning higher profits. At the standards tailored to environmental issues. The goals that same time, the Group is disclosing the environmental must be met are set at the product planning stage, and the performance of certified products in various media, including product is certified at one of three levels according to the product catalogues and websites in an effort to ensure that degree of goal achievement. the public knows about these efforts. Green Products Certification System Certification criteria (excerpts) Preventing global warming Reducing the risks from Products that contribute Sustainable Products •Reduce CO 2 emissions from product usage chemical substances to realizing a sustainable (SP)* •Reduce CO 2 emissions throughout product •Restrict the use of hazardous society life cycle chemical substances Supporting a recycling-oriented Restoring and preserving society biodiversity Products that achieve the industry’s top Green Products Plus •Reduce petroleum-based resource usage •Use biological resources in a environmental (GPplus) •Make products smaller and lighter sustainable manner performance •Increase the operating life of products Manufacturing process •Promote the use of re-used and recycled innovation Products that achieve Green Products materials top-level environmental (GP) •Promote the use of plant-based materials performance in the •Reduce rare metals usage industry Environmentally responsible products based on product assessment * Sustainable Products (SP) certification standards require that the Certification requirements product not only embody superior environmental performance not typically achieved by earlier products, but also incorporate original Compliance with Accordance with technology. While seeking to reduce the environmental impact of all of Acquisition of global Production at a certified environment-related environmental labels Konica Minolta’s CSR Green Factory its products, by setting a very challenging certification level, Konica regulations procurement guidelines Minolta aims to promote innovation and contribute more proactively to sustainability. 19 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Green Products Certification System For the Global Environment Fiscal 2013 Performance Expansion of Certified Green Products Initiatives in Each Business Earning the Confidence of Customers In fiscal 2013, Konica Minolta placed 39 new models of The Business Technologies Business is working on initiatives certified products on the market, bringing the total up to 114 in areas such as saving energy, using recycled materials, and models. Meanwhile, the share of sales accounted for by reducing the size and weight of MFPs and digital printers. In products certified as Green Products Plus—products which terms of energy savings, it has significantly reduced TEC*1 achieve the industry’s top environmental performance— and equips machines with features that encourage customers reached 37%. The creation and promotion of Green Products to save energy, such as the unique ECO Dashboard which also led to the achievement of the Group’s fiscal 2013 targets shows how much energy is being saved in real time. It also for the reduction of CO2 emissions from product usage, the makes use of three types of sustainable plastics; recycled reduction of petroleum-based resource usage, and chemical PC/PET, recycled PC/ABS, and bioplastic. Recycled PC/PET substance management, which are all product-related in particular, which was developed using state-of-the-art environmental goals. technology, features increased flame resistance and a wider scope of application. P5 Target Sales Share for Green Products The Industrial Business has reduced environmental Cooperating with Business Partners impact and enhanced product competitiveness by creating Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2016 thinner products, such as an ultra-thin TAC film, in the field of Target Results Target display materials. Meanwhile, in the automotive thermal Green Products insulation films market, it developed a functional window film 30% 41% 58% featuring the top level of thermal insulation efficiency*2 in its (GP) class, which is helping to reduce energy consumption associated with air conditioning use. CO2 Emissions from Product Usage By creating an ultra-light design for the AeroDR Series of CO2 emissions CO2 emissions (target) digital X-ray machines, the Healthcare Business increased the (Thousand tCO2) products’ portability in medical settings and reduced 1,200 1,137 environmental impact. It also improved user friendliness and 1,000 energy savings by substantially reducing battery-charging 800 time through the use of a lithium ion capacitor and energy-saving design technology. Growing Together with Our Employees 600 400 409 389 367 *1 TEC: Typical Energy Consumption, a measure of energy consumption established by 342 348 the International Energy Star Program. 200 *2 Based on a study by Konica Minolta. Compared to product lines with the same level 0 of brightness (visible light transmittance). 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Performance Target Examples of Green Products Certified in Fiscal 2013 bizhub C654e/754e bizhub 224e/284e/364e/454e/554e Color MFPs monochrome MFPs •Class-top*1 compact size •Class-top*3 low power consumption (TEC) (installation space savings) (bizhub 224e) • Uses industry-top*1 flame resistant recycled •Use of industry-top flame resistant recycled PC/PET plastic technology PC/PET plastic technology Contributing to Society AeroDR 10X12HQ TAC film for LCD polarizers Digital X-ray Machine •Industry-top*4 thinness achieved through •World’s lightest weight*2 with wireless DR optimization of deposition parameters •Approximately 22% reduction in power consumption during image reading (compared to previous model) • Approximately 77% reduction in foamed plastic usage for packaging material (compared to previous model) *1 As of launch in July 2013 *2 As of launch in July 2013, as a 10 × 12 inch size *3 As of launch in September 2013 *4 As of launch in June 2013 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 20 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Important Theme Green Factories 2 Background and Issues Key Measures The environmental problems of global warming and Konica Minolta’s Green Factory Certification resource depletion are becoming ever more serious, and System facilitates comprehensive evaluation of soaring energy prices and crude oil prices are having an environmental activities at its production sites, increasing impact on corporate management. with the goal of simultaneously pursuing cost In response, Konica Minolta is pursuing greater reductions and environmental impact reductions efficiency in production processes at its manufacturing at production sites. sites around the world. Among other things, the Group is The system brings costs down and reduces working hard to minimize the input of energy and environmental impact by fostering activities in line resources and to reduce waste in manufacturing steps. with the production strategy of each business and In addition, it is also focusing on developing production manufacturing site, thereby creating value for both technologies which hold down energy and materials society and the company. costs and which curb emissions of CO2, waste, and chemical substances. Green Factory Certification System Konica Minolta has operated its original Green Factory 2011 and eight units achieved Certification System for comprehensive evaluation of the the higher Level 2 by fiscal 2013. environmental activities at its production sites since 2010. The Going forward, actions focused system aims to reduce both costs and environmental impact on each site’s challenges will be by providing a framework for activities that make the most of taken with the aim of all business each business’s production strategy. The system’s units achieving Level 2 certification requirements include not only the attainment of certification. targets under the environmental themes of preventing global Note: A single business unit is an organization engaged in the same production warming, supporting a recycling-oriented society, reducing activities even across different locations. A single location may include several the risk of chemical substances, and restoring and preserving business units. biodiversity, but also the degree of attainment for some 250 specifications related to the implementation process that crystallizes Konica Minolta’s knowhow, so that it helps to improve the quality of environmental activities. All business units achieved Level 1 certification by fiscal Green Factory Certification Standards Objectives Management indicators Level 1 Level 2 Preventing global warming CO2 emissions (per unit of production*1) 12% reduction*2 20% reduction*2 Zero waste Waste discharged externally (per unit of sales) 30% reduction*2 50% reduction*2 Supporting a activities recycling-oriented society Final disposal rate of total waste 0.5% or less 0.5% or less Petroleum-based resource waste (per unit of sales) 30% reduction*2 50% reduction*2 Achievement of fiscal 2011 targets for Achievement of fiscal 2015 targets for Reducing the risks of Atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) each site in accordance with Mediumeach site in accordance with Mediumchemical substances Term Environmental Plan 2015 Term Environmental Plan 2015 Guidelines for managing soil contamination risk Consistent with guidelines Restoring and preserving Guidelines for biodiversity preservation (consideration of water resources and wastewater, and proper management of greenery at Consistent with guidelines biodiversity factories) Guideline-based activities Achievement rate of implemented items 70% or more 90% or more *1 Per unit of production: Environmental impact in terms of production output or production volume. *2 The base year is fiscal 2005. Based on this (base year) figure, standards tailored to factory characteristics are established. 21 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Green Factory Certification System For the Global Environment Fiscal 2013 Performance Expansion of Sites with Level 2 Certification reduction in externally discharged waste of about 10,000 tons Earning the Confidence of Customers Konica Minolta has set the goal of having all business units compared to the fiscal 2005 baseline. around the world achieve Level 2 Green Factory certification by fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2013, three more units (two in Japan and one in China) achieved Level 2 certification, bringing the Waste Discharged Externally from Production Operations total up to eight units (five in Japan and three in China). Discharge Rate of reduction per unit of production compared to FY2005 Rate of reduction per unit of production compared to FY2005 (target) Reducing CO2 Emissions Associated with Production (Thousand tons) (%) 40 100 Operations Konica Minolta is striving to reduce CO2 emissions resulting from production operations, working to do its part in the fight 30 –30% 75 26.5 –35% –36% against global warming. –45% –42% 22.4 21.7 In fiscal 2013, the Group moved forward systematically 20 20.9 50 with energy-saving measures designed to minimize the effect 16.2 Cooperating with Business Partners of soaring energy prices. Despite these efforts, the target per 10 25 unit of sales for fiscal 2013 was not attained due to the Group’s withdrawal from the hard disk business and the reduction of production efficiency caused by the lower volume 0 0 of display materials produced. Still, reductions per unit of 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Performance Target production attributable to the Green Factory Certification System generated a CO2 emissions reduction effect of about 57,000 tons compared to the fiscal 2005 baseline. Reducing Atmospheric Emissions of VOCs Since 1993, Konica Minolta has been working to reduce the emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from its CO2 Emissions Resulting from Production Operations CO2 emissions Rate of reduction per unit of production compared to FY2005 production sites around the world, focusing on those kinds of Rate of reduction per unit of production compared to FY2005 (target) VOCs that it identified as higher risk in terms of hazard and (Thousand tCO2) (%) volume of use, aiming to reduce overall chemical substances Growing Together with Our Employees 400 387 100 374 376 risk. The Group established its own environmental impact 362 index, which multiplies VOC emission volume by impact on 330 300 –23% 75 human health and environmental impact as well as a location –21% –23% factor, and uses it to manage these efforts. –29% –28% In fiscal 2013, the reduction per unit of production 200 50 compared to the base year of fiscal 2005 stayed at the same level as the previous fiscal year, meeting the target for 100 25 fiscal 2013. 0 0 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Reduction of Atmospheric VOC Emissions (Risk-Adjusted) Performance Target Environmental impact index Rate of reduction per unit of production compared to FY2005 Rate of reduction per unit of production compared to FY2005 (target) (Points) (%) 5,000 5,032 100 Reducing Waste Discharged Externally from Production Operations Contributing to Society 4,000 80 Konica Minolta is striving to reduce waste discharged externally from production operations, in order to help build a 3,000 60 recycling-oriented society. In fiscal 2013, the Group carried out “Zero Waste” 2,000 40 activities such as improving production efficiency, expanding 1,366 1,337 recycling of waste material, and expanding the reuse of 1,245 978 1,000 20 packaging materials. A production site in Malaysia was –86% –94% –92% –94% closed, which helped to achieve the targets for fiscal 2013. 0 –92% 0 The reductions per unit of production attributable to the 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Green Factory Certification System generated a total Performance Target KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 22 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Restoring and Preserving Biodiversity Reducing CO2 Emissions by Cooperating with Suppliers Focusing on its production sites, Konica Minolta has been About 26% of Konica Minolta’s CO2 emissions across the taking a variety of steps to restore and preserve biodiversity. supply chain are related to the procurement of parts. By The Group has made meeting the standards of its Guidelines working with suppliers to improve production processes, for Biodiversity Preservation a requirement for attaining Level Konica Minolta is making progress in reducing both costs and 2 certification under the Green Factory Certification System, environmental impact. Improved quality and productivity and which specifically requires consideration of water resources, reduced cost are the primary objectives of these efforts, but consideration of wastewater, and proper management of they also translate into reduced environmental impact by greenery at factories. saving on materials and energy used. In fiscal 2013, the Group conducted a comprehensive Under the program, Konica Minolta engineers visit risk assessment on usage of water resources at production suppliers’ plants and propose improvements that help reduce sites and R&D sites throughout the Group. Results of an the usage of raw material plastic and shorten lead times. They analysis conducted using the World Resources Institute’s work side by side with supplier employees to make these (WRI) Aqueduct* showed that the Group has no sites with an improvements. Reduced plastic usage not only saves on extremely high risk. Some production sites in China that were material itself, but also means that less CO2 is emitted during identified as having a comparatively high water risk have now material manufacturing. Shorter lead times reduce energy set and are working toward targets for reducing water usage. consumption and translate into reduced CO2 emissions by improving production efficiency. In fiscal 2013, these initiatives * Aqueduct: World maps and information showing the latest water risks published by the WRI. Produced based on 12 key water risk indicators such as physical water resulted in a total of nearly 1,800 tons of CO2 reductions for stress and regulatory risk related to water resources. the year. The Medium-term Environmental Plan 2016 sets CO2 reduction targets related to procurement in addition to CO2 reduction targets for Group production sites. The Group continues to expand its cooperation with suppliers with the aim of achieving these targets. Success Story: How a Site Achieved Level 2 Green Factory Certification Wuxi Factory Becomes First Business Technologies Production Site to Achieve Level 2 Konica Minolta Business Technologies (Wuxi) Co., Ltd., in Jiangsu, China, adopted Industrial Engineering (IE) Work Analysis in 2012 as a new method for reducing environmental impact by improving productivity. This method is based on knowhow accumulated in Japan by Konica Minolta and cross-deployed globally. By thoroughly reconsidering the workability and flow of production lines, the factory reduced production space, shortened production times, and cut energy consumption, including for air conditioning and lighting. The factory also raised production floor capabilities while encouraging changes in awareness by promoting all-hands initiatives. Improvement contests and other unique campaigns energized the creative originality of the local employees. As a result of these initiatives, in March 2014 the Wuxi Konica Minolta Business Technologies (Wuxi) factory became the first production site for business technologies products to achieve Level 2 Green Factory certification. 23 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Green Marketing Activities For the Global Environment Important Theme Green Marketing 3 Background and Issues Key Measures The environmental needs of customers around the world Konica Minolta carries out green marketing Earning the Confidence of Customers are growing with increasing social concern over activities as its way of practicing environmentally environmental problems. Given this situation, Konica friendly sales and services. By providing products Minolta regards the provision of value that helps and services that meet customers’ environmental customers to reduce environmental impact as a vital part needs, such as certified Green Products and of its social responsibility and a driver of its own growth. Optimized Print Services solutions, Konica Minolta This is why Konica Minolta actively proposes and helps customers and the broader society to strives to popularize products that help to reduce reduce environmental impact. The Group also environmental impact. In addition, the Group pursues strives to assist customers’ activities to resolve greater efficiency in the transport, sales and service their environmental issues. It is also working on activities that deliver those products to customers, which challenges it set for each region, such as also translates into lower costs and less environmental efficiency-improvement measures in distribution, impact. packaging, sales, and service and the establishment of a system to recover and recycle used products. Cooperating with Business Partners Performance in Fiscal 2013 Helping Customers Reduce Their Environmental Impact Konica Minolta is practicing Green Marketing at its principal sales companies worldwide, in order to more actively promote products and solutions that help customers and society at CO2 Emissions from Distribution large to reduce environmental impact. CO2 emissions Rate of reduction per unit of distribution compared to FY2005 Rate of reduction per unit of distribution compared to FY2005 (target) Growing Together with Our Employees As part of that initiative, in fiscal 2013 the Group held a (Thousand tCO2) (%) Global Environmental Conference attended by each sales 80 100 company to share best practices and success stories. More –16% –10% –17% –21% 60 58.3 57.4 75 Group companies also started using the environmental 40 43.6 –32% 50 knowhow cultivated by Konica Minolta Inc. in an effort to 38.3 35.7 contribute to the resolution of their customers’ environmental 20 25 challenges. Going forward, the Group will continue to 0 0 enhance its initiatives to support customers’ environmental 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) activities. Performance Target Reducing Environmental Impact in Packaging and Distribution Konica Minolta is working hard to reduce CO2 from Use of Packaging Materials distribution and to use fewer packaging materials, in order to Usage Rate of reduction per unit of sales compared to fiscal 2005 reduce environmental impact when delivering products and Rate of reduction per unit of sales compared to fiscal 2005 (target) services to customers. (Thousand tons) (%) Contributing to Society 50 100 The Group managed to reduce CO2 from distribution by about 1,300 tons from the previous fiscal year through supply 40 41.4 –23% –24% 80 –29% chain management measures such as optimization of supply 30 30.3 33.4 33.4 30.6 –28% 60 control. However, it did not achieve its per-unit target for fiscal 20 40 2013 due to the unexpected need for shipment by air caused by production delays. 10 20 The Group achieved its fiscal 2013 target for packaging 0 0 materials by reducing the packaging of after-sales parts such 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) as film developing units and waste toner boxes. Performance Target KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 24 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Close Up Konica Minolta’s Environmental Activities Widely Recognized Acquiring Eco-Labels 26 MFP Models Registered as Gold Products in EPEAT, an Environmental Assessment System in the U.S. Konica Minolta pursues the acquisition of eco-labels those that meet all of the mandatory standards plus 50% around the world, in order to popularize products that of the optional standards are registered as Silver, and reduce environmental impact for customers and the those that meet all of the mandatory standards plus 75% broader society. or more of the optional standards are registered as Gold. In July 2013, 14 MFP models were registered as In the MFP category, Konica Minolta has the highest Gold Products, the highest ranking, in the field of imaging number of registered Gold products in the industry.*2 devices by EPEAT,*1 an environmental assessment system *1 Electronic Product Environment Assessment Tool: An assessment system in the U.S. As of March 31, 2014, 26 products have been that judges the effects on the environment of electronic products. registered as Gold, nine as Silver, and three as Bronze, for *2 As of March 31, 2014. a total of 38 products. EPEAT is certified as a procurement requirement in the U.S., mainly for government agencies. Initially it was started for PCs and computer monitors. Beginning in fiscal 2013, it started to be applied to imaging equipment, including MFPs. In this product field there are 33 mandatory standards and 26 optional standards related to aspects such as energy savings, reduction of hazardous substances, and reduction of waste. Products that meet all of the mandatory standards are registered as Bronze, bizhub C554e Series of Color MFPs the First in the World to Receive a Blue Angel Mark Under Newly Revised Criteria Konica Minolta’s bizhub C554e series of color MFPs were Angel Mark under new criteria for models that it develops the first in the world using the electrophotographic method in the future. in the field of Office Equipment to acquire Germany’s environmental protection Blue Angel Mark, which adopted tougher criteria in January 2013. The Blue Angel Mark was one of the world’s first eco-labels when introduced in 1978, and its purpose is to encourage the development and sale of environmentally sound products. The screening criteria differ for each product category. In the field of Office Equipment, the criteria were tightened significantly in January 2013, raising the bar for earning the mark even higher. Ever since being the first in the world to receive a Blue Angel Mark in the field of MFPs in January 1992, Konica Minolta has responded in a timely fashion to criteria revisions. With the bizhub C554e series, it strove to decrease environmental impact even further in consideration of the tightening of criteria, beginning in the planning stage. Konica Minolta plans to keep acquiring the Blue 25 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Commendations from Environment-related Organizations Earning the Confidence of Customers Green Factory Certification System Wins Japan Environment Minister’s Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity Since 2010, Konica Minolta has been operating its Green Prevention Activity annually in December, designated as Factory Certification System for comprehensively evaluating Global Warming Prevention Month, to honor individuals or the environmental activities of production sites. It is one of groups that have made significant contributions toward the Group’s three Green Activities designed to help realize preventing global warming. the Konica Minolta Eco Vision 2050. P21 In December 2013, Konica Minolta won an Environment Minister's Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity (Implementation of Countermeasures) in recognition of its group-wide initiatives to prevent global warming based on this system. Cooperating with Business Partners As part of its efforts for promoting countermeasures to global warming the Ministry of Environment gives the Environment Minister's Award for Global Warming Award ceremony Konica Minolta’s Initiative in Recycling Rare Earth Resource Wins Incentive Award in the Awards for 3R-Oriented Sustainable Technology Konica Minolta uses cerium oxide, a rare earth element Trade and Industry, the Japan Environmental Management used as polishing material for glass, in its production Association for Industry gives these awards to advanced processes. Before, the cerium oxide was discarded after businesses and initiatives that contribute to reducing, use, but Konica Minolta developed a recycling technology reusing and recycling, with the objective of encouraging with a view to reducing waste and making effective use of and popularizing their Growing Together with Our Employees resources. Making full use of its proprietary materials use. The Incentive technology, the company was able to find a way to recycle Awards, one of which cerium oxide to the same quality as a new batch without Konica Minolta won, are large-scale capital investment or running costs. given to businesses or In October 2013, Konica Minolta won an Incentive initiatives that have Award in the Awards for 3R-Oriented Sustainable exhibited outstanding Technology in recognition of this method of promoting originality and growth resource recycling with high productivity at low cost. potential in terms of new With the support of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, business creation. Award ceremony Konica Minolta Named to Both CPLI and CDLI in CDP Japan 500 In the CDP Japan 500 published in November 2013, In the 2013 survey on Japan’s 500 largest Konica Minolta achieved a position in both the Climate companies, eight companies including Konica Minolta Performance Leadership Index (CPLI) and the Climate were named both to CPLI and CDLI, with Konica Minolta Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). being the only one in the precision equipment industry. Contributing to Society The CDP is a project in which institutional investors cooperate to call on companies to reveal their measures to mitigate climate change and information related to their greenhouse gas emissions. It conducts a survey requesting the disclosure of information related to climate change and publishes its assessment results based on the content of companies’ replies. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 26 Exercising Responsibility for the Global Environment Environmental Data Summary 2013 Targets and Results Self-assessment : Achievement more than 100% : Achievement more than 80% and less than 100% : Achievement less than 80% Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015 Fiscal 2013 Targets Objectives Fiscal 2013 Results Achievement (Base Year: Fiscal 2005) (Base Year: Fiscal 2005) CO2 emissions throughout product life cycle –20% –51% –54.5% CO2 emissions from product usage –60% –69% –69.9% Preventing global CO2 emissions from manufacturing (per unit of production) –10% –28% –22.7% warming CO2 emissions from distribution (per unit of distribution) –30% –32% –21.3% CO2 emissions from sales and service (per unit of sales) –50% –47% –48.1% Petroleum-based resource usage (per unit) –20% –27% –31.0% Packaging materials usage (per unit of sales) –25% –28% –28.8% Supporting Waste discharged externally from manufacturing (per unit of production) –50% –42% –45.2% a recycling-oriented society • Materialization of next-period scenarios • Investigated materialization of next-period scenarios Product recycling: for re-manufactured MFPs for re-manufactured MFPs but did not roll out Build product recycling systems in each region and aim for a recycling rate of • Implementation of packaging reduction • Finished implementing 22 measures to reduce 90% or more measures packaging for after-sales parts • Developed and started applying internal standards • Development and application of a for hazardous substances reduction management, Chemical substance management: system for hazardous substances including compliance with voluntary standards Maintain strict management of chemical substances, including the entire reduction management • Established a plan for complying with RoHS Directive Reducing the risk of supply chain • Development of a system for complying revisions and phthalate regulations chemical substances with the revised RoHS Directive • Finished developing a system for complying with R0HS2 Atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) (in –75% –92% –94.0% terms of environmental impact index; per unit of production) Restoring and Pursue compliance with the Green Factory Complied with the Biodiversity Guidelines at the three Help restore and preserve biodiversity preserving biodiversity Biodiversity Guidelines units that achieved Level 2 Green Factory certification Note: As of fiscal 2013, the Group has achieved more than half of the fiscal 2015 targets set out in the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015 and anticipates achieving the remaining targets. The Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2016 calls for the continued pursuit of the fiscal 2015 targets and also establishes more rigorous fiscal 2016 targets. Environmental Accounting Konica Minolta has implemented global-scale, consolidated which has various environmental features such as a skylighted environmental accounting in order to quantitatively assess the atrium and solar panels, aiming to create an ecoand costs of environmental preservation in business operations employee-friendly facility, as well as for the construction of a and the benefits obtained from those activities. new plant at the Kofu site for the world’s first mass Investments in fiscal 2013 totaled approximately 2.1 production of plastic-substrate flexible OLED lighting panels. billion yen, a 12% decrease year on year. Investment was Expenditures totaled approximately 12.5 billion yen, mainly for the new R&D building at the Hachioji site in Tokyo, virtually unchanged from the previous year. Investment 2,143 million yen Expenditures 12,577 million yen Economic Benefits 23,397 million yen Environmental remediation Upstream / downstream Environmental remediation Pollution prevention 2.5% 15.2% 4% 8% Social activity Other Pollution prevention Preventing global 0.9% 0.2% 1.0% warming Pollution prevention Preventing global 6% 15.6% warming Resource 13.8% circulation Preventing global R&D warming R&D 4% 35.7% 5.4% Resource 77% Administration circulation Resource circulation 1% 70.1% 13.3% Administration Upstream / downstream 10.3% 16.0% Note: Percentages do not necessarily total to 100 because of rounding. 27 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Overall Picture of Environmental Impacts Resulting from Business Activities Calculating Environmental Data Overall Picture of Environmental Impact Earning the Confidence of Customers INPUT Konica Minolta OUTPUT Resources Petroleum-based resources (45.3 kt) Procurement Atmosphere CO2 emissions (363.5 kt-CO2) (Usage in products) Non-petroleum-based resources (63.1 kt) Atmosphere CO2 emissions (330 kt-CO2) Energy Electricity (414 million kWh) SOx (0.1 t), NOx (55.1 t), Soot and dust (1.2 t) Fossil fuels (2,431 TJ) Production/ Wastewater Wastewater (3,715 thousand m3) Water Water consumption (4,383 thousand m3) Research and COD (2.0 t), Phosphorous (0.02 t), Nitrogen (0.2 t) Water recycled/reused (46.6 thousand m3) development Waste Total waste (21.5 kt), Waste discharged externally (16.2 kt), Resources Amount recycled internally (5.3 kt) Amount recycled (20.8 kt), Final disposal (47.1 t) Chemical Substances Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (386 t) Energy Fossil fuels (495.5 TJ) Distribution Atmosphere CO2 emissions (35.7 kt-CO2) Resources Packaging materials usage (30.6 kt) Cooperating with Business Partners Energy Electricity (58.3 million kWh) Atmosphere CO2 emissions (offices) (35.5 kt-CO2) Fossil fuels (offices) (127.4 TJ) Sales and CO2 emissions (vehicles) (37.0 kt-CO2) Fossil fuels (vehicles) (547.8 TJ) service Waste Waste discharged externally (2.9 kt) Energy Electricity (680.5 million kWh) Usage Atmosphere CO2 emissions (341.6 kt-CO2) Resources Product recovery (14.7 kt) Recovery Resources (product recovery) Product recovered and recycled (14.5 kt) Calculating CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply Chain Calculating CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply Chain Konica Minolta has calculated the entire CO2 emissions reducing the power consumption of the products themselves. Growing Together with Our Employees associated with the Group’s activities across its entire supply Konica Minolta will share information with relevant chain, from upstream to downstream its operations, based stakeholders in the future based on the results of these generally on the standards of the GHG Protocol,* the calculations and move forward with CO2 emissions international standard. The calculation showed that CO2 management and reduction activities throughout the supply emissions throughout the supply chain were approximately chain. 1.4 million tons, which represents a decrease of 6.8% from * GHG Protocol: Guidelines for calculating and reporting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions fiscal 2012. Emissions from the Group’s activities—that is, direct emissions from fuel use (Scope 1) plus indirect emissions from Overall Picture of CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam (Scope Chain of Konica Minolta 2)—total approximately 402 thousand tons, or about 29% of all Scope 3 (1,002 thousand tons) Scope 1 (164 thousand tons) emissions. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) associated with Other categories (3,5,6,7,8,14,15) Production/R&D the Group’s activities totaled approximately one million tons, 68 thousand tons 121 thousand tons accounting for about 71%. Category 4 (Upstream Transportation Sales and service The Group has established new targets for CO2 and Distribution) 43 thousand tons emissions reduction in cooperation with suppliers for Contributing to Society 52 thousand tons* Scope 2 “purchased goods and services,” which account for 25.9% of Total (238 thousand tons) Category 12 (End-of-Life emissions across the entire supply chain. It is providing Treatment of Sold Products) 1,404 thousand Production/R&D technical assistance and making suggestions for 61 thousand tons tons 209 thousand tons improvement of suppliers’ production processes in an effort Category 2 (Capital Goods) Sales and service to reduce material and energy use. In product development, it 116 thousand tons 29 thousand tons is working to develop recycled plastics and design smaller Category 11 (Use of Sold Products) Category 1 (Purchased Goods and Services) and lighter products, which reduces the input of resources. In 342 thousand tons 364 thousand tons terms of the “use of sold products,” which accounts for 24.3% of emissions, the Group is working to develop features * CO2 emissions attributed to product distribution: 36 thousand tons that encourage customers to save energy, in addition to Note: Figures do not necessarily match total because of rounding. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 28 Earning the Confidence of Customers Konica Minolta aspires to maximize customer satisfaction and trust by providing products and services of superior value. The Group has articulated its basic approach to accomplishing this in the Konica Minolta Quality Policy, which governs Group companies worldwide. An issue of particular importance is ensuring safe, reliable products and services. Accordingly, Konica Minolta has established a unified quality assurance system across the Group and addresses quality assurance in terms of the entire product lifecycle. Konica Minolta is determined to help create a better world by solving customers’ challenges, and to do this it seeks to build deeper relationships with customers so that it can identify and satisfy both latent needs and specific requests. ~Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2005: Started operating a critical accident report database Important Theme Fiscal 2010: Started full-fledged product safety education for Group’s technicians 1 Fiscal 2010: Expanded operation of a Risk Map for safety assessment and increased the assessment levels Assuring Product Safety and Preventing Fiscal 2010: Started top management diagnoses by the president and CEO Quality-Related Problems Fiscal 2011: Organized a Double Quality Assurance System Fiscal 2011: Started efforts to improve customer relationship management Important Theme Fiscal 2012: Established Customer 2 Relationship Management Improvement and Promotion Managers’ Committee Increasing Customer Satisfaction Fiscal 2012: Established indicators for customer relationship management About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Customers 29 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Important Theme Assuring Product Safety and 1 Preventing Quality-Related Problems Background and Issues Key Measures Customers and society at large have been taking a Prevent Major Product Accidents Earning the Confidence of Customers stricter look at quality in recent years. Across every industry, criticism has been leveled against companies • Conduct risk management practice during product safety education that do not fulfill their social responsibility to maintain quality. Quality problems erode confidence in a company, Prevent Quality Problems tarnish its brand image, and can cause virtually immeasurable losses. Konica Minolta has established • Facilitate visualization of quality risks throughout the product lifecycle even more rigorous product safety standards in an effort to prevent accidents. When quality problems occur, the • Share information on quality problems and company shares information and strives to respond in an cross-deploy countermeasures accurate and timely manner. Cooperating with Business Partners Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2013 Adding Risk Assessment Practice to Product Safety theme, the Group also added risk management learning material Education that uses familiar dangers such as bicycle accidents, in an Since fiscal 2010, Konica Minolta has conducted full-fledged, effort to improve risk assessment and risk identification skills. Group-wide product safety education for technicians involved All personnel targeted for product safety training in design and development, manufacturing technology, completed the courses in fiscal 2013, as planned. Some procurement, and quality assurance. The courses are personnel who were not required to do so voluntarily took the designed to increase technicians’ knowledge of product courses while many employees requested that the courses Growing Together with Our Employees safety issues and increase their awareness of potential continue, showing that product safety education has been problems. firmly established. In fiscal 2013, the Group enhanced the curriculum Going forward, Konica Minolta will continue deepening based on case studies of accidents at other companies and employees’ safety awareness by offering continuing law-related matters. As risk management is an important education. Sharing Information on Quality Problems and Cross-deploying Countermeasures within the Group In fiscal 2013, Konica Minolta launched a Group-wide effort to share information on quality problems and cross-deploy countermeasures as “One Konica Minolta.” The goal is to increase sensitivity to quality problems, resolve problems early on, and ensure better responses. Each month, this initiative identifies high-risk problems requiring recall and repair among any quality problems reported. The series of actions, from customer notification to Contributing to Society implementation of countermeasures to preventing recurrence, are shared with quality assurance departments from each business in a cross-deployment effort. Specifically, in the Industrial Inkjet Business, inter-business cooperation is accelerating, including the establishment of a quality assurance system for new products Product safety education in collaboration with the Business Technologies Business. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 30 Earning the Confidence of Customers Important Theme Increasing Customer Satisfaction 2 Background and Issues Key Measures Continuous after-sales service is necessary for products Improving customer relationship such as IT devices, medical devices, and measurement management devices handled by Konica Minolta. The company is determined to increase the confidence and trust of its • Quantitatively ascertain the level of customer satisfaction and continually improve products and customers through this kind of long-term relationship and services based on that understanding hopes to establish rapport that will lead to customers recommending Konica Minolta to other potential • Improve the ability to respond to customer inquires received by the Healthcare Products Call customers. That is why the company actively gathers Center feedback from customers, has established a system for using it to improve products and services, and is attempting to enhance customer relationship management Group-wide. Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2013 Improving Customer Service at the Call Center in the Indicator 1: Rate of Callbacks Within 10 Minutes Healthcare Business (%) The call center has implemented Since products provided by the Healthcare Business are used 100 system changes and work in life-threatening medical settings, there is a need for 95 streamlining so that callback times do not exceed 10 minutes especially rapid responses to product failures and problems. 90 when a technician is not That is why Konica Minolta is striving to improve response available to take a customer’s 85 time by its call center, in order to minimize diagnostic call. Efforts are ongoing, with the 80 aim of ultimately achieving 100% downtime due to product malfunction and faulty operation. for this indicator. The call center responds to inquiries from hospitals and 0 clinics across Japan 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 2012 2013 Inquiries have been growing steadily as the number of models handled and the number of devices installed has increased in Indicator 2: Rate of Issues Resolved by the Call Center recent years, creating a need to improve skills. Accordingly, in the second half of fiscal 2012, the (%) Technical education and 70 equipment maintenance focused company established three indicators on the themes of 65 on new products were reducing customer waiting time on the phone, improving the 60 implemented to increase the rate call center’s ability to resolve problems on its own, and of customer issues that the call 55 center resolves completely on its improving customer satisfaction. Targets were set for each own. The rate of issues resolved 50 indicator and the company is pursuing continual by the call center improved for 0 improvement. each product and the time 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q needed to resolve each issue 2012 2013 was shortened. Note : Rate of issue resolution for Aero DR by call center Indicator 3: Rate of “Thank You” Calls (%) The call center measures the 50 rate of calls in which customers 40 say “Thank you,” to quantify customer satisfaction. Sharing 30 successful examples has led to an overall increase, and the call 20 center will continue making 10 improvements, with the aim of topping 50%. 0 Call center 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 2012 2013 31 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction in the *NPS (Net Promoter Score): an indicator that measures the percentage of customers who recommend the company and its products and services to others. Business Technologies Business In fiscal 2011, the Business Technologies Business launched Aiming for the Highest Customer a cross-sectional project team including departments ranging Earning the Confidence of Customers Voice Satisfaction across the Business from sales to development, seeking to strengthen Technologies Business coordination for improving customer satisfaction. It established NPS* as an important indicator and started its What are the strengths of Konica own methods of increasing customer satisfaction. In April Minolta’s products? Do customers 2012, it created a Customer Relations Department to spread recognize those strengths? In order to improvement efforts based on that method companywide. answer those kinds of questions, it is Meetings are regularly held for management to discuss issues important for all employees to have a from the customer point of view to facilitate swift shared awareness of Konica Minolta’s decision-making. uniqueness and strengths, to have clear The company also shares knowledge and awareness goals, and for each department to fulfill that lead to increased customer satisfaction and builds its role. With that idea in mind, we Makoto Takeda, awareness through the publication of a newsletter, customer formed a task force team including top General Manager satisfaction survey results briefings, and the dissemination of managers from each department and Quality Assurance information via its have been steadily working toward Operations, Cooperating with Business Partners Konica Minolta, Inc. intranet. achieving the highest customer Further, in satisfaction. fiscal 2013 it launched initiatives in cooperation with sales bases throughout the world, including holding a new global conference. Customer interaction in a showroom Highlight Growing Together with Our Employees Global Customer Satisfaction Survey Conducted to Bring Better Products and Services to Customers Everywhere In fiscal 2013, Konica Minolta conducted a customer production, have already been reflected in some models satisfaction survey in Japan, the U.S., and Europe and currently being sold as well as in models slated for future identified the common product issues worldwide. The results development. The result of these improvements will be of considering these issues at a meeting of manufacturing verified in the next customer satisfaction survey as part of an departments such as development, quality assurance, and effort to make continual improvements using the PDCA cycle. Selected improvements in fiscal 2013 Plan Plan improvement •Improved so that the user can zoom by pinching the screen measures Contributing to Society Pinching Act PDCA cycle driven Do Identify points by the customer Improve products Before zooming After zooming for improvement satisfaction survey and services •Display color inversion: consideration for seniors and persons with color blindness Check Switchable Customer satisfaction survey Normal display Inverted display KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 32 Cooperating with Business Partners Konica Minolta has established a Procurement Policy and a Supplier Code of Conduct, and uses self-assessment questionnaires to assess group production sites and suppliers. These efforts are aimed to ensure that the company’s CSR initiatives extend throughout the supply chain. The company has also drafted a basic approach to the issue of conflict minerals*1 based on its Procurement Policy and has taken the appropriate steps, mainly in its Business Technologies Business. In October 2013, Konica Minolta joined the EICC.*2 As a member of the EICC, the Group will make use of the EICC’s systems and tools to further improve the overall quality and transparency of its CSR initiatives. *1 Issue of conflict minerals: It has been pointed out that mineral resources such as tungsten, tantalum, gold and tin mined in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries can be used to fund armed conflict and human rights violations in the region. *2 Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition: An organization promoting CSR in the electronics industry FY2008 FY2009-FY2013 FY2014 forward FY2009: Dissemination of Supplier Code of Conduct throughout supply chain FY2009: Assessments using self-assessment questionnaires Pursuing FY2009: Checking of suppliers’ sites FY2014: Auditing of group CSR production sites and suppliers Procurement Preparatory work for FY2014: Provision of assistance to suppliers establishing a procurement FY2014: Clarification of incentives policy and for suppliers taking initiatives FY2011: Establishment of basic FY2014: Establishment and promotion of Addressing approach to issue of Conflict Minerals Compliance Policy the Issue conflict minerals of Conflict Minerals FY2012: Measures start with the Business Technologies FY2014: Expansion of the scope of initiatives Business About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Business Partners 33 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Important Promoting CSR Throughout Theme the Supply Chain Background and Issues Key Measures Companies today are expected not only to provide Promoting CSR procurement Earning the Confidence of Customers society with excellent products, but also to conduct CSR initiatives, addressing topics such as human rights, safety • Dissemination of the Supplier Code of Conduct throughout the supply chain and health, and the environment, throughout the supply chain involved in the creation of products. In the past few • Assessments and audits of group production sites and suppliers years in particular, initiatives dealing with CSR procurement, which extends CSR to the suppliers of raw • Support for suppliers’ independent initiatives materials, and conflict minerals regulations, which • Clarification of suppliers’ incentives prevent human rights violations caused by conflicts, have grown in importance. Addressing the issue of conflict minerals In order to improve these initiatives continuously, Konica Minolta plans to establish a management system, • Establishment of Conflict Minerals Compliance Policy and implementation of educate relevant persons, and support the voluntary measures CSR initiatives of its suppliers. • Proper disclosure of information to Cooperating with Business Partners stakeholders Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2013 and Efforts in Fiscal 2014 Joining EICC and Strengthening CSR Procurement Improving Compliance with Conflict Minerals Konica Minolta practices CSR procurement using a Regulations Procurement Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct, and Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and self-assessment questionnaires based on the EICC Consumer Protection Act, which was passed in 2010 in the Growing Together with Our Employees framework. United States, requires companies listed on the U.S. stock In fiscal 2013, the Group reassessed 14 suppliers that exchanges to disclose whether metals connected to conflict had been assessed previously while also assessing 22 new minerals are included in their products. suppliers. It requested appropriate improvements in light of Konica Minolta is working to comply with this regulation, the assessment results and made sure that goals were seeing it as part of the social responsibilities of a global ultimately achieved. company. In fiscal 2013, it incorporated compliance with The Group also provided education on CSR procurement to conflict minerals regulations into its system for promoting CSR 143 relevant persons, including training for examiners who procurement. The Business Technologies Business, which conduct assessments of group product sites and suppliers. receives numerous inquiries from customers, held briefing In October 2013, Konica Minolta joined EICC in an effort sessions for suppliers and conducted a conflict mineral to improve the overall quality and transparency of its CSR survey. In fiscal 2014, Konica Minolta will establish a Conflict initiatives throughout the supply chain. As an EICC member, in Minerals Compliance Policy and continue to enhance its fiscal 2014 and beyond Konica Minolta plans to audit group initiatives. production sites and suppliers, support suppliers’ CSR initiatives, and clarify incentives in addition to continuing past initiatives. Contributing to Society Supplier Assessment Results Single year Cumulative (assessments) 800 622 658 600 561 400 290 200 49 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Supplier briefing session in China KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 34 Growing Together with Our Employees With business operations in 45 countries around the world, Konica Minolta employs people of many different nationalities, languages, and backgrounds. The source of the Group’s competitiveness lies in how this diverse team shares values and cooperates closely. This is why Konica Minolta respects diversity in ways of thinking and expertise and seeks to train personal to make the most of their skills from a global perspective, always aiming to create new value for society. Konica Minolta focuses on improving workplace health and safety Group-wide, seeking to create a workplace environment in which each and every employee can succeed while enjoying physical and mental wellbeing. FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Important FY2008: Implementation of human resources exchange program between Group companies in and outside Japan Theme 1 FY2009: Establishment of a common global HR database FY2010: Holding of Global Executive Program for management executives Leveraging and Developing Diverse FY2010: Provision of career development programs for female employees (e.g. leadership training, mentor system) Human Resources FY2009: Implementation of measures focused on important sites Important Theme 2 FY2010: Initiative on fundamental facility improvements for safety FY2010: Implementation of Medium Term Health Management Plan Promoting FY2013: Occupational Implementation of Health and Safety measures to foster a culture of safety About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Employees 35 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Important Theme Leveraging and Developing Diverse 1 Human Resources Background and Issues Key Measures In order to grow sustainably as a corporation, companies Strengthen global workforce Earning the Confidence of Customers must respond to the intensification of global competition (human resources development and as well as market changes such as the increasing utilization on a global scale) sophistication and diversification of customer needs. • Establish Group-wide evaluation standards, develop Human resources who can pursue the overall business leaders, choose the right persons for the optimum on a global scale from the customer’s right posts, and visualize human resources perspective are the key to success in this endeavor. To develop this kind of human resources it is Reform corporate culture important to attract and continue to foster personnel with diverse values. It is also vital to build an environment in • Instill the management philosophy system, promote diversity, improve productivity, and create an which their respective talents can be exerted and used to environment with high employee satisfaction the full. This is why Konica Minolta puts so much energy into human resources management for its global workforce of over 40,000 employees. Cooperating with Business Partners Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2013 Enhancing the Platform for Human Resources Development and Deployment Konica Minolta has created a Group-wide platform (system, tools, and mindset definition) for training personnel and making the most of their skills in an effort to boost the collective strengths of its employees. While making roles at the global, regional, and individual Growing Together with Our Employees company levels clear, the Group is pursuing global personnel training and deployment as “One Konica Minolta.” In fiscal 2013, the Group moved the global HR database adopted in fiscal 2009 over to a new online HR database. From here on the scope of the database will be expanded Regional GEP held in China and its functions enhanced. Regional Implementation of Business Leader Highlight Development Program Establishment of Special Subsidiary “Konica Minolta With Since fiscal 2010, the Group has run a Global Executive You, Inc.,” to Promote Employment of Persons with Disabilities Program (GEP) for executives at affiliated companies around the world, looking to develop business leaders. As of the end Konica Minolta established the special subsidiary Konica of fiscal 2013, the program had been held 8 times with 132 Minolta With You, Inc., in September 2013 with the purpose people from 60 companies participating. of supporting the independence of persons with disabilities by The goals of GEP are to raise participants’ awareness as offering them meaningful employment. business leaders within the Konica Minolta Group and to The phrase “With You” in the company name is meant Contributing to Society enable participants to forge a global network of personal to convey the hope that persons with disabilities can live contacts among themselves. During the program, which lasts together “with” everyone else, not that something be done about one week, participants embrace a global mindset and “for” them. As of the end of fiscal 2013, nine persons with develop their leadership skills via face-to-face discussions with mental challenges are engaged in work such as digital printing top managers and debates on key issues among themselves. and contingent tasks, on-premise maintenance, landscaping, In fiscal 2013, the first Regional GEP brought together and company history management. manager-level personnel with the aim of developing potential future executives, was held in China. The Group plans to hold Regional GEPs in Asia, Europe, North America, and other locations in the future. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 36 Growing Together with Our Employees Important Theme Promoting Occupational Health and Safety 2 Background and Issues Key Measures Konica Minolta has maintained a low level of Preventing occupational accidents at occupational accidents at its production sites through production sites many years of occupational health and safety initiatives. Based on a commitment to “safety first for employees,” • Evolution of risk assessment the Group has focused on fostering a culture of safety by • Prevention of similar accidents involving senior management in safety, reinforcing safety • Promotion by senior management of health and management in the workplace, and taking steps to safety management enhance the safety awareness of every individual. • Provision of occupational health and safety Furthermore, in recent years the risk of employee education health problems has been increasing in all workplaces, including offices, due to the diversification of lifestyle Preventing health problems habits and work content. The Group is focusing on countermeasures in this respect, as well. • Prevention of health problems from overwork • Promotion of mental health (mental health care) • Prevention of lifestyle-related diseases Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2013 Strengthening Risk Reduction Efforts to Prevent provided for workers in addition to supervisors in order to Occupational Accidents expand the number of implementers and raise the level of Konica Minolta has implemented various measures to prevent assessments. Risk assessments emphasizing non-regular accidents during working hours with the goals of zero serious tasks were implemented, with potential risks identified and accidents and a frequency rate of accidents causing absence their countermeasures shared Group-wide. from work*1 of 0.1. In fiscal 2013, it worked at strengthening Looking to prevent common accidents, a series of risk reduction efforts in terms of both risk assessment and the articles on examples of accidents at group companies was prevention of similar accidents. published on the Japanese intranet in order to disseminate With respect to risk assessment, education was specific preventive measures. Moreover, the causes of accidents leading to missing work were analyzed using the 4M5E method,*2 and countermeasures were cross-deployed Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites in Japan Group-wide. Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate As a result of these efforts, the company reported zero (Case) (Frequency rate) 20 0.4 serious accidents in fiscal 2013. The frequency rate of 0.39 0.32 accidents causing absence from work was 0.32 in Japan and 0.21 0.06 outside Japan. In fiscal 2014 and thereafter, the Group 10 0.17 0.2 0.11 will continue to focus on preventing accidents causing absence from work. 0 5 6 11 3 8 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) *1 Accident frequency rate: Number of people injured or killed due to occupational accidents per one million labor hours Note: Boundary: Regular and temporary employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. and Group companies in Japan *2 4M5E method: A method of analyzing the causes of failure by the “Four Ms”—man, machine, media, and management—and devising countermeasures using the “Five Es”—education, engineering, enforcement, example, and environment Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Overseas Production Sites Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate Enhancing Mental Health Care Measures for Employees (Case) (Frequency rate) 20 0.4 Konica Minolta, Inc., has developed a rank-based educational system to enhance mental health care, in order to help its 10 0.18 0.2 employees maintain good mental health. It has also identified 0.16 0.10 and taken countermeasures for workplaces and occupations 0.06 6 7 5 2 that have a relatively high mental health risk. 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) Note: Boundary: Regular and temporary employees at major production companies in China and Malaysia 37 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Human Resources Data Summary Employee Composition by Employment Status (as of March 31, 2014) Regular employees Non-regular employees* Total Earning the Confidence of Customers Konica Minolta, Inc. 6,342 1,937 8,279 Group companies in Japan 5,835 1,504 7,339 Group companies 28,224 3,683 31,907 outside Japan Note : Non-regular employees : Contract or temporary employees Employee Gender Ratio (Women : Men) Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Konica Minolta, Inc. 16:84 16:84 16:84 Note : Includes employees seconded to Group companies Cooperating with Business Partners Percentage of Women in Management Positions Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Konica Minolta, Inc. 1.6% 1.8% 2.1% Note : Includes employees seconded to Group companies Percentages of Locally Hired and Women Presidents of Subsidiaries Outside Japan Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Locally hired 48.6% 56.5% 56.6% Women 2.7% 2.4% 1.9% Growing Together with Our Employees Percentage of Employees with Disabilities Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Konica Minolta, Inc. 1.37% 2.01% 1.84% Work-Life Balance Support Program Use Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Women Men Women Men Women Men Maternal health management leave 2 3 1 Maternity leave 26 37 30 Contributing to Society Spousal maternity leave 129 137 129 Parental leave 61 5 51 9 61 2 Shorter working hours for childcare 191 1 166 3 156 3 Work-at-home during child-rearing 13 5 13 5 16 2 Nursing care leave 1 0 3 2 1 0 Shorter working hours for nursing care 0 0 2 0 0 0 Note : Scope : Regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 38 Hand-in-Hand with Society As a company that operates globally, Konica Minolta aims to earn the confidence and trust of society and to be a good corporate citizen in the local communities around the world where it runs its businesses. Accordingly, it strives to cooperate with diverse stakeholders in order to contribute to the development of local society while respecting each region’s culture, history, and customs. Focusing on issues faced by local communities, the Group actively helps resolve issues where it can make a unique and highly effective contribution through its business and technologies. Moreover, in order to give these initiatives a stronger push forward, the Group is committed to developing human resources who can work harmoniously in diverse cultures while maintaining a global outlook. It also supports employees’ self-motivated social participation. Main Social Contribution Activities • Supported the transfer of information for persons with visual impairments through braille reproduced by 3D copying system (Japan) • Supported the production of leaflets • Sponsored a space event for elementary for children with visual impairments and junior high school students (Japan) (Poland) P40 • Established La Fondation d’entreprise • Established the Konica Minolta Konica Minolta, a foundation that Colorful Tomorrow Foundation and supports persons with disabilities conducted various social contributions (France) (USA) P40 P40 • Provided a showroom for an event • Supported the efforts of a breast cancer foundation through employee by young artists and supported the donations (USA) P40 production of postcard books (Ukraine) • Participated in the Wish Project, a campaign supporting the education • Participated in a charity that calls for children (China) early detection of breast cancer (Canada) • Held a painting contest to support children with disabilities (China) P40 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Contributing to Society 39 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 For the Global Environment Important Implementing Social Contribution Theme Activities around the World Main Initiatives in Fiscal 2013 Supporting Persons with Disabilities (France) campaigns, which seek to raise awareness of the importance Earning the Confidence of Customers In April 2011, Konica Minolta Business Solutions France of detecting breast cancer in its early stages. established La Fondation d’entreprise Konica Minolta. The In October 2013, which is Breast Cancer Awareness foundation carries out initiatives to enhance access to leisure Month, Konica Minolta Medical Imaging U.S.A. donated activities, sports, culture, education, and employment for $2,500, raised from employees with a matching gift from the persons with disabilities. company, to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation. In fiscal 2013, it conducted initiatives ranging from maintaining and improving leisure facilities, purchasing paragliding equipment for persons with disabilities, improving entranceways for leisure boats, and purchasing and training service dogs. Cooperating with Business Partners Donation to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation Sponsoring an Event that Connects Children with Space (Japan) Konica Minolta sponsored the YAC Tenku Future Class 2014, an event held in January 2014 by the Young Astronauts Club Supporting the training of service dogs – Japan with the cooperation of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). Venues in seven cities around Supporting Disadvantaged Children (USA) Japan, including the Konica Minolta Planetarium “Tenku” in The Konica Minolta Colorful Tomorrow Foundation (CTF) is a TOKYO SKYTREE TOWN®, a planetarium run directly by nonprofit organization supported by Konica Minolta Business Konica Minolta, were connected with the International Space Station (ISS), giving elementary and junior high school Growing Together with Our Employees Solutions U.S.A. Since its establishment in 2007, it has pursued community-based social contributions in fields such students gathered in as education, healthcare, the environment, and disaster relief. each venue the chance In fiscal 2013, CTF ran the Back to School program to provide to talk with JAXA school supplies to help disadvantaged children as well as the astronaut Koichi Food for Thought program to provide groceries to families in Wakata. It was an need and the Books 2 Better program to provide books. In exciting opportunity for addition to these constant programs it started an effort to repair the children who and renovate housing for low-income earners. participated to gain an interest in stars, space, and science in general. YAC Tenku Future Class 2014 Supporting Children with Disabilities (China) Konica Minolta Business Solutions (China) has been supporting six schools in Shanghai and Beijing for children with special needs since fiscal 2007. The company has presented the schools with color textbooks printed on Konica Contributing to Society Minolta high-speed MFPs, donated stationary, and Providing groceries to families in need employees volunteer at the schools. The company has also conducted a painting contest at Supporting the Efforts of a Breast Cancer Foundation the schools with the theme of “Dream in Green and Draw the with Fund Raising (USA) Future in Color” since fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2013, the third year Konica Minolta provides breast X-ray equipment for digital of the contest, there were 109 submissions, and 20 paintings mammography, which is effective for the early detection of were selected as winners of awards for excellence, with the breast cancer. As one aspect of this business, group top three paintings selected by the general public in an online companies around the world support Pink Ribbon ballot. The 20 award-winning children were given scholarships. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 40 Management System Konica Minolta considers strengthening corporate governance a management priority. The company is reforming its management system to establish a highly transparent corporate governance structure and ensure effective responses to today’s changing business environment. Although the law in Japan only requires that no executive Corporate Governance officers serve on the Audit Committee, Konica Minolta has Konica Minolta believes that improving corporate governance implemented a system in which its executive officers do not is a vital part of fulfilling its responsibilities to stakeholders. The serve on any of these committees, in order to ensure better company is continuing to reform its management and transparency. governance structure to ensure more timely and appropriate decision-making on matters such as restructuring. Company-with-Committees System Board of Directors and Three Committees (as of June 19, 2014) Konica Minolta has adopted a company with-committees Board of Directors (total of 11 people) system, enabling the management supervisory function of the directors to be separated from the business execution Seven Non Executive Officers function of the executive officers. The executive officers Nominating Audit Compensation perform decision-making and business execution, as Committee Committee Committee entrusted by the Board of Directors. The content of this Directors (Chairman of the Board) business execution is subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and to audits by the Audit Committee, which Outside Director enhances effectiveness, validity, legality and soundness of the Outside Director management. The Board of Directors includes four outside directors, Outside Director who are highly independent and have no significant business Outside Director relations with the company. A majority of directors do not Director serve as executive officers. There are three committees within the Board of Director Directors: Nominating, Audit, and Compensation Four Directors and Executive Officers: President & CEO, Chairman Committees—all of which are chaired by outside directors. one Senior Managing Executive Officers and two Senior Executive Officer Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Reporting & proposals Candidate appointment & dismissal Candidate appointment Board of Directors (management supervisory function) & dismissal Nominating Committee Board of Directors Reporting Compensation Committee Candidate Audit Committee Reporting & proposals appointment Audit Delegate Supervise & dismissal Audit Committee Office Audit mechanism Executive Officers (business execution function) Construct and execute internal control systems (reporting/directives mechanism) President & CEO Coordination Management Council Meetings Directives Management Executive Meeting Various Committees* Corporate Audit Division Regulations and Provisions Audit Reporting Executive Officers Note : Committees related to internal controls Risk Management Committee Compliance Committee Corporate Information Disclosure Committee Investment Assessment Committee Business Assessment Committee Technology Strategy Council, etc. 41 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Corporate Governance About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Compliance Global Compliance Network Compliance Konica Minolta has been working on its Medium-term At Konica Minolta, the Chief Compliance Officer decides Compliance Plan since fiscal 2011 as one of the strategies important matters for promoting group compliance and has under its Medium Term Business Plan “G PLAN 2013.” The the responsibility to promote and oversee compliance under priority measures taken under the Medium-term Compliance the President and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc., who has Plan were: (1) global implementation of compliance programs, ultimate responsibility for Group compliance. To fulfill that (2) responding to the diversification of social requirements and responsibility, the Chief Compliance Officer appoints persons international trends, and (3) continual implementation of responsible for compliance at various business departments promotion efforts. who also serve as members of the Group Compliance In fiscal 2013, the final year of the medium-term plan, Committee, which is a consultative body for deciding compliance coordinators in North America, Europe, and important matters related to compliance. China led the full-fledged start of local compliance activities The Legal Department of Konica Minolta, Inc., helps the carried out by each company to suit local circumstances Chief Compliance Officer with important matters in promoting while Group-wide policies and measures were rolled out Group compliance and with planning promotion measures. It under a Global Compliance Network. also directly and indirectly supports the compliance activities of group companies and supports crosscutting information Anti-Corruption Initiatives management across the Group. In April 2011, Konica Minolta published the Konica Minolta The Chief Compliance Officer has appointed regional Group Guidance for the Charter of Corporate Behavior, which compliance coordinators (for Europe, North America and is shared globally and illustrates expected behavior in detail. China), further strengthening the compliance system outside The Guidance includes specific anti-corruption rules, including Japan. prohibition of extortion of gifts, benefits or business At subsidiaries under Konica Minolta, Inc., the president entertainment, prohibition of bribery, and a resolute stand of each company heads a compliance promotion system as against any contact with organized criminal elements. the person responsible for compliance. Moreover, an anti-corruption training program has been released on the company intranet and made available to Group Compliance Promotion System Group sales companies worldwide. Group companies are also asked to share best practices and to produce programs Konica Minolta Group that comply with the laws of their respective countries and regions. Konica Minolta, Inc. Group companies in China, for example, established Board of Nominating Audit Compensation their own compliance manual, which includes specific Directors Committee Committee Committee guidance on gifts, benefits or business entertainment. President & CEO Ultimate Responsibility on Group Compliance Additionally, in response to foreign companies in China being accused of anti-bribery law violations, education on Chief Compliance Officer Group Compliance Committee commercial bribery was provided in May 2013 to the persons Officer Council responsible for compliance at all 15 Group companies in China. Assistant Legal Division In North America, the compliance coordinator revised Reporting Responsibility Support the online teaching materials related to the Code of Business Report Ethics in October 2013, strengthening the content on bribery Compliance Responsible Official prevention, in order to comply with the stricter application of Unit Compliance Committee the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). Officer Reporting Compliance Coordinator (Outside Japan) Responsibility Compliance Responsible Official Subsidiaries Around the world KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 42 Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report We asked Yoshinao Kozuma, Professor of Economics at Sophia University, to give us some feedback on this report. His comments are presented below. We will use this feedback to improve our future CSR activities and the CSR report next year. 2. External Evaluation of Sustainability The fact that the company’s products have earned international environmental labels such as EPEAT and the Blue Angel Mark means that the global market holds the company’s environmentally friendly manufacturing in high esteem. The Konica Minolta Group is also characterized by the various high commendations it has received from rating agencies related to sustainability. DJSI, CDP, and FTSE4Good Index in particular are the rating valuations with the highest recognition among Yoshinao Kozuma sustainable business experts today. Only a very few Professor, Faculty of Economics, companies in the world make it into all of these. Konica Sophia University Minolta has been included in both the DJSI’s World and Asia Pacific lists at a time when Japanese companies selected for the World index have been in sharp decline in recent years and now number only about 20. The fact that the Konica Minolta Group has maintained a spot on this index for years shows that its sustainable business is in the top class internationally as well as domestically within Japan. Extension of CSR management to the value chain and a sound governance organization at a global standard deserve special 1. Further Evolution of CSR Management mention. The Konica Minolta Group is advocating the creation of shared value as the direction for its CSR management, which 3. Issues in Information Disclosure it is integrating more tightly into its business strategy in pursuit This year’s report is excellent in terms of information of further evolution in its CSR management. Points deserving disclosure, but I would like to mention a few ways the report recognition this year are the policy of switching to a business could be improved in the future. One is the scope of model based on the transition to a sustainable society and a labor-related indexes. Attempts have been made to improve business strategy oriented toward environmental-friendliness. this in recent years, but considering that Konica Minolta the These points were clearly presented in the new medium-term non-consolidated company currently accounts for only about business plan Transform 2016 and in the Medium-term 16% of the Group’s global workforce, it is time that basic Environmental Plan 2016, which were established in tandem labor-related indexes, including the gender composition of the and launched in fiscal 2014. workforce, be gathered and disclosed on a group-wide basis. Deserving particular notice is the rational Organizing the information to be disclosed and decision-making and implementation process introduced in exercising creativity in the disclosure method is another the Medium-term Environmental Plan. The plan identifies effective way of making improvements to clearly show the important issues related to risks and opportunities in business actual condition of environmental management. Take targets operations through materiality analyses and systematically for the next fiscal year, for example. Since this is important and comprehensively addresses them across each field of information for increasing the transparency of target and activity from product planning and development to performance management, I would like to see the Group procurement, production, distribution, and sales, in consider showing those targets next to performance conjunction with specific medium-term targets on a sales evaluations from the previous fiscal year. I would also like to basis. It presents an ideal picture of a sustainable business see a slightly detailed explanation of the relation between the and I believe it deserves praise in that it indicates concrete Eco Vision 2050 and the Medium-Term Environmental Plan, ways of building on the company’s management philosophy, as the two make up the Group’s basic policy for fighting “The Creation of New Value,” to realize sustainable profit growth. global warming. 43 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 External Assurance Konica Minolta engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance on whether its CO2 emissions from procurement, production/research and development, product distribution, sales and service, and product usage; energy use; waste discharged externally from manufacturing; atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs); and water consumption have been measured, gathered and disclosed in accordance with the criteria set by the Group. Period: March to June 2014 On-site audit of Konica Minolta Mizuho Site Comments on the Assurance Process Naomi Sugo, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Konica Minolta conducted a materiality analysis in the field of Meanwhile, although the report explains the Group’s the environment when formulating its medium-term process for establishing priority targets in fields besides the environmental plan. It identified material risks and environment, it does not specify material risks and opportunities from two perspectives: materiality from the opportunities identified as a result of that process. The GRI standpoint of stakeholders and materiality from the standpoint guidelines, revised in May 2013, now require organizations of business. After deriving important themes and important that wish to publish reports compliant with the 4th edition of issues from the identified material risks and opportunities, it the GRI Guidelines to disclose not only the process for established targets in terms of both corporate value and determining report content but also the material aspects environmental value. I believe that this has made it easier for identified. I hope that the Group will further increase information users to understand material environmental risks transparency regarding material aspects in reporting on fields and opportunities for the Konica Minolta Group and led to the besides the environment. Group’s clear indication that it intends to create value for both society and the company. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2014 44 KONICA MINOLTA, INC. 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-7015, Japan For inquiries CSR, Corporate Communications & Branding Division Phone: +81-3-6250-2120 FAX: +81-3-3218-1368 E-mail: csr-support@konicaminolta.jp www.konicaminolta.com 1408BCD
