We are proud to declare that Novitag is taking serious action in all its operations and day to day activity in the fields of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, & anti-corruption; adopting by this, the 10 principles of the UN global compact stated in the initial commitment towards the UN, community, employees, and stakeholders as well. Sincerely yours, Moahamad Masri CEO Novitag, Lebanon, cop for 2014 I. Human rights principles: a. Assessment, policy, & goals We perceive our employees as our valuable resources; this is why we try to make them feel comfortable and respected. In addition, we pay lots of attention to “work-life focus “ that should be in an equilibrium in order to retain our valuable employees witch will benefit us in return, as they are able to fulfill all their job and life needs with what we can provide, in a sense of economy, time measurements, accidents handling and so on. b. Implementation In order to make sure that our employees are treated on an equal basis and are not subject to discrimination, a seminar was held with the presence of all the employees including all business levels, during which, a new extension has been given to the employees at the company called the help department, it receive phone calls from the employees, hear about their problems, solve routine issues and report serious problems such as sexual abuse, discrimination or other critical issues to the BOD immediately. In addition, each employee was requested to answer a questionnaire containing several personal questions in order to manipulate the job duties as much as possible to fit their life differences. Measurement of outcomes c. Measurement of outcomes The hot line was a very clever idea, results were up to what we expected, many problems were solved, bullies became afraid of making any mistake to retain their job, others felt more secure, and the job environment became more comfortable. Regarding the work life focus, many repositions were made and it made the employees a lot more satisfied and happy because they felt that their company care about them so they started to care more about it as well. II. Labor principles a. Assessment, policy & goals & implementation We tried as much as we can avoid any type of labor discrimination at work or any type of direct or indirect abuse thru lecturing and highlighting the importance of not getting involved in such act that could harm both of the groups. b. Measurement of outcomes Employees became more satisfied and more loyal to the job, and it made it an environment comfortable for working. III. Environmental principles a. Assessment, policy & goals the impact of our operations on the environment is relatively small, being an office work based, yet we are trying to participate in the environmental responsibility as much as possible, thru saving energy, scare resources, efficiency in operating and recycling b. Implementation we invited all the employees to a lecture having as a topic; protect our universe, during which the lecturer has pointed to several serious environmental problems occurring because of the human practices, giving solutions we can adopt to help as much as we can the protection of our planet. We discussed how we can reduce pollution, & save money thru carpooling where 2 or more employees living near to each other can join the same car and divide the money spent on fuel, reducing by it pollution and saving transportation money. We reduced paper work and replaced it by emails, at the end of each mail “think of your planet before printing this document” has been added. The offices has been innovated to be energy efficient, old lamps has been replaced by led lighting that consume less electrical power, the new lighting system has sensors that track human temperature, they switch off automatically when no mobility is noticed in the halls, a solar system is the source of energy or this new system. c. As a result, we were able to reduce the cost of the energy by 70%, reducing pollution by a greater percentage, employees started to become more intimate due to carpooling and became more concerned about not wasting any paper or whatever item that can be used in order to reduce as much as we can its effect on our planet. IV. Anti-corruption principles a. Assessment, policy & goals Novitag is very concerned about corruption, bribery, or any kind of unethical dealing that can occur. Having this vision, our main purpose was to prevent our employees from accepting these stuff, but to be reasonable, employees have needs that needs to be fulfilled, that’s why, reasons behind bribery and theft must be eliminated in the first place b. Implementation The HR department was assigned to study each employee’s financial situation on a secret basis, employees who have bigger commitments, were given bigger tasks with higher incomes, bonuses and raises also took place. c. Measurement of outcomes We have reached a high level of employee satisfaction, zero incidents have been registered, and they became even more jealous about the company as if it is owned by all of them.
