COP Report 2013/2014 Bella Center a/s 1 Content Statement of Support ....................................................................................................................................... 3 Responsible Hospitality .................................................................................................................................... 4 Marketplace ...................................................................................................................................................... 6 Workplace ......................................................................................................................................................... 8 Health & Safety ............................................................................................................................................... 11 Environment & Climate .................................................................................................................................. 13 Community Engagement ................................................................................................................................ 16 2 Statement of Support As new CEO of Bella Center A/S, I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In the beginning of 2014, Bella Center A/S merged with Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers. Today Bella Center A/S thus comprises of Bella Center, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, Bella Sky Comwell Hotel Copenhagen and Forum Copenhagen. This means that we are now Scandinavia’s leading house of hospitality and events. We are also a key player in the city of Copenhagen’s ambition to be among the world’s leading destinations for international conventions, meetings and events. The recent merger has resulted in a number of organizational changes. With new management in charge, we must build a strong corporate culture and create the foundation for a sustainable company, with a vision of being an international leader in hospitality. It is our intention to firmly embed the principles of the UN Global Compact in our new company culture. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Program is called Responsible Hospitality and integrates these principles within our core business area. This Communication on Progress reports the activities and results for Bella Center 2013/2014, before the merger, and gives insight to our initial plans for 2014/2015, for the entire group. We are however, still in the process of detailing all the goals and initiatives for the following period. Our commitment to sustainable business practices stands strong and we are proud to continue our support of the UN Global Compact principles. Allan L. Agerholm CEO Bella Center A/S 3 Responsible Hospitality Hospitality is at the heart of everything we do. However, for us hospitality does not stop at providing the best possible service and quality for our guests and customers. It is about taking responsibility for our relationships with others, by listening and responding to our stakeholders; taking responsibility for the impact we have as a business on society and the environment; and being proactive by contributing to positive change where possible. All this contributes to not only to the opportunity of using Responsible Hospitality as our competitive advantage, but to create shared value for everyone involved. All in all we believe that running a profitable business and living up to our social, environmental and economic responsibilities are, and must continue to be, compatible goals. We choose the most sustainable solution, as long as it makes sense and adds value. For us it is important to walk the talk and embed Responsible Hospitality in all our operational processes. We strive to have the necessary structures, procedures and responsibilities in place to ensure we act responsible economically, socially and environmentally. Our CSR Policy  We are committed to support the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles regarding human rights, labor rights, environment and anti-corruption and comply with local laws and international legislation  We aim to develop strong relationships with our stakeholders and through continuous dialogue, we increase our knowledge and understanding our stakeholders’ future concerns and thereby maximize our impact on and promote CSR in all our business activities  We must use our position in the market to promote and facilitate sustainable development in our own business practices, our value chain, through sustainable procurement, products, services and communication practices  We strive to be an employer of choice by providing a diverse workplace in which all employees are treated fairly and with respect and can realize their full potential  We ensure a healthy and safe environment for our employees, guests and business partners in all hotels and venues  We aim to protect the natural resources under our influence and ensure that all potential adverse impacts of our operations on the environment and climate are identified and managed.  We aim to create shared value and development in our local community, by incorporating relevant activities in our business activities. Based on an ongoing materiality assessment, we further outline Responsible Hospitality in the following areas:  Marketplace  Workplace  Health & Safety  Environment & Climate  Community Engagement 4 Organizational structure We all follow the same structure and policies of our Responsible Hospitality Program. However, the different business units approach Responsible Hospitality with activities and initiatives that make sense in their individual context. The CSR manager coordinates our Responsible Hospitality activities for all units and ensures, along with our CSR Team and Management Team, that initiatives are integrated in daily operations. Certifications and Awards The table shows relevant certifications and awards our hotels and venues received within the last year. Crowne Plaza Bella Sky Bella Center Certifications  DS 49001  Green Key  Green Key  ISO 14001  Green Key Awards  Travelers Choice Awards  Tripadvisors Certificate 2014 of Excellence 2014  Tripadvisors Certificate  FIB Award of Excellence 2014 Outcomes 2013 Focus area Objective Outcome Communication in Elaborate visual universe (logo, templates, layouts) to Fulfilled to marginal general be used in all CSR communication extend External Highlight our CSR initiatives in sales material and on our Completed communication homepage Integrate information about our CSR initiatives in our Nothing to report interior decoration Visible storytelling about CSR initiatives that are not Nothing to report visible at first sight (water reduction, sun film) Internal Involvement of employees in the CSR work Fulfilled to a marginal communication extend Information to employees about the CSR work Fulfilled to a marginal extend Plans for 2014/2015 In light of our recent merger and the many new and different processes in our organization we have established the following two goals relevant for all our companies. We must establish a solid foundation for the implementation of our Responsible Hospitality program. This includes the further development of policies, procedures, goals, action plans and responsibilities. We will be focusing on improving our internal and external CSR communications. This will facilitate optimal dialogue with our stakeholders 5 6 Marketplace We must use our position in the market to promote and facilitate sustainable development in our own business practices, our value chain, through sustainable procurement, products, services and communication practices Commitment  We conduct our operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition and will abide by all applicable regulations  We will improve our competitive advantage by using CSR to enhance our ability to manage economic, social and environmental risks.  We apply a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery  We ensure that we offer our guests and customers with products and services of the highest standards and best possible value and will develop our assortment of sustainable products and services for our guests  We will in all dealings with suppliers and potential suppliers, seek to preserve the highest standards of integrity, objectivity, fairness, efficiency, courtesy and professionalism and will look to suppliers to set similar standards.  We work towards a system of ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are environmentally responsible, are not complicit in any violations of human rights or labor rights and do not participate in or permit corruption in all its forms  We provide several channels for complaints to ensure their concerns are efficiently addressed on those occasions where there is a problem There have been no formulated goals in this area to report on for 2013. Plans for 2014/2015 Focus area Venue Objective Sustainable Crowne  Increased focus on procuring food and beverages, based on the products and Plaza principles of local, seasonal and organic. services Bella Sky  Increased focus on procuring food and beverages, based on the principles of local, seasonal and organic. Bella Center  Increased focus on procuring food and beverages, based on the principles of local, seasonal and organic.  Bella Center also wants to be famous for serving excellent and sustainable coffee. As part of this initiative our new Oran Utan Coffee will not only be organic and excellent quality, but also supports the Oran Utan Coffee Project. The project helps farmers operate ecologically friendly coffee plantations, without clearing the rainforests, which threatens the existence of orangutans and farmers alike. Forum  Increased focus on procuring food and beverages, based on the principles of local, seasonal and organic. Responsible Crowne Relevant for all: supply chain Plaza  Streamlining internal procurement processes in order to increase management Bella Sky effectiveness and ensure CSR principles are followed. 7 Bella Center  Reduction of supplier base. From 1647 suppliers to maximum 400 Forum suppliers.  Introducing our Supplier Code of Conduct to all regular suppliers. 8 Workplace We strive to be an employer of choice by providing a diverse workplace in which all employees are treated fairly and with respect and can realize their full potential. Commitment  We embrace diversity and view it as a key strength of our business  We give equal treatment to all employees and will not tolerate any form of discrimination  We support employees with training and opportunities for promotion to help them reach their potential and maximize their contribution to our company strategy  We recruit, employ and promote employees on the basis of objective criteria, their qualifications and abilities required for the job to be performed Outcomes 2013 Focus area Objective Outcome Health, sickness Continued focus on Nothing to report absence and stress prevention, stress and “the difficult conversation” Social events Continue with all of the events Several social events have been held for we have offered in 2012, since employees in 2013 & 2014. we know they are very important for both the psychological and physical working environment. Diversity/social New legislation and new top Nothing to report responsibility management must be in place before we decide on how much effort can be put into this area. Plans for 2014/2015 Focus area Venue Objectives Diversity and Crowne  Development of recruitment policy and procedures Equality Plaza  Improve collaboration and relationships with workers unions and union Bella Sky representatives.  Ensure all collective agreements are followed by all parties involved Bella Center Forum Training and Crowne  Leadership development development Plaza 9 Bella Sky  Employee retention  Personal development interviews Bella Center Forum Employee Crowne  Develop and nurture a unified company culture and values, as well as satisfaction Plaza identity for each brand. and culture Bella Sky  Improve general internal communication  Participate in Great Place to Work – an employee survey to help us Bella identify and work with the most important areas for improving Center employee satisfaction Forum Social Events Crowne  Participation in DHL company run & Benefits Plaza  Summer celebration Bella Sky  Christmas party  Introduction of Friday-bar once a month for all employees. Bella Center Forum Management Crowne  Implementation of Timeplan – an HR Management system. To improve Plaza efficiency in terms of administration, payroll, rosters and working hours Bella Sky – and to ensure compliance with all contracts and collective agreements. Bella Center Forum 10 Health & Safety We ensure a healthy and safe environment for our employees, guests and business partners in all hotels and venues Commitment  We work with our employees and other relevant stakeholders to ensure the safest surroundings for all  We work to ensure the best possible physical and psychological work environment for employees  We work to provide the highest standards and the best quality food and beverage for our guests Outcomes 2013 Focus area Objective Outcome The psychological Great Place to Work survey Great Place to Work survey has been postponed working environment every six month to 2014 Education of managers in how Great Place to Work survey has been postponed to work with the results of the to 2014 survey The physical working Continued focus on Low accident rate maintained environment maintaining the low accident rate Plans for 2014/2015 Focus area Venue Objectives Occupational Crowne  Retain Green Smiley certified by the Danish Working Environment Health and Plaza Authority Safety Bella Sky  Conduct workplace risk assessment at all sites  Have an active and involved Health and Safety Committee with Bella employee and supplier (where relevant) representatives. Center  Private health insurance for all permanent employees (physical and psychological assistance) Forum Safety Crowne  Optimizing internal procedures and cross-venue support. Plaza  Review all IHG safety standards and implement necessary improvements  New safety training procedures for all employees  New comprehensive registration procedures for safety training Bella Sky  Optimizing internal procedures and cross-venue support. Bella  Optimizing internal procedures and cross-venue support. Center  Training: Start-up of BC’s own emergency-preparedness school. The purpose of the school is to improve the knowledge and skills of guards and other employees. 11  Partnerships: Working with authorities, both in regard to training and execution of events.  Contingency plans: Extended contingency plan with additional focus on different risk management procedures. Forum  Optimizing internal procedures and cross-venue support.  Acquire a second defibrillator available in the restaurant section of the venue Food safety Crowne  Ensure elite-smiley is kept for both restaurant and canteen. Plaza Bella Sky  Establishment and implementation of e-smiley quality control system. Bella  Establishment and implementation of e-smiley quality control system. Center Forum  The Forum restaurant aims at being certified by the Danish Veterinary and Food Administration with an elite-smiley by the end of 2014. 12 Environment & Climate We aim to protect the natural resources under our influence and ensure that all potential adverse impacts of our operations on the environment and climate are identified and managed. Commitment  We will continue to improve our environmental performance and we will implement environmentally friendly solutions, wherever it makes economic and environmental sense without compromising the experience of quality and comfort at our hotels and venues  We will make the most efficient use of resources our energy, water and other natural resources, promoting conservation and savings wherever possible.  We will incorporate environmental considerations, including biodiversity and animal welfare into our actions and procurement decisions  We will raise awareness of environmental matters among our employees and stakeholders  We will optimize our waste reduction through recycling and limiting our use of hazardous materials where alternatives are available, economical and suitable. Outcomes 2013 Focus area Objective Outcome Waste Continue the sorting made Achieved management by our staff back-end. Continue to generate Achieved earnings on the waste being sorted. Lighting Continued work with more Achieved energy-efficient lighting at International House and Fashion Mart Bybierne (Urban We will expand the Bella Center collaborates with Bybier by providing Bees) cooperation with Urban them with transport to get around in the city. Bee, and in the future it will include sales of honey beers, both at our hotel, Bella Sky, but also at Bella Center. We will communicate more Nothing to report about the Urban Bee project to get more companies involved. Wind turbine We are currently Negotiation process is still underway negotiating an extension of the wind turbine until 2017 Materials Continued focus on more Nothing to report consumption energy-friendly carpets. 13 Organic agriculture Continued focus on Achieved increased use of organic food, with a goal of 1012%. Plans for 2014/2015 Focus area Venue Objective Energy Bella Sky  Investments in energy optimizing renovations should be described, and it must be examined whether there are estimates of energy savings from renovations in the house. Bella  Prepare better documentation and reporting of LED light replacement Center in-house  Investments in energy optimizing renovations should be described, and it must be examined whether there are estimates of energy savings from renovations in the house. Forum  Implement new air conditioning system / Water mist air-conditioning instead of current mobile air conditioning unit. Water Crowne  Comprehensive water risk assessment in 2014 Plaza Bella Sky  Create an overview of all water-saving actions and initiatives  Collect relevant data so as to calculate water savings for replacement of shower heads Bella  Create an overview of all water-saving actions and initiatives Center Waste Crowne  Implement better waste sorting options in meeting rooms and lobby Plaza Bella  Simplifying the measurement of waste per event to improve tracking. Center  Further awareness about waste separation among event organizers.  Improved sorting of food waste in the staff canteen. Forum  Look into possibility of acquiring cardboard compressor Animal Crowne  On the basis of new supplier relations, incorporate animal welfare welfare Plaza considerations Bella Sky  Support Oran Utan Coffee project Bella Center Forum Resource use Crowne  Printers to be set to print on both sides as default, where it is not done Plaza already Bella Sky  Employees should be reminded to save on paper and sort correctly Bella 14 Center Forum Biodiversity Bella  Further develop partnership with Bybier Center 15 Community Engagement We aim to create shared value and development in our local community, by incorporating relevant activities in our business activities. Commitment  We aim to support a sustainable development of our local area, engaging with relevant stakeholders to create a thriving local community  Though the provision of the necessary facilities and space we are able to accommodate and host large cultural events for our community  Through the creation with local partnerships we will stimulate the local economy by providing jobs, apprenticeships and trainee positions to people who may face added obstacles in finding work, to help them develop skills and find employment.  We will support education and research by knowledge sharing on sustainability issues with academic institutes and educational initiatives  We will invest resources in the community through mutually beneficial partnerships, contra-deals and sponsorship agreements There have been no formulated goals in this area to report on for 2013. Plans for 2014/2015 Focus area Venue Objective Supporting Crowne  Participation in Ørestad Kulturdage 2014 local Plaza development Bella Sky  Participation in Ørestad Kulturdage 2014 and culture Bella  Participation in Ørestad Kulturdage 2014 Center Forum  In its very capacity as a cultural hub, Forum will continue to host music concerts and exhibitions for the public. Job creation Crowne  In 2014, Crowne Plaza aims to offer 30 trainee positions and -training Plaza Bella Sky  In 2014, Bella Sky aims to offer 3 trainee positions Bella  In 2014, Crowne Plaza aims to offer 20 trainee positions Center  Working with the social enterprise Bybi, who trains formerly homeless persons as beekeepers. These beekeepers take care of the bees on our rooftop that also provide us with honey.  Our CEO has been appointed a seat in the Business Forum for Social Responsibility (VFSA) by the Danish Minister of Employment. VFSA consists of Danish business executives, who work to integrate CSR on the political agenda, particularly in relation to strengthening the role of marginalized groups in the Danish labor market. The group participates in public debates and campaigns and initiates pilot projects to find new ways to include marginalized groups in private and public Danish 16 companies. Forum  By 2015 Forum aims to provide 1 trainee position Sponsorships Crowne  In 2014 our goal is to develop clear internal criteria and themes in and Plaza regards to sponsorships and donations, so as to be more in line with our donations Bella Sky business strategy.  Nevertheless, Bella Center is the main sponsor for Ørestad cultural days Bella (Ørestad kulturdage). This is just one way in which we show our support Center in our local community. Forum Supporting Crowne  Continue accommodating students and interested parties by knowledge education Plaza sharing in regards to sustainability. and research  Track number of tours, student projects and other engagement activities  Provide 15 vocational internships (elever) in 2014 Bella Sky  Provide 20 vocational internships (elever) in 2014 Forum  Provide 1 student intern position by 2015 17 18
