addressing the urbanization challenge 2013 sustainable development report table of contents 9 Building a Sustainable 3 Company Snapshot 6 Message to our Stakeholders 8 Progress Towards our Targets Urban Environment 9 Building a Sustainable Urban Environment 10 Creating Greener Products and Services 16 Constructing Resilient and Low Impact Infrastructure 21 Delivering Affordable and Energy-Efficient Housing 24 Promoting Self-Construction through Social and Inclusive Businesses 28 Addressing the Global Climate Challenge 29 From Waste to Value 33 Optimizing our Carbon Footprint 38 Preserving Land, Biodiversity and Water 43 Continuous Improvement of Air Emissions and Environmental Management 28 Addressing the Global 47 Strong Commitment to our Stakeholders 48 Placing Health and Safety First 54 Engaging and Retaining our Talent Climate Challenge 59 Satisfied Customers and Responsible Suppliers 63 Delivering a High-Impact Social Approach to Empowering Communities 68 Global and Local Alliances 70 Embedding Sustainability in our Governance and Corporate Culture 71 CEMEX's Sustainability Model 73 Strengthening Business Ethics, Compliance and Transparency 83 Our Performance in Detail 92 Sustainability Credentials and Awards 94 Advisory Panel Members and Statement 47 97 PwC's Limited Assurance Report 98 A+ Statement GRI Application Level Check 99 About This Report Strong Commitment to our Stakeholders www.twitter.com/cemex www.flickr.com/cemex www.facebook.com/cemex www.youtube.com/cemex < previous | contents | next > 2 company Founded in Mexico in 1906, CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. is a global building materials company that provides high quality products and reliable services SNAPSHOT to customers and communities throughout the Americas, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia. We produce, distribute and sell cement, ready-mix concrete, aggregates and related building materials in more than 50 countries, and we maintain trade relationships in approximately 108 nations. 2013 global operations Northern Europe: Sales by product (%) Sales by region (%) 12.4 / 10,025 USA: 4 17.1 / 9,432 15 22 15 46 10 Mediterranean: Asia: Mexico: 5.7 / 1,178 17.2 / 3,826 22 29.3 / 9,597 39 27 South, Central America and the Caribbean: 12.0 / 5,793 Other: ⓦ Cement ⓦ Mexico ⓦ South, Central 3,236 ⓦ Ready-mix concrete ⓦ USA America & the (including ⓦ Aggregates ⓦ Northern Europe Caribbean Corporate) ⓦ Mediterranean ⓦ Asia cement production capacity (million metric tons/year) employees CEMEX by the numbers as of December 31, 2013 CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. (NYSE: CX/BMV: CEMEX), a holding company, is a public stock corporation with variable capital (S.A.B. de C.V.) organized under the laws of Mexico. 50+ 43,087 93.7 54.9 162 countries where CEMEX has employees worldwide. million tons of cement, annual million cubic meters of ready-mix million tons of aggregates presence and approximately 108 production capacity. concrete produced. produced. where it has trade relations. 55 1,784 362 222 63 cement plants plus 12 with ready-mix concrete facilities. aggregate quarries. land-distribution centers. marine terminals. minority participation. < previous | contents | next > 3 Financial Highlights in millions of US dollars1, except per-ADS data 2013 2012 % 1 For the reader's convenience figures are presented in US dollars. Net sales 15,227 14,984 2 For statements of operations accounts, these figures result from Operating Earnings before Other Expenses, net 1,518 1,293 17 translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year, which approximates a convenience Operating EBITDA 2,643 2,624 1 translation of the Mexican peso results for 2013 and 2012 using the average exchange rates of the year of 12.85 MXN/US$ and Controlling interest net income (loss) (843) (913) 8 13.15 MXN/US$, respectively. For balance sheet accounts, US dollar Earning (loss) per ADS 2 (0.71) (0.77) 8 figures result from translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the closing exchange rate for the year, which approximates Free cash flow after maintenance capital expenditures (89) 167 n/a a convenience translation of the Mexican peso amounts at the end of each year using the end-of-year exchange rate of 13.05 MXN/US$ Total assets 38,018 37,260 2 and 12.85 MXN/US$, respectively. Total debt plus perpetual notes 17,470 16,644 5 2 Based on an average of 1,170 and 1,161 million American Depositary Shares (ADSs) for 2013 and 2012, respectively. Total controlling stockholders’ equity 10,221 10,984 (7) Direct Economic Impacts in millions of US dollars IFRS Mex Gaap 1 Excludes sale of assets. 2013 2012* 2011 2 Excludes depreciation and amortization. Customers: Net sales1 15,227 14,984 15,139 3 Wages and benefits include non-operational and operational employees. Suppliers: Cost of sales and operating expenses2 10,205 10,082 10,283 4 Capital expenditure for maintenance and expansion. 5 Donations as percentage of loss before taxes. Employees and their families: Wages and benefits3 2,378 2,278 2,524 6 Dividends paid in cash. Investments: CAPEX4 plus working capital 813 837 485 * 2012 figures have been modified due to changes in accounting Creditors: Net financial expense 1,423 1,401 1,278 principles. Government: Taxes 511 393 287 Communities: Donations5 (0.56%) (0.54%) (0.85%) Communities donations as % of pre-tax income Shareholders: Dividends6 0 0 0 Others 102 2 34 Free cash flow (206) (10) 237 Net income (loss) before taxes (265) (403) (1,271) < previous | contents | next > 4 product PORTFOLIO For more information about our company, brands and financial performance, please visit our corporate website at www.cemex.com Cement: Services and Solutions Cement is the main ingredient in ready-mix concrete. We are increasingly positioning our company as CEMEX offers a portfolio of high-quality branded cement a provider of value-added services to assist our products, including Gray Ordinary Portland Cement, White customers in identifying and addressing trends that Portland Cement, Masonry or Mortar, Oil-well Cement, and affect their industry and in maximizing the sustainability Blended Cement. attributes of our products. Among these services are bioclimatic architecture and engineering, modeling of energy performance of buildings, building certification Aggregates: (e.g., LEED, BREEAM, Passive House), development of Materials such as stone, sand and gravel are the primary customized sustainable building solutions and affordable ingredients in ready-mix concrete. Additional aggregates include housing solutions. asphalt and mortar. Our trading network is one of the largest and most widely recognized in the industry. We maintain relationships with more than 100 nations. Additionally, Ready-mix concrete: we strive to provide customers with top-level technical Made from a mixture of cement, aggregates, water and assistance and creative solutions in a wide range of admixtures, ready-mix concrete is an extremely durable building areas, including financing, communication, branding and material that can be cast into many different shapes. intelligence. Other related products: Includes granulated blast furnace slag, gypsum, fly ash, asphalt, concrete blocks, roof tiles, architectural products, concrete pipes and other precast products such as concrete floors, box culverts, bridges, drainage basins, barriers and parking curbs. < previous | contents | next > 5 addressing the urbanization CHALLENGE To our Stakeholders: of global energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions over the next two decades. It is estimated that, This year’s report responds to one of the most significant and relevant at present, buildings contribute as much as one-third of total global GHG emissions, primarily through the use of sustainability trends facing the world today – the increasing challenge of fossil fuels during their operational phase. urbanization. As the global population expands, the promise of jobs and As a global building materials company, we are uniquely prosperity increasingly draws people to an urban environment. positioned to help address the myriad of environmental and social challenges associated with urbanization. Today, half of the global population lives in cities, and the During 2013, we were responsible for building almost United Nations estimates about 180,000 people are be7.5 million square meters of concrete infrastructure in 15 ing added to that urban population every day. This means countries in the form of highways, mass transit projects, the world's urban infrastructure has to absorb the equivairport runways and city streets. We partnered with alent of the population of Tokyo every six months. At this national and international experts to provide a complete rate, it is estimated that by mid-century more than twoarray of sustainable construction services. Working thirds of the world's people will be city dwellers. collaboratively, we helped to integrate the construction value chain in order to enhance the solutions we provide This rapid urbanization challenges governments and and to assure that they reach our end-costumers. businesses to build hard infrastructure such as buildings, roads, bridges, water systems and power grids, as well as Last year we continued expanding our housing solutions. soft infrastructure including governance, policing, schools, We established ourselves as leaders in high-quality businesses and health care. It also challenges the enviand affordable housing, delivering industrialized, ronment as urbanization is projected to be a major driver disaster relief, energy efficient and vertical housing in < previous | contents | next > 6 FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 19 countries. Since 1998, our inclusive businesses – CEMEX management firmly believes that health and Patrimonio Hoy, ConstruApoyo and Productive Centers safety are our top priorities. Our employee Lost-Time of Self-Employment – have benefited more than 2.3 Injury (LTI) Frequency Rate decreased by 15 percent in million individuals living in at-risk communities. 2013 compared to 2012. Regrettably, there were 21 fatalities this year involving three employees, eleven Global climate change is one of the most pressing chalcontractors and seven third-parties. The loss of any lenges of our time. For urban areas with concentrated individual associated with our operations is extremely populations and corresponding infrastructure, climate saddening and completely unacceptable. We will not be change in the form of extreme weather, natural disassatisfied until fatalities are completely eliminated. ters and resource shortages poses a significant threat. We are committed to reduce our direct and indirect GHG As part of our own commitment to sustainable deemissions, to strive to provide products and solutions velopment, we constantly evaluate that of our supply that enable a low-carbon economy, and to improve our chain partners. In this spirit, last year we engaged a built environment’s resilience to climate change. sustainable supply management firm to monitor the environmental, social and governance performance of In 2013, we avoided more than 7 million tons of CO2 CEMEX suppliers. due to a 23.4 percent reduction in specific net CO2 emissions from our 1990 baseline. During the year, At CEMEX, we understand the importance of aligning alternative fuels represented 28.4 percent of our fuel global challenges and stakeholders’ concerns with our mix including biomass, tires, RDF and other materials. CEMEX Of the 45 plants burning alternative fuels, 10 have Finally, on behalf of CEMEX's Board, our management surpassed a 50 percent alternative fuel rate and four team and our employees, I want to thank the members achieved a rate above 70 percent. of our Sustainable Development Panel for their valuable has an obligation to help input, the organizations and communities we work with We also registered six new initiatives as Clean create the sustainable on a daily basis and also all of you who take an interest Development Mechanisms and one new Verified Carbon housing and infrastructure in the sustainable development of our company and the Standard project in the United States. At the end of last that society will need in the solutions we provide. year, our portfolio included 21 registered initiatives with coming years. the combined potential to offset our CO2 emissions by more than 2.8 million tons annually. company’s business model and sustainability strategy. To ensure all key issue areas are addressed, we are currentAs a company, we aim to embed a complete sustainly updating our sustainability model, priorities and core ability approach in all our activities. In 2013, CEMEX KPIs and establishing new 2020 targets. amended our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct to incorporate specific guidance regarding money launI want to acknowledge the legacy of Lorenzo H. Sincerely, dering. We have also engaged Shift, an independent, Zambrano our former CEO and Chairman of the Board non-profit center that specializes in business and human of Directors. His strategic vision, passion and relentless rights, to help us implement the UN Guiding Principles commitment guided CEMEX to become an industry on Business and Human Rights. In addition, we designed leader in sustainability and a key player addressing the a comprehensive Human Rights Policy that will expand challenges of urbanization. As CEMEX’s newly elected on our existing programs and reporting mechanisms CEO, I am committed to honor this legacy and continue to provide a more robust approach. This policy will be building the path towards a more sustainable company Fernando A. Gonzalez implemented in 2014. and a better future. Chief Executive Officer < previous | contents | next > 7 PROGRESS towards our targets 2011 2012 2013 Target 2015 Progress Assurance[2] Lead in Sustainable Construction Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 87 100 100 100 ✔ Cement 100 100 100 100 ✔ Aggregates 83 100 100 100 ✔ Ready-mix 83 100 100 100 ✔ Enhance our Carbon Strategy Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) 612 612 607 594 ▲ ● Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product from 1990 baseline (%) 22.7 22.7 23.4 25 ▲ Alternative fuel rate (%) 24.7 27.1 28.4 35 ▲ ● Excellence in Environmental and Biodiversity Management Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions: 80 80 81 100 ▲ ● Dust, NOX and SOX (%) Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) [1] 101 78 127 120 ▲ ● Specific NOX emissions (g/ton clinker) [1] 1,094 1,025 1,261 1,600 ✔ ● Specific SOX emissions (g/ton clinker) [1] 335 257 215 520 ✔ ● Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plan (%) 89 91 92 100 ▲ Active sites with high biodiversity value where biodiversity action 38 41 51 100 u plans are actively implemented (%) Operations with an Environmental Management System Implemented (%) 86 89 92 100 ▲ High Priority to Health and Safety Lost-time injury (LTI) frequency rate, employees (per million hours worked) 2.3 2.0 1.7 0.5 u ● Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Practices (%) 79 85 84 100 ▲ Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended Practices (%) 82 90 88 100 ▲ Operations with a Health and Safety Management System Implemented (%) 99 100 100 100 ✔ ✔ Fully achieved target ▲ On track to achieve target u Extra effort required to achieve target [1] New targets under revision and to be published by the end of 2014. [2] KPIs externally verified by PwC. < previous | contents | next > 8 building a sustainable urban ENVIRONMENT Urbanization is creating several challenges that percent in 2050. Yet even today, many cities lack are interconnected and directly related to the sufficient clean water, electricity, reliable public well-being of our society and the planet. These transportation and other basic resources needed challenges are physical, societal and environmental to support their expanding populations and in nature and demand urban infrastructure strengthen their economies. and buildings that are adaptable, resilient and sustainable. Society must embrace innovations that create value by improving resource efficiency. At According to the United Nations Population Fund CEMEX we are leading the way, delivering (UNFPA), the current population of 7.2 billion is solutions to the increasingly complex and projected to increase by 1 billion over the next 12 inter-connected construction demands of years and reach 9.6 billion by 2050. Additionally, society. Solutions that promote economic the urbanization rate is expected to grow from growth, preserve the environment and improve the current 50 percent to approximately 70 the quality of urban life. < previous | contents | next > 9 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN ENVIRONMENT greener creating products and services launched the ecoperating® Building certification to distinguish buildings that demonstrate superior sustainability performance. 27% of our ready-mix revenues represent products with outstanding sustainability attributes. < previous | contents | next > 10 CEMEX offers cutting-edge products, services and solutions Highlights that meet the most demanding construction standards, provide sustainable performance and are cost competitive. Our global portfolio has been conceived to positively impact safety at the workplace, promote efficient construction practices, preserve natural resources, minimize our carbon • Developed two new concrete additives and footprint and improve the quality of life of our communities. one ready-to-use mortar solution to enhance The CEMEX Research Group AG (CRG) in Switzerland leads, resource efficiency. manages and coordinates research and development globally, and aims to offer innovative building solutions through • Added four projects to our CEMEX Green industrialization of their technologies. In 2013, the total Building Consultancy Services portfolio. combined expense of the technology and energy departments in CEMEX, which includes all significant R&D activi• Implemented our Sustainable Cities Initiative ties, amounted to approximately USD $38 million. in Merida, Mexico, in collaboration with As part of our ongoing efforts to integrate our green CESPEDES, the Mexican chapter of the World products and services, CEMEX is now reporting on the percentage of our revenues that represent products with Business Council for Sustainable Development. outstanding sustainability attributes for the first time. Maximizing the Sustainability Attributes of Concrete Through Admixtures Chemical admixtures are ingredients added to concrete during the production process in order to modify its properties by increasing quality, improving durability, delivering cost-benefits and enhancing its sustainability as well as environmental profile. They contribute to sustainability by reducing the content of clinker (the most energy and greenhouse gas intensive ingredient in cement and concrete), lowering energy and water consumption during production The CEMEX Research Group Based on clear, measurable criteria including energy, and improving the insulation properties of concrete AG (CRG) in Switzerland. water and resource efficiency, as well as resilience and products. Admixtures, for example, can be introduced health and safety standards throughout the full value during aggregate production to improve quality and, as chain, 27 percent of our ready-mix revenues are derived a consequence, reduce water consumption during the from products with outstanding sustainability attributes washing process. in 2013. Sustainability is a key area of focus for CEMEX, and we understand that quantifying our efforts is critical Delivering Improvements from to understanding, managing and improving our environExcavation to Construction mental footprint. Fine clay particles can lead to increased water demand of concrete and in turn reduce its strength. Furthermore, the < previous | contents | next > 11 Compared to traditional EPS construction, our new CEMEX Corporate Strategic solution reduces the embedded environmental impact by Sustainability External making a highly energy-efficient building approach more and Sales Force Partners affordable and convenient, reducing the energy necessary to transport materials to the site and build the structure as well as the energy needed to maintain a comfortable Sustainable Bioclimatic Architects indoor temperature. Construction Experts Energy-Efficiency LEED AP, BREEAM & Engineering Firms Delivering Value-Added PASSIVHAUS Assessors Building Certifiers Green Building Services CEMEX partners with national and international exCountry Sales Force perts to provide a complete array of services specialized in sustainable construction including Bioclimatic Architecture, Integrated Engineering, Building Energy With the help of a small internal team Modeling and Building Certifications (LEED, BREEAM, For a full list of our products and specialized external experts, our etc.). Working collaboratively, we integrate all members and their sustainability sales force can offer high value-added of the construction value chain to optimize results for attributes, please visit our services to our customers. more sustainable construction projects. website. Green Building Services Projects Portfolio clay particles may also consume the admixtures, and this can lead to rapid loss in workability. Typically, removing fine Project Location Start Building Buildable Certification clay particles during gravel and sand production can be a Year Type Area Services costly process that generates waste. Sofia Residential Monterrey, LEED Silver 2012 Mixed use 98,600 m2 In 2013, CEMEX developed a chemical admixture that can Tower Mexico Certification be either introduced directly in the aggregates or through ready-mix. It neutralizes fine clay particles that are detriEsfera Citelis Monterrey, LEED Platinum mental to the performance of concrete, allowing for the Shopping Mexico 2012 Commercial 276,925 m2 Certification recovery of excavated material as concrete aggregate. The Center innovative admixture improves the quality of sand used in concrete, reducing stock waste and enhancing water manSan Bernabe Monterrey, Education & LEED agement by reducing the need to wash the sand. Community 2012 29,150 m2 Mexico Recreation Certification Center Improving Energy, Water and Carbon Footprints Another admixture breakthrough occurred when two busiTorre Tijuana, LEED Platinum 2013 Offices 13,950 m2 Cosmopolitan Mexico Certification ness lines –Cement and the Admixtures Group– formulated a grinding aid. The admixture allows for decreased clinker ICA, Reserva Mexico City, LEED content in cement without affecting performance. It can also 2013 Residential 22,584 m2 Escondida Mexico Certification improve production efficiency of cement (finish) mills, which are the highest consumer of energy in a cement plant. Mexico City, LEED ICA Mineria 2013 Offices 17,000 m2 Mexico Certification Ready-to-use Mortar Solution Reduces Energy Use In 2013, we developed a ready-to-use mortar solution Mexico City, LEED to coat expanded polystyrene (EPS) thermal insulation. ICA Viaducto 2013 Offices 42,050 m2 Mexico Certification < previous | contents | next > 12 Energy efficiency Sustainable design Mandatory Requirement Elective requirements (10% energy savings above ASHRAE) (Achieve at least 3 of 8 possible points) After a successful introduction in Mexico, CEMEX is beginning to offer our Green Building Services in other countries, Energy consumption savings Water consumption savings Heat island effect reduction mainly in Central and Eastern Europe and Latin America. >10% Energy consumption Percentage of low water conPercentage of exterior horizontal reduction against standards sumption and/or waterless sanitary surfaces with a Solar Reflectance ecoperating® Seal Expands ASHRAE 90.1-2007 fixtures. | > 50% = 1 point | > 75% Index [SRI] > 30 | > 50% = 1 point | In 2012, CEMEX launched ecoperating®, a global sus= 2 points > 75% = 2 points tainability identifier for products, services and solutions. Using an energy simulation mode, the proLocal sourcing Innovative sustainable The ecoperating® seal enables builders to easily identify ject must demonstrate at minimum a 10% Percentage of materials extracted solution CEMEX solutions that reduce the environmental impact energy efficiency against a baseline as deand manufactured within 500 km Inclusion of an innovative solution of projects, optimizing the use of natural resources and fined by US standard ASHRAE 90.1-2007. radius of the project. [IS] that generates improvements/ | > 10% = 1 point | > 20% = 2 points additional savings. reducing emissions and waste generation. ecoperating® | 1 IS = 1 point | 2 IS = 2 points was launched in Croatia, Egypt, the Philippines and the UAE in 2012 and in 2013 we extended it to Panama, Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic. New ecoperating® Buildings Certification Characteristics of the Certification In order to promote more sustainable design and execution of building projects we created the ecoperFew requirements, easy to calculate and implement at any ating® Buildings Certification. This accredits buildings Simple phase of the construction process during their design, construction and/or operating phase that have notable sustainable features and performance above the market standard. Through this Agile Simple and direct process certification, CEMEX recognizes projects that save energy and water and reduce the environmental impact of a building’s construction and operation. Flexible Balanced mix of mandatory and elective requirements This certification is not a substitute for other international building certifications, such as LEED or BREEAM, but a complimentary tool to promote the extenAffordable Less expensive than international certifications such as LEED sive use of sustainable practices in the construction industry. Rigorous Based on recognized international standards and regultaions < previous | contents | next > 13 y + sustain ienc ab fic Residential development ef le ene “LUCENA” in San Pedro Garza rgy de sign Garcia, N.L., Mexico. er in c g tif i e d b u il d For projects achieving > 10% energy consumption reduction under the energy efficiency category and > 3 points under the sustainable Project Score To obtain the ecoperating® Buildings Certification, a use of horizontal external surfaces with high solar design category. Energy Consumption Reduction project must meet all requirements in the energy effireflectance index. Additionally, the building shell, 43% ciency category and achieve at least three of the eight partitions and fenestrations have been designed with requirements in the sustainable design category. a significantly higher STC rating (Sound Transmission Class) than required by national standards (45 percent Low Water-Consumption Fixtures ecoperating® Plus improvement on average) which provides a higher levTo distinguish projects with remarkable energy-efficiency el of sound attenuation. ienc y + sustain 76% fic ab ef le performance and sustainable attributes, CEMEX offers ene rgy sign de ecoperating® PLUS. Sustainable Cities Initiative Building on previous experience from the Urban Exterior Surfaces w/High Solar Reflectance Index ecoperating® PLUS is awarded to projects that meet a higher Infrastructure Initiative (UII) with the World Business Council — PLUS — threshold in both categories, proving that they are cutfor Sustainable Development (WBCSD), CEMEX has created 76 % er in c g tif ting-edge buildings with exceptional sustainability features. and launched the Sustainable Cities Initiative in Mexico. i e d b u il d For projects achieving The residential development “LUCENA” in San Pedro In collaboration with CESPEDES, the local partner of the > 20% energy Enhanced Acoustical Garza Garcia, Mexico, of Promotora Elizondo, was the WBCSD, and seven leading national companies, CEMEX has consumption reduction Performance first project to achieve the ecoperating® Plus certification. developed a local model to help unlock opportunities for under the energy 45% efficiency category urban authorities to create more sustainable, livable cities. and > 5 points The building successfully complied with CEMEX In 2013, the first study was carried out in Merida, under the sustainable design category. certification’s requirements by demonstrating imYucatan, Mexico. The engagement provided a platform provements on key features such as high energy-efto help the city identify key issues they face in realizficiency performance, water-use reduction through ing their sustainability visions and develop plans which the incorporation of low water-consumption fixtures will translate this vision into reality. and urban heat island effect reduction through the < previous | contents | next > 14 The initiative mobilized a multi-sector team of comChallenges Ahead pany experts to work on-site with senior city officials to develop a portfolio of practical system-wide solutions. The range of topics covered included urban infrastructure, building and housing, renewable energy and waste and water management, demonstrating the • Continue to foster the development of benefits of this multi-sector engagement. innovative products and services that contribute In 2014, further studies will take shape in cities in to buildings with higher energy efficiency and Mexico, such as Queretaro, Torreon and Puebla. The lower use of water and other resources. program will also extend to cities in Central America and Southeast Asia. • Raise awareness in the marketplace about the CEMEX Building Award long-term benefits of green building planning Each year, CEMEX recognizes building projects that make and execution of projects. positive impacts through superior innovation. In 2013, the Tampico Cultural Institute School Building in Tampico, • Engage with key organizations in other Latin Tamaulipas, Mexico, was the winner of the Sustainable Construction Category. The 8,758 m2 building incorAmerican locations to adapt and replicate porates the use of recycled waste and other environthe Sustainable Cities model and continue to mentally friendly materials. The building’s environmental Dorado Beach, a Ritz impact is significantly reduced through bioclimatic design expand the initiative in other cities around Carlton Reserve at Dorado, and the use of advanced clean technologies. Approaches the world. Puerto Rico. such as optimal classroom orientation, cross-ventilation, abundant natural lighting, rain water collection and other measures enhanced the energy and water efficiency of the building while improving the quality of life for students and faculty. Dorado Beach, a Ritz Carlton Reserve in El Dorado, Puerto Rico, is another example of a Sustainable Building Award recipient. Encompassing 375,000 m2, the project features the insertion of a series of planes and pavilions that use regional woods, taking advantage of the tropical surroundings and high ceilings for improved ventilation and natural light. The project also includes concepts such as solar water heating, a variable refrigerant-flow air conditioning system, LED lighting to reduce energy consumption and CEMEX’s Position Papers on natural ventilation systems that provide a continuous flow Green Building Schemes and of dehumidified fresh air and improved indoor air quality. Sustainable Construction. < previous | contents | next > 15 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN ENVIRONMENT constructing resilient and low impact infrastructure 368 infrastructure projects completed, representing almost 7.5 million m2 of concrete pavement for highways, mass transit projects, airport runways and city streets in 15 countries. < previous | contents | next > 16 Highlights • Used pulverized asphalt as recycled Concrete vs. Asphalt Fuel consumption aggregate to pave more than one million m2 of roads with concrete. Cost comparison for On the rigid surface of a concrete pavement the wheels do not 10-mile (16 km) sink in as much as they do on flexible, i.e., asphalt pavements. This effect, called deflection, is invisible to the naked eye, but • Secured additional contracts in two Mexican 4-Lane Highway Project in Florida, USA. has a noticeable impact on fuel efficiency. cities, expanding our portfolio of Bus Rapid MM USD Transit (BRT) systems to eleven projects. Δ=0.9% Δ 35 30 30.0 30.3 25 20 15 Rigid pavementConcrete Flexible pavementAsphalt 10 Note: Deflection not to scale 5 Pavements that are stiffer and more durable, like those made As urban populations grow and climate change causes 0 of concrete, can reduce fuel consumption by as much as three more severe weather events, it’s critical that cities have the Asphalt Concrete percent in the U.S. materials and know-how to build resilient infrastructure that Initial construction cost serves citizens well, while withstanding the wear and tear of increased use and harsh environmental conditions. Cities are warmer than their surroundings, which in summer leads to discomfort, medical conditions and higher air condiAccording to the global professional services firm PwC, tioning use. Light-colored surfaces such as concrete reduce this MM USD so-called Urban Heat Island Effect. in the next 20 to 30 years more money will be spent on Δ=39% Δ urbanization worldwide than has been spent in our entire 70 60 Pictures of pavements: history to date. Ensuring that money is invested in infra50.8 Normal Thermographic structure that provides lasting protection of the economic 50 wellbeing and health of urban citizens will be critical. 40 30.9 30 Concrete is an essential component to the development of 20 resilient infrastructure. CEMEX is a leader in building large 10 infrastructure projects and solutions such as highways, 0 airports, roads and bus lanes, among others. We address the Asphalt Concrete challenge of creating a sustainable urban environment by Total life-cycle cost striving to understand the environmental and social benefits Average Temperature Concrete: Average Temperature Asphalt: and impacts of concrete and its varied applications. 33ºC (92ºF) 49ºC (121ºF) In 2013, we continued to support life cycle and cost analyses by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Concrete Sustainability Hub (CSH) that help us better < previous | contents | next > 17 understand the environmental footprint of our concrete products and how they can help improve the affordability and sustainability of infrastructure projects. Some of their latest research includes improved models to understand and quantify the advantages of rigid concrete pavements over asphalt in terms of fuel consumption, but also work to develop tools that allow for the quantification of concrete’s hazard resistance in the evaluation of competing designs. We also worked to raise awareness amongst city planners and managers on the environmental and longterm economic value of concrete compared to other construction materials. Infrastructure in 15 countries Country Area m2 # Projects 2013 Mexico 6,365,878 257 In 2013, CEMEX was responsible for almost 7.5 million square meters of concrete pavement in 15 countries. Guatemala 21,700 4 Nicaragua 183,700 9 Our calculations indicate that for more than 30 years – a relatively low estimate for the lifetime of these paveCosta Rica 51,100 8 ments – they can be expected to reduce GHG emissions from traffic by more than 500,000 CO2 tons equivalent Panama 65,300 9 compared to traditional asphalt pavements. Colombia 93,000 12 Two recently published brochures for our clients and Dominican Republic 146,000 22 other stakeholders describe our concrete pavement Haiti 4,300 1 solutions: “The Leading Concrete Pavement Provider in the World” and “Concrete Pavements – The Smart Puerto Rico 35,000 12 Infrastructure Choice” are both available on our website. Croatia 18,890 8 Egypt 125,506 5 Spain 223,394 5 UK 55,000 9 Poland 14,647 4 USA 15,430 3 Total 2013 7,418,845 368 < previous | contents | next > 18 Promoting Resource Efficiency through CEMEX BRTs Projects Year Location km Pavement Recycling Full-depth reclamation is a measure to improve Metrobus Line 1 2006-2008 Mexico City, Mexico 20 recyclability and reusability of our construction materials. It rebuilds worn out asphalt pavements by pulverizing Metrobus Vallejo 2010-2011 Mexico City, Mexico 16 the old asphalt and base materials and mixing them with Metrobus Line 2 2010-2011 Mexico City, Mexico 16 cement and water to produce a strong, durable base for a new concrete surface. In 2013, this type of concrete Mexibus Chimalhuacan 2011 Chimalhuacan, Mexico 15 pavement became an important solution for CEMEX with more than 145,000 m2 installed in Spain and more than Metrobus Line 4 2011-2012 Mexico City, Mexico 28 1.1 million m2 in Mexico. Ecovia Monterrey Phase I 2011-2012 Monterrey, Mexico 19 Environmental benefits of asphalt recycling include: BRT Acabus 2012-2013 Acapulco, Mexico 18 • Reduced need for virgin materials • Reduced transportation of aggregate and waste BRT Puebla I 2012 Puebla, Mexico 19 material Mexicali 2012 Mexicali, Mexico 20 • Reduced waste-to-landfill • Low-maintenance road surface with longer life BRT Puebla II 2013 Puebla, Mexico 12 Ecovia Monterrey Phase II 2013 Monterrey, Mexico 11 BRT Puebla II, helping commuters to save between Cost-Effective, Efficient Mass 35 and 45 minutes of their Public Transport System time as well as reducing air CEMEX is building high-occupancy, affordable, lowemissions. emissions concrete Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems to help reduce the amount of resources associated with transportation infrastructure. In 2013, CEMEX implemented two new BRT lines in the cities of Puebla and Monterrey, bringing the total number of lines served by CEMEX up to eleven. The Puebla line is expected to reduce air emissions by approximately 26,000 tons of CO2 annually and to significantly reduce noise and visual pollution. Additionally, commuters will save between 35 and 45 minutes of their time while improving their comfort and quality of life. Many of these benefits are shared by Ecovia Monterrey, which is expected to benefit more than 180,000 users and decrease commuting time by up to 50 percent. The line will reduce nearly 17 thousand tons of CO2 per year and reduce private car use between 15 and 20 percent in the middle-run. < previous | contents | next > 19 Building Sustainable Airport Infrastructure Challenges Ahead As a leading supplier of concrete for the building and improvement of airport infrastructure, CEMEX strives to increase the efficiency and sustainability of construction. For example, CEMEX in Latvia began supplying building • Building climate resilient infrastructure to solutions for major improvements to Riga International support a low-carbon society. Airport, the largest in the Baltic States, in 2013. Providing more than 80,000 m³ of specialty ready• Persuading decision-makers to invest in mix concrete, CEMEX placed two dedicated ready-mix concrete plants at the job site. This not only allows resiliency. CEMEX to guarantee timely delivery of materials, keeping the project on time and on budget, but also • Creating efficient connections between reduces the transportation footprint of the project people and their destinations. which is slated to be completed in 2014. For further information regarding CEMEX and • Pushing forward resource-efficient solutions Additionally, the concrete mix uses cement from the infrastructure please read our position paper available local CEMEX Broceni plant, one of the most modern in such as full-depth reclamation and retrofitting in our website. Europe. Among the various technological innovations of as a key part of our portfolio. the plant is its dry kiln, which requires approximately half of the thermal energy to produce clinker compared to the previous technology. It is also able to substitute more than 70 percent of fossil fuels with alternative fuels, reducing its environmental footprint. We also participated in the construction of the Victor Peace Airbase in Egypt. This 50,000 m2 job is not only notable due to the climatic conditions 30 km west of Cairo, but also because it satisfies the challenging standards of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 80,000+ m3 of specialty ready-mix concrete provided by CEMEX in Latvia to make major improvements to Riga International Airport. < previous | contents | next > 20 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN ENVIRONMENT affordable delivering and energy-efficient housing 10 new countries in our housing solutions portfolio. Expanding our presence to a total of 19 countries. < previous | contents | next > 21 An abundance of job opportunities and the promise Highlights of greater prosperity are key reasons people choose to relocate to cities. Today, more than half the world’s population inhabits cities and it is expected that by mid-century that share will increase to 70 percent. With • Built 7,513 affordable and/or energy efficient burgeoning populations and limited land area, housing costs and environmental degradation are common houses in 19 countries. concerns for urban planners. 7,513 CEMEX recognizes that resilient and sustainable housing is an important solution to the growing social, economic and environmental challenges associated with urbanization. 3,259 2,942 While CEMEX continues to provide affordable housing for those at the base of the socio-economic pyramid, 1,572 we have expanded our focus. With unmatched expertise in tailor-made systems that are easily adapted and lead CEMEX Housing to efficient construction of homes, we are delivering 10 11 12 13 number of houses built housing for all markets in 19 different countries. Our offer now includes industrialized, disaster relief, energy efficient, vertical and affordable housing solutions. Integrating our expertise and state-of-the-art products, we are delivering value to all participants in the construction value chain. In 2013, we contributed to the construction of 7,513 homes, representing more than 400,000 m2. This brings the total for the first four years of our housing initiatives to more than 15,000 units with a surface of more than 650,000 m2. Energy-Efficient Wall Solutions Central to this effort are first-in-class wall systems – cast-in-place, wired EPS panels, Insulated Concrete Forms (ICF) and precast systems – that provide multiple benefits that improve the sustainability, speed and economics of housing construction. < previous | contents | next > 22 Our Systems & Solutions Attributes Challenges Ahead • Gradually extending our housing solutions to Easily adapted to construction Resilient to natural disaster High thermal mass & insulation Less waste at construction site Significally reduces all markets where CEMEX operates, both in and design construction developing and developed countries. requirements time Housing Program in Colombia Includes Buildings and Services An example of our integrated approach is the “Vivienda” project. We are collaborating with the Colombian government to provide affordable housing to the neediest people. Beginning in 2013, the project involves the construction of approximately 5,745 homes in six different provinces consisting of houses and apartment buildings as well as public services such as water, sewage and electricity. This assessment model was developed to evaluate the Certifying Social Housing as Sustainable entire cycle of a social housing project from design concept Given the lack of a certification program that promotes to project operation to demolition-based on sustainable and assesses sustainable practices in the construction design techniques, flexibility, constructability, construction sector for social housing, CEMEX in collaboration with management and overall project management. Tecnologico de Monterrey created a Certification Model to encourage a new social housing model characterized The program objectives are: by sustainability and a balance between economic, eco• Encourage sustainable practices in the construction logical and social aspects. sector through a certification model that promotes and assesses them. • Minimize negative contributions of building construction to global warming and the energy Habitat Partnership Targets Affordable Housing & Disaster Relief crisis through efficient use of natural resources and sustainable techniques. CEMEX began partnering with Habitat for Humanity International in 2013 to carry • Produce dignified social housing with economic, out microfinance pilots in Mexico, Nicaragua, Colombia and the Philippines. The intent ecological and social value. is to ally in every country where CEMEX and Habitat have a presence to increase the • Develop an assessment model through an extensive building of affordable and disaster relief housing. literature review and analysis of sustainability models and projects. < previous | contents | next > 23 BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE URBAN ENVIRONMENT self-construction promoting through social and inclusive businesses 2.3+ million individuals have benefited from our Patrimonio Hoy, ConstruApoyo and Productive Centers of Self-Employment initiatives since 1998. 8 new Productive Centers of Self-Employment, bringing the total number of centers to 84 and welcoming Costa Rica to the initiative. < previous | contents | next > 24 CEMEX’s commitment to sustainability extends beyond Highlights our impact on the environment, embodying a strong desire to expand access to goods, services and livelihood opportunities for low-income communities. We support • Assisted 29,734 Latin American families with the social and economic development of communities in emerging areas through programs that foster Patrimonio Hoy in 2013. self-reliance and empowerment. This inclusive business approach enables us to use our core business strengths to • Expanded Patrimonio Hoy's coverage to 11 help at-risk families gain access to products and services new cities, gaining 1,167 new clients through that meet their needs in an affordable way. a new innovative scheme in collaboration with Empowering Families CEMEX's Construrama distribution centers. Patrimonio Hoy is our flagship inclusive business that helps low-income families to improve their quality of life • Joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA) with through better and dignified housing, realizing their dream of home ownership through a well-planned savings a commitment to ensure more than 150,000 program. low-income families have access to safe and Combining the global presence of CEMEX distribution affordable housing by 2016. with the power of microcredit, the program offers Patrimonio Hoy 2.0 In 2013, Patrimonio Hoy (PH) went through an innovative product and service evolution aligned with a new identity and office concept. PH Mexico began providing more customized housing projects according to customers' construction needs and financial capacity. The new offer enables PH to attend to even poorer families, offering flexible weekly payments from USD $11.5. Additionally, technical assistance is now done in-situ, involves the whole family and assesses the most effective way to meet their constructive needs. Supervision is also offered during the construction to ensure high-quality housing projects. Knowing the complexity of the construction process, PH also provides additional services with the aim to deliver an integral solution to each family's housing needs. Patrimonio Hoy's new identity Families can choose from multiple locations to make payments, including Patrimonio and new offices. Hoy offices, convenience stores and banks. integral solutions to families by providing financial and technical assistance in the construction of their homes. Additionally, PH developed an innovative strategy to enter new markets by collaboWith more than 100 offices in Latin America, Patrimonio rating closely with CEMEX's Construrama distribution centers, incorporating 11 new Hoy enables families to build or improve their homes cities. PH is now present in 53 cities in 29 states in Mexico. quicker, more efficiently and with more durable and insulating materials – concrete, cement blocks and steel – that would otherwise be beyond their means. < previous | contents | next > 25 Patrimonio Hoy Dom. Rep. Mexico Colombia Nicaragua Costa Rica Total New families 2013 384 25,762 1,826 1,696 66 29,734 Total families 867 399,726 16,971 8,130 875 426,569 (# accumulated since 1998) New individuals 2013 1,536 123,658 7,121 9,498 264 142,077 Total individuals 3,468 1,955,379 66,187 35,234 3,500 2,063,767 (# accumulated since 1998) Total square meters built 18,086 3,165,690 103,122 26,821 2,144 3,315,863 (# accumulated since 1998) Since 2011, the program has also worked together with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Kellogg School of Management to expand and update its offer. Patrimonio Hoy operates in five countries. In 2013, it reached 29,734 new families and built 270,509 m2 of livable space. Productive Centers of Self-Employment (PCS) Productive Centers of Self-Employment allow participants to produce concrete blocks and other precast products, half of which they can use to build, repair, or expand their homes. Municipal or state governments purchase the other half for infrastructure development. The resulting proceeds are reinvested in the centers to make them self-sustaining. In 2013, we added 8 new PCS. Our initiative is now present in Mexico, Colombia and Costa Rica, with the Productive Centers of Self-Employment (PCS) enable individuals to manufacture building materials to improve the quality of their housing. 143,000+ individuals have benefited from < | contents | next > the PCS initiative since its inception. previous 26 latter opening its first two centers. There are now a total Challenges Ahead of 84 PCS serving these countries and almost 35,500 families have benefited from them since its inception. • Finding new financing mechanisms that allow ConstruApoyo a larger number of people to improve or build Through our ConstruApoyo program, CEMEX facilitates the their own home. distribution of funds for the construction, repair or extension of homes with a prepaid debit card system, creating a • Expanding our self-construction schemes to reach transparent process through which aid recipients are able to purchase the building materials they need. more people, more cities and more countries. In 2013, more than 1,000 families in Mexico and Colombia • Collaborating with governments to increase benefited from this program. To date, 31,716 families their support of initiatives that empower corresponding to 156,895 individuals have been served by ConstruApoyo. people to build or improve their own homes. Assisted Self-Construction Integral Program • Ensuring that at least 150,000 families in CEMEX integrates PCS, ConstruApoyo and social extreme poverty improve their access to assistance under the umbrella initiative Assisted Selfaffordable housing by 2016. Building the Link to Home Ownership, CEMEX Commitment to Millennium Development Goals As part of our efforts to contribute to Millennium Development Goals, CEMEX has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA) with a commitment to ensure that more than 150,000 low-income families have access to safe and affordable housing by 2016. CEMEX is the first company to join the BCtA with two separate initiatives – to expand our innovative Assisted Self-Construction Integral Program and involve our award-winning, inclusive business Patrimonio Hoy. Construction Integral Program in order to provide people all the necessary tools to build their own homes, including financing, materials and expertise. In 2013, the program benefited 242 families in Mexico and was implemented for the first time in Colombia, benefiting 294 families. Since their creation in 2011, PIACs have benefited a total of 23,039 individuals. < previous | contents | next > 27 addressing the global climate CHALLENGE Global Climate Change is one of the most pressing challenges. Amidst heat waves, drought, floods challenges of our time. A large number of studies and snowstorms, weather and climate extremes have analyzed the potential damages due to rising continue to intensify, as do the impact they have. sea levels, changes in precipitation patterns and Between 2000 and 2012, natural disasters caused wider distribution of vector-borne diseases. Climate USD $1.7 trillion in damages globally. This change poses a great threat particularly to urban areas figure includes direct impacts on infrastructure, where concentrated populations and corresponding communities and the environment, together infrastructure can suffer extensively from extreme with reductions in business profitability and weather, natural disasters and resource shortages. economic growth in affected regions. Increasing urbanization and dense populations make cities Increasing urbanization is projected to be the particularly vulnerable to natural hazards. major driver of global energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions over the next two decades. At CEMEX, we interpret our responsibility It is estimated that at present, buildings contribute for climate change in a very comprehensive as much as one third of total global greenhouse gas way. Beyond our efforts to reduce the direct emissions, primarily through the use of fossil fuels and indirect contribution of greenhouse gases during their operational phase (United Nations by our operations and our industry, we are Environmental Program). committed to providing products and services that enable a low-carbon economy and Unpredictable extreme weather events are improve our built environment’s resilience to becoming more frequent and present numerous climate change. < previous | contents | next > 28 ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL CLIMATE CHALLENGE value from waste to 28.4% CEMEX's use of alternative fuels increased to 28.4 percent of the total fuel mix from 24.7 percent in 2011 and 27.1 percent in 2012. < previous | contents | next > 29 27.1 28.4 One of the more difficult challenges of urbanization is Highlights 24.7 management of the waste generated by a concentrated population. Fortunately, many types of waste contain valuable energy that can be recovered, which reduces reliance on fossil fuels. CEMEX is harnessing these alternative fuels to fuel cement facilities and reduce our overall • Surpassed alternative fuel rate of 50 percent at 5.1 carbon footprint. Waste diverted from landfill disposal for 10 plants and 70 percent at four. energy recovery include: 0.8 • Used tires • Increased the alternative fuel rate at our • Spent solvents and waste oils 90 05 11 12 13 • Processed municipal solid waste Clinchfield Plant in Georgia, U.S., from 49.4 Alternative Fuel Substitution Rate • Household waste percent to 78.3 percent in 2013. in cement operations • Sewage sludge • Reduced clinker content in our cement to 76.9 In addition, animal meals and agricultural waste such Investing nearly USD $200 as rice, peanut shells and coffee husks are also used to percent, down from 84.3 percent in 1990. million since 2005, CEMEX has significantly increased its substitute fossil fuel consumption. use of alternative fuels. In 2013, 94 percent of our cement plants burned alternative fuels, avoiding the use of 2.37 million tons of coal Automotive Industry Waste Drives Energy Efforts and eliminating the equivalent of 1.77 million tons of CO2 from entering the atmosphere. CEMEX recently signed an agreement with General Motors (GM) of Mexico to manage industrial waste at its three main plants in San Luis Potosi, Silao and Toluca. For the Of the 45 plants burning alternative fuels, 10 surpassed next three years, non-recyclable waste from the carmaker’s manufacturing plant a 50 percent alternative fuel rate, with four achieving a in San Luis Potosi will be transferred to a subsidiary of CEMEX, Pro Ambiente. Pro rate above 70 percent. Ambiente will treat, separate and compact each type of waste before taking them to the kiln. This helps both CEMEX and GM reduce their environmental footprint while To read CEMEX’s position paper on the use of alternaconverting waste to energy. Pro Ambiente processes approximately 600,000 tons of tive fuels in the cement manufacturing process visit our waste through similar agreements with 100 other companies and governments like website. those of Mexico City and Nuevo Leon. For the second consecutive year, CEMEX was recognized with a Global Cemfuels Award for Alternative Fuels Using Company of the Year. The award, which was voted for by industry participants, celebrates organizations in the cement and lime industries that make it a priority to use alternative fuels in their operations. Replacing Energy-Intensive Clinker Waste is not just a potential source of energy. Some industrial waste streams such as fly ash from power plants or blast furnace slag from pig iron production have cement-like properties and are used as substitutes for < previous | contents | next > 30 clinker, the most energy and CO2 intensive ingredient of cement. This practice is an extremely efficient way to Clinchfield Cement Plant Increases Alternative Fuel Rate By minimize our environmental footprint, reducing the conNearly 30 Percentage Points sumption of fossil fuels and the use of natural minerals required by the production of clinker. Our cement plant located in Clinchfield, Georgia, United States, is in an area well known for agriculture and the manufacturing of wood-derived products like furniture and However, the global availability of these waste streams paper. Given its location, our Clinchfield plant looked to local biomass to help increase is limited. Our supply chain management and constant its alternative fuel use rate. efforts to expand the list of those waste streams from slags and non-ferrous metals industries have resulted in a With moisture content less than 10 percent, peanut shells sourced from one of the reduction of the average clinker content in our cements largest peanut producers in the U.S. proved to be a viable alternative fuel. After pilot from 84.3 percent in 1990 to 76.9 percent in 2013. tests in 2010 and 2011, a new feeder system with the capacity to significantly increase the fuel substitution rate at the plant was built and brought online in 2013. Recycling, Reusing and Reducing Primary Aggregates in Concrete Early in 2013, the Clinchfield cement plant achieved a record fuel substitution rate of Depending on regulatory frameworks and material avail78.3 percent by burning nearly 90,000 tons of biomass, including peanut shells, wood ability, CEMEX replaces primary aggregates with other sawdust, pecan shells, tire fibers and whole tires. By September, the system averaged discarded materials such as glass and demolished cona monthly substitution of 93.3 percent and the plant operated on 100 percent altercrete. We also reuse and recycle fresh concrete returned native fuels for periods of 24 hours on several occasions. While achieving 100 percent from construction sites whenever possible. In 2013, is possible, the challenge remains in securing materials that would boost up the annual 0.21 percent of secondary and recycled aggregates were substitution rate above 80 percent once the plant is operating at full capacity. Throughout the world, CEMEX takes significant strides to Recycling Concrete from Building Demolition find innovative solutions that allow us to recover and reuse waste resources and drive out costs. Some examples are: CEMEX France is actively participating in Recybeton, an innovative project aimed at improving concrete recycling from building demolitions. Recybeton has two Turning Waste Heat to Energy ambitious objectives: to reuse recycled concrete to produce new concrete and as In 2013, construction of a six megawatt waste a raw material for hydraulic binder. This collaborative research and development heat-to-energy (WHTE) facility began at our Solid project, supported by the Ministry of Ecology, Sustainable Development and Cement plant in Antipolo City in the Philippines. The Energy, and The French National Research Agency’s ECOREB project, marks approximately USD $18.6 million facility will capture the an important step toward the reduction of building waste and use of recycled plant’s excess heat to produce electricity. The project is aggregates in construction applications. expected to come online at the beginning of 2015. used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates. Diverting Waste from Landfills Additionally, the volume of returned concrete material Also in 2013, CEMEX UK completed the three-part was 1.00 percent of the total volume delivered, comSoutham Landfill capping and restoration project. During pared to 0.95 in 2012. this two-year project, we removed waste from the Parkfield Road Landfill and took it to Southam. The To read CEMEX’s position paper on the use of recycled USD $9.2 million project completed the existing landfill aggregates in the construction sector please visit our at Southam while allowing for the renovation of Parkfield. website. The land restoration, agricultural practices and CEMEX recovery options used during 2013 diverted 32,000 tons < previous | contents | next > 31 of waste from landfills. Sending dust off site for recovery Challenges Ahead on dry basis also reduced both transportation costs and water consumption. Maximizing Waste Water Usage Waste water is immensely valuable to CEMEX and can • Identifying new sources of lower cost, offset our need to tap municipal or natural water supplies. alternative fuels to compete with stable In 2013, all CEMEX operations worldwide began applying a methodology to use waste water more efficiently. primary fuel prices. At Los Pinos, a concrete plant in Santo Domingo in the • Reducing the high costs associated with the Dominican Republic, CEMEX saved 40 percent of the watransportation of alternative fuels and raw ter needed through the recovery, treatment and utilization of wastewater and the runoff process. Through the use of materials. recycled water in the plant, CEMEX prevents alkali effluent discharges from entering the sub-soil and reduces the use • Spotting opportunities for resource of water from wells. This contributes to the conservation optimization, reutilization and waste reduction. of water sources and an overall reduction in operating costs of production. This USD $110,000 investment saves approximately 23,760 m3 of water per year. Recycling Refractory Bricks Benefits Environment and Bottom Line Each year, the refractory lining (material that retains its strength at extremely high temperatures) of the kiln has to be replaced at the CEMEX Germany Kollenbach plant, resulting in about 500 metric tons of refractory brick waste and approximately 200300 metric tons of other refractory waste. In recent years, this refractory waste has been taken to special waste disposal grounds at a significant cost. To reduce costs and find a more sustainable alternative for this annual maintenance, CEMEX partnered with Mineralmahlwerk Westerwald Horn GmbH & Co. KG (Horn), which was able to recycle the waste and use the resulting material in their own refractory materials. In At Los Pinos, a concrete 2013, the total refractory brick waste from the CEMEX WestZement Beckum plant plant in Santo Domingo in – totaling about 450 metric tons – was taken and used by Horn without any extra the Dominican Republic, cost to CEMEX. This partnership reduced our waste disposal costs, prevented possible CEMEX saved 40 percent of disruptions at the kiln and had a positive impact on the environment through the use the water needed through the recovery, treatment and of secondary raw materials in refractory products. utilization of wastewater and the runoff process. < previous | contents | next > 32 ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL CLIMATE CHALLENGE carbon optimizing our footprint 7+ million tons of CO2 avoided in 2013, equivalent to the average annual CO2 emissions of 1.35 million passenger vehicles. < previous | contents | next > 33 Highlights CEMEX is aggressively pursuing carbon emission • Registered six new initiatives as Clean 6,681 reduction strategies to help reduce the environmental Development Mechanisms (CDM) and one impact of our operations and innovate with new sustainable solutions. In 2013, as a result of our new Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) project initiatives to reduce our clinker factor and increase in the U.S. Our overall portfolio now includes the use of alternative fuels, we avoided 6.7 million 2,199 tons of CO2 direct emissions when compared to our 21 registered initiatives, with the combined 05 13 1990 baseline. Our combined efforts to reduce direct potential to reduce CO2 emissions by more and indirect emissions through the use of renewable Avoided Direct CO2 electricity represent more than 7 million tons of avoided than 2.8 million tons annually. Emissions vs. 1990 CO2 emissions compared with our 1990 baseline, Baseline thousand tons including emissions avoided through the Eurus wind farm • Earned ENERGY STAR® certification at five n Through clinker factor in Mexico. That is equivalent to offsetting the average CEMEX USA cement plants. n Through alternative fuels annual emissions of 1.35 million passenger vehicles. Carbon Strategy Progress 1990 2005 2013 Clinker factor (%) 84.3 81.4 76.9 Alternative fuels rate (%) 0.8 5.1 28.4 Avoided direct CO2 emissions vs 1990 baseline (tons) From clinker factor 1,943,054 4,176,846 From alternative fuels 256,468 2,503,981 Total CO2 avoided emissions 2,199,522 6,680,828 Avoided indirect CO2 emissions (tons) From Eurus Project 465,011 < previous | contents | next > 34 Expanding our Use of Renewable Energy In 2013, CEMEX installed two wind projects at our Victorville cement plant in California with a total capacity of 6.2 megawatts (MW). The electricity generated Five U.S. Cement Plants Earn ENERGY STAR® Efficiency Certification by the turbines is equivalent to the energy necessary for powering approximately 550 American homes and The ENERGY STAR® program is an EPA initiative that focuses on strategic energy prevents 4,300 tons of CO2 emissions each year. In total, management and emphasizes the importance of demonstrating environmental CEMEX has three wind power plants in California with a leadership for future generations. total generating capacity of 7.2 MW. CEMEX cement plants in Florida (2), Georgia, Ohio and California were recognized in The Eurus wind farm in Oaxaca, Mexico, generates 250 2013 with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ENERGY STAR® certification, MW of electricity, providing 25 percent of the energy bringing the percentage of CEMEX U.S. plants with this certification to 45 percent. The needed to run our Mexican cement operations. In 2013, ENERGY STAR® certification is the distinguishing mark of energy efficiency for cement 465,011 tons of total CO2 were avoided by this project. plants in the U.S. and places these plants among the most energy-efficient based on The Eurus farm has reduced indirect CO2 emissions by their performance on the EPA's ENERGY STAR® energy performance scale. more than 2.1 million tons since its inception. This recognition demonstrates that these facilities perform among the top 25 percent We also started the construction of a new 1.5 MW solar of similar U.S. facilities for energy conservation. This marked the seventh consecutive farm in the Dominican Republic in 2013. This will be the year of certification for the Clinchfield plant, an achievement realized by only one first solar project for CEMEX and is expected to come other cement plant in the U.S., the third consecutive certification for the Miami plant online on 2Q 2014. and the second for the Brooksville, Victorville and Fairborn plants. Ventika wind farm – renewable energy beyond Throughout the year, all of the recognized plants followed the energy efficiency In 2013, CEMEX installed the CEMEX frontier principles established by the ENERGY STAR® Guidelines for Energy Management two wind projects at our As industry pioneers in the use of clean energy and developed by the EPA, implementing energy conservation and monitoring Victorville cement plant in alternative fuels in Mexico, we are leveraging our technologies, promoting energy efficiency awareness among employees and California with a total capacity experience and technical skills to develop projects for completing energy reduction projects. of 6.2 MW. third-party investors. In 2014, together with Fisterra Energy, a company majority owned by funds managed by Blackstone and Blackstone Energy Partners, and private investors, we completed the financing of Ventika, one of the largest wind farm projects in Latin America. Located in the northeast state of Nuevo Leon, Mexico, the wind farm will comprise the construction of two 126 megawatt (MW) installations for a total nominal capacity of 252 MW. The investment for the project will be approximately USD $650 million, which will help the Mexican Government reduce CO2 emissions and meet its goal of 35 percent renewable energy by 2025. Ventika is also expected to generate approximately 1,000 direct jobs and more than 2,000 additional jobs in related industries, furthering CEMEX’s commitment to help improve the livelihood of local communities. < previous | contents | next > 35 Increasing Energy Efficiency of our Operations Project Start Year Emissions Reduction In our energy efficiency and climate protection efforts, tCO2/Year CEMEX is focused on the areas of our business where we can make the most positive impact. For example, CEMEX Eurus Wind Farm 2007 599,571 UK Cement operations gained 12 consecutive months of improvement and a 10 percent year-over-year overall Costa Rica Alternative Fuels 2008 39,972 reduction in electricity use, while ready-mix and aggregates both achieved a three percent reduction. Ibague Alternative Fuels 2008 146,798 Expanding CDM & VCS Projects Zapotiltic Alternative Fuels 2010 47,043 For a number of years, CEMEX has been active in proEgypt Alternative Fuels 2011 416,528 grams such as the United Nations’ Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) or the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) Panama K1 Alternative Fuels 2011 29,212 that recognize projects that reduce GHG emissions below normal levels. Tepeaca Alternative Fuels 2011 103,359 Six new initiatives were registered as CDM in 2013 Merida Alternative Fuels 2011 41,513 including four alternative fuel initiatives in Mexico and Panama and two wind farms located in Mexico. Our Dominican Republic Alternative Fuels 2012 99,797 full CDM portfolio now includes 19 projects officially registered with a total potential to mitigate around 2.44 Tamuin Biomass 2012 47,853 million tons of CO2 per year. Huichapan Biomass 2012 51,357 CEMEX also registered another carbon reduction project Cucuta Biomass 2012 42,307 under the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), the world’s leading voluntary greenhouse gas program. The projAtotonilco Alternative Fuels 2012 68,579 ect consisted of the partial substitution of fossil fuels by biomass fuels such as textiles, organic sludge, wood Louisville Alternative Fuels 2012 294,605 residues, paper, cardboard and other biomass residues in Valles Alternative Fuels 2013 45,926 Yaqui Alternative Fuels 2013 65,470 Guadalajara Biomass 2013 40,325 Ventika Wind Farm 2013 244,110 Ventika II Wind Farm 2013 244,110 Panama K2 Alternative Fuels 2013 70,883 Miami Biomass 2013 73,035 Total Reduction Potential (tCO2/Year) 2,812,353 < previous | contents | next > 36 the kilns at the CEMEX cement plant in Miami. Together, Challenges Ahead CEMEX’s two VCS projects have the potential to reduce more than 360,000 tons of CO2 per year. Our full portfolio has a potential to generate credits for • Decreasing the carbon intensity of our 2.8 million tons of CO2 reductions per year. production process, fuel uses and products' Promoting the Use of our Carbon Footprint Tool end use. Central to our CO2 reduction efforts is our Carbon Footprint Tool (CFT). It helps us to quantify the direct and • Finding innovative solutions to diminish our indirect amount of CO2 emitted during the production process, including embedded CO2 in raw materials. The carbon emissions through clean and efficient CEMEX CFT is being used in all cement, aggregate and energy alternatives. ready-mix sites under our operational control. • Understanding more accurately, accounting for, Creating Market Awareness and Measuring Impact and mitigating the impact of our transportation activities. Although market awareness of the importance of minimizing the construction industry’s impact on the environment is not widespread in Croatia, regulations and requirements to measure and report CO2 emissions are on the horizon. CEMEX Croatia recognized the opportunity to leverage our Carbon Footprint Tool (CFT) to provide activities may have on the environment. For this reason, added value to customers and, in turn, educate the market. we conduct tests and demos with different fuels and technologies that allow us to significantly reduce our mobile CEMEX Croatia uses the CFT primarily for their bids on pavement projects. The carequipment emissions and fuel consumption. bon footprint gives customers valuable information to determine ways to reduce their footprint and compare the carbon savings associated with concrete versus alternative In 2013, we worked on expanding the scope of our seven materials such as asphalt. pilot tests on additives by incorporating a larger amount of equipment; results have consistently shown a potential We are also using the CFT in our work with the Green Building Council Croatia and reduction of fuel consumption of approximately three independently to emphasize the benefits of concrete solutions among architects, to four percent. Our pilot tests are strategically located investors and key decision makers. in seven countries across three continents to accurately represent our markets. Reducing the Impact on Transportation CEMEX has also developed a program to extend mobile Everyday CEMEX operations across the world equipment life time and optimize utilization. We have work hard to continue developing a sustainable invested more than USD $50 million in renewing our heavy transportation strategy that helps us burn our fuel equipment units and have added new trucks to our fleet in more efficiently and minimize our emissions to the the United States and Mexico. Our truck fleets also exceed atmosphere by updating our equipment configurations environmental norms in South American and Caribbean and maximizing our assets' utilization. countries, setting the standard in the local context. We operate a fleet of more than 16,000 mobile equipment CEMEX looks to ultimately reduce transportation-assounits around the world that use diesel. CEMEX strives to ciated CO2 emissions by around 35,000 tons per year minimize the potential impacts that our transportation through our sustainable transportation strategy. < previous | contents | next > 37 ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL CLIMATE CHALLENGE biodiversity, preserving land, and water Published our new Corporate Water Policy and rolled-out our CEMEX Water Management Methodology throughout our operations. < previous | contents | next > 38 66 Highlights 2013 water consumption 42 • Externally pre-verified our water withdrawals 27 376 l/t cement KPI for the first time. 23 24 11 10 194 l/m3 ready-mix 4 1 • Received Special Award for Biodiversity from 317 l/t aggregates The European Aggregates Association (UEPG) cement ready-mix aggregates for our Soto Pajares Quarry’s outstanding Water Footprint Conserving the natural environment can represent the million cubic meters crossroads of urbanization and climate change. The built performance on biodiversity management. n Total withdrawals environment can threaten biodiversity and environmental n Total discharges quality, yet the services of the natural environment have n Total consumption never been so critical to sequestering carbon, reducing flooding and providing the fresh water needed for a burgeoning global population. CEMEX, Founding Member of the Monterrey Water Development Report, demand for water will be Metropolitan Water Fund 40 percent higher in 2030 than it is today. CEMEX has embraced the challenge of managing our water resources In September 2013, CEMEX participated as a founding member of the Monterrey responsibly and efficiently and is actively working to reMetropolitan Water Fund (FAMM), a public-private initiative of approximately USD $5 duce our water use and minimize our water-related risks. million to protect water resources and contribute to the welfare of more than 4 million people in Monterrey and its metropolitan area. The four strategic objectives of the Currently, nine percent of CEMEX production facilities Fund are to prevent flooding, improve water infiltration to aquifers, raise awareness of are located in officially designated water stressed zones, the importance of water and promote best practices for the management and conserbased on data processed by the World Business Council vation of this natural resource. The FAMM has four committees: Institutional Practices, for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Funding, Technical and Conservation. Its partners include 23 companies, 16 governTool. More information is available on our website. ment institutions, 16 civil society organizations and four universities. In 2013, we continued working with the International This Fund is part of the Latin American Water Funds Partnership, created in June Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and imple2011 by The Nature Conservancy (TNC), FEMSA Foundation, The Inter-American mented the methodology we jointly developed the Development Bank (IDB) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF), to create and previous year in order to improve our water management strengthen Water Funds in Latin America. The Partnership has 14 Funds in different and better address water risks facing our business. The stages of operation and 18 under evaluation and design. They are located in Brazil, methodology was rolled out to all businesses and counColombia, Mexico, Panama, Venezuela and other countries in the region. The initiative tries in which CEMEX operates. It contains a set of key is also supported by the Latin American Conservation Council (LACC). performance indicators (KPIs) and their definitions, which are consistent with those being currently agreed upon in the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI). It also defines Managing Water to Minimize Use operational boundaries, four levels of accuracy for water Experts rank water issues among society’s most urmeasurement, guidance on how to report, the inforgent challenges. According to the United Nations World mation and recommendations for meter calibration and < previous | contents | next > 39 Aichi Biodiversity Strategic Goals maintenance. We also externally pre-verified our water Address the underlying causes of biodiversity loss KPIs for total water withdrawals by source. Our aim is to Strategic Goal A: by mainstreaming biodiversity across government ensure that our data collection and reporting system is and society robust enough before we start setting targets to minimize the company´s water use and increase our water Strategic Goal B: Reduce the direct pressures on biodiversity and efficiency. promote sustainable use In 2013, we also launched our Corporate Water Policy Strategic Goal C: Improve the status of biodiversity by safeguarding which defines our global strategy for responsible water ecosystems, species and genetic diversity management and acts as a framework for the development of local water conservation and efficiency strategies across our operations worldwide. The comprehensive Strategic Goal D: Enhance the benefits to all from biodiversity and approach detailed in CEMEX’s water policy includes our ecosystem services compliance with relevant regulations and commitment to protect ecosystems and biodiversity in our sites through Enhance implementation through participatory sustainable water management. It also pledges to maxStrategic Goal E: planning, knowledge management and capacity imize water efficiency by managing water consumption building Implementing Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) in our Quarries Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) are CEMEX’s principal tool for achieving net positive impact on biodiversity and ecosystems. CEMEX and BirdLife International have created a standard for the development of BAPs to ensure individual operations are able to thoroughly and systematically produce their own BAPs tailored to the particular biodiversity values they possess and challenges they face. This work is guided by our Corporate Biodiversity Policy which is fully integrated into our business model in all countries and operations. The CEMEX Biodiversity Policy and BAP Standard embrace the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and its Aichi Biodiversity targets. With support from CEMEX’s global partnership with BirdLife International, the company complies with Strategic Goal A by mainstreaming biodiversity throughout the organization, specifically by raising awareness of biodiversity through and utilizing sustainable water sources such as rainwater. training in collaboration with BirdLife International and In addition to preventing water pollution, CEMEX will generally through biodiversity communications within monitor, review, assess and disclose water efficiency perthe company and with external stakeholders through a formance against measurable targets to drive continuous variety of media. improvement. Furthermore, we contribute to Strategic Goal B, reducing pressures on biodiversity, by restoring quarries and < previous | contents | next > 40 percent of our 91 active quarries identified within or adFor more information on our jacent to high biodiversity value areas have a BAP in place. previous work with BirdLife International please visit our website. Additionally, we continued developing benefits on the ground with the BAPs that we started in 2012. For instance, our partnership project in the Dominican Republic has enabled country operations to reach out to a significant number of people in four different local communities. In Malaysia, the BAP took a landscape-level assessment of risks and opportunities in the context of quarry operations. This CEMEX BAP is helping to raise awareness about the importance of one of BirdLife International’s designated Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas (IBAs) with key stakeholders. At the same time, the national partnership with the Malaysian Nature © Luis Martínez Martínez, SEO/BirdLife Society (the BirdLife Partner in Malaysia) is helping create opportunities to raise awareness about biodiversity with degraded ecosystems adjacent to CEMEX land through CEMEX employees. our BAPs. Strategic Goals C and D are met through ecosystem-level restoration, a specific aim of our BAP For other countries with high priority CEMEX sites such Pilot. For example, in our BAP for our Cerrito Blanco as Colombia and the Czech Republic, we started examproject in Mexico, we seek to restore Sonoran desert ining biodiversity issues as an important step toward habitats, home to many endemic and threatened species achieving our target of having BAPs in place at 100 persuch as the threatened Sprague's Pipit. In the Dominican cent of our active sites in areas of high biodiversity value. Republic, our BAP pilot aims to safeguard the vulnerable and possibly endangered Rhinoceros Iguana populations Finally, together with BirdLife International, we published close to the quarry. “The CEMEX Approach to Biodiversity Conservation”, a communications tool designed to give an introduction to Lastly, by working closely with BirdLife Partners and other biodiversity and an overview of the CEMEX-BirdLife BAP local stakeholders all around the world, CEMEX is delivStandard in an easily accessible way. Launched at a special ering on Strategic Goal E by helping to mobilize resources side event in conjunction with the 2013 BirdLife World and capacity building for much-needed conservation Congress, the publication increases understanding of how action worldwide. enhancing biodiversity in and around a CEMEX site can ultimately benefit people and wildlife over an extended In 2013, we continued our work to develop quarry period of time. The document is available on our website. rehabilitation plans for our active cement and aggregates quarries. We also continued taking action to enhance the El Carmen Conservation Initiative biodiversity in and around our quarries located in or close CEMEX has a long history of preserving nature and sharto high biodiversity value areas and started new BAP ing its wonder through El Carmen, a private trans-boundprojects at these key quarries. To date, 92 percent of our ary conservation area in Mexico owned and managed by active quarries have rehabilitation plan in place and 51 CEMEX and other private landowners. < previous | contents | next > 41 The 200,000 hectares wilderness reserve continues to safeChallenges Ahead guard and enhance rare, threatened and endemic biodiversity, while taking into consideration the flora and fauna of the area. For every hectare of land dedicated to operations, CEMEX has 8.4 hectares of land in conservation in El Carmen. • Implementing and measuring the impact of our In 2013, El Carmen: new Corporate Water Policy to drive continuous • Successfully reintroduced Desert Bighorn Sheep, Pronghorn antelope and Mule Deer. improvement on water management. • Welcomed the Texas Bighorn Society (TBS) for their annual work project, in which two conventional wildlife • Taking action to further the implementation of water guzzlers and two rock gabions (free draining BAPs in areas with significant natural value. walls) were constructed. • Continued to support postgraduate students on their • Measuring outcomes of biodiversity efforts and thesis projects. estimate the value of the ecosystem services Sublime Nature: Photographs that Awe and Inspire provided by El Carmen. CEMEX dedicates the first edition of the new Nature Series, “Sublime Nature: Photographs That Awe and Inspire”, to the celebration of the human connection to our natural world. CEMEX Recogized for Positive Contribution to Edited by Cristina Mittermeier, Biodiversity & Local Communities photographer, conservationist and founder of the International League The European Aggregates Association (UEPG) Sustainable Development Awards annuof Conservation Photographers, ally recognize companies that have successfully integrated the social, economic and/ this book presents a compendium of or environmental dimensions of sustainable development into their operations. The spectacular views from award-winning awards promote the dissemination of best practices and encourage projects which go photojournalists, interlaced with profound beyond what is required by planners and regulators. quotations from the world’s leading poets, naturalists and scientists. In 2013, CEMEX was recognized for our positive contribution to biodiversity and local communities in three locations. Our Soto Pajares Quarry in Spain won the Special For the publication of this book, we had the Award for Biodiversity for its outstanding actions related to the protection, enhanceprivilege of embarking on a publishing partnership with ment and creation of key habitats for important species within a Natura 2000 site. the National Geographic Society, a leader in the sphere Our Rugeley Quarry in the United Kingdom received a Recognition of Achievement for of scientific research, exploration and educational Biodiversity for its significant restoration work and excellent habitat management acprogramming. Joining forces, we can engage a wider tivities. Both projects are developed by CEMEX in close collaboration with SEO/BirdLife audience in a global dialogue about the future of our and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB), BirdLife International’s planet’s natural wonders. Partners in Spain and the United Kingdom, respectively. In addition, CEMEX Granulats Sud Ouest was recognized for excellence in the category of Economic Contribution/ Added Value to Society. These awards emphasize our commitment to conduct our operations in a sustainable manner. < previous | contents | next > 42 ADDRESSING THE GLOBAL CLIMATE CHALLENGE air emissions continuous improvement of and environmental management Reduced specific emissions (g/ton of clinker) vs. our 2005 baseline by: 59.1% dust 21.2% NOX 58.6% SOX < previous | contents | next > 43 Measurement is critical to understanding, managing and Highlights improving any system. In CEMEX, we recognize that to manage our impact on the environment requires a thorough understanding of what risks our operations pose. That's why it is our goal to have all our sites operating either under an external environmental management • Implemented our CEMEX Environmental system such as ISO 14000 or our internal EMS. Management System in 98 percent Implementing our EMS of our cement operations. As of the end of 2013, 98 percent of our cement plants, 63 percent of our ready-mix operations and 67 • Recorded zero category 1 environmental percent of our aggregates quarries have implemented incidents. our CEMEX Environmental Management System. For more detailed information about our CEMEX EMS please • Externally verified our category 2 environmental visit our website. incidents KPI for the first time. A critical component of the CEMEX EMS is the Global Incident Reporting System. This web-based reporting • Invested USD $95 million in sustainability-related tool has created a culture of reporting where people feel projects at our operations worldwide. more comfortable sharing information about all incidents, big or small. Information regarding 580 total incidents was collected in 2013. While this represents an increase Monitoring Emissions from 450 in 2012, the overall awareness of EMS CEMEX designed a reporting platform that allows us to operating procedures and training has grown. For the first track emissions and help plant operators identify and retime, in 2013 we verified with an external third-party our move, reduce or mitigate environmental risks from a wide category 2 incidents KPI. range of gases and particulates including nitrous oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), carbon dioxide (CO2), dust, metals, dioxins, furans and mercury. We now have a broad 580 database containing up to six years of data, providing Environmental Incidents by Type access to information from all countries to more effec450 tively monitor all kilns and the percent of alternative fuels 5% 4% used. We are planning to expand the scope and reporting 357 323 parameters for each kiln over time. 6% Keeping our Air Emissions Below our Targets 17% 51% 136 The cement-manufacturing process involves the release 87 74 of atmospheric pollutants, including nitrogen oxides 17% 0 1 52 (NOX), sulfur compounds (SOX), and dust. Other related 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 pollutants released in very small quantities include dioxins, cat 1 cat 2 cat 3 complaints total furans, volatile organic compounds, poly-aromatic hydroEnvironmental carbons (PAH) and heavy metals (including mercury). ⓦ Dust ⓦ Process waste ⓦ Site operating and material Incidents Trend conditions and ⓦ Water An update of our measurement methodology in some disturbance ⓦ Other n 2013 countries impacted our emission figures for 2013, which ⓦ Fuel and chemical show a slight increase in dust and NOX when compared n 2012 to 2012. < previous | contents | next > 44 Emissions 2011 2012 2013 2015 2013 reduction vs. Target* 2005 baseline (%) Emissions targets for 2015 Dust specific emissions 101 78 127 120 59.1 (g/ton of clinker) NOX specific emissions 1,094 1,025 1,261 1,600 21.2 (g/ton of clinker) SOX specific emissions 335 257 215 520 58.6 (g/ton of clinker) * New targets under revision and to be published by the end of 2014. There are currently 27 projects underway in 11 plants We have made good strides in the reduction of mercury to improve emission monitoring, clinker handling/ emissions, identifying three control technologies that can storage, hydrogen chloride emissions, mercury make a positive impact. We have tested and successfully emissions, particulate matter emissions and total demonstrated how shuttling cement kiln dust from kiln hydrocarbon emissions. At the end of 2013, CEMEX system to finish grinding and injecting activated carbon invested more than USD $30 million in the U.S. to into kiln exhaust gases can help reduce mercury emissions improve air emissions performance. More than USD $40 and assist in compliance with new regulations. Working in million is expected to be invested in 2014. cooperation with the German Cement Association (VDZ), we also completed intense sampling and estimation of Reducing the Release of Mercury volatile cycles to determine how reducing secondary raw Mercury brings with it the potential for significant health materials containing mercury impacts the level of merand environmental risks due to its toxic and bio-accumucury released. In 2014, we will release a report regarding lative properties. CEMEX has varying levels of mercury our mercury-reduction efforts, including the effect of emission rates across our plants, primarily driven by the activated carbon injection on mercury release. mercury concentration of various raw materials utilized in our facilities. Limestone is particularly challenging because it may have high mercury concentration and is Continuous Sampling of Dioxins in Cement Kilns proportionately the largest raw material in use. In light of this, CEMEX has been actively working to reduce mercury CEMEX is currently working on a project to test the dioxin levels in cement kilns with release into the atmosphere for several years. the University of Alicante in Spain and the Superior Council for Scientific Research (CSIC), the largest public institution dedicated to research in Spain. We have been continuously sampling flue gas in the kilns using equipment supplied and installed by the Superior Council. The University then analyzes the samples and monitors the measurement of emissions to determine if the dioxin levels remain steady. The final usd $95 million In 2013, we invested USD $95 million in results will be available in 2014. They will be used to benchmark future sampling of dioxin levels in the kilns and assess the possibility of substituting it for fingerprint measurements that are not representative in the kilns. sustainability-related projects at our operations worldwide. < previous | contents | next > 45 Challenges Ahead • Implementing either an external Management System such as ISO 14000 or our internal Our process generates waste that is classified and CEMEX Environmental Management System in disposed of according to our own standards and the requirements of local regulation. all of our sites. Developed in 2012, our KPIs for cement-kiln dust and • Fostering a culture of reporting all environmental ready-mix waste clearly distinguish between waste incidents and striving to reduce their severity. reused, waste recovered, waste recycled and waste that remains as is. From here, these waste streams are clas• Expanding the scope and reporting of air sified as hazardous or non-hazardous, disposed externally or internally, as defined by country regulations. We emissions to further reduce them. spent 2013 ensuring CEMEX managers across the globe understood this detailed, multi-layered reporting system • Understanding the best methods for reducing and will use our 2013 findings as a comparative base to mercury release in our operations. report them for the first time in our 2014 report. CEMEX Contributes to Cleaning Sulfur Acid Tar Lake Not only is CEMEX committed to waste management within our own sites, we also work to make a positive impact on areas overwhelmed with environmental issues. In the Inčukalns area in Latvia, the Devonian sandstone aquifer is heavily polluted by emissions of sulfur sludge pools. We worked to clean the sulfur acid tar lake near Riga in an effort to decontaminate the hazardous waste site. In 2013, we received and burned more than 15,000 tons of processed sulfur acid tar waste from this project. This represents a significant step toward cleaning up this environmentally challenged area. 307,889 238,391 To read CEMEX’s Corporate 8,868 2,477 10,325 3,152 n non hazardous Environmental Policy please n hazardous visit our website. cement ready-mix aggregates Waste Disposal 2013 tons < previous | contents | next > 46 strong commitment to our STAKEHOLDERS In all our relationships, we strive to have respectful and honest interactions that allow us to contribute to the development of our employees and communities, maintain a good reputation with all of our stakeholders, and develop infrastructure projects and social initiatives that contribute to the growth and prosperity of our company and society. < previous | contents | next > 47 STRONG COMMITMENT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS safety placing health and first 15% decrease in employee Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate and the number of contractor LTI's reduced by 13% compared to 2012. < previous | contents | next > 48 Safety is paramount to CEMEX’s business and Highlights operations. We have an unwavering commitment requiring daily attention to ensure our products are manufactured, transported and used safely. We also go above and beyond to safeguard our employees, contractors, customers and neighbors as we strive for • Decreased global Employee Sickness our ultimate goal of zero incidents. Absence Rate by 12 percent compared In 2013, CEMEX continued to implement our new to 2012. global Health and Safety Management System (HSMS). Improving communication about incidents including • Driving-related fatalities declined by 46 key learning points and good practices is central to the percent and, for the first time, did not account prevention of future incidents. To date, more than 400 examples of good health and safety practices from our for the majority of our incidents. operations have been shared globally. • Externally verified our contractors' safety KPIs Four regions and 14 countries reduced their TRI Incidents: Lost-time Injuries and Fatalities for the first time. Rates, with eight countries In 2013, we saw a 15 percent decrease in the CEMEX maintaining a rate of zero. global Employee LTI frequency rate. While the number of incidents continues to go in the right direction, we have set a goal to reduce the Employee LTI frequency rate to 0.5 or less by 2015 to drive even greater focus on minimizing these events. We are encouraged to see that CEMEX sites in three entire regions have already achieved this goal. In fact, 22 individual countries currently have rates lower than the 0.5 target, with 20 of these having achieved zero. In addition, Contractor LTIs were also down 13 percent. The 2013 CEMEX Total Recordable Injury (TRI) Frequency Rate remained the same as 2012, with a rate of 5.9. Four regions and 14 countries reduced their TRI Rates, with eight countries maintaining a rate of zero. However, contractor TRIs increased by 21 percent. The global Employee Sickness Absence Rate for CEMEX decreased by 12 percent. The loss of any employee, contractor or third-party associated with our operations is extremely saddening and something we are continuing to work to avoid every day. Driving-related fatalities declined by 46 percent and, for the first time, did not account for the majority of our incidents. < previous | contents | next > 49 Regrettably, there were 21 fatalities in 2013 – 3 employees, 11 contractors and 7 third-parties. We will not be satisfied until we have no fatalities to report and have set up task forces to address the issues related to cement operations and road transportation safety. Zeroing in on Safety Issues While a focused safety mindset is critical throughout CEMEX’s worldwide operations, we recognize certain areas require extra emphasis where injuries are more common. We created the Global Cement Operations Safety Taskforce in 2013 to mitigate a noticeable increase in incidents in our cement operations, particularly The Global Road related to maintenance activities. The taskforce meets Transportation Safety monthly to discuss issues of critical importance. Key Taskforce was established with the aim of eliminating deliverables in 2013 included launching a new bucket fatalities within road elevator safety standard, kicking off a global hand transport activities. injuries campaign, developing guidance documents, analyzing initiative gaps, reviewing existing global guidance for the Management of Contractors and Visible Felt Leadership safety engagement with drivers the previous year, the taskforce worked to implement several additional global initiatives in 2013: • The Breakdown Procedures initiative was developed, consisting of training materials and a checklist for countries to use with their drivers. • The Safe Sites initiative was created, performing gap analyses throughout the company’s regions and providing drivers a checklist when they arrive onsite. • The Vulnerable Road Users initiative established global guidelines for the use of vehicle safety features to help protect cyclists and other vulnerable road users. • A gap analysis form was designed to evaluate the level of activity for National Road Transportation Safety Taskforces. standard operating procedures and developing plant• Information was discussed and shared regarding the specific action plans for 2014. increase in rollover risks for tipper vehicles, and global guidance materials are in development. The Global Road Transportation Safety Taskforce was established with the aim of eliminating fatalities within Both of these efforts are designed to enhance commuroad transport activities involving company and connication about workplace hazards and risk management tractor vehicles and their drivers. Following the launch of approaches to bring us closer to our goal of zero injuries. < previous | contents | next > 50 Leadership Drives Commitment with messages about following rules and procedures, CEMEX leaders are committed to creating a positive thinking before acting, protecting one another and not safety culture within the organization and have created tolerating unsafe behaviors. The course was piloted in the numerous initiatives to reduce the number of incidents UK in 2013 and will be launched globally in 2014. The experienced among our sites and workforce. These ‘E’ in E-LEGACY stands for ‘Everyone’ and is a one-day leadership-driven initiatives have had a significant impact facilitator led course. on our Health & Safety (H&S) performance with most countries seeing vast improvements in their KPIs. CEMEX also continues to offer additional safety training for our general workforce at a local level to ensure it is Our H&S leadership training course, LEGACY, is the correctly tailored to employees’ job types and work tasks. foundation of our safety practices. All leaders from Through a combination of e-learning, formal training executives to front-line supervisors are required to sessions and toolbox talk programs, operational leaders complete the course, which is based on seven behaviors work directly with employees to enhance their skills and of effective safety leadership and covers themes such as reinforce safety behaviors. Additionally, 67 percent of our employees are representLEGACY Seven Behaviors of Safety Leadership ed in formal joint management-worker H&S committees. As a part of these committees, workers, line supervisors, • Personally manage safety every day managers and union representatives meet on a regu• Know your processes and your people lar basis to listen to employee concerns and review and • Communicate with your employees enforce health and safety procedures and performance, • Hold yourself and your employees accountable formulation and implementation of programs. • Train and motivate your employees to work safely • Apply discipline equitably and consistently • Lead by example and actively care leading by example, understanding processes and people, Promoting a Safe and Healthy Work Environment communication, motivation and accountability. LEGACY has proven to be a positive way to provide leaders the tools, skills and behaviors they need to lead safer, more efficient operations. 96% 93% 89% 93% 100% We have also continued to run a Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) training course to provide leaders with strategies they can use to communicate their commitment to H&S of operations of operations of operations are of operations of operations have a preventive have a qualified provided with a provide informahave a formal and influence employee behavior within our operations. health program health profesdocument that tion regarding the process in place We expanded the program in 2013 to include South planned out sional onsite lists and explains education, trainto identify, assess America, the Caribbean and Mexico, and have now every year. or access to an job-specific ocing, counseling, and control operestablished the VFL program in approximately 90 percent external health cupational health prevention and ational safety. of countries with CEMEX operations. provider. risks and the risk-control proexams needed grams related to to identify early serious diseases Taking LEGACY to Everyone signs of occuto assist workIn 2013, CEMEX took the LEGACY training program pational disease force members, to the next level with the development of our first before, during their families E-LEGACY course. This course is designed to enhance the and after hiring. and community members. safety training of CEMEX’s global front-line workforce < previous | contents | next > 51 Improving Contractor Health & Safety For the first time, in 2013 we verified with an Contractors are critical to CEMEX operations and their external third-party our contractors' safety KPIs. safety is just as important as that of our own employees. CEMEX continually strives to instill our safety culture into CEMEX 2013 Global Health and Safety Awards contractors across our worldwide operations. There is nothing more important than the health and safety of our employees, contractors and the In 2013, CEMEX reviewed the contractor management members of the public that we interact with portions of our HSMS to identify opportunities to enhance during our daily activities. As we continue to work and strengthen requirements. Managing approved contowards our common goal of zero injuries, an tractor lists, pre-task risk assessments and consequences important part of our progress is to continue sharing of unsafe behavior were among the topics revised to good practices from our operations worldwide provide more robust requirements. In addition, new global and to recognize our best and most improved standards were developed for topics such as personal operations each year. We are pleased to announce protective equipment and working at heights to bring an the winners of the CEMEX 2013 Global Health and increased safety focus to these crucial areas. Safety Awards. Country Award Award Type 1st Place 2nd Place 3rd Place Best Performance Croatia Costa Rica Austria 1-500 Employees Most Improved Nicaragua Bangladesh Ireland Best Performance UK Spain Germany 500+ Employees Most Improved Spain Philippines Germany Sector Award Award Type 1st Place 2nd Place 3rd Place Best Performance Broceni, Latvia Brooksville South, USA Tilbury UK Cement Most Improved APO, Philippines Rugby, UK Morata, Spain Best Performance UK Aggregates East Texas Aggregates, USA Northern Region, Poland Aggregates Most Improved Val de Seine, France Dove Holes, Uk Panama Aggregates, Panama Best Performance UK Ready-mix, UK Poludniowy Region, Poland Cluster Otrokovice, Czech Republic Concrete Most Improved Northern Region, UK Supermix, UAE Latvia Concrete, Latvia Road Best Performance Levante, Spain Logistics, Costa Rica Logistics, Croatia Transportation Most Improved Commercial & Logistics, Egypt Logistics, Philippines Logistics, UAE Best Performance Concrete Products, UK Pipe Northeast Region, USA Lime Operations, Jamaica Others Most Improved Chantiers de la Haute Seine, France Construrama Promexma, Mexico Western Rail Road Co, USA New global standards were developed in 2013 for topics such as personal protective equipment. < previous | contents | next > 52 Product Safety Challenges Ahead CEMEX strives to consistently ensure that our products are safe to transport, store, handle, use and dispose of. All of our products comply with applicable local legislations and disclose all relevant information. • Achieving our ultimate goal – zero fatalities – The REACH regulation came into force on 1 June and continuing to reduce all types of injuries To read our Health and Safety 2007. REACH stands for – Registration, Evaluation, Corporate Policy, please visit Authorization (and restriction) of Chemicalsand it to zero as well. our website. implements a uniform legal system, effective for all • Developing a positive, safety-minded culture everywhere through ongoing training and Safe Driving School Reduces Accidents effective leadership. According to the World Health Organization, Egypt has one of the highest rates of road traffic deaths in the world. With more 10,000 drivers from subcontracted haulage • Ensuring all employees and contractors agencies transporting cement for CEMEX Egypt, we felt it was imperative to provide understand and embrace their role in safe driving training to help keep drivers safer on the road. creating a safer work environment across our CEMEX Egypt operates the Schools for Safe Driving program to provide worldwide operations. comprehensive training on driver risks, road risks, vehicle risks and weather risks. Since 2010, more than 2,300 drivers have undergone training at the CEMEX Assiut cement • Staying abreast of high risk issues and plant and another 34,500 have acquired safe driving practices at the Assiut Traffic Authority. More importantly, the number of fatal traffic incidents in CEMEX Egypt has creating immediate awareness of control decreased from five in 2010 to zero in 2013 – a result we hope to replicate in 2014 measures our employees can take to stay safe. and beyond. chemicals inside the European Union (EU). The only substance CEMEX has to register under REACH is flue dust, a by-product from the production of Portland cement clinker. Portland cement clinker as such, however, is exempt from the registration requirement. Cements are like all mixtures exempt from registration. All CEMEX legal entities in Europe have submitted their registration dossiers for flue dust to the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) and comply. In 75 percent of the countries in which CEMEX operates, a formal policy is in place to ensure that H&S aspects of products are considered in product design. Additionally, 90 percent of our products are assessed for improvements in H&S in the different life cycle stages. < previous | contents | next > 53 STRONG COMMITMENT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS engaging and retaining our talent 402 employee engagement initiatives delivered, reaching more than 35,000 employees worldwide. USD $1.5 million invested worldwide to benefit 591 employees with scholarships to advance their academic studies. < previous | contents | next > 54 Collaboration, Leadership and Integrity are the core Highlights values that drive our workforce to help make a positive difference in the world. We live these values by creating an environment that helps employees build a career where they continually increase their knowledge and skills while being rewarded fairly for • Invested approximately USD $2.9 million in their contributions to our success. employee training on topics related to health Building a Better Workplace Together and safety, human rights, ethics, compliance With more than 43,000 employees around the world, and environmental awareness. it is important to understand what programs, benefits and initiatives that matter the most to them. Based • Continued to raise awareness about the on past input, we implemented 402 employee engagement initiatives that reached more than 35,000 relevant benefits our employees have so employees worldwide in 2013. that they can take full advantage of what our 11,201 employees answered our 2013 Engagement company offers. Survey, sharing their opinion on a number of areas including development, compensation, leadership As in previous years, part of our process involves sharing the results with our leaders and local HR professionals. By allowing managers and employees to analyze their data, we are empowering them to take action now and help us identify and define future actions at a global, regional and local level. Maintaining a highly-skilled, motivated workforce is critical to the success of our worldwide operations. We provide continuous training and development opportunities so employees can enhance their skills and work smarter and safer on the job. Our Development Offer The framework for our employee development efforts continues to be focused on three strategic priorities: communication and work-life balance, among others. • Building organizational capabilities that contribute to In 2013, we structured our survey around two main the execution of our strategy. themes – engagement and enablement. These themes • Establishing a “value mindset” among employees on allow us to monitor the percentage of our employee how to better contribute to the company and create population with a deep commitment to our company value. while also estimating the percentage that feel enabled • Continued adherence to high ethical standards and to perform their job effectively. compliance. < previous | contents | next > 55 Enabling Continuing Education In 2013, CEMEX invested approximately USD $2.9 million in employee training on topics related to health and safety, human rights, ethics, compliance and environmental awareness. Furthermore, our Learning Management System offers an array of 832 courses and is accessible to over 18,000 employees. Over the course of the year, approximately 31,000 employees spent an average of 21 hours in instructor-led programs, more than 7,000 spent an average of 2.5 hours on online courses and roughly 2,400 employees put an average of three hours into training programs that combined classroom and online learning. The well-attended training sessions were those related to health and safety, leadership training and building commercial capabilities. CEMEX supported 591 employees with various scholarship opportunities to support their academic studies. For example, 39 employees in Colombia were able to pursue undergraduate, postgraduate and MBA programs in some Developing Effective Leaders of the most prestigious universities in the country and To reinforce a culture of leadership, we have well79 employees in Mexico were selected to participate structured and connected programs – ACHIEVE and in a local scholarship to complete their Master’s Degree Leader to Leader – supported by projects or initiatives studies. Seven employees participated in the CEMEX USA that create value to the company and help employees Educational Assistance Program in which we reimburse develop their leadership skills. ACHIEVE is designed to up to 90 percent of the cost for registration fees, tuition, help ease the transition from manager to a director role, lab and course-required textbooks. In total, we invested minimizing the learning curve. Last year, 61 managers nearly USD $1.5 million worldwide to help our employees participated in the program and were coached by 36 continue their education and enhance their skills. leaders at the senior management level via the Leaderto-Leader program. Moving forward, we aim to develop two more programs for different managerial levels. Two years after being launched, our Manager 591 employees supported with various scholarship Training Program continues providing managers in the organization with a solid platform for building skills to effectively lead and develop their teams. The program opportunities to support their academic is available in all CEMEX geographies and has reached studies during 2013. almost 1,400 executives. In 2013, we introduced institutional training for our sales force through our Commercial Academy. Out of 16 business units, 1,400 participated in last year’s Common Commercial Language Training. The second phase of the Academy is under design and will be ready for delivery in 2014. < previous | contents | next > 56 Succession planning is also critical to leadership development and consistent business operations. We Creating a More Flexible, Agile, Efficient CEMEX constantly identify key talent based on their performance and learning agility. Special professional development plans As part of our ongoing effort to ensure our continued strength and competitive adare designed for identified individuals to ensure a solid vantage in the global building materials industry, CEMEX completed our transition to talent pipeline and thus business continuity. the Accelerated Support Services Transformation (ASSET) program in 2013. Promoting Productive Interactions The result of a 10-year strategic agreement with IBM, the ASSET program brings IBM’s The relationship between manager and employee is esworld-class business process and information technology (IT) services to CEMEX. Finance, sential to fostering a positive work environment. CEMEX accounting and human resources back-offices services, IT infrastructure services and IT recognizes the importance of these relationships and emapplications development and maintenance are all included in ASSET. barked on an initiative named Career Building. This effort aims to increase communication between managers and With more than 70 service delivery centers spread across five continents and the employees throughout the year regarding employee career ability to provide service in more than 40 languages, ASSET gives us access to IBM’s progress, performance and results through a clear frameworldwide expertise to accelerate and replicate innovative practices in our business work that includes four one-on-one meetings between units. It also enables us to deliver better customer service, increase process quality, supervisors and each of their direct reports. Opening the sustain cost improvements and enhance business agility and scalability. lines of communication helps align individual objectives to the company strategy, ensure expectations are clear ASSET impacted around 3,100 CEMEX employees. Formal consultation with Workers and improve job satisfaction. The four conversations Councils/Union representatives and authorities was held where applicable. Numerous individuals remained CEMEX employees, but experienced a shift in their role from Almost 1,300 employees were evaluated through our managing people to managing services. Others were presented with competitive Talent Review processes offers to become employees of IBM or their subcontractors, which the majority worldwide. voluntarily accepted. Unfortunately, several employees no longer had a role within the organization. In these cases they were provided an extensive notice period, given opportunities to apply for open positions within the company and paid an appropriate severance if leaving the company as required by law. Nearly 150 people were able to secure new jobs or maintain their employment with CEMEX. Ultimately, we were able to retain and transfer significantly more employees than originally expected. CEMEX expects to generate close to USD $1 billion in savings during the life of the agreement. are aligned to specific business cycles and our global HR process (e.g. Objectives Definition and Evaluation, Talent Review, Succession Planning, etc.) and are supported by our interconnected Human Capital Management system. From a professional development perspective, all employees at CEMEX are evaluated and expected to receive feedback regarding their performance and goals. In 2013, 18,891 performance evaluations were documented with our Performance Assessment tool. For employees and operators not registered in the global tool, managers provide career development and performance reviews. Almost 1,300 employees were evaluated through our Talent Review processes worldwide. < previous | contents | next > 57 CEMEX Invests Embedding Sustainability in our Trainings Challenges Ahead Responsibly CEMEX has developed a user-friendly online learning tool to help top and middle management gain a solid underResponsible investment aims to acknowledge the standing of sustainability. The Leadership in Sustainability Training Program covers key issues impacting executives’ relevance to the investor of environmental, social lives and the sector in which CEMEX operates, as well as • Continuing to improve employee engagement. and governance (ESG) the implications for how we manage and run our operations factors alongside financial and provide value to customers. In 2012, 319 executives • Ensuring we have talented employees with objectives. It recognizes completed the certification in Egypt, Poland, Switzerland the right capabilities to face the challenges of that effective research, and UK, and in 2013, 376 more were certified in Mexico. analysis and evaluation of today and tomorrow. ESG issues is a fundamental Competitive Compensation Schemes part of assessing the value and performance of an CEMEX offers competitive compensation designed to investment considering a support the present and future well-being of our emmid and long-term approach. ployees. Employees in all geographies receive all benefits CEMEX is the first Mexican stipulated by local legislations and nearly 90 percent of our Company to invest a fraction global workforce has health and insurance benefits beyond of its employee pension fund those required by local law, including those in the Philippines, on the CI Bank Sustainable Bangladesh, Thailand, the Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Fund, which is the first fund Haiti, Nicaragua, Peru and Mexico, among others. Additional linked to the Mexican Stock benefits offered in these countries include varying types Exchange Sustainability Index. Furthermore, of bonuses and allowances. For example, in Haiti and the Philippines we offer food allowance and in Bangladesh we 70% CEMEX is evaluating the possibility of carrying provide transport allowance. In addition, approximately 50 out similar investments in percent of our global workforce has pension scheme benefits other countries in which it above local requirements. We strive to raise awareness of of senior management operates. relevant benefits so employees can take full advantage of all positions are filled our company has to offer. by local staff. Our Global Workforce By Level By Gender By Type of Contract By Age By Seniority percentage percentage percentage percentage percentage 5% 1% 11% 16% 15% 24% 35% 40% 60% 23% 89% 31% 99% 29% 22% ⓦ Executive positions ⓦ Female ⓦ Full time ⓦ Under 30 ⓦ Less than 1 year ⓦ Non-executive positions ⓦ Male ⓦ Part time ⓦ 31-40 ⓦ 1-5 years ⓦ Operational positions ⓦ 41-50 ⓦ 5-10 years ⓦ 51 and over ⓦ Over 10 years < previous | contents | next > 58 STRONG COMMITMENT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS satisfied customers suppliers and responsible 2,000 suppliers involved in 16 countries in our Supplier Sustainability Program. < previous | contents | next > 59 We understand our responsibility extends throughout the Highlights entire value chain for our products and that, if we are to develop sustainable products and services, create a low-carbon economy and contribute positively to society, we must have responsible suppliers and satisfied customers. • 79 percent of our countries conduct customer We strive to create value for our customers and to create satisfaction surveys. more sustainable systems by focusing on vertically integrated building solutions rather than separate products, • Invited 80 percent of our global suppliers to and we constantly adapt to our customers’ needs through innovative products and financing arrangements, ensuring evaluate their corporate social responsibility that sustainable choices make sound business sense. (CSR) performance with a third-party In addition to our many in-person touch-points with evaluator. customers, 79 percent of our countries conducted customer satisfaction surveys in 2013. Additionally, we implemented • Aided the economic development of more than 170 initiatives to identify needs and concerns. communities by establishing 95 percent of Such initiatives include newsletters, loyalty programs, sales force skills development, improvement of customer service CEMEX suppliers as locally based. standards and service centers, among others. In Ireland for example, CEMEX developed an iPhone application for customers including product calculators, sales locations, product documents and best practices. We continue to focus on improving the satisfaction of customers in our industry through the following: • Making construction easier for customers to plan for, execute and manage. • Providing knowledge that gives customers and trades people the confidence to build. • Enabling an open and transparent platform for matching skilled help with construction projects. Promoting Supplier Sustainability In order to maintain a focus on sustainability, CEMEX needs to ensure that our supply chain partners share our commitment and belief in sustainability. In its fourth year, the Supplier Sustainability Program continued to help us to promote and recognize the importance of sustainable practices across our supply chain. It also gave us valuable local perspectives and unique industry expertise to help us improve the sustainability of our sourcing and procurement practices. < previous | contents | next > 60 202 suppliers Providing Third-Party Validation In 2013, we worked with a sustainability supply manfrom Czech Republic and Panama reached agement firm that operates a collaborative platform for with the Sustainability Survey in 2013. monitoring the sustainability performance of suppliers. CEMEX invited 80 percent of our global suppliers to Since the Supplier Sustainability Program was created in participate in order to evaluate their Corporate Social 2010, 2,000 suppliers in 16 countries have participated. Responsibility (CSR) performance. More than 50 percent In 2013, we reached 202 suppliers from Czech Republic were confirmed to have a structured and proactive CSR and Panama and invited them to participate in the survey. approach and four received an Advanced score, signifying Additionally, 68 percent of countries where CEMEX operates, a higher level of engagement and reporting. Those that scored as Advanced were: The program consists of four key phases: • Daimler AG • Hewlett Packard Company • Surveying suppliers regarding social, environmental, supplier policies • Mondi Group and financial topics. • Volvo Truck Corporation • Enacting a communication campaign based on the survey results. • Reinforcing awareness of specific policies that incorporate aspects of We would also like to recognize ABB Group, Fives sustainability including human rights, labor and antitrust, as well as the Code Group, MAN Group, Smurfit Kappa Nervion SA, Kao of Conduct when Doing Business with us, based on our CEMEX Code of Ethics Chemicals Europe SL, FLSmidth MAAG Gear AG, and the UN Global Compact 10 principles. Smurfit Kappa Carton de Colombia, Tolko SA and Total • Preparing a scorecard to track and reward sustainable suppliers. SA for their distinguished performance. representing approximately 65 percent of CEMEX spend, have a formal program in place to train suppliers and contractors on social, environmental and health and safety issues. We have also included Human Rights, Labor, Antitrust and Sustainability clauses into our contracts and purchase orders. Currently, 78 percent of countries where CEMEX operates use formally recognized social, environmental, health and safety criteria in the selection of suppliers and contractors and 91 percent ask for minimum environmental requirements. Additionally from the countries where CEMEX operates: • 87 percent check for compliance of key subcontractors with the company’s health and safety standards. • 52 percent support suppliers in implementing health and safety management systems. • 61 percent have a formal policy or common practice to preferring locally based suppliers. < previous | contents | next > 61 Germany and France successfully concluded their Challenges Ahead pilots, and in 2014 we will continue to work with a third-party company to expand the number of evaluated suppliers across the globe. We are currently • Surpassing our customer’s needs and working on defining a target group of suppliers in all the countries in which CEMEX operates to expectations. evaluate their environmental, social and governance performance now and down the road. • Defining a target group of suppliers in all the countries in which CEMEX operates to be Sourcing Products and Services Locally CEMEX embraces local sourcing as a catalyst for evaluated on environmental, social, economic enhancing the lifecycle impact of our products and and governance performance. improving the economic wellbeing of communities. By sourcing locally, we help create jobs and promote the • Identifying our suppliers’ opportunity areas to development of new skills among local workers, stimulating economic activity and making the community improve their sustainability performance and more attractive to other companies in need of skilled help them carry out corrective actions when labor. In 2013, 95 percent of CEMEX suppliers were locally based. necessary. Supporting Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) In partnership with the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education (ITESM), CEMEX has developed Empresarse.com, a web based platform that helps raise awareness and provides training to our suppliers, clients and the community in general on sustainability-related topics and best practices. It also offers documents, background information and auto diagnostics in a number of business areas including accounting and finance, marketing, sales and corporate governance, among others. In 2013, nearly 13,000 users benefited from our courses, tools and materials. Listening to our Suppliers’ Ideas In 2013, we invited approximately 400 main suppliers serving Mexico, the Czech Republic and the Philippines to share innovative ideas that we can implement into our operations and use to improve our business performance. The best idea of each category will be selected, implemented and rewarded. The winning ideas will be widely communicated within CEMEX and recognized in external media. < previous | contents | next > 62 STRONG COMMITMENT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS social approach delivering a high-impact to empowering communities 97% of our operations developed community engagement plans. < previous | contents | next > 63 CEMEX is more than just a leading global manufacturer Highlights of building products. We have a deep commitment to addressing the social needs of our local communities and strive to be perceived as a proactive and good neighbor. Wherever we operate, we work hard to build mutually • 89 percent of our operations have mechanisms beneficial relationships based on ongoing dialogue, in place to address community complaints. transparency and trust. We also build strategic alliances with key stakeholders such as academia, non• Established volunteering programs in 67 governmental organizations and other corporations to enhance our ability to empower our communities percent of the countries in which we operate, through new models of social business, promoting social implementing approximately 114 initiatives. entrepreneurship, providing education and supporting people in becoming more self-sufficient. Developing Sustainable Communities CEMEX actively participates in the development of communities by carrying out project proposals that are relevant to the unique concerns of each one of them. Across the countries in which we operate, we promote Open Communication with Stakeholders different initiatives that encourage teamwork, environmental awareness, infrastructure development, education In the U.S., our cement operations’ community engagement plan is managed at the and diversity, among others. plant level by the Stakeholder Outreach Teams which develop strategies to enhance CEMEX’s reputation among key stakeholders in our local communities. The plants work Of our operations, 97 percent have community enclosely with the Communications Department to develop brochures and plant-specific gagement plans in place and 89 percent of them have a fact sheets and to plan activities that engage community members. A performance mechanism in place to address community complaints. summary of each cement plant’s involvement in stakeholder outreach activities, called the Stakeholder Outreach Report, is developed on a quarterly basis for cross sharing At CEMEX, we regularly carry out open doors days in community outreach events and monitoring, reviewing and assessing our stakeholder our operations across the world. This practice allows our outreach performance. neighbor communities, authorities, business partners and friends to visit our facilities and better understand the All projects included in this quarterly report must align with one of the following key way we operate. It also provides them with a space to be categories: biodiversity programs, community outreach, hosting tours and education aware of our environmental protection projects, our social for employees, retirees, customers and vendors. initiatives and to raise questions. Additionally, it serves as an important mechanism for CEMEX to learn about our communities’ concerns and develop a proactive approach To learn more about CEMEX's to address them. community and stakeholders relations organizational structure please visit our website. < previous | contents | next > 64 Social Entrepreneurship In addition to our inclusive businesses designed to help Creating a Platform for Dialogue promote self-construction, CEMEX strives to encourage social entrepreneurship through alliances. CEMEX Poland conducted a series of 19 meetings at its two cement plants throughout 2013, engaging with 1,100 stakeholders including employees, In 2013, CEMEX received the Corporate Citizen of community members, NGOs and more. Americas Award for our Assisted Self-Construction Integral Program in the public safety category. The Representatives from local communities, authorities, NGOs, customers and suppliers Foundation for the Americas is a nonprofit organization were invited to share their opinions about CEMEX and other issues relevant to the established in 1997, affiliated with the Organization of local community. External independent consultants from PwC conducted the sessions, American States (OAS). They created the Awards for Best which followed the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard as outlined by Corporate Citizen of the Americas to recognize compacorporate responsibility and sustainable development organization AccountAbility. nies that have started innovative social businesses that provide benefits to the community in which they operate CEMEX is the first building products company in Poland to organize stakeholder and can serve as a model of socially responsible practices dialogues according to the AA1000 standard. Plants in other countries including the and actions for other companies. Dominican Republic are taking a similar approach to help better understand local community needs and foster stronger relationships as a good neighbor. To encourage the growth of social and inclusive businesses within other companies, CEMEX signed an agreement with ASHOKA, the largest network of social entrepreneurs worldwide. In addition, we teamed with Tecnologico de Monterrey to create an award for the best business plan submitted by social entrepreneurs. Winners will receive coaching from ASHOKA to materialize their project. CEMEX also recognizes the immense value education plays in creating opportunities in low income communities. We are actively involved in several programs to bring education and skills training to the people living around our facilities. In 2013, we continued our partnership with BANAMEX, a subsidiary of Citigroup and one of Mexico’s largest banks, to bring curriculum regarding finances and money management to the communities surrounding our cement plants in Mexico. Among the courses offered in 2013 were planning, basic account budgeting, saving and investing, personal finance and alternatives for managing credit. More than 500 people benefited from the curriculum in 2013 with 30 workshops delivered in 14 locations nationwide. < previous | contents | next > 65 Empowering Diverse Groups Empowering Women ANSPAC, a non-profit organization led by women associated to CEMEX, provides technical training and selfhelp guidance to empower other women living near our cement plants to their communities. In 2013, more than 1,750 women in four countries successfully completed the eight-month training program, enhancing their craft, cooking, health, safety, family values and self-worth skills. The alliance seeks to promote the comprehensive 1,750 women in improvement of the individual, based on the conviction that only those who continually develop their human potential can build up their family and communities for four countries a new and better world. We are looking to expand the completed a initiative to more countries in the future. training program to develop human In 2013, CEMEX joined the United Nations Foundation’s Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves, a public-private potential in their partnership working to foster the adoption of clean communities. cookstoves and fuels in 100 million households globally by 2020. Nearly three billion people in the developing Empowering Youth world cook food and heat their homes with traditional CEMEX continued working with the New Employment cookstoves or open fires, contributing to millions Opportunities (NEO) Initiative. The NEO Initiative brings of premature deaths, a myriad of health risks and together public, private and civil society leaders in environmental concerns including deforestation and Latin America and the Caribbean to provide youth with air quality. By joining the Alliance, we are working to high-impact, market-relevant job training and placement bring more clean cookstoves to Latin America and Asia, services. The funding for the plan was approved late in creating better living conditions for vulnerable families, 2013 with implementation slated for 2014. In Nuevo preventing toxic smoke emissions from polluting the Leon, Mexico, 32,000 youth, at least 50 percent being environment and contributing to the overall wellbeing of women, will benefit from this partnership. their communities. Also as part of our commitment to improve the lives of In Mexico, with the aid of HELPS International, Stove those at the bottom of the pyramid, CEMEX has been Team International and the Mexican government, partnering with USAID, the lead U.S. government agency CEMEX will support the production and adoption of working to end extreme global poverty and enable resilclean cookstoves for more than 100,000 people. We are ient, democratic societies to realize their potential. also working to bring these safer, more efficient stoves to households in Guatemala through the Maya Relief In 2013, CEMEX joined forces with USAID to train youth Foundation and are exploring opportunities to provide in construction and business management to provide this resource to other Latin American countries. critical skills training and enable entrepreneurship to meet the demand caused by housing backlog while improving their living situations. We conducted our first pilot project with 316 young people in situations of risk, high vulnerability and high crime rates in Monterrey and Nuevo Leon in Mexico and Camino Verde in Tijuana, Baja California. < previous | contents | next > 66 Empowering Indigenous People Challenges Ahead CEMEX, in collaboration with Tecnologico de Monterrey, created a model for the sustainable development of • Encouraging communities' sustainable communities. The model consists of three main phases: a participative diagnostic, where information gathering, obdevelopment through high-impact initiatives that servation and opportunity analysis takes place; validation result from collective interdisciplinary work from of needs and priorities, where project objectives structures are outlined; and finally, communication and implementagovernments, businesses and communities. tion, where the proposed actions and funding are discussed with local authorities and community leaders and • Leveraging our strengths and partnerships to monitoring and evaluation takes place. In 2013, CEMEX generate initiatives that help diverse groups tested this model in the Mexican indigenous community of Magdalena Peñasco in the State of Oaxaca with 56 projdevelop skills to build new growth opportunities. ects identified to benefit approximately 3,700 people. We aim to replicate this model throughout numerous CEMEX • Increasing volunteer programs available to countries with at-risk communities. employees as well as standardizing a global Volunteering platform to promote these programs across CEMEX places significant value on supporting volunteer the company. activities that benefit the community or environment. manitarian relief efforts in the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan. CEMEX matched every employee donation two for one and raised USD $500,000 combined. CEMEX is now making sure that its contribution helps the families who need it most. Initiatives underway include a housing project with Gawad Kalinga, a rebuilding effort for Kawit National High School, the construction of a Community Livelihood Training Center and the creation of cement sculptures to attract marine life back to the coast of Northern Cebu, among others. The Tarahumara Foundation, a nonprofit that has promotOf the countries in which we operate, 67 percent have ed the development of indigenous communities in the volunteering programs in place, together implementing Tarahumara Mountain Range in Northern Mexico for 20 approximately 114 initiatives. For example, in 2013, years, is yet another example of an initiative that received a program to promote health awareness in schools, an contributions from CEMEX employees in 2013. Through earthquake awareness program, a community medical its programs focused on child nutrition, education, food camp and a health day were all held in Bangladesh, and and water security, the Foundation seeks to reverse in Israel our employees renovated an aging synagogue, structural problems that have kept the indigenous comrefurbished a school and its surroundings and participated munities in poverty and social exclusion. Four Tarahumara in the globally recognized Good Deeds Day. In addition, in communities received aid from CEMEX. Mexico, almost 9,000 employees completed more than 45,000 hours in a variety of volunteering programs. CEMEX published a position paper on our efforts to Furthermore, in 2013, CEMEX established a worldwide empower communities in 2013. It is available in the fund to receive voluntary employee donations for huMedia Center on our website. < previous | contents | next > 67 GLOBAL and local alliances Through relationships with global and local organizations including NGOs, trade associations, educational institutions and intergovernmental organizations, we leverage our knowledge and resources and promote our sustainability priorities and vision. These include: Partner Objective Activities in 2013 Created a standard for the development of Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs). Address biodiversity challenges in CEMEX sites Published “The CEMEX Approach to Biodiversity Conservation”, a comprehensive BirdLife International worldwide. publication that provides guidance on the integration of biodiversity conservation into daily operations. Continued to work on the development of a Biodiversity Management Plan and Cement Sustainability ESIA Guidelines. Initiative (CSI) – World Exchange best practices and develop sustainabilityContinued to work on the development of water accounting protocol, the definition Business Council for related management and policy tools among leading of relevant water KPIs and on the Water Footprint Tool for the cement industry. Sustainable Development cement companies. CEMEX is contributing to both CSI documents by sharing its internal guidelines on (WBCSD) biodiversity actions plans and water management and reporting, developed with BirdLife International and IUCN respectively. Bring together businesses, governments, civil society and NGOs to equip Latin American and Caribbean Through this commitment we will offer opportunities to 1 million vulnerable youth vulnerable youth with marketable skills that will help Clinton Global Initiative by providing them with high-quality training and job placement services that them make a successful transition from under or unaddress the needs of local labor markets. employment to profitable, dignified work with growth opportunities. Earth Engineering Center Established collaboration agreement with the EEC for a year-long study of the life (EEC) of Columbia Enhance understanding of the role alternative fuels play cycle effects of alternative fuels in cement manufacturing, focused on waste comUniversity and The City in society and the environment. bustion technologies implemented in CEMEX kilns in the United States and Mexico. College of New York European Parliament Join members of the European Parliament from all Participated as a speaker and panel member in a European Parliament session to disIntergroup on Climate political groups and Parliamentary Committees to find cuss raw materials and resource efficiency, showcasing the industrial ecology work Change, Biodiversity and sustainable solutions to environmental, social and ecoCEMEX and the cement industry is doing. Sustainable Development nomic issues. < previous | contents | next > 68 Partner Objective Activities in 2013 Identify CEMEX’s water-related material issues in Implemented the methodology we jointly developed to improve our water order to define a corporate strategy, work to close management and better address water risks facing our business. identified gaps, mitigate risks and share water-related Launched our corporate water policy which defines our global strategy for International Union for best practices. Also, conclude phase one of the responsible water management and acts as a framework for the development of Conservation of Nature water footprint project in order to better assess and local water conservation and efficiency strategies. understand CEMEX’s water-related challenges and Drafted a new corporate water approach that will help our operations worldwide opportunities. better address the risks associated with water in the local environment. Continued to work on improved models to understand and quantify the advantages MIT Concrete of rigid concrete pavements over asphalt in terms of fuel consumption. Analyze and improve sustainability of concrete. Sustainability Hub1 Worked to develop tools that allow for the quantification of concrete’s hazard resistance in the evaluation of competing designs. National Geographic and Develop Publishing Partnership for the Conservation Launched the first edition of the new Nature Series, “Sublime Nature: Photographs Earth in Focus Book Program. That Awe and Inspire”, to celebrate human connections to our natural world. We engaged shift to help us implement the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights. Implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and In addition, we began developing a comprehensive Human Rights Policy that will exShift Human Rights. pand on our existing programs and reporting mechanisms to provide a more robust approach. This policy will be implemented in 2014. Provide citizens with direct and single access to information Officially registered with the Transparency Register, demonstrating our commitment Transparency Register about who is engaged in activities aimed at influencing the EU to maintain full transparency in our operations and allowing us to receive alerts each Europa decision making process, which interests are being pursued time the Commission publishes a new roadmap or launches a public consultation in and what level of resources are invested in these activities. our field of interest. Develop and provide sustainable solutions for the Joined the UN Foundation’s Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves, a public-private bottom of the economic pyramid in alliance with partnership that seeks to save lives, protect the environment and improve the United Nations Foundation governments, social entrepreneurs, universities and quality of life of local communities by creating a thriving global market for clean and NGOs. efficient household cooking solutions. Our CEO and Chairman Lorenzo Zambrano renewed our commitment to UNGC and its principles. Shape global business practices, particularly in the United Nations Global Maintained active membership of the Caring for Climate Steering Committee initiafield of climate change, beyond the scope of our own Compact tive and the Advisory Group on Supply Chain Sustainability. organization and sector. Members of the UN Global Compact’s Steering Committee develop a responsible business best practice toolkit for the land, real estate and construction sectors. Urban Infrastructure Develop and employ new models of public-private Worked in the city of Merida, Mexico to help the city identify key issues they face Initiative (UII) of the partnership in order to make the world’s cities more in realizing their sustainability visions and developed plans which will translate this WBCSD sustainable. vision into reality. < previous | contents | next > [1] Through the Portland Cement Association and The Ready Mixed Concrete Research and Education Foundation. 69 embedding sustainability in our governance and corporate CULTURE A Solid Sustainability Vision We recognize that as the world’s largest concrete Our sustainability efforts provide growth producer and leading supplier of building opportunities, reduce our costs, strengthen our solutions CEMEX plays an important role in license to operate and enhance the value we supporting the development needs of society in deliver to stakeholders. We continue to evaluate a resource-constrained world. We also embrace our approach and priorities to assure we are our responsibility to optimize our environmental fully aligned with the material issues that have footprint and improve the quality of life of the the greatest impact and deliver the most value. communities in which we operate. < previous | contents | next > 70 CEMEX’s Sustainability Model We have three main sustainability objectives: Enhance our Value Creation: MANAG Enhance our Value Creation: CEMEX aims to deliver 1 Lead in Sustainable Construction FOOTP E OU RIN R T the innovative, high-performing products, services and solutions that our resource-constrained society requires 2 Affordable Housing & Infrastructure in order to create a growing and profitable low-carbon HANCE OUR Manage our Footprint: EN E CREATIO SUSTAINABILITY economy. By fulfilling the needs of the construction VA LU N AT CEMEX sector in its efforts to adopt more sustainable operat3Enhance our Carbon Strategy ing practices, we aim to create long-lasting competitive SUR EO R advantages. 4 Excellence in Environmental & Biodiversity Management E N G AG L DE S TA K E H O Manage our Footprint: CEMEX strives to minimize the Engage our Stakeholders: ecological impacts of our operations in the communities in which we operate. Such impacts are carefully identified and measured so that we can continuously reduce our 5 High Priority to Health & Safety footprint to the lowest level that is both technically and economically feasible. We also have a robust pipeline of 6 Strengthen Local Communities projects that provide carbon offsets to further reduce our net impact. 7 Partnership with Key Stakeholders Engage our Stakeholders: CEMEX fosters positive, This stakeholder-centric approach is critical because long-term relationships with key stakeholders to address when our stakeholders prosper, our company prospers. the pressing needs and concerns of society. With highly This philosophy forms the basis for our vision to be the committed and empowered employees, CEMEX closely company of choice for: collaborates with a broad variety of institutions that allow us to complement our core competencies and enable • Our People: We aim to be the employer of choice in us to generate social benefits that contribute to the our markets. We seek to provide the most attractive strengthening of local communities. opportunities for employees’ personal and professional development. Our Seven Priorities • Our Neighbors: We are a good neighbor. We The definition of these priorities has followed a strucparticipate with communities openly and directly in tured process of both internal and external consultation order to build trust and address their concerns. where we have measured the impact that the main sus• Our Business Partners: We work to be the business tainability issues have on our stakeholders and on CEMEX partner of choice. We seek to help our suppliers and operations. Our priorities are aligned to each of our three customers build their businesses and to create enduring objectives and with our stakeholders’ concerns which value for our shareholders. were identified through materiality analysis exercises. • Our World: We are a good global citizen. As a global company, we work to contribute to international efforts to address some of the world’s most complex challenges, including climate change, access to housing and community infrastructure, and the conservation of biodiversity. < previous | contents | next > 71 By building strong long-term relationships with our key Stakeholders’ Representation (%) stakeholders, we increase our responsiveness to their 1500 completed interviews needs and concerns, find new ways to reduce our impacts, contribute to sustainable development worldwide 3% 6% ⓦ CEMEX Top Managers and, ultimately, make CEMEX a more competitive and ⓦ Employees 9% ⓦ Clients profitable enterprise. 1% 6% 13% ⓦ Suppliers ⓦ Analyst/Investor/Shareholder Evolving to a New Model 19% ⓦ Community/Communication leader In the first quarter of 2013, CEMEX sent surveys to more 43% ⓦ Government/Administration than 11,000 stakeholders across all six CEMEX Regions, ⓦ NGO/Association/Foundaincluding employees, customers, analysts, suppliers, tion/Universities investors, community leaders, government officials and NGO representatives. The survey was translated into Results weighted acording to four main stakeholders seven languages and we received more than 1,500 categories (25% each one): clients, suppliers, employees and Structure community & others. responses, out of which we defined a new Materiality Matrix that more accurately reflects the current issues Coordination and concerns of our stakeholders. committee Materiality Matrix In the beginning of 2014, with the support of our 1. Economic value creation Track #1 Executive Committee, we initiated a review and revi+ Lowest Medium Highest 2. Customer engagement & materiality materiality materiality Sustainable sion of the CEMEX Sustainability Model and Priorities. 3 satistaction 3. Health and safety for our Construction, Housing This exercise was conducted through the Sustainability 1 employees, contractors & clients and Infrastructure Functional Network. The effort was organized around a 4. Climate change & CO2 emissions management Coordination Committee, supported by five topical tracks 2 5. Renewable & alternative energy Track #2 that brought together more than 80 CEMEX experts repsourcing Stakeholder concern 6. Corporate governance CO2 Strategy and resenting all regions and related areas to provide ongoing 14 4 & transparency Environmental input into the development of a new Sustainability Model, 11 8 6 7. Employees relations Management updated priorities, core KPIs and 2020 Targets that are 5 & engagement 17 15 8. Products, services and solutions in line with the global sustainability trends impacting our 12 9 for high energy efficiency 7 12. Community engagement and Track #3 company and with our Materiality Analysis. 16 development 10 Biodiversity, Water 13. Risk management 18 13 14. Quarry rehabilitation, and Waste The new model will update our sustainability objectives, 19 biodiversity preservation and Management priorities and KPIs: ecosystems management 20 15. Responsible and sustainable • Addressing the most relevant challenges facing the management of the supply chain Track #4 world and CEMEX as a global company. 16. Products, services and solutions for low income families H&S, Supply Chain • Focusing on the most relevant issues at hand. Impact on CEMEX + 17. Water use and recycling and Corporate • Placing a special emphasis on all of our social programs 18. Waste generation, disposal and Governance recycling given the high impact we have on developing countries. The new model, updated priorities, core KPIs and 2020 19. Transport and logistic • Giving specific priority to governance and ethical stantargets will be released in the second half of 2014. We optimization 20. Environmental incidents Track #5 dards on how we manage the company. expect this exercise to serve as a strong guidance to management Community and • Introducing supply chain as a relevant element in our sharpen our sustainability efforts and as a robust basis for Stakeholder sustainability strategy, in line with global trends and our future reporting exercises in which CEMEX expects to Engagement expectations. report under the GRI 4 framework. < previous | contents | next > 72 EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR GOVERNANCE AND CORPORATE CULTURE ethics, strengthening business compliance and transparency 250 campaigns launched throughout the company to foster expected behaviors and promote our reporting mechanism – ETHOSline – as well as our Policy Center. < previous | contents | next > 73 Our CEMEX Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (Code Highlights of Ethics) outlines the values and principles all CEMEX employees are expected to uphold. Collaboration, Integrity and Leadership are the values that provide the foundation for all of our actions. Available at our website and Intranet, new employees are required to read and sign our Code of • Conducted more than 21,000 employee Ethics as part of our on-boarding program. trainings related to different topics covered in In 2013, we amended our Code to incorporate specific our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. guidance regarding money laundering. We also launched more than 250 global communication campaigns to • Engaged the assistance of Shift, an provide information and raise awareness on important independent non-profit center, to advise ethics and human rights topics including conflicts of interest, giving/receiving gifts, harassment and theft, and support us throughout the formal among others, and to promote our reporting mechanism, implementation of the UN Guiding Principles ETHOSline, as well as our Policy Center. on Human Rights. CEMEX Reporting LineETHOSline When questions arise or a possible violation occurs related to ethics, governance and compliance, all CEMEX employees Setting the Tone for Ethical Behavior Our CEMEX Code of Ethics Addresses: Relations with Stakeholders In 2013,CEMEX Country Managers in 28 countries hosted various events in which • Employee and Human Rights they and their direct reports renewed their commitment to high ethical standards by • Fair Dealing with Customers and Suppliers once again signing our Code of Ethics. Approximately 1,750 employees attended the • Government Relations events, demonstrating CEMEX leaders’ strong commitment to high ethical standards • Community Relations and helping set the tone for continued enforcement and compliance throughout the organization. Related communication campaigns followed, expanding these efforts to Operations and Activities reach more than 25,000 employees. Countries that did not participate in 2013 will • Antitrust Compliance host similar events during 2014. • Anti-Bribery • Money-Laundering Prevention • Conflicts of Interest have a safe place to turn. ETHOSline provides a confidential • Gifts, Services and Other Courtesies way to ask questions or raise concerns to ensure our Code of • Environmental Responsibility Ethics is being upheld throughout the company. Available 24 • Political Contributions and Activities hours a day, seven days a week, employees can send comSafety & Security ments, request advice and submit complaints through our • Workplace Safety and Health ETHOSline website, by telephone or email. The service is man• Handling Confidential Information aged by a third-party that gathers the incident information, • Financial Controls and Records documents concerns, and relays the information to CEMEX. • Preservation of Assets In 2013, there were 324 incidents reported by employees related to a violation to our Code of Ethics, the law or other policies. Of these incidences, 300 have already been closed, 178 of which were found true and actions < previous | contents | next > 74 were taken and 24 are still in progress. These incidences included 5 reports involving discrimination, 4 were found Preventing Money Laundering false and 1 is still in progress; 42 involving harassment, 22 true and four in progress; and 60 regarding employee CEMEX amended the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct in 2013 to incorporate For more about our ethics relations, 19 of which were determined true and 6 are specific guidance regarding money laundering, which is strictly prohibited within the and compliance policies, please visit our Ethics and still in progress. Disciplinary or remedial action was taken company. CEMEX is committed to never facilitate or support any transaction or activCompliance page. for all incidents found to have occurred. ity to conceal the true origin of illicit funds or make it look as though they have been obtained from legitimate activities. Ongoing Training & Communication CEMEX provides regular training and communication Payments that are prohibited and must be reported via ETHOSline and/or Legal about our policies and human rights issues to help ensure Department include those that are: our employees have a firm understanding of the values • Made or requested in currencies other than those specified in the relevant and expectations outlined in the Code of Ethics and agreement or invoices. Business Conduct. • Made to or from countries with no business relation. • Made in cash for large amounts of money or involving third parties or In 2013, more than 21,000 training sessions were delivintermediaries with no apparent or clear role in the transaction. ered to employees in proper ethical behaviors relevant to their position within the company. Courses in 2013 Total Anti-Corruption & Anti-Bribery CEMEX abides by principles of fair trade and competiCEMEX’s Code of Ethics and Business tion and we do not tolerate price-fixing, market alloca11,003 tion, predatory pricing or other illegal market practices. Conduct Refresher We also have zero tolerance for bribery in any form. In Safety 2,982 addition to our Code of Ethics, we further communicate our expectations and set global standards through the Information Security 2,001 following company-wide policies, which can be found on the CEMEX website: Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Policy, Antitrust 1,956 Antitrust Compliance Policy and Insider Trading Policy. Anti-bribery 1,637 In 2013, there were no reported incidents of corruption or bribery to government officials. More than 1,600 Workplace Harassment [1] 631 training courses were conducted with employees to ensure they understand and identify behavior that does not Drug & Alcohol Policy 470 comply with our principles. ETHOSline is offered as a safe and confidential tool for employees to ask questions and ETHOSline 228 report potential violations related to market practices. Insider Trading 202 To further ensure employees are acting in a manner consistent with our values, CEMEX Compliance Legal Others [2] 223 Department conducted 125 internal legal audits (dawn raids) directed to executives of sensitive business areas Total 21,333 in numerous countries in 2013. The audits addressed compliance matters including corruption and antitrust, [1] The course covers harassment based on gender, race, ethnicity, age, disability, and other among other topics. Our annual compliance program is characteristics [2] Values (67), Conflicts of Interest (47), Anti-Money Laundering (30), Other (79) mainly directed to countries classified by Transparency < previous | contents | next > 75 International as medium or high-risk countries for perHuman Rights ceived corruption in which CEMEX is considered a strong The International Bill of Human Rights and ILO Core market participant. Conventions identify a set of internationally-recognized human rights encompassing a wide range of issues including We annually execute the following compliance health, labor relationships, equality, compensation and asmechanisms: sociation. CEMEX is committed to supporting and respect• Online compliance training through ETHOS. ing these human rights. We proactively work to ensure our • Online consulting of policies through ETHOS. own practices, as well as those of our suppliers, partners • On-site compliance legal trainings directed by the Chief and others within the value chain, respect the rights of Compliance Officer and/or in-house, local or external individuals and the communities in which we operate. legal counsel. • Legal audits (dawn raids) performed by Chief CEMEX is a signatory member of the United Nations Compliance Officer and/or in-house, local or external Global Compact, a strategic policy initiative for busilegal counsel. nesses that are committed to aligning their operations • Third party certification and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles > Anti-bribery Letter in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and > Anti-bribery Clause in our agreements anti-corruption. We are also members of Foro Soria 21, • Support review of countries and individuals in black an international organization focused on social ethics list and due diligence to third parties from external and values, and we embrace the UN Guiding Principles systems. on Business and Human Rights, also referred to as the > World Compliance website “Ruggie Framework”. > “Securitame” due diligence To help us formally implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights we sought assistance from Shift, an independent, non-profit center for business and human rights practice whose team of experts was directly involved in shaping and writing the UN Guiding Principles. We have started developing a framework that maps out all of the key areas involved, defines responsibility and identified potential next steps. We also began developing a comprehensive Human Rights Policy using the three pillars that form the foundation of the UN Guiding Principles – Protect, Respect and Remedy. The new policy will expand on existing programs and reporting mechanisms to provide a more robust approach and will be rolled out in 2014. CEMEX is a signatory member of the United Nations Global Compact; we are also members of Foro Soria 21 and we embrace the “Ruggie Framework” on Human Rights. < previous | contents | next > 76 CEMEX Operations in Palestinian Occupied Territories CEMEX was highlighted for our business in the Occupied Territories by U.N. Special Reporter Richard Falk in his 2012 “Report of the Special Rapporteur” on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories. CEMEX Israel ready-mix operations located in Occupied Territories (Mishor Adumim, Mevoh Horon and Atarot, in particular) operate in accordance with these relevant permits and licenses. Much of the facility’s concrete production is delivered to Jerusalem where it is used for residential and infrastructure projects, meeting the demands of all local communities, regardless of race or religious practice. Additional projects in these areas supplied materials to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) for Palestinian refugees in the Near East and provided ready-mix concrete to schools, residential and water infrastructure projects for the Arab residents of East Jerusalem. Diversity We forbid all forms of discrimination including, but not Through Lime & Stone Co., CEMEX partners with Kfar Giladi Quarries which exclusively limited to, race, creed, sex, marital status, political opinion operates the Yatir quarry. CEMEX is not involved in the operation or management of the and age and enforce a strict Diversity and Equality Policy. quarry where production, operations, logistics, sales, etc. are managed exclusively by the local partner. The quarry operates under the permits issued by the Civil Administration in We continue to look for ways to promote diversity of Judea and Samaria and royalties on the quarrying activities are paid to these authorities. gender within our population and recognize the imporMuch of the quarry's production is sold to Palestinian building tance of supporting women in the workforce. To date, contractors and to customers living in the Judea and Samaria area. we have initiatives and programs for women in place in approximately 50 percent of our operating countries. The CEMEX strictly applies a policy of compliance with all human rights, international and local support offered varies from country to county and ranges laws, regulations, standards and other legal provisions in every country in which we operate. from special development opportunities and flex time to private breastfeeding facilities. CEMEX Israel is a clear example of this, following all relevant international laws and provisions as well as the contents of the existing local agreements between Israel and the We are also committed to creating opportunities for Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) regarding the Occupied Territory, namely the people with disabilities. More than 50 percent of our treaty signed in Oslo in 1993. operations have specific programs for disabled people. Personnel with physical or mental disabilities are matched CEMEX, as a global leader in building solutions, has the utmost concern for sustainability, with jobs they can perform with dignity and that serve environmental protection and respect for human rights. In 2004, CEMEX joined the “UN as an opportunity for learning and development. For Global Compact Group” and has been a signatory member ever since then, indicating example, CEMEX Mexico’s inclusive program Congruencia, our strong support and compliance of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and values or “Coherence,” offers job opportunities for employees included therein. with disabilities. Throughout Mexico, 87 people with varying disabilities work in telephone services, computer/ IT-related jobs and manual positions such as printing and < previous | contents | next > 77 designing t-shirts, among others. CEMEX France has made similar efforts to employ those with disabilities Taking Diversity to a Higher Level through jobs in catering and laundry services, printing works and more, and has also started paying special In each country we operate, CEMEX has established programs to promote the respect attention to those subcontractors who employ people for human rights and quality of life for employees. CEMEX Poland has demonstrated its with disabilities (and has decided) deciding to establish commitment to equality through its participation in Diversity Charter Poland. long-term partnerships with them. The Diversity Charter is a written obligation signed by various companies declaring We respect the social and cultural right to human dignity their promise to eliminate discrimination in the workplace and undertake measures to and expression of identity. For example, in countries create and promote diversity. A founding member of Diversity Charter Poland, CEMEX like Israel, Egypt, Malaysia and the UAE where CEMEX Poland is one of 96 corporations, small businesses, NGOs and others demonstrating employs workers from diverse religious backgrounds and their commitment to providing a diverse workplace for all. sectors of the population, we respect their right to practice their beliefs through religious holidays, dress code CEMEX Poland defined five key areas of focus for diversity management efforts in 2013: and language. 1. Equal career opportunities for employees who are parents. 2. Equal job opportunities for disabled people. Freedom to Associate 3. Generation management (age diversity) opportunities. CEMEX recognizes, supports and respects the right of 4. Enhanced career opportunities for women. its employees to exercise freedom of association in our 5. Equal compensation management for men and women. operations. More than 19,000 employees representing around 75 percent of our operative workforce are In 2013, we concentrated on our YOUR FAMILY program geared toward employees represented by a union or covered under a collective who are parents and the new ACTIVE at 50+ program dedicated to employees over bargaining agreement. Collective agreement clauses the age of 50. Both initiatives aligned with the focus areas identified. vary from country to country depending on the negotiation reached. Basic contracts include labor conditions, compensation and benefits. Other contracts also include Encouraging Employee Communication notice period, sick pay, maternity leave, retirement, travel We also engage employees to share their opinions and expenses and development, among others. Employees participate in decision-making that affects the comare also encouraged to participate in employee councils pany through a variety of forums. For example, CEMEX and representation, which is manifested through transHungary hosts a National Conference twice a year where parency in the communication of meetings as well as employees from all facilities are invited to hear the status projects initiated by the groups. and results of current projects and are invited to ask questions directly to leaders. In the Dominican Republic, we have a president’s mailbox and host president meetings with employees to open the lines of communication between managers and employees. We also have an open HR office where all employees are welcome to speak to our HR Director at any time. In Mexico, we launched a communication mechanism, “Al que habla se le escucha”, that enables employees to propose improvements and provide suggestions to build a better workplace. We also host an Innovation Day where employees vote for the best innovative projects in the Business Unit. < previous | contents | next > 78 Equal Opportunity and Fair Compensation Child Labor CEMEX offers a Job Posting Program to give our emWe are strongly committed to protecting the rules reployees opportunities to apply for open positions begarding child labor in every country we operate. We do fore or concurrent with the consideration of external not tolerate the use of child labor by anyone associated candidates for employment. Hiring decisions are made with our business, and require official government-issued without regard to race, color, age, religion, mental or identification as part of our hiring and selection process. physical disability, sex or national origin of any employee. In most countries where we operate, the minimum age is CEMEX values its employee’s talent, and encourages 18 and it is strictly adhered to in accordance to local laws. all employees to seek advancement opportunities and We extend this condition to our suppliers. to obtain promotion and career guidance from their supervisor, department head and the Human Resources Forced Labor & Safe Work Environment Department. CEMEX also actively promotes the proWe do not require anyone to perform tasks against their fessional development of its employees, providing the will or that are detrimental to their health or wellbeing. necessary tools to achieve their professional goals, We continually monitor our safety progress to ensure that which in turn allow them to contribute to the company’s our programs are working as effectively as possible. Our profitability and growth targets. health management system enables us to monitor our global health performance indicators, develop a set of In addition, CEMEX offers a competitive compensation initiatives to improve our health conditions and integrate packages based on the responsibility level of each posibest health practices. tion. Employee compensation packages are designed to consider: In countries like Hungary we are taking active efforts like • The representation of the labor markets in which a our flexible working time. This gives employees the right given CEMEX Business Unit competes for talent. to leave the workplace during working hours, after agreed • Data from independent, professional, third-party upon by management, and make up the missed time at a surveys. later date if they have health and personal related issues. • Market base pay and total cash compensation of comparable companies. Our operations in every country comply with local laws and we take measures to prevent workers from falling Comparative Wage Rate* into debt bondage through company loans. For example, CEMEX minimum offered level wage vs minimum wage in Brazil loans cannot exceed 30 percent of salary and in the Philippines we ensure a 40 percent net take home 3.00 pay is still available for employees taking out loans. In CEMEX/ Local Wage Ratio 2.50 2.41 Colombia, we only offer loans through the employee fund 2.07 2.00 1.85 after conducting an analysis of the worker's borrowing 1.54 1.50 capacity and guaranteeing a minimum wage, and when 1.50 1.42 1.23 1.12 1.01 1.17 1.06 an employee in Egypt applies for a bank loan, we are 1.00 1.00 required to provide a letter setting the loan amount and 0.50 verifying that they do not have any other loans. 0.00 All employees are free to leave the company at any time t l bi a at ia yp nc e y an srae tv ia ic o ne s ai n UK US A and we don’t offer any benefit as leverage to force labor. om ro Eg ra rm I La Mex pi Sp Co l C F G e li ip In Israel we pay compensation for dismissal even in cases Ph where the employee leaves the company by his or her own Country * Global average is 1.29 free will, even though we are not required to do so by law. < previous | contents | next > 79 Work-Life Balance Public Policy CEMEX abides by the labor laws of each country in which CEMEX promotes fair and well-designed environmental regit operates regarding weekly hours worked by employees. ulations that address key stakeholders’ considerations, leverWorking hours exceeding legally stated norms are seen as aging the best regulation and policy practices across all the overtime and paid according to local law. In all the councountries in which we operate. We also provide independent tries where we operate we have time attendance systems research and experienced guidance to inform the creation of and a policy regarding working overtime. We comply with public-private partnerships for the development of efficient local laws governing the maximum amount of overtime and cost-effective infrastructure projects. allowed and have processes in place in each country to monitor and control overtime hours. In the European Union, CEMEX is actively involved in discussions regarding the best way to evolve The European In 75 percent of the countries in which we operate, Union Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and the Clean CEMEX has work-life balance initiatives in place that Development Mechanism (CDM) platforms for emissions encourage a positive relationship between an employee’s trading to ensure these market-based programs allow work and personal life. For example, in the Philippines companies to meet standards through projects that make we implemented several programs in 2013 to encoureconomic sense. CEMEX is also providing members of age work-life balance including annual sports activities, the European parliament with a vital industry perspeca company outing, a wellness program and half-time tive on climate change and other environmental issues opportunities. In total, 127 work-life balance initiatives through participation with GLOBE EU and the European were offered benefiting more than 25,000 employees. Parliament Intergroup on Climate Change, Biodiversity and Sustainable Development. In 2013, more than 85 percent of the countries in which we operate had an In addition, CEMEX is sharing information gathered from initiative in at least one of the categories listed below. studies by the Cement Sustainability Initiative and MIT Concrete Sustainability HUB with governments in North • 39 percent had initiatives supporting dependent care America to guide decisions about infrastructure improve• 39 percent had initiatives supporting child care ment. In the U.S. and Mexico, in particular, CEMEX is • 24 percent had initiatives supporting elderly care working to increase the understanding of long-term cost • 33 percent had initiatives supporting sabbaticals savings and environmental benefits of concrete to better • 70 percent had initiatives in parental leave inform discussions about fiscal, social and environmen• 76 percent had initiatives in other flexible benefits tal responsibility around infrastructure projects. CEMEX is also working with the Earth Engineering Center from In Colombia, CEMEX offers 11 initiatives promoting a Columbia University and City College New York to better healthy balance between work and family life for emunderstand the environmental benefits of using waste ployees through its MAS PARA TI, “MORE FOR YOU”, derived fuels to provide energy for our cement facilities. program. Highlights of the program include temporal The findings will be used to support legislation and reguflexibility benefits, family activities in recreational centers, lations to foster the practices across our markets. prepaid medicine for the household, time off for special occasions, flexible dress codes, discounts at local stores, CEMEX Mexico actively participated in more than 60 flexible hours for mothers with children under the age of Chambers and Associations events, providing innovative four, sponsorship of sports and more. ideas and solutions for sustainable urban development, education and democratic processes. In Egypt, we increased the amount of vacation to provide employees with more opportunities to take time off. In Our company’s performance and license to operate are addition, we changed the start and end times at the staff’s increasingly shaped by our stakeholder system; the correquest to avoid frequent traffic jams in certain times. porate Public Affairs team has developed a Stakeholder < previous | contents | next > 80 Management Model and a set of management pracTo standardize efforts and share best practices for emertices that align our management and business strategy gency response, CEMEX has created a Business Resilience with our stakeholders through proactive engagement. and Crisis Management Program (BR&CM) to prepare Stakeholder Management is a core aspect of our business operations to rapidly respond in the occurrence of a crisis. practices. The Stakeholder Management Model is planned The BR&CM requires business units to create and train to be rolled-out throughout CEMEX in 2014. Rapid Response Teams (RRT), integrate a communication and response system, develop specific response protoRisk Management cols, perform risk assessments and, in general, improve Proactive risk management is important to protect our optheir unit's overall level of risk management. erations and stockholders’ value. We use tools and methodologies to gather information from a range of sources, In the last year, 16 contingency management and crisis analyze data, identify, assess and prioritize potential risks, care workshops were conducted and RRTs were formaldevelop mitigation strategies and follow up on potential ized in South America, Northern Europe and Asia. In most risks. We classify identified internal and external risks into countries that underwent training, email contingency five main categories: Strategic, economic-political-social, accounts were made available. operational, compliance and financial/reporting risks. Governance For more information about The Enterprise Risk Management department, which is Led by our Chairman and CEO, Lorenzo H. Zambrano, the CEMEX Risk Factors please structured into local, regional and global levels, works closely CEMEX Board of Directors is responsible for supervising refer to our 20F. with the Executive Committee and the CEO. The department the overall direction and operation of the company. is developing a combination of bottom-up and top-down approaches. Each business unit is responsible for identifying all Our financial culture and management style are open and potential risks and creating a risk agenda. Global risk agendas transparent. Through regular meetings, reports, guidare developed based on the most important risks from these ance, conference calls, events and personal interactions, regional agendas in addition to any corporate level concerns. we vigorously work to keep our investors fully and fairly informed of our activities and to ensure our financial disThe Enterprise Risk Management department is also reclosures meet the highest ethical standards. sponsible for following up on risks and mitigation measures and facilitating and/or coordinating risk mitigation strategies As of December 31, 2013 the board was comprised when necessary. Each risk that generates information from of 10 directors, seven of whom qualify as independent multiple internal and external sources is monitored through a directors according to criteria specified under Mexican Search Plan which reports the information to decision makers Securities Law. The board is responsible for determining on a regular basis. The Executive Committee decides which and overseeing our efforts to advance the performance risks are the most relevant based on the probability of occurof our seven sustainability priorities. At these perirence and the impact to our company. odic meetings, directors inform the report on a wide range of relevant issues, including sustainability-related For the most significant risks at country, regional and concerns. In 2013, six board meetings took place. In global levels, a mitigation strategy is defined and a risk all six, the majority of directors were present. In these owner is assigned. We have several processes that test meetings, the directors discussed the update of the the robustness of our methodology and systems, evalfinancial strategy, financial and operational indicators uate compliance across all business units and encourage and the review of committee reports, among other continuous improvements. These processes include petopics. We also held four Audit Committee meetings, riodic reviews of our policies and procedures, compliance two Corporate Practices Committee meetings and four training for employees and regular internal audits. Finance Committee meetings in 2013. < previous | contents | next > 81 On May 15, 2014 CEMEX We also hold an annual event, CEMEX Day, where our seChallenges Ahead announced the appointment nior management updates the financial community about of a new Chairman of the our operations, vision and strategy. At our most recent Board of Directors, a new event, more than 130 analysts, investors and bankers CEO and a new member attended and more than 600 people followed via a live of the Board. To read the webcast for which we created #CEMEXDay so that anyone • Continuing to reinforce the principles and full press release, please click here. interested in CEMEX could join in the dialogue via Twitter. values set in our Code of Ethics. For a replay of each presentation, visit us on our website. • Implementing a comprehensive human Sustainability Committee The Sustainability Committee is comprised of 12 members: rights policy. nine members of our management team that report to the chairman and CEO, the Senior Vice President of Energy • Expanding diversity programs to ensure and Sustainability, the Senior Vice President of Global stimulating growth opportunities to all Technology and the Corporate Director of Sustainability. This committee meets quarterly to assess and guide employees. CEMEX in its sustainability efforts. Through their work, sustainability priorities are defined and resources allocated to initiatives that have the highest impact and provide the most significant improvement opportunities. n Define sustainability guidelines and priorities Board of Audit Committee n Suggests and defines global Directors Decisions made by the Sustainability Committee and sustainability initiatives through Sustainability Committee Corporate validated by the CEO, the management team and the n Executes global sustainability Practices Committee Board of Directors are swiftly executed by the Senior initiatives VP of Energy and Sustainability in coordination with the Management Team different regional/country presidents and leaders of other CEO Finance Committee Sustainability Committee relevant corporate functions. EVP Strategic PlanSix Regional EVP Organization EVP Finance and ing and Business Presidents [1] and HR Administration Development Senior VP Energy Senior VP Technology and Sustainability [2] and Safety [3] Corporate [1] Six regions: South, Central America Sustainability Six Regional and the Caribbean, Mediterranean, Asia, Mexico, Northern Europe Director Sustainability and USA. Coordinators [4] [2] Reports to President of CEMEX Northern Europe. [3] Reports to President of CEMEX Corporate Country Mexico. Sustainability Team Sustainability Teams [4] Reports to corresponding Regional President. < previous | contents | next > 82 OUR PERFORMANCE in detail Lead in sustainable construction 2011 2012 2013 [1] Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 87 100 100 Cement 100 100 100 Aggregates 83 100 100 Ready-mix 83 100 100 Sites covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 88 100 100 Cement 100 100 100 Aggregates 84 100 100 Ready-mix 89 100 100 CO2 Footprint Annual Average Cement (kg CO2e per ton cement) 798 770 770 Aggregates (kg CO2e per ton aggregates products) 4.9 5.0 5.0 Ready-mix (kg CO2e per m ) 3 275 277 277 Affordable housing and infrastructure 2011 2012 2013 Number of houses built under CEMEX affordable housing program 3,259 2,942 7,513 Thousands of square meters of concrete paving completed 8,045,350 8,338,258 7,418,845 Carbon strategy 2011 2012 2013 Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 43.1 42.6 40.3 Absolute net CO2 emissions (million metric tons) 40.0 39.4 37.6 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) 660 661 648 Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/metric ton of cementitious product) 612 612 607 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product from 1990 baseline (%) 22.7 22.7 23.4 Thermal energy efficiency of clinker production (MJ/ton clinker) 3,757 3,876 3,812 Fuel mix (%) 2011 2012 2013 Total Alternative Fuels 24.7 27.1 28.4 Coal 26.9 22.3 21.8 Petroleum Coke 38.5 37.2 37.6 Fuel oil 9.4 8.9 9.1 Natural gas 0.5 4.5 3.1 < previous | contents | next > 83 Alternative fuels rate (%) [2] 2011 2012 2013 Alternative fossil fuels rate 20.1 20.7 16.1 Biomass fuels rate 4.6 6.4 12.3 Waste types used as alternative fuels (%) [2] 2011 2012 2013 Industrial and Household Waste 65.3 66.2 46.7 Tires 16.2 14.2 10.1 Animal Meal 3.6 3.1 3.0 Agricultural Organic Waste 10.0 9.7 8.5 Other Biomass 4.9 6.7 31.7 Other carbon strategy indicators 2011 2012 2013 Alternative raw material rate 12.0 12.5 11.6 Clinker/Cement factor (%) 75.1 76.5 76.9 Indirect energy consumption (GWh) 7,164 7,460 7,266 Specific energy consumption, cement (kWh/ton) 118 117 118 Specific energy consumption, ready-mix concrete (kWh/cubic meter) 3.3 3.1 3.4 Specific energy consumption, aggregates (kWh/ton) [3] 6.9 5.1 4.8 Direct energy consumption (TJ) 191,323 195,505 185,261 Air quality 2011 2012 2013 [4] Clinker Produced with continous monitoring of major emissions (Dust, NOX and SOX) (%) 80 80 81 Clinker Produced with monitoring of major and minor emissions (Dust, NOX, SOX, Hg, Cd, TI, VOC, PCDD/F) (%) 82 81 81 Absolute Dust emissions (tons/year) 4,978 3,759 5,866 Specific Dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 101 78 127 Absolute NOX emissions (tons/year) 54,182 49,396 59,391 Specific NOX emissions (g/ton clinker) 1,094 1,025 1,261 Absolute SOX emissions (tons/year) 16,601 12,385 10,127 Specific SOX emissions (g/ton clinker) 335 257 215 Water management [5] 2011 2012 2013 Total water withdrawals by source (Millions cubic meters) 100.9 103.8 Surface Water 27.5 27.6 Ground Water 63.3 62.4 Municipal Water 8.6 10.6 Rain Water 0.8 0.8 Sea Water 0.0 0.5 Other 0.7 1.8 < previous | contents | next > 84 Water management [5] 2011 2012 2013 Cement (Millions cubic meters) 27.0 26.9 Surface Water 10.8 11.6 Ground Water 14.6 13.1 Municipal Water 0.8 1.2 Rain Water 0.2 0.3 Sea Water 0.0 0.3 Other 0.6 0.3 Ready-mix (Millions cubic meters) 10.4 11.1 Surface Water 0.6 0.2 Ground Water 2.8 2.2 Municipal Water 6.9 7.1 Rain Water 0.0 0.1 Sea Water 0.0 0.0 Other 0.1 1.5 Aggregates (Millions cubic meters) 63.4 65.8 Surface Water 16.1 15.8 Ground Water 45.8 47.0 Municipal Water 0.9 2.3 Rain Water 0.6 0.5 Sea Water 0.0 0.2 Other 0.0 0.0 Total water discharge by destination (Millions cubic meters) 24.3 29.0 Surface Water 19.6 17.5 Ground Water 3.6 9.7 Municipal Water 0.7 0.8 Sea Water 0.1 0.2 Other 0.3 0.8 Cement (Millions cubic meters) 3.7 4.2 Surface Water 3.2 3.3 Ground Water 0.0 0.1 Municipal Water 0.2 0.2 Sea Water 0.1 0.2 Other 0.2 0.4 Ready-mix (Millions cubic meters) 0.6 0.7 Surface Water 0.0 0.0 Ground Water 0.0 0.2 Municipal Water 0.5 0.5 Sea Water 0.0 0.0 Other 0.1 0.0 < previous | contents | next > 85 Water management [5] 2011 2012 2013 Aggregates (Millions cubic meters) 19.9 24.0 Surface Water 16.3 14.2 Ground Water 3.6 9.4 Municipal Water 0.0 0.0 Sea Water 0.0 0.0 Other 0.0 0.4 Total Consumption (Millions cubic meters) 77 75 Cement 23 23 Ready-mix 10 10 Aggregates 44 42 Total water consumption per unit of product Cement (l/ton) 382 376 Ready-mix (l /cubic meters) 182 194 Aggregates (l/ton) 328 317 Operations with water recycling systems (%) 90 86 Cement 78 78 Ready-mix 89 86 Aggregates [6] 96 91 Waste management 2011 2012 2013 Hazardous Waste Disposal (tons) 39,904 27,446 21,670 Cement 15,492 14,930 8,868 Ready-mix 1,784 1,854 2,477 Aggregates 22,628 10,662 10,325 Non Hazardous Waste Disposal (tons) 414,600 609,596 549,432 Cement 96,372 122,618 238,391 Ready-mix 315,476 483,338 307,889 Aggregates 2,752 3,640 3,152 Volume of returned ready-mix concrete material from total delivered % 0.76 0.95 1.00 Cubic meters 284,910 516,846 525,733 Secondary and recycled aggregates used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates % 0.27 0.33 0.21 Tons 312,276 245,541 194,353 < previous | contents | next > 86 Biodiversity management 2011 2012 2013 Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) 89 91 92 Cement 87 89 91 Aggregates 90 92 93 Number of active quarries within or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas 103 94 91 Cement 14 11 11 Aggregates 89 83 80 Active sites with high biodiversity value where biodiversity action plans are actively implemented (%) 38 41 51 Cement 50 45 64 Aggregates 36 41 49 Environmental management 2011 2012 2013 Operations with an internal Environmental Management System implemented (%) 86 89 92 Operations with our CEMEX Environmental Management System implemented (%) 65 Cement 98 Ready-mix 63 Aggregates 67 Operations with ISO 14001 Certifications (#) 448 586 605 Operations with ISO 14001 Certifications (%) 23 30 32 Environmental Investment (US Million) 95 139 95 Major environmental incidents Category 1 (#) 0 1 0 Moderate environmental incidents Category 2 (#) 83 52 87 Environmental Non-Compliance Cases (#) 129 131 97 Associated fines (US million) 1.5 2.3 0.7 Health and safety 2011 2012 2013 Total fatalities 44 18 21 Employees, total 5 1 3 Cement 2 0 1 Ready-mix 3 1 2 Aggregates 0 0 0 Other businesses 0 0 0 Contractors, total 24 11 11 Cement 10 10 5 Ready-mix 4 1 1 Aggregates 8 0 1 Other businesses 2 0 4 < previous | contents | next > 87 Health and safety 2011 2012 2013 Third-parties, total 15 6 7 Cement 7 5 3 Ready-mix 7 1 4 Aggregates 1 0 0 Other businesses 0 0 0 Fatality rate, employees (per 10,000 employed) 1.21 0.22 0.7 Cement 1.75 0.00 0.81 Ready-mix 1.95 0.64 1.35 Aggregates 0 0 0 Other businesses 0 0 0 Lost time injuries (LTIs) 2011 2012 2013 Employees, total 236 214 171 Cement 44 48 29 Ready-mix 121 130 110 Aggregates 22 16 13 Other businesses 49 20 19 Contractors, total 124 103 90 Cement 50 56 39 Ready-mix 38 24 30 Aggregates 8 4 4 Other businesses 28 19 17 Lost-time injury (LTI) frequency rate, employees (per million hours worked) 2.3 2 1.7 Cement 1.7 1.6 1 Ready-mix 2.9 3.4 3.1 Aggregates 2 1.6 1.3 Other businesses 1.9 0.7 0.7 Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Practices (%) 79 85 84 Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety Recommended Practices (%) 82 90 88 Operations with a Health and Safety Management System implemented (%) 99 100 100 Cement 99 99 99 Ready-mix 100 100 100 Aggregates 99 99 99 Operations certified with OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System)(%) 8 9 8 Cement 34 35 38 Ready-mix 5 7 7 Aggregates 15 12 11 Sickness Absence Rate (%) 1.8 2.5 2.2 Operations with a qualified health professional onsite or with access to an external health provider [7] 96 96 93 < previous | contents | next > 88 Corporate governance 2011 2012 2013 Reports of alleged breaches to the Code of Ethics received by local ethics committees (#) 221 325 324 Reports related to employee relations 29 53 60 Reports related to a form of harassment 40 53 42 Reports related to discrimination 9 7 5 Disciplinary actions taken as a result of reports of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics, other policies or the law (#) 119 140 178 Countries with local mechanisms to promote employee awareness of procedures to identify and report incidences of 100 100 100 internal fraud, kick-backs, among others (%) Investigated incidents reported and found to be true related to internal fraud, kick-backs among others corruption 0 0 0 incidents to government officials (#) Partnership with key stakeholders 2011 2012 2013 Workforce 44,104 43,905 43,087 Mexico 10,333 9,697 9,597 United States 8,322 9,791 9,432 Northern Europe 11,679 11,162 10,025 Mediterranean 4,404 3,946 3,826 Asia 1,319 1,199 1,178 South/Central America and Caribbean 4,501 4,977 5,793 Others (including Corporate and Neoris) 3,546 3,133 3,236 Breakdown of workforce by type of contract (%) Full time 99 99 99 Part time 1 1 1 Breakdown of workforce by level (%) Executive positions 5 5 5 Non-executive positions 37 35 35 Operational positions 58 60 60 Breakdown of workfoce by age (%) Under 30 17 16 16 31-40 31 31 31 41-50 29 29 29 51 and Over 23 24 24 Breakdown of workforce by gender (%) Male 89 89 89 Female 11 11 11 Female employees by level (%) Executive positions 13 13 14 Non-executive positions 23 25 24 Operational positions 4 2 3 < previous | contents | next > 89 Partnership with key stakeholders 2011 2012 2013 Male to female wage ratio 1.04 1.04 1.03 Engagement level 88 77 Participation rate in engagement survey (%) 75 78 Employee turnover rate (%) [8] 5.0 6.6 5.0 Employees represented by an independent union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement (%) [9] 54 46 46 Notice to employees regarding operational changes (average days) 40 40 40 Countries with practices to promote local hiring (%) 76 76 88 Training provided by operations (average hours) Executive positions 20 42 26 Non-executive and operational positions 15 20 27 Online courses through CEMEX Learning (#) 1,121 1,260 832 Employees with access to CEMEX Learning (#) 18,767 18,317 18,041 Employees of executive positions trained in Sustainability Leadership Program (#) 319 376 Sites conducting social impact assessments (%) 68 68 68 Cement 75 75 75 Ready-mix 67 67 67 Aggregates 70 70 70 Sites with community engagement plans (%) 97 97 97 Cement 96 96 96 Aggregates 97 97 97 Operations with employee volunteering programs (%) 43 54 67 Countries that conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys (%) [10] 86 89 79 Purchases sourced from locally-based suppliers (%) 94 95 95 Countries with a process to screen suppliers in relation to social and environmental aspects (%) [11] 86 67 72 < previous | contents | next > 90 Strengthen local communities 2011 2012 2013 Number of families participating in Patrimonio Hoy in Latin America Initiative (# accumulated) [12] 353,856 396,845 426,569 Number of individuals benefited from Patrimonio Hoy (# accumulated) [12] 1,921,731 2,063,767 Total square meters built in Patrimonio Hoy Initiative (# accumulated) [12] 2,593,094 3,040,490 3,315,863 Total number of families participating in Inclusive Businesses (ConstruApoyo and PCS) [13] 44,013 56,693 67,211 Total number of families participating within all social initiatives [13] 453,538 493,780 Total number of individuals benefited from all social initiatives [13] 2,188,289 2,363,867 Footnotes: [1] Every CEMEX country decides according to their market and customer needs to calculate the carbon footprint at a yearly basis. However, CEMEX is committed to do the complete calculation exercise for 100% of its facilities every 2 years. [2] The percentage of Biomass of 2013 has increased in accordance with the applicable accreditation and verification regulations for those countries covered by the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). [3] 2012 data recalculated due to an adjustment of the calculation methodology in some countries. [4] An update of our measurement methodology in some countries impacted our emission figures for 2013, which show a slight increase in Dust and NOX when compared to 2012. [5] Under the framework of CEMEX-IUCN Water Project, in 2012 we developed our own methodology to standardize the reporting of our water KPIs. For this reason, we have updated our water KPIs reported in 2012 in order to make them fully consistent with this methodology. In addition to this, in 2013, we have continued working on strengthening our reporting systems, which has lead to more accurate data than what we have collected before. By having a better understanding of our water KPIs, we are preparing ourselves to define actions to reduce our water consumption in the short term. [6] Considering sites that use water for aggregates production (including wet screening and aggregate washing). [7] Decrease in 2013 due to the number of active sites considered. [8] Voluntary turnover. [9] Total employees including executive and non-executive positions. Considering only operations, positions coverage is 75%. [10] Methodology indicates the survey must be conducted at least every two years, although some countries perform it in an annual basis. [11] 2012 recalculated due to an update of the consolidation methodology. [12] Historical data from Dominican Republic has changed due to a better measurement with the introduction of SAP system. [13] Accumulated years from all our social initiatives: Patrimonio Hoy since 1998, ConstruApoyo since 2005, and PCS since 2006. < previous | contents | next > 91 SUSTAINABILITY credentials and awards Sustainability Credentials CDP Outstanding Carbon Disclosure in Latin America For the second consecutive year the Carbon Disclosure Project named CEMEX as one of the best Latin American Companies in terms of climate change data disclosure in its second edition of the CDP Latin America Climate Change Report. CEMEX was positioned amongst the top eight of 32 major companies in five Latin American countries. The ranking recognizes CEMEX’s efforts to reduce our carbon footprint in the midst of industrial development. Climate Counts Report CEMEX ranked 26 out of 100 in Climate Counts’ report on the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions of global corporations. The initiative explicitly states that we are on track to reduce carbon emissions in line with scientific targets to avert dangerous climate change. The sustainable score emphasized CEMEX’s sustainable standing and commitment to avert climate change. Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Index For the third consecutive year, CEMEX was one of 28 companies to be part of the Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. CEMEX was evaluated on our management and use of natural resources, corporate governance standards and social responsibility with key stakeholders including employees, customers, suppliers and communities. UNGC 100 Index CEMEX was the only Mexican company selected for inclusion in the United Nations Global Compact 100, a new global stock index that combines corporate sustainability and baseline financial performance. The index selects companies based on their adherence to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles and evidence of their executive leadership’s commitment and baseline profitability. < previous | contents | next > 92 Sustainability Awards American Chamber of Commerce Social Business Mundo Ejecutivo Magazine Corporate Social Responsibility Award Responsibility Ranking CEMEX received the American Chamber of Commerce’s CEMEX Mexico was ranked first in Corporate Social Social Business Responsibility award for our Patrimonio Responsibility by the Mundo Ejecutivo Magazine. The Hoy program. The program has contributed to building ranking is audited by the Anahuac University IDEARSE 13,994 square meters of houses, fences, slabs and other Center. The recognition was obtained for more than 25 housing elements. years of achievements such as: Being the first one to implement ISO 26000 in Mexico, reducing 137,000 tons CCA Award of CO2, enrolling 2,600 children in football academies Assisted Self-Construction Integral Program (PIAC) and having 7,000 volunteers for social development received a Corporate Citizen of the Americas (CCA) activities. 2012/2013 award for Public Safety by the Foundation for the Americas, with support from the Organization of National Award for Cleaner Production American States, the InterAmerican Development Bank For the second consecutive year, CEMEX received the and AES Corporation. The award recognizes CEMEX’s National Award for Cleaner Production in the Materials commitment to achieving safer communities. category from the Ministry of the Environment. Green Choice Award NSSGA’s Environmental and Community Relations CEMEX in Philippines was the first and only Filipino Excellence Awards cement company to be awarded the Green Choice Seal, Three CEMEX sites in the U.S. won Gold Awards at the a voluntary eco-labeling initiative sponsored by the National Sand, Stone & Gravel Association’s (NSSGA) Philippine government. The program awards a company a Safety, Environmental and Community Relations seal of approval for environmentally preferred products or Excellence Awards. The company’s operations in New services. Braunfels, Texas; La Luz, New Mexico; and El Paso, Texas received recognition for their environmental excellence. Gold Stevie Award CEMEX received the Gold Stevie award in the PCA’s Environment and Energy Awards Management Issues category out of more than 3,300 Three of CEMEX’s sites in the U.S. received recognition applicants. The award is endorsed by the International for their commitment to improving the environment and Business Award and is the highest award in its category, their communities at the Portland Cement Association’s representing our dedicated efforts to crisis management. 12th Annual Cement Industry Environment and Energy Awards. CEMEX in Brooksville, Florida received the Land Gold Quill Award Stewardship Award, CEMEX in New Braunfels, Texas CEMEX Mexico won the Gold Quill Award in the Issues garnered the Innovation Award and CEMEX in Victorville, & Crisis Management category from the International California earned the Energy Efficiency Award. Association of Business Communicators for its SIMAC crisis strategy. UEPG Biodiversity Awards Two CEMEX sites received recognition for their contributions to biodiversity by the European Aggregates Association (UEPG). CEMEX’s Rugeley Quarry in the UK received a Recognition of Achievement for its restorative work and habitat management. The company’s Soto Pajares quarry in Spain earned the Special Award for Biodiversity for its actions related to the protection, enhancement and creation of key habitats for crucial species. < previous | contents | next > 93 advisory panel members and STATEMENT Advisory Panel Members We are pleased to note the continued progress and We encourage CEMEX to find ways to describe in a more commitment of CEMEX to sustainability and how integral comprehensive fashion, their contribution to society’s Irma Gomez sustainability has become to its business strategy. The wellbeing beyond taxes, dividends and salaries paid. Their Undersecretary for Management, Ministry 2013 Sustainability Report, Addressing the Urbanization contribution goes well beyond that but it is scattered of Environment and Natural Resources of Challenge, reflects a significant number of initiatives takthroughout the report. We encourage CEMEX to consider Mexico en during the year that enhance CEMEX’s responsibility reporting on their contribution to the six capitals, along towards society and the environment. the lines of the proposed framework of the International Felipe Pich Integrated Reporting Council, even if not preparing an Founding Director of Pich-Aguilera Scope of Our Review integrated report. While this is a complex subject, CEMEX Architects and President of GBCe, As in previous years the Sustainability Reporting Advisory should consider collecting information and performing Spanish Chapter of the World Green Panel reviewed an advanced draft of the CEMEX 2013 analysis on the contributions of its operations to society, Building Council Sustainable Development Report. We shared with manto report a more integrated and comprehensive view in agement our detailed comments and specific suggestions the medium term. We are aware that CEMEX has develfor improvement in reporting and by extension on their oped a new Sustainability Model and Priorities that will Leon Bennun activities. Given the nature of the process, some of our be launched during 2014, which we believe will enhance Director of Science, Policy and Information, comments can be immediately incorporated in the final its sustainability activities and focus its reporting even BirdLife International report; others must wait for the development of the better. We look forward to seeing the positive impact of policies, processes and information systems. Given the the new models and priorities in 2015 and beyond. experience of the last few years, we remain confident Antonio Vives that CEMEX will progressively incorporate our relevant Sustainable Construction Consulting Professor, Civil and suggestions in their activities and in future editions of the We note CEMEX’s efforts to develop more sustainable Environmental Engineering Department, report. We list here our general observations and conproducts and to promote sustainability labeling, to move Stanford University centrate on those aspects that will further enhance the beyond being a sustainable cement provider to being an company’s reporting in the future. actor in sustainable construction. We welcome its integral approach to its products, considering not only its end For more information on our Advisory Panel please visit Completeness and Clarity use, but also the potential savings to customers in wear our webpage. The panel is pleased to observe the considerable progress and tear and energy savings. We encourage CEMEX to achieved in focusing the report on the major sustainability continue to work in this direction and look forward to issues facing the company and tightening its content reporting on progress. to increase the relevance to the major stakeholders. Its readability has also been enhanced through its conciseness and its agile design, eschewing unnecessary pictures and presenting the key indicators in highly visible boxes and tables. < previous | contents | next > 94 UN’s Ruggie report, alongside a process to develop polivalue do not yet have biodiversity action plans actively cies and processes to respect all human rights, which will implemented. We reiterate the call we made last year for in turn lead to a more comprehensive actions and their CEMEX to develop a biodiversity strategy with additional corresponding reporting. We look forward to seeing these clear and quantifiable impact (not just process) targets, advances reflected in the 2014 report. based on an overall commitment to Net Positive Impact on biodiversity across the company’s operations. We Safety also encourage CEMEX to continue efforts to increase We are encouraged that the Time Lost due to Injuries coverage of the EMS on ready mix operations and has decreased, but we are concerned about the increase aggregates quarries. in the number of fatalities, including of CEMEX’s own employees. The number of fatalities, especially among Supply Chain Monitoring contractors, is still unacceptable as the President’s letter The panel is very pleased to learn of the efforts to emphasizes. We note that CEMEX has taken a significant enhance the sustainability of the supply chain, in number of preventive actions, but we encourage CEMEX particular the engagement of a consulting firm to help to further assess why some of these measures have not with the efforts. We look forward to the results of the reduced fatalities in a consistent manner. evaluation of critical suppliers, particularly those that are located in countries with relatively low social and Emissions environmental standards, and especially concerning We would encourage CEMEX to comment on the environmental management, working conditions, health evolution of actual emissions in recent years. Reporting and safety and other human rights. We also look forward should include direct and purchased emissions, not to seeing the actions taken by CEMEX as a result of the just avoided emissions, so as to cover all three of the evaluations. traditional emissions scopes. While comparison to the base line of 1990 is helpful, this is a very old base and Working Conditions it would be more helpful if reported in comparison to We are also pleased to see the progress achieved by the most recent three years. We note that fewer direct CEMEX in working conditions for their employees. CO2 emissions were avoided in 2013 compared to Recognizing the complexity of working in so many recent years, while per unit emissions for dust and NOx countries with very different cultures and standards, we emissions have increased, and hope these trend will be nevertheless would like to see more efforts in enhancing reversed. We encourage CEMEX to review the targets the number of countries where programs for child, for 2015, and provide additional targets for the medium dependent and elderly care are available. We also note term, including for CO2. the relatively low percentage of women in Executive positions and encourage CEMEX to report the results Energy and Water Consumption of their efforts to achieve a better gender balance, We were pleased to learn of the successful efforts to especially through removing ‘invisible‘ obstacles to continue the reduction of energy consumption and women’s advancement. net water and are encouraged by the increased use of alternative sources of energy, particularly from recycled waste, alternative fuel and renewables. In particular, we are pleased by the development of the water policy and look forward to the further reduction in consumption that its implementation and the external verification will bring. i.e, hours and financial resources, but does not on the Biodiversity outcomes of those efforts: how they have changed the While there has been significant progress during 2013, actions and attitudes of the employees. This would be around half the active sites with high biodiversity especially useful in areas like the results of training and < previous | contents | next > 95 awareness of sustainability issues, implementation of the Sustainability Reporting code of ethics, health and safety, compliance of suppliers The panel encourages CEMEX to analyze the implications with CEMEX sustainability policies and the consequences for its information systems of the extensive and complex of violations. reporting changes implied by the new GRI G4 reporting guidelines, and to prepare for their eventual adoption, Corruption particularly as the main thrust is on Materiality reportWe are pleased to notice that there have not been any ing. We recognize that the changes required will be a cases of corruption or bribery to government officials significant challenge but would hope that during 2014 a reported during 2013, but we encourage CEMEX to make decision is made in this respect. sure that processes do not discourage internal reporting and that there is a proactive effort to have access to independent information. Overall we are pleased with the positive trend towards sustainability being demonstrated by CEMEX, and continued improvements in how this is reported. We encourage the company to build on and intensify its efforts so as to make still faster progress in its contribution to sustainable development. obviously an average of all stakeholders and depend on the relative mix of them in the sample, some of whom, with few representatives, may have very critical issues that are overwhelmed on the whole by other stakeholders. In these processes the sample itself determines materiality, so appropriate sampling design is crucial. We would like to suggest that CEMEX determine which sets of stakeholders are critical for the company (in terms of power, legitimacy and urgency) and then assess the material issues for each group and decide on the basis of CEMEX priorities. This is especially important as the reporting under the new GRI G4 guidelines is determined by the materiality assessment. < previous | contents | next > 96 PwC's LIMITED assurance report < previous | contents | next > 97 A+ STATEMENT GRI application level check < previous | contents | next > 98 ABOUT this Report Reporting History and Cycle Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided CEMEX began publishing annual environmental, health, in this report is for the company as a whole. We have and safety reports in 1996, and published its first included information for the operations in which we have Sustainable Development Report in 2003. The company financial and operative control. If a plant is sold, its inforhas been engaged in annual sustainability reporting since mation is no longer included in our data or considered in then and published its most recent report in April 2013. our targets. If we have restated certain data sets from This, the company’s full 2013 Sustainable Development previous years because of improvements to our data-colReport, is our eleventh such report and covers the broad lection systems or changes to our business, each case is range of our environmental, social and governance issues clearly marked. All monetary amounts are reported in US and performance dollars. All references to “tons” are to metric tons. We applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The information for this report came from several G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines – Mining & sources, including internal management systems and Metals Sector Supplement to produce the full report, performance databases and our Sustainable Development which meets an application level of A+ for the sixth Report Survey, a questionnaire sent to all countries consecutive year. where we have operations. Data from this survey is then aggregated. This approach has enabled us to report Boundary and Reporting Period progress on our key performance indicators for the This report covers our global cement, ready-mix concrete company as a whole. and aggregates operations, presenting our sustainability performance, progress, achievements and challenges We aim to improve the transparency and completeness for the 2013 calendar year, which is also the company’s of each report that we produce while streamlining our fiscal year. We have emphasized those issues identified processes and the way in which we provide information. as high-priority through both our materiality analysis and We include a statement from PricewaterhouseCoopers, our sustainable development strategic planning process, which verified our data on greenhouse gas emissions, atas reflected in the seven priority areas of our Sustainable mospheric emissions, alternative fossil and biomass fuels Development Model. For more information as well as rates, environmental incidents and safety indicators for updates throughout the year, please visit the Sustainable our cement, ready-mix and aggregates operations. Development section of our website. In addition, we engaged our Sustainable Development Reporting Advisory Panel, which provides feedback on our reporting. < previous | contents | next > 99 Data Measurement Techniques • Clinker factor and alternative fuels: All material conWe employ the following protocols and techniques for sumption is reported to internal CEMEX databases in which measuring the key performance indicator (KPI) data that “alternative materials” are defined following the standards we report: from the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement Manufacturing Process. • CO2 Emissions: CEMEX reports absolute and speThe “clinker/cement factor” is calculated using the procecific CO2 emissions following the latest version of dures from the CSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet with the CSI Protocol, denominated: The Cement CO2 and information obtained from the databases. Energy Protocol, version 3.0, published in May 2011. As defined in the protocol, it considers direct emis• Safety: An internal CEMEX safety database collects all sions excluding CO2 emissions from biomass fuels related safety information from each site and automatand purchased electricity. Historical data shall remain ically provides the appropriate information to calculate unchanged given that the previous protocol is closely the indicators. The database is configured using the aligned with the simple methods for reporting of the WBCSD / CSI definitions. calcination CO2 emissions. For countries covered by the European Union Emission Trading System (EU ETS), CO2 Deviation from Protocols Emissions data corresponds to the one verified by and We have adhered to the GRI Protocols where applicable independent verifier in accordance with the applicable and feasible. As our data-collection systems are still in Accreditation and Verification Regulation. development, however, there are instances in which we have not applied GRI protocols. In such cases, the data • Dust, NOX and SOX emissions: Absolute and specific we have is the best manner in which we can currently figures are calculated based on kiln emission measurecommunicate our performance. ments taken from Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems (in those sites where kilns are equipped with United Nations Global Compact such technology) or spot analysis. These methods Communication on Progress fully comply with the CSI Guidelines for Emissions This report constitutes our Communication on Progress Monitoring and Reporting. All information is reported to toward the commitments of the United Nations Global CEMEX databases, processed, calculated and validated Compact (UNGC). As a signatory to the Global Compact, to provide a final group value. The values are calculated we work to align our company’s operations and strategies in Standard for 0ºC, 1 atmosphere and 10% Oxygen with its ten principles. We are also committed to helping (O2) content at measuring point. the world meet the targets of the Kyoto Protocol and Millennium Development Goals. • Energy: Fuel consumption indicators are reported to internal CEMEX databases in which “conventional”, The GRI index is cross referenced to the UNGC principles. It “alternative” and “biomass fuels” are classified according can be found on our website and is available for download. to the CSI Cement CO2 protocol spreadsheet. Heat values are obtained from on-site analysis (where applicaWe welcome your feedback on our sustainability reportble), value provided by supplier or standards from the ing and performance. Please send your comments and CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Use of Fuels and suggestions to sd@cemex.com, or write to us at: Raw Materials in the Cement Manufacturing Process. CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Av. Ricardo Margain Zozaya 325 San Pedro Garza Garcia, NL C.P. 66265 Mexico Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 < previous | contents | next > 100 2013 sustainable development report www.cemex.com
