SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2012 SNF France Index Index 2 A Message from the President 3 Social Policy Health and Training 4 Training / Global Compact 6 Risk Management Best Practice 8 Risk Management System 9 Environmental Protection ISO 14001 / Carbon Footprint 10 Results 12 A Pro-active Attitude 14 2 SNF France A growth which respects both people and the environment SNF France is a member of the SNF Group and sees itself as a leading company in water treatment and in all related applications. The numerous actions we have set up for many years in regard to sustainable development, particularly in the environmental , social and economical contexts (energy report, carbon footprint, sustainable development report, social report) are closely linked to our activity. Our strategy regarding sustainable development is based on the pursuit of the following commitments: • Acting in conformity with the law and the applicable environment regulations as well as other social and economical requirements. • Reducing our impact on the environment to a minimum by optimizing our energy consumption (gas, electricity and water) • Encouraging actions which can avoid damages to the environment, limit our carbon footprint and our needs of natural resources. • Following up on our environmental, social and economical performance indicators. • Infusing each member of the company and our partners with a sense of responsibility towards environment protection. • Make sure that trainings are carried out according to job requirements. • Communicate and inform within and outside the group on the impact of our activities. • Optimize the use of our feedbacks for the benefit of all companies of the group. • Track and evaluate our indicators regarding psycho-social risks. Setting up these commitments requests a periodical evaluation of our performance, which is regularly released through communication and information messages to all our staff and partners. With a view to constant improvement and prevention, our objectives are regularly reviewed and upgraded, taking into consideration results obtained, most recent scientific knowledge, new technologies at hand and social and economic context changes. In order to reach these objectives, we have defined and set up environmental, social and economic standards Management Systems. René HUND President SNF France 3 Social Policy SNF France ’s main objective is to seWe can mention: cure employment of its staff in good • “Miroir des anciens combatants” social and economic conditions. committee (war veterans), • Andrézieux basket ball club, SNF France has therefore set up mea• Saint-Bonnet-Les-Oules local potsures which guarantee its employees tery market, suitable trainings to maintain and • Help to skill transfer in water related improve their qualifications and skills; activities in Antsinava region (Madathe group also wants to be a social gascar), partner for both its employees and its • Overseas development in Sine neighbourhood. Saloum region (Sénégal) with CEDO association of Gramond. • Building of 12 water wells in Africa. Social policy • Donation to an association fighting Company societal responsibility is against Leukaemia. very important in today’s society. SNF France is well aware of it and wants Talking about young people profesto be a socially responsible compasional training, SNF France welcomed ny. We must feel responsible for our in 2012: Concerning the employment of resocial environment and insure the • 41 trainees in all departments, with duced mobility people and other dilongevity of our company and the validated training topics which helped sabilities, SNF France employs about future of our employees, our partners develop trainee skills and were of real 30 disabled people in different jobs. and our community. interest for SNF France. Our aim is to take into account any • 17 apprenticeship contracts or prodisability in the company and to set SNF France therefore shares these fessional contracts. up significant and long lasting actions efforts through essential financial aids • 3 primary school teachers and their for all actors in the company. This detoward development. pupils to reinforce links between protermination was awarded the “Handi fessional and education circles. Loire” label in 2010. In 2012 we can mention: • A group of high schools students to • Neighbouring town councils: introduce them to the different pro2,000,000 € fessions within the company. • Apprenticeship: 307,000 € • Buildings: 145,000 € SNF France has always favoured cooperation with universities on numeWe also participate to our local rous topics. We recently handed a council associative life by sponsoring 25.000 € donation to Saint Etienne sport clubs, associations, war veterans University on the theme of “non committees, or by donating to various conventional gas development”. humanitarian actions. Moreover, the company uses service companies which are specialized in the employment of disabled people, especially in cleaning and protection equipment cleaning (such as gloves). At the same time, SNF France organizes in all departments the collection of IT disposable products for associations who help people in great financial conditions. On a medical level, SNF France offers a medical care service with 3 nurses and a company works doctor. Thus, 4 each employee is personally followed disabled people. according to his job’s risks and his medical records. We hope thus to contribute on our own scale to setting up fair, social and Together with the Red Cross, we have responsible development patterns committed ourselves to organizing in fully compatible with ecological and our premises blood donations among social equilibriums in the long run. our whole personnel to contribute to local hospitals blood needs. We have SNF France personnel also trained our staff to problems linSNF France’s staff is mainly in producked to the use of psychoactive drugs. tion. Workshops work in 3 shifts 5/7 On top of work law and hygiene regudays. Saturdays are usually dedicated lations compulsory obligations, SNF to maintenance and to emergency France donates to its workers commitproduction orders. tee an additional sum of 200,000 €. This sum is dedicated to the welfare Since 1983, SNF France has witnessed a of the staff through holiday vouchers, constant growth of its workforce in all for example. socio-professional categories. mer’s satisfaction. Many other measures have been taken The SNF Group employs around 3700 by SNF, for example: people in 60 subsidiaries worldwide. SNF France workforce is traditionally • Health insurance: SNF France proWith 900 employees, SNF France emmen, since most people are employed vides and subscribes to a mutual ploys 25% of our global workforce. in production where they must handle health insurance group at favourable loads. (big bags and pails). prices The age average of our employees • Saving fund: SNF France offers a comis 39 years. The largest age group is pany saving fund to all employees. 41/45 years. It can be mentioned that • Pension fund: SNF France funds 60 % of SNF France employees have a supplementary private pension worked in the company for 10 years or scheme. more. And finally, SNF France being concerned by the well-being of its emResignation rate is extremely low: at ployees, has set up a psycho-social SNF France it went from 3 % in 2007 risks evaluation scale. to 2.33 % in 2012, which proves that employees feel comfortable in our As an active member of the UIC, SNF company. Of course it has a positive France enthusiastically took part in impact on work quality and custothe international year of Chemistry both in Lyon and Paris. Moreover, to support Chemistry in all its positive sides, SNF France donated over Management 20.000 Euros to the AIC association, 16% Workers affiliated to UNESCO and UN. 57% Technicians SNF France is also a member of va23% rious organizations which promote and respect the same values, such as: • A UN project called Global Compact, about human rights, working standards and environment protection which also fights against corruption. • CIRRID « International Centre for inStaff novation and resources in sustainable 4% development », on any issue related to sustainable Development. • Handi-Loire, for the employment of 5 Training HR webpage procedures and quality documents: Upon each distribution, we get the This Human resources intranet weblist of the employees who had it and page was created by SNF France in we can be sure they have read it. This 2007. interface also enables us to follow the Safety Moments in production worksIt is composed of 3 manuals which hops: these are short meetings in can be consulted by all employees; which safety questions are discussed the DIF guidebook (Individual right to (which safety themes were discussed Training), the GPEC guidebook (skills and who attended) and employment provisional management) and the RH guidebook (Human The HR webpage is a convivial tool, resources). These 3 tools present any accessible to everyone and constantly training scheme and skills manageupdated. ment tool available within SNF France as well as general HR information (disabled workers, pension schemes ....). Global Compact They were set up to encourage each SNF France has been strongly involved employee to become the actor of his in a sustainable development strategy if a long term balance is found at a own professional life, his training and for many years. social and environmental level. the optimization of his work ability in SNF France . We have taken part in many improvement projects related to the 3 sustaiBeside these guidebooks 2 interfaces nable development themes: are also accessible according to job • Economical: to maintain local empositions: a Training interface and a ployment and economical activity. Distribution interface. • Social: to guarantee our employees optimized working conditions. The first one enables managers to fol• Environmental: reducing to a minilow in real time which trainings their mum our footprint on environment. team members are doing, with foreseen retraining but also to validate This commitment is also acted the presence of workers in a training through SNF France membership to which they are organizing (presence the UN Global Compact agreement. SNF France signed this Global Comsheet and training grid). The values supported by the Glopact agreement two years ago. In bal Compact agreement are totally these 2 years, SNF France has reinThe objective of the second is to folconsistent with SNF France vision and forced its commitment towards the low the distribution of documents, commitment. A future can only exist 6 United Nations Global Compact promotion of the 10 principles of the teams by the URAPEDA (specific traiagreement, based on human rights, ning organisation). working conditions, environment protection and fight against corruption. The first objective of these 2 contracts was to make SNF France employees Our first communication on the prothe actors of this integration and traigress made is about sustainable devening scheme, and allow all staff to lopment and this report is available move forward on the subject of disafor downloading on our website www. bility at work; the second objective snf-group.com. was to give these 2 disabled workers a qualification, an experience and the Through its actions and initiatives, ability to join the company permaSNF France contributes to the pronently (one of them has now signed a motion of the Global Compact agreeCDI –permanent contract) ment values. The integration of these hearing defiIntegrating disabled workers cient workers created a real dynamic SNF France has subscribed to Club within the teams but also in the whole Handi Loire since 2004 to improve company (Many employees asked to integration, professional advancebe trained in signing….) ment and continuous employment of disabled people. Early in December 2012, the experience was renewed with the taking In this field, SNF France monitors vaon of a new hearing deficient worrious projects to give disabled people ker who will be trained as a chemical a professional status. industry production operator on a 17 month professional contract, togeEarly 2010, SNF France decided to ther with other chemical industry recruit a hearing deficient worker and companies. to train him as a production line operator. In June we met a second person with a similar deficiency and took him on into the project. The training was set up with the AFPI (continuous training organization) to adapt the training to the disability of both employees. A hearing deficiency awareness training was set up among production 7 Risk Management Practices • A lost time accidents frequency below 6. The safety of people and capital • A decrease by 30% of reported opegoods is a priority for SNF. The indusrational accidents, which means less trial risks which SNF France can be than 20 reported operational accifaced with are linked to chemical prodents with or without lost time in a ducts handling, industrial operations whole year. and transport. 2009-2012 A human commitment Training and information of the staff A more than positive result are carried out by a supervisors’ 2 lost time accidents less each year in network. the last 10 years! A culture for safety Thanks to the safety improvement The safety culture will progress thanks program, lost time accidents were to the daily commitment of everyone, divided by 3 in 10 years. managers as well as employees. The objective is to see behaviours improving and better practices set up. The2012 refore our trainings and our meetings An encouraging Second semust include two major topics: health mester and safety. Even if the number of lost time accidents slightly increased in 2012, it is Feedbacks important to mention that the seTraining is an essential tool for precond semester was more than satisvention. Feedbacks on incident or fying with only 3 lost time accidents malfunctioning make it possible to recorded. avoid these happening again, this is the reason why they are so important. Our objectives for 2013 After each incident or malfunctioning Over 25,000 hours Our objective in 2012 was to stabilize the circumstances and consequences of training per year were the frequency rate under 10. Our aim must be reported. A cause analysis given to employees including still being « Zero accident », it was therefore not reached. SNF France will be done and recommendations 9,000 hours commits itself in 2013 to pursue its made. Thus all feedbacks are formajust on safety. lized. efforts to reach: TF1 (taux de fréquence avec arrêt) TF1 = Accidents involving time off work per million hours worked 40 30 niveau national 24,3 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 8 The Risk Management System (RMS) Technological risk control Priority objectives and safety management • A systematic analysis of the risks SNF France has 2 plants in France that and consequences associated with its present risks according to the critevarious installations, both those that ria of the European Seveso directive. are in the course of development and Its Risk Management System (RMS) is those in need of important modificasubject to internal audits, and is also tions. audited by the DREAL*. • Feedback from experience, with an analysis of situations that have given rise to accidents, quasi-accidents or Over the last 25 years, SNF France has other significant incidents, so that been constantly improving its procorrective and/or preventive meacedures, including those which are sures can be taken. concerned with risk management. • Minimizing risks at their source, through the use of safe technologies, Right from the outset, SNF France has limited storage tanks volume, selecequipped itself with the resources, tion of raw materials according to both material and spatial, required for their risk factors, etc. compliance with quality, safety and • A constant dialog with the neighenvironmental norms. bourhood through CSS* • Geographical distribution of risks * CSS: Industrial Surveillance Commuacross an installation. nity Committee SNF’s Risk Management System com• Ongoing monitoring of the operatioplies with Annex III of the Seveso II nal functioning and safety of facilities. * DREAL : Direction Régionale de l’Enplan for the prevention of major acci• Internal audits of the Risk Managevironnement et de l’Aménagement et dents. ment System. du Logement • Regular exercises to assess emerThe RMS deals with individual resgency plans. * IPS: Important for Safety ponsibilities, reinforces staff training, • Periodical control of IPS* and MMR* and develops in-house systematic risk • Redundant MMR* * MMR: Risk Management Implemenanalysis, and also reinforces inspec• Efficiency evaluation of MMR*, restation tion and monitoring programs. ponse time, indenpendance, maintenance, • Automatic control of MMR* SNF’s Risk Management System is audited twice a year by the DREAL*. 9 Environmental Protection SNF’s policy consists in using greencing free monomers, replacing CMR field sites, thus, the infrastructures chemicals (i.e carcinogens, mutagens needed to deal with discharges can and reproductive toxins) by others be built into the design of a plant at which do not fall into this category, the drawing-board stage. • Proposals for an automatic measuring system that will optimise the proISO 14001 duct’s consumption, As far as environment is concerned, • Replacement of mineral by organic SNF France has always had a very clear coagulants which are more biodegrastrategy, based on commitments and dable and produce less sludge. precise objectives. This is reflected by concrete objectives in: Careful of our Environment, SNF France is ISO 14001 certified to forma• Energy consumption, lize its actions into the international • Emissions, environment protection management • Water consumption system. • Waste management, • Research and environment. We are also involved with the UIC (Responsible Care® partner) to act in sion to build our new plant on a 40 ha These objectives are monitored favour of environment protection and green-field site dedicated to industry, through indicators which are analysed therefore have: outside of town: thus the infrastructo define improvement actions (Quatures needed to deal with discharges lity Safety Environment Action) such • initiated a working committee, after were built into the design of the plant as: an external audit by an independent at the drawing-board stage. company, to reduce our energy • using fewer non re-usable packing consumption by acting on human bematerials, haviours as well as on our production • using fewer toxic chemicals : redutools and equipments. • carried out a carbon footprint ® with ADEME method, to define greenhouse Ecological gas emissions linked to our activity in order to reduce them and therefore Livable Viable lower our impact on environment. Durable Social Economical Equitable The best proof of our concern about environment protection was our deci10 Carbon Footprint Carbon Footprint® Year Emissions per tonne of To preserve the environment is the first manufactured product* objective of SNF France . Our policy 2007 353 kg Ceq/t regarding environment has therefore always been at the heart of our stra2008 366 kg Ceq/t tegy and is based on commitments 2009 375 kg Ceq/t and objectives. Doing carbon footprint 2010 358 kg Ceq/t measurements belongs to them. 2011 364 kg Ceq/t *these results apply to SNF France whole activity (energy, transport, raw materials, packing, SNF France used the ADEME method sub-contractors …) to evaluate greenhouse gas emissions. This audit was carried out with an exThose yearly figures enable us to set ternal company SOCOTEC. up improvement measures, especially concerning energy saving. A dedicaSNF France did its first carbon footted task force was created to work on print study in 2007 and the first results this topic and reduce our costs. were: 353 kg Ceq/t of manufactured product, on Andrezieux site in France . In 2009, 78 745 t Ceq emissions, which corresponds to 375 kg Ceq/t of manuThese first figures were obtained with factured products. This rise by 2.5 % calculation hypothesis, which implied compared to 2008 can be partially some uncertainties. explained by a production decrease. In the following years, we tried hard, To be mentioned is that the emission However, the opposite trend was on top of emissions reduction, to sharfactor corresponding to the energy observed in 2010 with a production pen our information collection and consumed to manufacture 1 tonne of increase and a significant drop of our therefore get more precise results. product is 54,1 kg Ceq in 2011. emissions -4,5 % with 358 kg Ceq/t for manufactured products. In 2011, we can observe a slight increase but our emissions seem to have stabilised. 1 Results Actions set up The trend of our gas consumption over An action plan is still in use to optimize the last 9 years, as shown in the hereunour energy consumption and improve der table shows that it is slightly going the efficiency of our plants. There are down (except in 2009) compared to the several projects to recycle end energy total quantity of products manufactu(hot air coming from the dryers) and red. using our utilities in a better way. To manufacture 1 tonne of finished product, our water requirements are now 20% below those 10 years ago. Tanks Results obtained washing has particularly been optimized The trend of our electricity consumpby recycling more water and develotion over the last 9 years, as shown in the ping new washing techniques (different hereunder table, shows a decrease comwashing nozzles now enable us to repared to the total quantity of products duce our water need by 75%). manufactured. Electricity 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Consumption 67 244 67 749 73 455 77 357 81 810 82 027 77 565 84 355 89 232 (MWh PCS) Consumption 460 424,2 406,3 400 385 371 370 347 328 MWh PCS/kt of finished goods Natural Gas 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Consumption 162 837 168 359 180 776 181 653 196 965 193820 187949 219 929 216 073 (MWh PCS) Consumption 1 114,5 1 054,4 999,6 939,3 926,1 876,6 895,7 894 795 MWh PCS/kt of finished goods Water 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Consumption 238 809 272 126 298 563 329 037 354 989 316 293 339 529 408 054 429 382 par an en m3 Tonnage of finished goods 121 525 159 677 178 459 193 422 212 677 221 071 209 842 246 447 271 819 Water consumption/ton1.96 1.70 1.67 1.70 1.67 1.43 1.62 1.66 1.58 nage of finished good (m3/t) 12 Waste Management Waste by our production workshops before SNF France environment impacts are being handled by our waste team. partly limited thanks to our waste • Powder waste is put in big-bags and management : source separation, buried in specific landfill sites, researching solutions adapted to the • Empty plastic drums and pales from different kind of waste and encoura25 to 100 l are sorted according to ging recovery channels, tracking waste their dangerous nature and incinerauntil final recycling, measuring costs ted in a specialized centre, or given and weights with indicators. back to suppliers. • Other empty packaging items are Waste is sorted in each workshop, also sorted according to the danthen handled by a specialized team gerous nature of the product they who takes it to a storing area dedicacontained: ted to each kind of waste : • Safe empty packaging items : col• Stainless steel trim, iron and copper lected in transparent bags. It is often scraps as well as engines and electric m•ade of label support papers, shrink cables are put in a special container, wrapping film, innocuous raw matethen sorted and recycled. rial bags…. And other industrial waste • Used empty big-bags are pressed such as canteen bins. These bags are ment actor(carrier, storing centre...) into bales then recycled to further use put in the DIB trash compactor and and is sent back to us when waste of raw material. are taken to a waste disposal unit to has been destroyed. This feedback • Cardboard is also pressed into bales be recycled or used as substitution enables us to inform the DREAL of the and sold to cardboard manufacturing fuel. destruction mode used. plants, • Reactive products bags (oxidizing • Office paper is stored in a specific material and organic peroxides) are There is a specific software dedicaarea and recycled by a company emcollected in yellow bags in the worksted to issuing BSD, putting in details ploying disabled workers, hops and then incinerated in a speciarelated to waste disposal (recycling • Wood pallets are taken back by our lised centre. or incineration, service companies…) suppliers. Broken pallets are repai• Bags containing potentially explosive various costs in relation with waste red, non standard pallets are used for products (ADR class 4.1) are collected disposal (transport, processing, tax on waste transport, and wood bits are in green bags, or in their original cardpolluting activities –TGAP-, container thrown into a container for energy board boxes; they are incinerated in renting…). This information helps us to recovery. small quantity in a specialized centre set up monthly internal indicators and • Computers, refrigerators and other in Switzerland, fill in the report document transmitDEEE are dismantled by a specialized • Other dangerous products bags ted each year to the DREAL. department and all elements are sor(irritant, corrosive, inflammable…) are ted to be recycled to their best. collected in red bags in the workshop • Neon lights are collected and reand are pressed and incinerated in a cycled, specialized centre. •1000 L plastic containers and 200 L plastic drums are taken back by a speEach waste shipment is prepared by cialized company, they are cleaned, the Environment department togeand depending on their state, can be ther with the waste collecting team. re-used, recycled or destroyed. This also is the case for 200 L metal barFor manufacturing rejects, powder rels, big-bags and other packing, infor• Active carbons are regenerated by a mation mentioned on the labels is specialized company and re-used. collected to track the rejects origin • Liquid distillation waste which was within SNF France and to set up waste used as fuel in incineration plants is indicators. now re-distilled by an external company to be re-used as solvent in maFor some dangerous waste and other nufacturing process. inoffensive waste, waste tracking slips • Manufacturing and laboratory reare filled in. These tracking slips will jects, filtration bags and other pacaccompany waste during transport kaged products are usually burnt in a until their final destruction. These specialized centre. They are identified documents are filled in by each treat13 SNF sas rue Adrienne Bolland ZAC de Milieux 42163 Andrézieux Cedex France Tel: +33 (0)477 36 86 00 Fax: +33 (0)477 36 86 96 info@snf.fr www.snf-group.com The data in this document are provided for information only. It is correct to the best of our knowledge, information and belief at the date of its publication. It does not constitute a specification and no liability is assumed, nor freedom from any existing product or application patents. SNF expressly disclaims any implied warranty or fitness for a particular use, under no circumstances shall Seller be liable for incidental, consequential or indirect damages for alleged negligence, breach of warranty, strict liability, tort or contract arising in connection with the product(s).
