2014 OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2014 2/7 In accordance with our investigation perimeter and our international development, we have analysed all the principles and we have concluded that we can justify of future actions for 6 principles. The 4 others are, for the moment, out of our perimeter of intervention (cf. Table under). . OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2014 3/7 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Actions Status/Deadline We have checked which commercial September partners have signed the UNGC or have 2012 undertaken others similar commitments Principle 1 regarding principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights We will encourage our commercial partners that have not already signed the UNGC but have already undertaken July 2015 others similar commitments regarding principle 1, to become signatory of the UNGC. Principle 2 In our current perimeter of intervention, Make sure that they are not complicit in we are not concerned by this principle. human rights abuses. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2014 4/7 LABOUR Principles Actions Status/ Deadline We have organized new election of staff December Principle 3 representatives. 2012 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining We will check which commercial December partners comply with staff 2014 representation. Principle 4 In our current perimeter of intervention, The elimination of all forms of forced and we are not concerned by this principle. compulsory labour Principle 5 In our current perimeter of intervention, The effective abolition of child labour we are not concerned by this principle. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2014 5/7 We have checked which commercial September partners have signed the UNGC or have 2012 undertaken others similar commitments regarding principle 6. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect We will continue to encourage our of employment and occupation. partners (clients and suppliers) that have not already signed the UNGC but July 2015 have already undertaken others similar commitments regarding principle 6, to become signatory of the UNGC. ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions Status/Deadline We have included specific criteria in the September purchasing process for a precautionary 2012 approach in the supply chain. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary We will organize brain storming, to approach to environmental challenges bring out ideas about applicability of sept 2014 principle 7 in our company 1We have included specific criteria in Principle 8 the purchasing process, in order to September Undertake initiatives to promote greater consider environmental impacts when 2012 environmental responsibility purchasing office items OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2014 6/7 2 – We have reduced electricity December consumption by installing a time 2012 commanded heating system. March 3 – Keep Wireless Antenna off while not 2014 necessary 4 – Ask our UNGC signatory clients to July authorize our employees using their 2012 company transportation network 5 – Install an insects housing in the terrace of our downtown headquarter September (in order to facilitate flowers 2014 reproduction and bee species preservation) Principle 9 In our current perimeter of intervention, Encourage the development and diffusion we are not concerned by this principle. of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption November Write a charter in all its forms, including extortion and 2014 bribery. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2014 7/7
