Transforming lives SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Table of contents 1 About this report 4 2 Executive summary 10 3 Our business 20 4 Our strategy 30 5 Our imperatives and opportunities 36 6 Our stakeholders 60 7 Our performance 66 8 GRI table 80 Our imperatives and opportunities We have organised this report around our imperatives and opportunities. Our imperatives are the actions that we need to undertake to maintain our current position and our opportunities are the future-looking initiatives that we need to initiate to realise our potential for growth. Jump to page 36 for descriptions of these 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT Transforming lives About this report Thank you for reading Identifying our sustainability matters the second annual A series of workshops was undertaken to identify our material sustainability matters and sustainability report to ensure that all economic, social and environmental impacts of the organisation are of Safaricom Limited included in this report. While every effort has been made to report every impact, if you feel anything pertinent has been excluded, we would welcome your feedback and (hereafter referred to as suggestions so that we can amend any such omissions in future reports. ‘Safaricom’), covering the reporting period of 01 April This report provides information on 2012 to 31 March 2013. the following material sustainability matters The purpose of this report is to present our stakeholders Network quality with a consolidated view of our strategy and Energy security operations, our material Innovation sustainability matters and our associated Customer experience sustainability performance. The scope of this report Our employees encompasses the Kenyan operations of Safaricom Environmental performance and there have been no Business partners significant changes in the size, location, structure Regulatory issues or ownership of our organisation during this Ethics and values reporting period. Reporting guidelines We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) version 3.1 reporting guidelines to develop this sustainability report and it fulfils the requirements for a B level application. For an overview of our GRI application, please refer to the GRI table on page 80. We are currently seeking external assurance regarding our most important sustainability disclosures in the next financial year. Our sustainability reporting continues to evolve and reflects our conviction that sustainability is a journey, not a destination. 6 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 7 About this report OUR BUSINESS Page 20 Page 30 Page 33 OUR STRATEGY OUR MATERIAL MATTERS Deliver the best network in Kenya Network quality Grow mobile data and fixed data Energy security Deepen financial inclusion Innovation Improve attractiveness to the youth market Customer experience Retain and reward our loyal customer base Our employees Build an innovative organisation Environmental performance Business partners Regulatory issues Ethics and values Navigating this report We value your feedback To help stakeholders achieve a more holistic understanding of how sustainability impacts our organisation and how we manage its 360°, interconnected consequences, we have included two new sections in Page 35 Page 35 this report. We have organised our sustainability matters in relation to our current imperatives (actions needed to maintain our current position) and OUR IMPERATIVES OUR OPPORTUNITIES opportunities (actions needed to realise potential growth). These are identified in Section 4 (page 30) and our management approach to each issue is Deliver the best network by maintaining and Promote positive customer experiences at all reported in Section 5 (page 36). enhancing network quality touch points Develop transformational products and services Actively deepen financial inclusion Each of our material sustainability matters is also described independently in relevant to different customer segments Innovate to service a growing youth sector Section 4 (page 30) and our performance in relation to each of these matters Minimise business disruptions to our business Promote sustainable practices within our is reported in Section 7 (page 66). We value your views and feedback ecosystem operations and business ecosystem on our sustainability reporting Maintain a productive, supportive and safe Roll out alternative energy solutions, ensuring and performance. Please email Throughout this report, we make reference to information contained working environment energy security for our future growth sustainability@safaricom.co.ke within the Safaricom Limited Annual Report, the Annual Report of Protect our reputation Continue to lobby and drive policy to ensure a the Safaricom Foundation and information that is available on the Comply with regulatory requirements constructive business environment Safaricom website. Rather than repeating this background information Promote ethical business and good corporate here, we have incorporated QR codes and icons to help interested governance readers locate this supplementary information as easily as possible. Safaricom Limited Annual Report Page 36 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Safaricom Website Page 66 Safaricom Foundation Annual Report OUR PERFORMANCE 8 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 9 2 executive summary Transforming lives EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Performance highlights KShs 444bn deposited into M-PESA via agents 124.29 19.42 21.84 107.00 19.07 16.87 94.83 17.18 11.78 83.96 15.79 7.56 KShs 522bn payments transacted between customers within M-PESA 17,100,000 Total number of registered M-PESA customers FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 KShs 390bn withdrawn Total Revenue in KShs. Billions Customer Growth in Millions M-PESA Revenue in KShs. Billions from M-PESA via agents Total TotalRevenue revenueIncreased by 16% increased Almosthalf Almost of of thethe half Kenyan Kenyan M-PESA M-PESArevenue increased revenue by increased to Oct. 2012 Mar. 2013 byKShs 16%124.3bn. to KShs 124.3bn population population customers nownow areare 29.5% to KShs21.84bn by 29,5% to KShs 21.84bn Safaricom customers 8.42 12.40 6.59 2,905 8.80 5.37 2,501 2,690 1,439 1,604 278 free cooling units 34 sites converted to powercubes 15,377 households with 2.98 2,162 203 8.00 8.00 We have installed 278 free cooling 1,140 We have converted 34 sites from units in all non-coastal indoor sites. M-KOPA Solar system 607 187 24/7 gensets to power cubes, These units have dramatically an extremely efficient hybrid M-KOPA Solar is a GSM-controlled, 193 reduced the energy consumption of energy system. We are the first affordable, pay-as-you-go 140 air conditioners by exchanging warm company in Africa to implement domestic solar power system, shelter air with outside cool air. the power cube solution. designed to help low-income For full data and discussion, see page 43 households in rural areas liberate For full data and discussion, see page 43 themselves from kerosene lighting FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 and having to rely on local mobile bureaus to charge their phones. Mobile Data & Fixed Service Base Stations Total (Inc. 2G) Total Dividends in KShs. Billions Currently, 15,377 households are 3G Revenue in KShs. Billions Wimax benefiting from this innovative Revenue from solution. Revenue from ourour mobile mobile data and Continued Continued investment investment in in infrastrucLargest dividends Largestdividends in Kenyan in Kenyan corporate serviceand data has grown fixed to grown to KShs 8.42bn KShs 8.42bn services has ture as part of ‘Best infrastructure initiative as Network Network in Kenya’ initiative in Kenya’ part of ‘Best history paid again corporate this year history year again thispaid 2,300 Digital villages successfully implemented Remote rural villages connected to the internet via cyber cafes. For full data and discussion, see page 54 For full data and discussion, see page 57 12 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 PERFORMANCE highlights (continued) EXECUTIVE SUMMARY M-Shwari the story so far M-Shwari makes it possible for ordinary Kenyans to save, earn interest Progress highlights M-Shwari and borrow money using their mobile phones and the M-PESA service. The story so far... Our 2012 sustainability pledges Our progress* Customer Spend Spend (Kshs. millions) Customer Agegroup age group (KShs Million) Energy security 18-22 2.5 Convert sites that are currently powered 24/7 by diesel generators to hybrid renewable energy sources 22-25 9.4 Improve efficiency in diesel and electricity consumption 26-30 18.9 Establish energy performance baseline data that can be used to benchmark us going forward Trial energy initiatives, including biofuels, hydrogen fuel cells and grid extensions 31-35 30.4 All retail stores to be lit using light-emitting diode (LED) lights 36-40 36.5 41-50 16.8 Network security Increase coverage in remote areas by rolling out new diet sites (miniature sites that run on 50+ renewable energy) 8.7 Complete installation of microwave backups at all Tier 2 and 3 ‘nodes’ (e.g. switching rooms or locations where high volumes of network traffic aggregate) As at 27 December 2012 Innovation EMPLOYEES Include customer feedback in internal performance scores Create alternative customer contact channels Leverage the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) infrastructure Co2 Our employees TOTAL STAFF Introduce an ergonomics software solution (to improve productivity and reduce the costs associated with workstation injuries and fatigue) 2,667 Achieve OHSAS 18001:2007 certification (to minimise Occupational Safety and Health (OSH)-related risks) Scope 1: 28 922tCO2e Increase workplace OSH training Formally constitute the OSH Steering Committee Scope 2: 31 655tCO2e Environmental performance men: 57% women: 43% Scope 3: 765tCO2e (new) Define targets and benchmarks for water consumption and waste management 1,526 1,141 Reduce the level of uncertainty in our carbon footprint calculations Total: 61 342tCO2e Implement an e-waste management programme For full data and discussion, see page 73 For full data and discussion, see page 78 * Progress as at 31 March 2013 14 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Message from our Chairman One year on, we are still very new to Despite the long electioneering season The Foundation and our CSI sustainability and have much to learn, and difficult global economic conditions, but I am particularly pleased to see the country has achieved cautious, mandate how enthusiastically the set of values but favourable outcomes. Inflationary Through the Safaricom Foundation, it represents have been embraced pressures have been tamed and we continue to partner with Kenyan and adopted across the company. economic growth has kept a steady communities countrywide. I am It is satisfying to see the economic, pace. particularly pleased with the wide range social and environmental impact of of over 100 projects and partnerships our activities becoming an increasingly All of these positive trends have initiated this year, in locations like automatic consideration across our enabled us to continue investing in our Marsabit, Laikipia, Kilifi, Bura, Samburu, operations. infrastructure and we have allocated Rongo, Marigat, Pokot, Habaswein and As Chairman of the Board, over KShs 24.88 billion of capital Meru, to name a few. From a strategic perspective, expenditure to improving our network it is my great pleasure to sustainability continues to be a symbol of and to strengthening our ability to serve present to you our second our common commitment to our shared the telecommunication needs of the sustainability report. We future, a positive principle that unites us Kenyan people. as we recognise our responsibility to help have learnt a lot during the I am also pleased that the Foundation shape that future. has actively shared lessons from last twelve months and this Regulatory impacts its experience through its quarterly report reflects our ongoing While we have made great strides dissemination forums with its project forward during the last year and are partners and key stakeholders, and the progress as an organisation The regulatory environment has a proud of what we have achieved, Corporate Social Investment Roundtable and as individuals. We we acknowledge that there remains significant impact on our sustainability meeting, which brought together as well and we continue to take a lead benchmarked ourselves a good deal still to be done and that role in negotiating with government and over 100 corporate leaders to discuss sustainability is a dynamic ongoing sustainable Social Investment models. from a sustainability the Communications Commission of We look forward to commemorating journey, not a reporting destination. perspective for the first Kenya (CCK), protecting and supporting the 10 year anniversary of the Safaricom the industry as a whole through robust, Foundation next year. time last year and this It is with this attitude of humble optimism we have allocated over subsequent report builds that we present this report. We offer it constructive dialogue and positive initiatives. KShs 24.88 billion of on that solid platform as the next exchange in our ongoing conversation about the sustainability Looking forward Our operating licence expires on the 30 capital expenditure to with a frank account of challenges that are motivating us and June 2014 and we are engaging with the As another exciting year of transition the progress we are making in response improving our network our performance and CCK regarding its renewal. With regards and growth draws to a close, I would to them. renewed objectives. Mobile Termination Rates (MTRs), the like to join the entire Safaricom Board and to strengthening CCK lifted its freeze on MTRs in November in acknowledging and celebrating the 2012 and reduced these to KShs 1.44, achievements of the company. Our our ability to serve the A transitional year backdated to July 2012. MTRs will further success is built on the tireless efforts of our staff and management and it is most telecommunication needs In many respects, this has been a reduce to KShs 1.15 on 01 July 2013. gratifying to see how readily sustainability of the Kenyan people transitional year for both the country and Other notable regulatory impacts has been embraced as a lens through which we can probe and evaluate our us. The macro-economic environment during the reporting period included performance. was subdued at the beginning of the introduction of a 10% excise duty the reporting period and so was our on mobile money transfer fees from 05 In closing, I would like to commend my performance. As the year progressed, February 2013, which has increased colleagues on their unflagging enthusiasm however, the economy started to M-PESA tariffs, and the successful and commitment to transforming the lives recover and so did we. conclusion of our campaign to introduce of Kenyans. It is your energy and vigour more stringent penalties for vandalising that inspires me to look towards the future The Kenyan people are to be telecommunications infrastructure with confidence and excitement. commended on a peaceful general with the passing of the Statute Law election. The manner in which the (Miscellaneous Amendment) Act 2012. electoral and legal processes were Safaricom Limited Chairman handled by all parties has strengthened Nicholas Nganga the confidence of both local and international investors. 16 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Message from our CEO As we continue to grow and evolve, so Transforming lives As this report includes only our second does our sustainability reporting and this carbon footprint assessment, there is reflected in the two new sections this We are convinced that continuously remains a certain level of uncertainty year. In this report, we have reported adding value to the lives of our subscribers in the completeness and accuracy of our material sustainability issues and through our technology, products and the information, but we are pleased to performance in relation to our current services has an exciting, key role to play report that we have qualified our Scope 3 imperatives (actions that have led to in sustainable development. We see emissions for the first time, which will help us our current position) and opportunities everyday how mobile technology is able understand our indirect emissions through (actions needed to realise growth). to uplift communities, empower citizens air travel and taxi hire. We hope that this will help our ecosystem and to help companies and individuals of stakeholders achieve a more holistic reduce their environmental footprints understanding of how sustainability by getting things done in smarter, more Sustainability makes sense impacts our business and how we efficient ways. In closing, we would like to thank you manage its 360°, interconnected An example of how we are committed to for taking the time to read this report. consequences. I am delighted to welcome creating innovative products and services It reflects the continued importance that transform lives is the launch of our new of sustainability to us as a business. We the publication of this, We have, again, reported on M-Shwari service. Designed to improve believe that embedding sustainability sustainability using the rigorous Global our second sustainability Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and financial inclusion and to help grow the into the way we do business is not just wealth of Kenyan citizens, M-Shwari makes operating responsibly, but central to our report. It marks another I am pleased to note that this report long-term success. it possible for ordinary Kenyans to save, important milestone fulfils the requirements for a B level earn interest and borrow money using their application, reflecting the substantial Our commitment to sustainability helps us mobile phones and the M-PESA service. and circumscribes progress that has been made during the earn stakeholder trust. It helps us cut costs Liberating Kenyans without access to an exciting period of reporting period. formal banking services from expensive and minimise risks by being more efficient and less wasteful. It boosts staff morale growth and evolution informal credit mechanisms, M-Shwari and productivity. It focuses us on using has already attracted over 1.2 million for us as a business. We Promoting sustainability customers. our technology to transform the lives of our employees, stakeholders, customers, are pleased to have partners and the wider communities that We remain an enthusiastic member of Our commitment to driving sustainable produced another strong the United Nations Global Compact development through more accessible, we serve and support. set of financial results, but (UNGC) Board and are committed to higher-quality mobile telecommunications We see everyday how remain conscious that our the Compact’s goal of encouraging businesses to align their operations and is not just rhetoric. It is also reflected in the launch of our ‘Best Network in Kenya’ Future outlook mobile technology is able long-term sustainability is strategies with 10 ethical principles. initiative. We have already invested KShs 24.88 billion in capital expenditure this As well as continuing our work on behalf We also recognise that we are part of a to uplift communities, not secured by financial wider business ecosystem and that we year and allocated 90% of this investment of the UNGC Board and deepening our engagement with the Kenyan UNGC performance alone. need to partner with other businesses in towards improving network quality, empower citizens and to promoting business ethics. capacity and coverage. office, two of our other priorities for the year ahead are to formulate progressive We have increased our sites to 2,905, of help companies reduce With this in mind we facilitated a CEO which 1,604 are 3G-enabled, offering the policies that will define and protect the rights of children and to explore potential their environmental breakfast on Ethics and Governance most extensive coverage in the country and we have also started an ambitious five green tax incentives. with the Kenya Association of footprints Manufacturers (KAM) that was attended year programme to build a national metro fibre optic network. by 30 CEOs. The breakfast focused on the role of private business in fighting corruption and the CEOs confirmed their Seeking energy efficiencies commitment to this cause. We have also continued to seek energy Want to get up close We have also continued our constructive efficient and renewable energy solutions and personal? conversations with all of our dealers and to deploy them wherever feasible. Use this QR code to visit the Safaricom and suppliers, asking them to embrace As part of this ongoing agenda, 34 sites website and watch a short video clip sustainability as well and to undertake that were powered by diesel generators of Chief Executive Officer, Robert self-assessments. I am gratified to see have been converted to ‘power cubes’, Collymore, presenting his message. that 120 of our largest suppliers rose an extremely efficient hybrid energy Safaricom Limited CEO to this challenge and conducted system, and 278 ‘free cooling units’ self-assessments, and a breakdown of are drastically reducing the energy Bob Collymore their evaluations is included in Section 7 consumption of air conditioners at our nonof this report. coastal indoor sites. 18 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 3 our business Transforming lives Our Business As an organisation, we have annual revenues of KShs 124.3 billion and have 19.42 million what we do customers in Kenya, Safaricom is an integrated communications company, providing voice and data As an organisation, we have annual communications services to consumers, businesses and public sector clients. revenues of KShs 124.3 billion and representing 64.5% of Shareholding in Safaricom is structured as follows: the Government of Kenya (35%), have 19.42 million customers in Kenya, the total customer base Vodafone (40%) and free float (25%). The company is listed on the Nairobi Stock Exchange, trading in the telecommunications and technology segment. representing 64.5% of the total customer base and 72.6% of mobile data and 72.6% of mobile data customers. Our M-PESA money transfer We operate solely in Kenya and our headquarters are located at Safaricom House in service continues to grow and is used by customers. Nairobi. We consist of a number of operating divisions, organised as follows: over 17 million people. CEO For further information on the direct This section presents and indirect value we provide to Executive Business Office & Profit Centres Corporate Centres a brief overview of the Project Management Office • Enterprise business • Risk management society, refer to page 26. • Consumer business • Customer care company and the business • Financial services • Marketing • Corporate affairs ecosystem within which • Finance • Resources we operate. It includes • Technology a summary of the products and services we provide, brief descriptions of our Channel Voice SMS Data (mobile Financial Devices data and fixed Services stakeholders and how services) (M-PESA) we engage with them, our value-added Description We offer a range We offer a variety We offer high M-PESA is a We offer a range statement and highlights of prepaid and of messaging speed data fast, safe and of devices, such as postpaid voice services, including connectivity affordable mobile mobile handsets, of the value we have plans, which are SMS and MMS, and corporate money transfer mobile broadband created and allocated often bundled with ‘call back’ SMS connectivity method. It has modems, routers, during the reporting SMS and/or data notifications for through fixed extended financial tablets, notebooks services. missed calls and and mobile inclusion to and laptop period, along with ‘please call me’ broadband. Kenyans without computers. a concise outline of messages. access to formal our governance and banking services. Achievements and Voice revenue SMS revenue grew Mobile data M-PESA 2.3 million 3G management processes. trends * grew by 13%, by 30%. and fixed service contributed 18% of devices on driven by revenue grew by total revenue. the network in improved network 28%. 2013 (1.2 million experience, M-Shwari of which are recovery from Active mobile (paperless banking smartphones). damaging price data customers services) was wars, convenient grew by 57% launched and airtime distribution, to 7.1 million, has 1.2 million and attractive representing customers. customer 37% of our total propositions and customer base. promotions. Fixed data customers grew by 12%. Revenue * KShs 77.66 billion KShs 10.13 billion KShs 8.42 billion KShs 21.84 billion KShs 4.93 billion * During the reporting period of 01 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. 22 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 Who keeps us in business We engage with eight stakeholder table provides an overview of these specific stakeholders we engage with groups as part of our business activities stakeholder groups, how they influence regarding each of our material matters, and have developed a stakeholder us as an organisation, what matters including the nature and frequency charter for each one that describes our most to them, and how we engage of our interactions, see Section 6 on commitment to that group. The following with them. For a detailed review of the page 60. Our stakeholder How they influence us What matters most How we engage charter to them We will communicate Our customers are vital to the Customer experience Customer care lines Customers honestly, offer simple and sustainability of Safaricom. Relevant, affordable Social media relevant products, and They provide feedback on our products Customer forums deliver on our promises to the products and services and Network quality Customer research and customer with speed and drive us to develop innovative Better value offerings surveys consistency. solutions. Website We will provide a great place Our employees are the Safe and exciting place to Training and refresher to work and grow, where both face of Safaricom and work courses on Safaricom individual accomplishments ambassadors for the Fair remuneration and products and services and team effort will be company. They continue benefits Staff portal Employees rewarded. We will provide to drive innovation and Career path opportunities Newsletters opportunities for personal ensure that we achieve our Company events empowerment and career company objectives. Our Team-building activities growth in an atmosphere of employees are also active Email trust, honesty and openness. participants in our Corporate Website Our stakeholder How they influence us What matters most How we engage Social Investment (CSI) charter to them agenda. We will work closely with Society provides us with Access to transformative Media (traditional and We will enhance shareholder Our shareholders provide us Corporate performance Briefings Kenyans to be a respected a conducive operating mobile solutions social) value by adherence to with capital, which supports Governance and ethics AGMs and empowering contributor environment, and a market Responsible expansion of AGMs Shareholders the highest standards of our growth. Long-term sustainable Bulletins to society. While we for our products and services. network infrastructure Website Society corporate governance and value creation Email participate as an integral part Access to health, Newsletters world class management Return on investments Reports practice. Our shareholders in the upliftment of society, education and financial Company events should expect timely and our relationship will be built on services Reports accurate information and the the principles of partnership, Briefings opportunity to engage with us humility, openness and through various forums. professionalism. We will build constructive, Our relationships with our Legislative compliance Industry wide forums We will continuously and The media provides us with Access to accurate and Media (traditional and respectful, open and regulators influence our Quality of service and Reports and submissions proactively engage with the a platform through which timely information social) transparent relationships with ability to manage our risks network performance on issues media in a factual, speedy we can communicate with Awareness of products and Briefings Regulators all regulators. Whilst being and maintain our license to Licenses and taxes Public participation and honest way, in order customers in Kenya and services Company events compliant with all regulation operate. Public meetings to participate actively in globally, and also influences Reports Media and applicable laws, we will informing public opinion. We our brand and image. adopt a firm approach on will take a lead role in building issues that may be detrimental industry knowledge among to industry growth. various media groups and We will engage in mutually Our business partners are a Sustainability of Safaricom Business meetings hold them to account for beneficial and sustainable key part of how we engage as a business Company events responsible reporting. relationships with all business with our customers and the Pricing and profit margins Email The future is now and our Future generations will Developing transformative Website Business partners Future generations partners in an environment of overall customer experience. Timely payment and Briefings conduct and business influence the future and relevant solutions Reports equity, mutual respect and Our suppliers also impact on favourable terms practices today must environment within which Ensuring responsible and honesty. We are committed our ability to provide quality be designed to create Safaricom will operate. sustainable corporate to growing Kenyan businesses products and services in and shape a sustainable activities and will offer preferential a responsible and ethical tomorrow. support to innovative local manner. businesses. 24 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 21.84 PY 16.87 FIXED SERVICE VOICE 2.11 VALUE 77.66 PY 1.37 GENERATED PY 68.96 The value we have created MOBILE DATA 6.31 125.68 PY 108.36 AWARDS PY 5.22 June 2012 July 2012 October 2012 Value generated MESSAGING 10.13 AWARD AWARD AWARD PY 7.77 Direct and indirect value Value-added Statement All values are in KShs. Billions. Cisco Cloud Partner of CIO 100 Awards Top tax payer to society OTHER the Year for Africa 2011-2012 2.70 Winner of Communication Sector PY 2.23 award for ‘Kenya Integrated Mobile HANDSET We create direct and VALUE GENERATED 4.93 Nominated for being the first partner in Africa to launch TP as a service, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health The Kenya Revenue Authority named Safaricom as the top tax indirect value for all of M-PESA 21.84 PY 5.94 investment in Cisco-powered cloud Information Platform’. payer of 2011-2012. our stakeholders through PY 16.87 VALUE ALLOCATED services and for achieving Cisco Managed Services accreditation. our business operations. FIXED SERVICE VOICE We also contribute 2.11 Current VALUE 77.66 PY 1.37 GENERATED PY 68.96 indirect value to society income tax GOVERNMENT 125.68 through the following MOBILE DATA 7.91 PY 108.36 14.27 = 6.31 mechanisms: PY 5.22 + PY 10.47 License MESSAGING fees EMPLOYEES October 2012 November 2012 November 2012 10.13 • Cellular network 8.39 6.36 PY 7.77 • Financial inclusion PY 7.51 DIVIDENDS AWARD AWARD AWARD • Digital inclusion 12.40 • Digital villages • Internet8.80 PY and data services VALUE GENERATED Road Safety Changing Lives Champion of the • Corporate social investment VALUE ALLOCATED DEALERS AND AGENTS Award 2012 Award Year (Corporate • M-PESA 19.53 Winner of the Association of Winner of the Changing Lives Award Governance) & CEO FINANCE • Election EXPENSES monitoring and reporting Current PY 16.54 of the Year 2012 income tax Kenya Insurers’ (AKI) Road Safety for Daktari 1525 service at AfricaCom. • Public2.84 sector services GOVERNMENT 7.91 Award in recognition of the 14.27 = PY 3.66 • Corporate sector services PY 10.47 + company’s contribution and Winner of the Institute of Certified License commitment to road safety. Public Secretaries of Kenya (ICPSK) • Education EMPLOYEES • Health VALUE fees 6.36 LANDLORDS 8.39 Champion of the Year Award for Corporate Governance excellence DIVIDENDS 1.15 PY 7.51 SAFARICOM FOUNDATION 12.40 ALLOCATED the Commercial and Services Sector 0.21 PY 8.80 PY 1.05 Award, 2012 and Chief Executive PY Value-added0.21 statement 125.68 DEALERS AND AGENTS 19.53 Officer of the Year 2012. FINANCE EXPENSES 2.84 PY 108.36 PY 16.54 The direct value we have generated PY 3.66 and allocated as a business is VALUE SUPPLIERS LANDLORDS February 2013 February 2013 February 2013 1.15 illustrated in the value added RETAINED SAFARICOM FOUNDATION ALLOCATED PY 1.05 40.67 0.21 FORstatement. GROWTHFor furtherDepreciation detail PY 0.21 125.68 PY 38.36 26.21 our financial regarding = statements, PY 108.36 AWARD AWARD AWARD & amortization PY 21.77 please refer to our Annual Report. 22.14 RETAINED SUPPLIERS 40.67 Top 50 most The Green Mobile Top 10 Global Social + FOR GROWTH = Depreciation PY 38.36 innovative companies Award Media Enthusiast 26.21 Retained PY 21.77 & amortization 22.14 in the world income + Runner up in The Green Mobile Award Only African brand in global Retained category at the Global Mobile Awards top 10 (ranked 2nd place on Twitter 4.07 income Nominated one of the 2013 for M-KOPA solar solution. and 4th place on Facebook) for top 50 most innovative companies 4.07 keeping customers informed and in the world by Massachusetts for responding to customers swiftly Institute of Technology (MIT). and appropriately, recognised Total Paid to government PAYE and withholding taxes 5.19 Total Payment to government is KShs 46.14 by Social Bakers. Total Paid to government PAYE and withholding taxes 5.19 Net Value Added Taxes 10.99 License fees 6.36 Total Payment to Billion, Duty (Stamp, Excise and Import Taxes) 11.35 government is KShs which represents government's tax income. 46.146% of approximately Net Value Added Income Taxes 10.99 tax 7.91 Dividends 4.34 Billion, which represents approximately 6% of License fees 6.36 Duty (Stamp, Excise and Import Taxes) 11.35 government's tax income. Income tax 7.91 Dividends 4.34 26 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 Our Business How we are managed Governance The Board and includes elected representatives in the areas of human rights, labour, Accountability from each division. Some of the key environment and anti-corruption. Good governance is the foundation The Board is heavily involved in issues that have been raised during the This sustainability report is also a upon which we build and sustain approving the strategic plans of the reporting period include: reflection of our UNGC commitment to value. Integrity is fundamental organisation, which includes factors report honestly and transparently on our Board of Directors • Wellness days: Company Wellness implementation of the 10 principles. to commercial sustainability and affecting sustainability. During the investor trust. Our Board of Directors reporting period, the Board met twice to days are predominantly held in Nairobi and Executive Committee (ExCo) review strategy, and the CEO updates (at HQ, SCC and JCC), as a result, In addition to the UNGC, we also remain committed to the highest the Board on economic, social and staff in the regions and retail centres subscribe to the Global Reporting levels of corporate governance, environmental performance every miss out. This exclusion was raised on Initiative (GRI), International Financial Board of COMMITTEES Sema na CEO and then reviewed and Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the ethical management and responsible quarter. The CEO is responsible for control. We foster a culture that social, economic and environmental the decision has since been taken Kenyan Capital Markets Authority values and rewards the highest performance and is the sustainability to include more locations outside of (KCMA) Corporate Governance ethical standards and personal and champion on the Board. A Governance Nairobi to cater for all staff. Framework. We are also members of AUDIT NOMINATION & ETHICS corporate integrity. All directors and Charter, which will outline the processes the following industry associations: COMMITTEE RENUMERATION COMMITTEE employees are expected to act with COMMITTEE for evaluating the performance of the • Team-building sessions: The Enterprise Kenya Association of Manufacturers; honesty, integrity and fairness, in Board as a whole and as individual Business Unit (EBU) team includes a International Telecommunication Union; accordance with the laws of Kenya members, is currently being developed number of contractors, who were not GSM Association, and the Kenya Private and with respect to the cultures of and will be finalised by September 2013. involved in team-building initiatives. Sector Alliance. the Kenyan people. This was raised on Sema na CEO and, The Safaricom Board consists of since then, the contractors have EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE been taken for a hybrid team-building For further detail regarding the 11 members, nine non-executive governance structure of the (of which three are independent) session and will be included in future organisation, please refer to our and two executive directors. The sessions. Annual Report and website. Board undertakes conflict of interest declarations and any potential conflicts • Employee loans schemes: ENTERPRISE CONSUMER FINANCIAL of interest are discussed during meetings An escalation of the interest rates on BUSINESS BUSINESS BUSINESS of the Board; if applicable, these staff loans during the reporting period, conflicts are disclosed appropriately. led to many employees paying RISK CORPORATE All employees at Safaricom also make exorbitant amounts of interest on their MARKETING FINANCE MANAGEMENT AFFAIRS declarations, in terms of employee loans. To help address this, the HR team Safaricom people relations and/or business relations. renegotiated the rates with the various survey CONSUMER STRATEGY & providers, as well as bringing on board RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT INNOVATION The Nomination and Remuneration new providers, to ensure that staff pay Our annual independent Committee (REMCO) recommends equitable, affordable rates. and nominates individuals for Board employee survey was interviews. Members of the committee • Staff tariffs: In response to an issue conducted by the Ethics Risk management Remuneration consider specific skills (technical, raised on Sema na CEO, staff tariffs for Hay Group. The survey telecommunications, financial and voice and data were reviewed. attracted an impressive Risk management is considered Our remuneration policy aims to attract general management) and gender. We are committed to ensuring 88% response rate and everyone’s responsibility at and retain leaders of the highest Shareholders also nominate people to We engage our shareholders through that ethics and integrity underpin Safaricom. The Risk Management calibre. Compensation for the highest the Board. our Annual General Meeting and there was a strong, day-to-day business practices in Safaricom. We have constituted an Division carries out periodic governance body, senior managers through our Investor Relations team. positive improvement risk assessments to monitor our and executives is linked to performance Ethics Committee to inform and drive over the 2012 results. this agenda within the organisation environment and performance. indicators that include social and Engagement mechanisms We benchmark ourselves against environmental performance, as well Enlightened corporate Business managers have and have signed up to the Kenyan other leading telecommunications as strategic and financial deliverables. been communicating the Businesses Code of Ethics as a Safaricom engages with its staff through citizenship operators and independent Group ExCo members also volunteer company. This ambition is supported assurance is provided through both their time and expertise to organisations a number of mechanisms. These include results to their staff and by a series of ethics and corruptionthe Sema na CEO (‘speak with the Our CEO, Bob Collymore, was appointed internal and external audit functions. and charities, serving communities in the feedback from these related policies. (Further detail CEO’) chat room, the annual people to the United Nations Global Compact As a company, we endeavour to need through the Safaricom Foundation sessions will be used to regarding these policies is available apply the Precautionary Principle World of Difference programme. The survey and Staff Council Meetings. The (UNGC) Board in April 2012. The UNGC in the Ethics and Values commentary to all of our activities to ensure that annual pay increases awarded to Staff Council meets on a quarterly basis encourages companies to benefit the determine how things can on page 47 in Section 5 and on page we continue to act as a responsible executive directors are kept in line with to address issues and concerns raised economies and societies in which they be improved even more. 79 in Section 7.) corporate citizen. overall employee pay increases. by employees. It is chaired by the CEO operate by committing to 10 principles 28 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 4 our strategy Transforming lives Our strategy Our vision Our material matters Living the Safaricom vision A series of workshops interventions in response to climate related (designed to deliver a specific change. Yet this is a high priority task, commercial outcome from the outset). were undertaken to especially as we look to expand our Jump to page 71 for further identify our most material network. information about our sustainability matters performance. Our systems and services rely heavily on and the imperatives and energy and any interruption in supply, opportunities associated such as outages of grid electricity and Customer experience with each of these. This national shortages of diesel fuel, poses a A favourable or positive customer direct challenge to the continuity of our section describes these operations. experience translates into business This is our material matters and how continuity and sustained profitability goal through customer retention, repurchases they influence or impact Kenyan regulations relating to energy and word-of-mouth promotion. As a are also becoming more stringent. The us as an organisation. Our Energy Regulation Commission, for result, we consider every customer experience or interaction to be an approach to managing instance, now requires owners or lessees important business opportunity. There are the imperatives and of facilities (factories, commercial three aspects to managing customer buildings, institutional buildings and experiences. The first is to implement the opportunities associated local authorities) to carry out energy right processes and procedures to ensure with these material matters audits of their facilities at least once consistent, satisfactory interactions with Safaricom services, products and staff. is described in Section 5. every three years. These audits have to be conducted by registered energy The second is to use a combination of service excellence and appropriate auditors and the Commission has the marketing to create delighted customers Network quality right to verify these assessments with who are happy to be ambassadors for This is how independent evaluations, if deemed the brand and to advocate our products All services offered by Safaricom are necessary. we will go and services. The third is to resolve provided through different network about it customer complaints and issues speedily. infrastructures and network quality is There are also some opportunities in the Jump to page 72 for further an essential aspect of our business and area of energy security, nonetheless, information about our fundamental to our ability to deliver a such as the amending of Kenyan law performance. This is what satisfactory service to our customers. to allow the cogeneration of energy. we must do While we continue to endeavour to This will enable Safaricom to generate provide a stable, high quality network, energy at one location (from solar, wind, Our employees there are a number of challenges that biomass etc.), feed it into the grid and we have to respond to on a regular consume it at a different location. Our employees are essential to the basis, including vandalism, security, Jump to page 71 for further sustainability and success of Safaricom information about our as a business. A happy, healthy, energy availability and M-PESA service productive workforce is a critical interruptions. performance. component in a high-performance Jump to page 69 for further organisation. Our vision of transforming information about our lives begins with transforming the performance. Innovation lives of our employees. One aspect of this vision is to create a supportive Innovation is central to achieving our working environment that allows us to Energy security strategic objectives, retaining our attract, develop and retain the best competitive edge and ensuring that staff. Another aspect of this vision is Planning and managing company we continue to grow. While innovation to safeguard the safety and health of energy costs, especially costs related encompasses our processes and everyone, not just of our employees, to the use of fuels, is an increasingly procedures, our focus is on developing but also of our contractors, visitors difficult task. Fossil fuel markets are transformational products and services. and anyone interacting with our set to become more volatile and Our innovations are social (directly infrastructure and operations. unpredictable due to higher global improving the lives of Kenyans), financial Jump to page 73 for further energy demand, supply and production (providing formal financial services information about our uncertainties, and increasing regulatory to the unbanked) and/or revenue performance. 32 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 33 Our material matters (continued) Our strategy Our imperatives and opportunities Based on our vision Imperatives and material matters, we have identified a Deliver the best network by maintaining and enhancing network 39 quality number of imperatives and opportunities. These Develop transformational products and services relevant to different 41 balance our short-term customer segments position with our longMinimise business disruptions to our business ecosystem 42 We take a long-term view and understand term strategy. We view our imperatives as those that positive environmental performance Maintain a productive, supportive and safe working environment 44 actions that we need to makes sound business sense. undertake to maintain our current position and our Protect our reputation 47 opportunities as futurelooking initiatives that Comply with regulatory requirements 49 Environmental Business partners for the provision of telecommunications we need to initiate to performance services in Kenya remains constructive. realise our potential for Jump to page 79 for further Our business partners include suppliers growth. Our approach to information about our One of the central challenges and dealers and are an important part managing each of these is Opportunities of our age is how to uncouple of our value chain. We rely heavily on performance. human progress from resource use our partners from both an operational described in Section 5. and environmental deterioration. Promote positive customer experiences at all touch points 50 perspective and also in terms of We appreciate the significance our reputation. It is essential that we Ethics and values of environmental risks and manage our relationships with our uncertainties and how these affect Acting ethically is not only a key Actively deepen financial inclusion 52 business partners to ensure mutually investment decisions and consumer responsibility of ours as a good beneficial and sustainable associations. behaviour. We take a long-term corporate citizen, it also makes business Jump to page 79 for further sense. Ethical practices bolster the Innovate to service a growing youth sector 54 view and understand that positive information about our environmental performance makes reputation and trust enjoyed by an performance. sound business sense. organisation, strengthen employee Promote sustainable practices within our operations and business ecosystem 54 engagement and improve stakeholder Effective environmental sentiment and interest. We view ethical Regulatory issues business practices as non-negotiable Roll out alternative energy solutions, ensuring energy security for our management offers many benefits. future growth 57 It can help an organisation to and continue to promote these The regulatory environment within which principles throughout our value chain rethink its operations and to Safaricom operates is increasingly Continue to lobby and drive policy to ensure a constructive business reduce costs by uncovering and the wider business ecosystem in environment 58 complex. The nature of the industry Kenya. new efficiencies. It can also help requires the company to remain an organisation focus on being Jump to page 79 for further innovative and discovering compliant with a wide range of different information about our Promote ethical business and good corporate governance 59 rules and laws, including licence performance. different, smarter ways of doing conditions, sector regulations, by-laws things, making the company leaner, and government legislation. As well more agile and more resilient in an as being part of our responsibilities as increasingly resource-constrained world. It also contributes indirectly a good corporate citizen, failure to by helping an organisation to comply damages our reputation and avoid the penalties for breaching exposes us to penalties, onerous fines environmental laws. and other remedial sanctions. As a result, Jump to page 77 for further we consider public policy lobbying information about our an important task and a vital way of performance. ensuring that the operating environment 34 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 35 Transforming lives 5 our imperatives and opportunities our imperatives and opportunities Managing our imperatives Delivering the best network by maintaining and enhancing network quality Network quality is a core component of our business and we are undertaking the following actions to ensure that we continue to provide a high quality service to all of our network users. Challenge Response Vandalism We continue to suffer equipment losses and service disruption due to acts of vandalism. These acts are usually targeted at our fibre optic network, telecommunications equipment and power generation apparatus. We continuously review and upgrade the security measures and mechanisms we have in place, but we believe that the regulations protecting the infrastructure that provides the essential service of telecommunications should be more stringent and we are lobbying for this to happen, in partnership with other industry stakeholders. Safety The safety of our staff, our partners and our contractors comes first. Instability and security concerns in various parts of the country have had a negative impact on BTS site maintenance operations. The most affected region has been the North Eastern Region, although the recent instability experienced in the Tana Region has had an impact as well. While expensive, an armed security escort is usually engaged to provide protection to workers We have identified a during site visits. The uncertainty also forces us to adopt a more aggressive and expensive approach number of imperatives to maintenance, carrying out additional preventive maintenance measures when on site. and opportunities, Power instability Energy availability is central to network stability. In this regard, we face two main challenges: which balance our stabilising the erratic supply received from the national grid and supplying energy to areas that short-term position with lie outside the national grid. our long-term strategy. Our focus is on exploring ways of making our network more energy efficient through technological improvements and investing in alternative or renewable energy solutions where Our imperatives are the practical. Where it is not feasible to implement a green solution, we safeguard network stability actions that we need to by installing diesel generators to provide backup power. undertake to maintain M-PESA service delays Our M-PESA money transfer service continues to grow and is used by over 17 million people. As our current position and we strive to match this continuous growth, technical hitches have led to service delays and/or our opportunities are the unavailability. Obviously, this causes a level of dissatisfaction among M-PESA service customers. future-looking initiatives We are in the process of fundamentally transforming the M-PESA and M-Shwari platforms and that we need to initiate have put the necessary financial and technical investment in place. We have also put in place programmes and procedures to minimise the risk of service delays in the short-term. to realise our potential for growth. This section Creating the best network In November 2012, we launched the Best Network Programme and committed to having the describes our approach to best network in the country (through all measures) by November 2013. managing each of these in From a network quality perspective, this means that we will provide our subscribers with the best voice, mobile data, fixed data and Value Added Services, both in terms of qualityand availability. further detail. We have made a huge monetary and resource investment in order to achieve this goal. Fibre network instability A substantial proportion of all network failures are the result of instability in our fibre network. On the whole, this instability is caused by road construction and acts of vandalism. In order to address this challenge and achieve the stability and capacity required to service both consumer and enterprise demand, we have started rolling out our own expanded, high quality fibre network. Over 500 kilometres of fibre cable will have been deployed by the end of July 2013. 38 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 39 Managing our imperatives (continued) Developing Examples of our recent Health Challenge Response transformational products innovations include the • TB Care Program Management (TIBU) Network expansion We have to expand our network capacity constantly in order to keep up with the continuous and services following products and TIBU is a patient and resource growth in demand for services and minimise network congestion. services: management system designed to help Innovation is critical to our continued Kenya reach the 70/85 Tuberculosis An aggressive 2G and 3G site expansion programme was undertaken in this financial year and competitive edge and success. (TB) targets and objectives set out in over 240 BTS sites were rolled out. The programme included the roll out of sites in areas that previously had little or no coverage, as well as in areas where coverage had degraded (mostly Accordingly, we have devised a Agriculture UN Millennium Development Goal strategy to help us embed a culture of 6 (i.e. 70% detection and 85% cure as a result of the development of high rise buildings in urban settings). While BTS site acquisition innovation within the organisation. The ICow of detected cases). A partnership remains a challenge, co-location opportunities are explored wherever possible. strategy is based on four characteristics ICow is a mobile application that between Safaricom, the Ministry of We have also invested heavily in our 3G infrastructure to enhance mobile data performance typically exhibited by successfully enables small scale farmers to access Public Health and Sanitation, USAID and experience. Unlike 2G network coverage, 3G coverage ‘shrinks’ as 3G mobile user density innovative companies: the capacity agricultural information and services on and our innovation partners and increases. This calls for intense and continuous planning and re-planning of the 3G network to to challenge orthodoxies, harness their mobile phones. The application integrators, the record-keeping ensure an acceptable quality of service is provided. trends, understand needs and assists farmers in record keeping for system improves efficiency in TB leverage resources. We use these four individual animals and educates farmers Network coverage patient management by tracking the Network Quality characteristics as strategic ‘lenses’ on how to follow the best farming compliance and progress of patients Network Quality through which to examine and reassess % of Kenyan landmass practices, helping them to keep their who are being treated. The system 68% the organisation. 2G % of Kenyan landmass animals healthy and productive. also provides a financial incentive to 68% 2G % of Kenyan population The ICow platform now has 70 140 users patients to ensure that they complete 88% % of Kenyan population We adopted the ‘4 Lenses of Innovation’ 88% and, while new services will be launched the full course of treatment, known strategy in February 2013, created the in the near future, current services as the Patient Support Allowance % of Kenyan landmass ‘Safaricom Innovation Infrastructure’ to 22% include: (PSA), and over US $300 000 has been 3G % of Kenyan landmass channel and expose innovative ideas 22% • Mashauri — a subscription-based reimbursed to patients through more 3G % of Kenyan population from around the company, and formed 52% % of Kenyan population service that sends farming tips to than 146 000 mobile payments via 52% four, multi-disciplinary teams with the task farmers on how to keep their animals M-PESA. Network modernisation The modernisation of our legacy radio network equipment is necessary to improve voice call quality, of assessing the ideas being generated. healthy and how to maximise yield decrease the number of dropped calls, reduce congestion and enhance data performance. from their animals. • AfyaTips Our innovations are social (directly Approximately 500 BTS sites have already been modernised and more than 100 sites are in the AfyaTips is an SMS-based information process of being modernised. Our ultimate goal is to have the entire radio network modernised. improving the lives of Kenyans), financial (providing formal financial services service that provides personalised During this financial year, modernisation has been carried out in the following regions: Nyeri, to the unbanked) and/or revenue Education information and advice to individuals Meru, Eldoret, Kericho, South Nyanza, and the larger Western regions of Busia, Kitale, Kakamega related (designed to deliver a specific on a range of medical and wellness and Port Victoria. • Safaricom blackboard issues, such as pregnancy, diabetes, commercial outcome from the outset). We believe that e-learning will nutrition, weight loss and lifestyle Enterprise network services With the growth in enterprise services offered by the company, there has been a need to help Kenya overcome some of the disease management. A partnership expand the enterprise network to meet, and exceed, desirable levels of quality of service. As resource challenges the country faces between Safaricom and PurpleTeal part of the expansion, we have invested in re-designing and re-building the core enterprise in education, as well as improving Ltd, the service was launched on 6 network to make it resilient, robust and highly available. We also have the largest WiMax access to education for all Kenyans. November 2012 and aims to have one (broadband) presence in the country. We have invested in an e-learning million subscribers by the end of 2013. system for schools, universities, Customer experience In the fast-paced, highly competitive telecommunications sector, we need to provide a colleges, institutions and corporates. • Linda Jamii (micro-health insurance) management service that matches or exceeds customer expectations. To help us do this, we have adopted As well as making a wide range Linda Jamii is an innovative medical a customer experience monitoring model that bridges the gap between network equipment performance and ‘real’ customer experience. of interactive learning materials micro-insurance product that offers inand content available to students and outpatient cover, funeral benefits As part of our ongoing service improvement efforts, we undertook an exercise to streamline our anywhere and at anytime, Safaricom and other value added services to processes. Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL), the best practice framework for blackboard allows teachers and low-income Kenyans who cannot service delivery, has been implemented to achieve this, with desired outcomes being observed tutors to create and upload their afford formal medical insurance within the 12 months of implementation. own content, such as course notes, cover. A partnership between Long Term Evolution (LTE) Looking towards the future, Long Term Evolution (LTE) is currently being assessed by the quizzes and other support materials. Safaricom, Britam and Changamka, Government as a way of creating more broadband capacity in the telecommunications market. Students can also purchase official the solution allows subscribers to save syllabus-related eBooks that have and contribute slowly, from as little A major evolution in terms of technology and infrastructure, we have to ensure that we are been certified by the Kenya Institute of as KShs 10 a day, until they reach ready to offer these services in order to remain competitive in the telecommunications industry. Education (KIE) through the system. the premium threshold. The service 40 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 41 Managing our imperatives (continued) Minimising disruptions to Specific initiatives to manage energy security and minimise the disruptions caused by our business ecosystem power instability include the following: Minimising the disruption caused by Initiative Description power outages is one of the most important challenges that we face. Power cube A first in Africa, we have converted 34 sites from 24/7 gensets to power cubes. A power cube is an As part of safeguarding our network conversions extremely efficient hybrid energy system in which all the power components are housed in one energy security, we ensure that all sites enclosure. The components (generator, fuel tank, dc power system, batteries and controller) are all where the cost of grid connection is factory integrated to reduce generator runtime, human interference, prolong battery life, reduce fuel less than KShs 9 million are connected theft and enable remote monitoring. immediately and that, where possible, grid connection is undertaken before a Free cooling unit We have installed 278 free cooling units in all indoor sites not in coastal areas. These units reduce the site switches live. All sites not connected installations energy consumption of air conditioners by exchanging warm inside air with cool air from outside when to the grid are powered using alternative the ambient temperatures are lower than the inside temperatures. As most of our sites are in areas of energy sources, such as power cubes moderate temperatures, it has been possible to achieve significant savings with these units, especially at and renewable energy solutions. night. Power grid By working closely with the Kenya Power and Lighting Company (KPLC) and Rural Electrification extensions Authorities (REAs), we are able to take swift advantage of extensions to the national grid and use this Network energy sources power to supply our sites. The programme is ongoing and approximately 95% of the sites targeted this Power source(s) Number of financial year have been connected. sites costs a family less than they pay for a packet of milk a day. Premiums and claim Low voltage Auto One hundred sites have had low voltage APS units installed. These units allow the switching of voltages 24/7 genset 79 payouts are made using the M-PESA platform. Although it has not yet been officially Phase Selector at sites at much lower voltages than normal (as low as 120V) and deep cycle batteries so that even Diet site 14 (APS) installations when the grid is completely non-existent, the site can run on stored energy for a period of time. All new launched, the service has already attracted over 7 000 subscribers through word-ofmouth, with services available at over 600 hospitals and health facilities around the Enhanced hybrid site 17 sites will feature APS units going forward. country. KPLC (Grid) 2,466 Facilities energy Within our facilities, we have created redundancies in the energy infrastructure to ensure that the loss of KPLC/No genset 297 redundancies one system does not paralyse our operations. Redundancy levels have reached level 4 (four different backup systems) in critical facilities, such as the HQ1 Data Centre. Humanitarian response Mini-enhanced 6 hybrid site The redundancy measures that have been implemented ensured zero downtime during the last 18 • Refugees United is a family tracing service that helps refugees, internally displaced Powercube 34 months, even though electricity shortages have been experienced at our data centres due to main and stateless people to search for, and reconnect with, missing family or friends. To board failures and a generator catching alight after overheating. Solar/Wind 55 date, over 200,000 people have registered with the service and an updated version that allows people to register via USSD and SMS services, as well as via the web and TKL/No genset 3 mobile phone (WAP) will be launched in June 2013. The aim is to assist over 1 million We have also embarked on various projects in our buildings to reduce energy registered displaced people globally by 2015. consumption and maintenance hours, including: Business services Initiative Description • Mobile video Hybrid power As part of our ongoing programme to make our facilities more energy efficient, we have installed a hybrid This is a video conference service that runs on smart mobile devices. It allows supply system power supply in the Safaricom gym. The system uses solar power to heat the water used in the gym. individuals and mobile workforces to collaborate and interact with colleagues, customers and vendors while on the move or away from the office. The objective is Office lighting All of the lighting in our major offices (Safaricom Care Centre, Jambo Call Centre and HQ1) has been to bundle the collaboration service into our mobile data offerings and to provide an converted to energy efficient LED lighting, which is controlled by occupancy sensors. enterprise mobility solution that can be scaled to suit any size of business, from SMEs to corporates and government institutions. Retail shop lighting We are also in the process of upgrading the lighting in our retail shops to energy efficient LED lighting, controlled by occupancy sensors. To date, the lighting at seven of our 40 shops has been converted. • OneConnect The conversion process is ongoing. OneConnect is a fixed voice product that unifies and simplifies enterprise communication needs into one solution. The solution consists of a fixed voice and numbering plan, single billing system and internet service, supported by a single point of contact support team and dedicated account manager. The objective is to provide a total business communication service that can be scaled to suit any size of business. 42 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 43 Managing our imperatives (continued) Maintaining a productive, supportive and safe working environment Our employees are integral to the success and sustainability of our operations. As described in our Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Policy, we are committed to safeguarding the safety and health of all employees. In order to create a safe and exciting place to work, we have embarked on a number of initiatives, including the following: Initiative Description OSH plan We have developed a high level OSH plan based on our health and safety policy statement objectives, our safety and health strategy and strategic directions, our safety and health audit results, our safety and health risk assessments and our statutory requirements. The plan describes milestones and KPIs to measure OSH performance. It also addresses the four specific, high risk activities associated with our business operations: driving safety, work at height safety, electrical work safety and legacy infrastructure risks. The Technology Division has also developed a work at height permit system that is integrated into site access procedures to help improve compliance. The plan is monitored and reinforced by senior management tours of Safaricom sites. The tours are also conducted to demonstrate senior management commitment to OSH. Plan implementation is also vetted by the Vodafone Group on a bi-annual basis. OSH policies and We have developed a comprehensive range of OSH policies and procedures, including: the Safaricom procedures Safety and Health Policy; the OSH Plan; the Safaricom Safety and Health Management System Initiative Description Framework; the OSH in Supply Chain Standard; the Electrical Safety Standard, and the Work at Height Standard. Targeted OSH We have embarked on targeted OSH training to entrench a health and safety culture across the training company. OSH inductions for new employees are held every quarter and task-specific training is given OSH management We have developed an OSH management system that ensures we adopt a comprehensive and to employees in roles that feature particular risks, for example, 84 staff members who undertake rigging system systematic approach to managing safety and health matters and that will enable us to achieve OHSAS work were trained on height safety in October 2012. Five hundred and three members of the Safaricom 18001:2007 certification in the near future. Emergency Team also underwent Occupational First Aid and Fire Marshals training, in compliance with legislative requirements and to equip them with the skills and knowledge to perform as emergency OSH steering In July 2012, we constituted a steering committee comprised of ExCo and divisional safety champions in responders. committee order to provide leadership on OSH functions and programs to the various OSH sub-committees. Under the chairmanship of the ExCo safety champion, the divisional safety champions meet each quarter to Online training courses will be made available to staff in the new financial year and the company has address safety issues. already acquired licenses for 29 online safety courses through the Safaricom E-Class Portal. OHSAS 18001 We want to achieve OHSAS certification by FY 2015. Our OSH management system, policies and Team-based awareness sessions have been held with various divisions to improve safety awareness and certification procedures have all been developed to help us achieve this. Our risk management system, Isometrix is to provide feedback on safety performance. In addition, the Learning and Development Department also being configured to help us achieve certification. Scoping activities have been undertaken and we holds quarterly Chemsha Bongo quizzes in which safety-related questions feature. expect to complete full configuration of the system in the next financial year. Absolute safety We reviewed and merged the three sets of Absolute Safety Rules into one set of six simple rules. The rules six rules address the basic safety standards that prevent maiming and fatalities. The revised rules were communicated to staff through the staff bulletin, OSH committees, posters, wall art and digital media messaging. GPS tracking systems and security surveillance are used to monitor driver behaviour and enforce the rules. 44 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 45 Managing our imperatives (continued) Talent management • Performance management Initiative Description As part of our ongoing effort to embed a high performance culture, we reviewed This year, we managed to on-board and launched a new way of managing performance between employees and all of the skills we required. We focus line managers. We have also introduced performance calibration meetings that Ergonomics We have procured 1,000 ergonomically suitable seats for workstations in the Jambo Call Centre, solutions along with ergonomic footand wrist-rests. We are also introducing software to help staff develop our recruitment on growing internal will improve the performance of the organisation by fairly rewarding top performers good computing habits, which will help improve productivity and reduce the costs associated with talent and identifying external talent and by helping low performers improve their contributions. The ultimate goal is workstation injuries and fatigue. more productive employees and every member of staff is required to partake in the for unavailable/rare skills and have performance management programme and to receive regular performance and achieved a 50:50 internal-to-external Audits In compliance with statutory requirements, we audited 45 facilities from an OSH perspective and career development reviews. hire ratio. We also have a 1:1.34 femalesubmitted our findings to the DOSHS. Workshops were held with ExCo and the responsible division heads to-male ratio across the business; on the findings and corrective action required. OSHA audits were also undertaken at 380 BTS sites and • Employee shareholder scheme 1.4% of our employees are physicallythe company carried out fire safety audits at 60 facilities. We have also introduced two employee shareholder schemes: challenged and 30% of our leaders Employee share option (ESOP): The ESOP was issued to all permanent employees are female. on 26 February 2010. It had a three year vesting period and employees are Safety awareness A safety awareness week was held in April to commemorate World Safety and Health Day on 28 April. week Employees were engaged on safety-related issues throughout the week. currently exercising their shares for a period of one year. Some of the initiatives we have Out right grant: The outright grant is a performanceand potential-based In addition, during the United Nations Global Road Safety Week in May, staff participated in a series of undertaken this year to attract and scheme pegged on talent reviews. It is grade-based and issued to senior awareness-raising activities that called for improved pedestrian safety, including walks on Mombasa retain the best staff include: managers from grade 4 to grade 2. It is issued annually and the first tranche was Road and Waiyaki Way in Nairobi. awarded in July 2011. Safety road show A company-wide road show was also undertaken in which employees were engaged on road safety • Talent management programme issues. Driving represents the greatest accident risk to staff (75% of all incidents) and employees were The objective of this programme is to challenged to reduce the number of driving-related incidents. identify and nurture high-performing Protecting our reputation and high-potential employees. This Remuneration Our workforce is remunerated based on wages that are subject to Kenyan minimum wage rules. Our year, 88 employees were identified In many respects, our reputation is one of our most entry salary is 5 times higher than the minimum wage. There is no gender distinction on standard entry and are currently undergoing various level wages. important assets. It helps us to attract and retain development initiatives. customers, investment capital and talented employees. We provide a number of benefits to all of our employees, including: medical insurance, work/injury benefits, as well as annual, sick, maternity, paternity and compassionate leave with funeral expenses. • Job rotation programme We recognise how easily a good reputation can be Permanent employees are also provided with a pension, car allowance, group life insurance, social Through our internal job rotation tarnished and take a number of steps to protect our clubs, group personal accident insurance and stock ownership. None of our staff are covered by programme, we have placed 70 reputation, including the following: collective bargaining agreements; however, we do have a Staff Council which meets on a quarterly employees in different roles to help basis to address issues and concerns raised by employees. them gain skills and exposure in areas • Competition concerns and perceived dominance of career interest. No official finding has been made in this regard, but, owing to our market share, Employee wellness Our employee wellness strategy aims to encourage healthy living, ensure quick and easy access to Safaricom is perceived as being dominant. This perception has significant medical facilities and to promote workplace wellness. We believe that this improves quality of life and • Internship programme ramifications because if we were to be found dominant in certain markets in the leads to increased productivity, reduced medical costs and absenteeism, and enhanced recruitment We participated in six career fairs at telecommunications industry, we would be subject to additional regulatory scrutiny and retention. and obligations. Competition law in Kenya provides that an entity abusing its universities across the country. At the We offer a number of wellness initiatives, including: employee wellness programs, employee and family fairs, Safaricom employees interacted dominant position in the market can attract sanction and a heavy penalty of up assistance programs, financial wellness programs and alcohol and drug abuse programs. with students in an informal setting to 10% of revenues. Accordingly, we focus on making sure that our operations and and educated them about available actions in the market are in compliance with the law and that we compete with We also offer a number of amenities at our offices for employees, including lounge areas, a prayer room other operators fairly. (JCC), gyms, a cyber café, cafeterias, a mothers room, games areas, in-house crèches (HQ1 and JCC) career options and requirements. and an in-house clinic (HQ1). From the fairs, we drew the interest of • Ethical business practices more than 3,000 graduate students We believe that ethical business practices are not only an integral part of protecting Safaricom wellness Throughout our wellness awareness campaign, we aim to inspire and educate employees and enable and successfully provided internship awareness them to take full responsibility for their own health and wellbeing. Employees can raise or share their health our reputation, but are critical to our sustainability and success. As a result, we opportunities to 200 of them. campaign concerns, get information on current health issues and receive a comprehensive health check-up. We put promote an organisational culture that values the highest ethical standards of together a team of doctors from various medical professions to offer free expert services to employees. personal and corporate integrity and expect all of our directors, employees and Our commitment to the wellness of our employees is not restricted to this particular campaign, however, suppliers to act with honesty, integrity and fairness. and we run programmes throughout the year. These programmes encompass physical, mental, emotional and family health, and we also offer a counselling service to staff, if needed. In total, 2 036 staff participated in various wellness programmes during the reporting period. Doing business the right way: Safaricom 2.0 encapsulates our ethical standpoint and includes eight E-Classes In total, we have had 4,253 visits by both permanent and temporary staff members to our E-Class online charters that describe our commitment to our stakeholders (see page 24). These charters are backed up learning portal, with 992 employees having completed 3,837 modules. In the inaugural Safaricom E-Class by a number of other policy documents, including the Safaricom code of conduct (providing guidance to graduation ceremony, 226 members of staff were conferred with E-Class certificates across various fields. staff), our supplier and dealer codes of conduct, our corruption policy, gift policy, blacklisting policy, fraud policy, supplier sponsored trips policy and amnesty agreements. 46 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 47 Managing our imperatives (continued) Complying with regulatory requirements, lobbying and driving policy to ensure a constructive business environment We have developed a Regulatory Charter which Our approach to managing regulatory issues commits us to developing We have adopted the following specific strategies to manage regulatory issues: constructive, respectful, • Proactively ensuring compliance with licence obligations, legislation, regulations, We engaged in a number of initiatives during the reporting period to help ensure that open and transparent by-laws and regulator guidelines. we always act with the highest ethics and values, include the following: • Actively engaging with regulators through face-to-face meetings, written relationships with all submissions and memoranda when changes to the existing business environment regulators. While remaining are under discussion. Initiative Description compliant with all • Facilitating workshops and information sessions with regulators, members of the media and affected stakeholders to discuss public policy issues affecting the Ethics risk An ethics risk assessment was carried out by an independent consultant in order to gauge the ethical regulation and applicable telecommunications industry. assessment perceptions and expectations of our internal and external stakeholders. These stakeholders included laws, we will adopt a firm • Attending stakeholder workshops and lobby on behalf of the employees, dealers/agents, suppliers and government institutions. The findings of this survey were used to develop the ethics strategy of the company. approach on issues that telecommunications industry. may be detrimental to We have made fairly good progress in implementing these strategies and aim to ensure Board Audit The BAC, which has oversight over ethics management (among other duties), carried out a selfindustry growth. continuous compliance with the current laws and regulations that affect our business. Committee (BAC) assessment to benchmark itself against best practice and to identify areas for improvement. The self-assessment assessment was based on the Audit Committee Institute questionnaire. The BAC also developed its charter and code of conduct, and documented its policies and procedures. Controls selfIn order to improve the controls governing every process within the company, a ‘controls self-assessment We engage with regulators and industry stakeholders on assessment programme’ was instituted during the year. The programme was organised by the Internal Audit team and required every process owner to review and refine the controls in place. The programme not only a range of issues, including the following: enabled us to set up a central database of all company controls, it also helped to embed a controls conscious culture within the company. Issue Description External quality In accordance with internal audit standards, an external quality review of Internal Audit and IS Political guidelines In October 2012, Parliament introduced a 10% Excise Duty on MMTs. This tax has increased M-PESA tariffs reviews Audit functions was carried out. The objective of the review was to gauge the compliance of the excise Duty on and meant higher transaction costs for M-PESA customers. On behalf of our customers, we engaged the functions with International Auditing standards and to identify areas for improvement. One of the key Mobile Money Kenya Revenue Authority and Treasury to reconsider the tax. improvements identified by the review was to enhance the independence and effectiveness of these Transfers (MMTs) audit functions by separating them from other risk management functions. Mobile Termination Our customers receive the largest number of calls from other networks and charges based on MTRs Rates (MTRs) help offset the cost of terminating these incoming calls. We have maintained a consistent engagement Audit reviews Thirty nine risk-based audit reviews were carried out during the year. The objective of the reviews was strategy with the CCK, the Government and other stakeholders to ensure that the MTR regime in Kenya to obtain assurance on the adequacy of the design and operating effectiveness of the controls in the is cost-based and reflects operating costs in the industry. scoped processes. Twelve, in-depth fraud reviews were carried out during the year. These reviews were undertaken to identify instances of fraud and to ‘plug’ these fraud loopholes. Subscriber The CCK enacted new regulations in January 2013 that require all telecommunication subscribers to registration be registered. We have complied with the new regulations and registered approximately 90% of our Company-wide Enterprise risk assessments were carried out to ensure that enterprise risks are anticipated before they subscribers. risk assessments arise. Company-wide fraud risk assessments were carried out with the aim of identifying high fraud risk areas and making recommendations to reduce these risks. Fraud risk assessment is also crucial in Increasing The fees we pay to regulators remain a significant cost and amount to approximately 4% of revenues. identifying areas that require more in-depth fraud detection reviews. regulatory fees Regulatory fees include license fees, spectrum charges, compliance charges and local authority payments. Failure to pay any of these fees would expose us to penalties and/or compromise our ability Investigations Forty nine investigations were carried out by the internal investigation team during the year. The to operate and deliver services to customers. investigations covered various frauds, including asset misappropriation, fraudulent expense claims and corruption cases. The investigations lead to disciplinary action against staff, the blacklisting of companies and, in some cases, the frauds were reported to law enforcement agencies for follow up. Awareness workshops Environmental regulations Following the investigations, control improvements were implemented to seal the fraud loopholes that Our Regulatory & Public Policy Department Complying with environmental regulations is not only an important part of our were identified. periodically hosts awareness workshops with regulatory responsibilities, but also an integral part of managing our environmental Awareness Face-to-face awareness sessions were carried out in all high ethical/fraud risk areas. Topics covered relevant stakeholders, including regulators, impact. We are currently required by law to comply with the following legislation: sessions during the sessions included: conflicts of interest, corruption and fraud trends. investors and the media. The issues covered • Environmental Management and Coordination Act, 1999 include MTRs, political messaging guidelines • Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Audit Regulations, 2003 and the Universal Service Fund (USF). The • Noise and Excessive Vibration Pollution Regulations, 2006 Ethics newsletters Ethics newsletters are sent out to all staff and cover topics such as acceptable gifts, recent frauds and workshops are conducted on an ad-hoc • Waste Management Regulations, 2006 their outcomes, and the activities of the ethics committee. basis, depending on the regulatory issue. • Kenya Civil Aviation Act, 2002 Internally, the workshops are targeted at • Kenya Information and Communications Act, 2008 mid-level managers whose departments are • Occupational Safety and Health Act, 2007 affected by the proposed regulatory action. • EIA Licence Conditions 48 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 49 our imperatives and opportunities Managing our OPPORTUNITIES Promoting positive Enterprise customers Customer care through our The Customer Delight Index customer experiences at call centre This is a measure of how satisfied or Some of the initiatives we have all touch points dissatisfied customers are with our overall undertaken this year to improve In order to improve the experiences of service offering. Our CDI is derived by enterprise customer experiences include: customers who contact us, we have scoring and combining the following A favourable or positive • Delight workshops undertaken a number of actions, customer perspectives: customer experience • Satisfaction with Safaricom These workshops bring all enterpriseincluding: • Adding the CDI score into the KPI of translates into business • Satisfaction with Safaricom related functions together to appreciate the interdependencies every employee to promote customer continuity and sustained compared to expectations of the enterprise ecosystem and the ownership; profitability through • Satisfaction with Safaricom contribution that each makes towards • Creating ‘tiger teams’ to drive compared to an ideal service customer retention, provider providing an ‘unmatched customer customer delight and report to the experience’. These workshops also repurchases and wordCEO on a regular basis; review current performance versus • Undertaking competency assessments of-mouth promotion. As a targets and the roll out of new of all managers to help build capacity; result, we consider every We manage customer initiatives. • Introducing after-call surveys to ensure customer experience or experiences at specific rapid responses and internal corrective • Internal monitoring programmes interaction to be a key touch points in the These programmes measure enterprise measures; focus area. To ensure following ways: customer delight and stakeholder • Creating a call routing strategy and engagement at every touch point defining alternative engagement we remain focussed on Retail stores along the enterprise customer channels; what customers want, journey. Through these programmes, • Using customer focus groups in our and adapt our offerings Our retail stores are an important performance and enterprise customer baseline survey; experiences are continuously accordingly, we have customer touch point. We train our retail • Continuously checking statuses staff to aspire to provide each and every evaluated and improved. using COPC standards to improve established a dedicated customer with a ‘WOW’ (‘Walk Out performance; customer experience Working’) moment. Aspects addressed in • Deployment Partner Engagement • Taking a single view/reference point steering committee and the training include: Programme (DPPI) on all customer issues; • The Customer Delight Index (CDI) This programme aims to entrench process team. • The role of agents in customer customer service excellence when a • Purchasing an IP-based infrastructure service partner is physically deployed to increase call volume capacity, and experience • Examples of pleasant and poor at the premises of a customer. It has • Purchasing a knowledge customer experiences (shared by delivered admirable results and the management system to serve as a actual customers) current DPPI customer satisfaction quick reference for call handling • Proper presentation and grooming score is 83% (the target score is 80%). processes and product procedures. 50 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 51 Managing our opportunities (continued) Actively deepening financial inclusion Accessibility We believe there is an urgent need to address the ‘digital divide’ and the growing gap between the capabilities of Kenyans with access to technology and the internet and those without. We are committed to doing whatever we can to help more Kenyans We have helped deepen financial inclusion by providing a mechanism through which gain access to the internet and internet-enabled devices. We have embarked on an ambitious strategy to provide and promote M-PESA customers can access financial services at an affordable cost. digital access by addressing the following barriers: Financial inclusion Barrier Response Service Description Device pricing Our data-enabled device pricing strategy is focussed on affordability and this year we offered M-PESA agent A partnership between Safaricom and the KCB Bank Group, this service allows M-PESA agents to borrow Smartphones from as little as KShs 5,999. loans funds to use as working capital. Anything from KShs 50,000 to 5,000,000 may be borrowed and agents We also plan to introduce the most affordable tablet in the Kenyan market in the coming year’. The can use monthly commissions to make their repayments. The bank has set aside KShs 1.5 billion to focus for this year is to provide low cost, entry level smartphones to our customers and our target is to sell finance M-PESA agents and KShs 150,000,000 has been taken up to date. 200,000 of these units through our dealer channel. M-PESA agent We have partnered with three insurance companies to offer M-PESA agents comprehensive cover Data bundle One of our aims is to make mobile and broadband-based internet services more affordable and easier insurance against business risks and to safeguard business continuity. Agents are able to insure their businesses at every stage of growth and pay their premiums via M-PESA. pricing to access. We offer a wide selection of competitively priced data bundles, ranging from daily data bundles to large bundles for heavy users. M-Shwari This service makes it possible for ordinary Kenyans to save, earn interest and borrow money using their mobile phones and the M-PESA service. Many Kenyans lack access to formal banking services and are Financing To help make data-enabled devices even more accessible, we have entered into partnerships with forced to borrow money at a high cost through informal credit mechanisms. various financial institutions, including corporates, savings and credit co-operatives, microfinance institutions and banks, to help employees and members finance and acquire devices with affordable M-Shwari allows M-PESA customers to save as little as KSh 1 (0.01 $US) and to earn interest on their repayment plans over periods from 12 to 36 months. savings, together with access to micro-loans from as little as KSh 100 (1.16 $US). The loan can be accessed anytime and the funds are transferred into the customer’s M-PESA account immediately. There are no charges for transfers between M-Shwari savings accounts and M-PESA accounts. Content and We aim to deliver content and applications that are genuinely relevant, useful and meaningful. We are applications also planning to offer free content to allow our users to access basic internet services at no cost. We have M-Shwari has already attracted over 1.2 million customers and we have recruited our top 1 000 M-PESA both local and international content partners, including: Facebook, Goal, Google and Liberty Africa. agents to act as promotional ambassadors for the service. Awareness Many Kenyans lack accurate information about the internet and, as a result, are unaware of how beneficial it can be. We organise fun ‘data awareness days’ at our retail outlets and customer locations (offices), the purpose of these is to create awareness about the capabilities of the internet and the role it can play in a customer’s life. During these data awareness days, we help people evaluate, engage with, and understand online content. 52 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 53 Managing our opportunities (continued) Other initiatives that we Innovating to service a concerts, bringing the best musical Examples of our approach to promoting and managing sustainable practices within our acts to campuses around the country have embarked on to growing youth sector operations include the following: improve accessibility • Safaricom Sevens — the rugby include: Young people are an tournament that entertains the youth Activity Description from a sporting and social perspective important market segment, • Retail desks Waste We encourage our employees and contractors to minimise waste and re-use or recycle wherever possible. The purpose of this initiative is to but also a discerning one, • Michael Joseph Centre — our management Waste is separated to promote recycling and composting of biodegradable waste. We avoid the use of extend our presence into dealer shops with specific focuses and exhibition centre now boasts a non-recyclable plastic containers and also substitute thin plastic containers with more durable versions. and to provide a range of products programme of events, plays, book All waste is collected by a National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) licensed waste collector. needs. Young people are and services similar to our retail stores and poetry readings and visual art in these locations. Twenty one retail attracted to the services exhibitions for the youth Paper We began managing our paper consumption in 2008 and are currently drafting a responsible paper desks (kiosks) have been set up within we provide and are quick usage and printing policy. To minimise paper usage, we recommend printing and photocopying only dealer shops to date and we plan to when absolutely necessary and our printers are set to duplex printing by default. We use recycled paper to embrace the potential roll out an additional 100 locations in and all paper is shredded for ease of recycling. of digital communications Promoting sustainable the next financial year. and content, but they practices within our Water We completed the installation of hands-free sensor taps in the Safaricom Care Centre, which are not • Digital villages only hygienic and easy to use, but also save water and money. It is envisaged that the taps will save up are also discerning about operations and business We have already rolled out 2,300 to 30% of the current water usage in the facility when compared to conventional taps. (See page 77 for ‘digital villages’ — cyber cafés the services they want. ecosystem a description of our performance.) through which customers can access They have very specific E-waste (electrical In October 2012, we launched an e-waste recycling programme designed to manage the impact of the internet and basic digital content requirements and this We attach great devices) electronic gadgets ‘from cradle to grave’. Through the initiative, old electronics (phones, laptops and at very affordable costs — around the country. Part of our Universal Service requires pricing and importance to the related accessories) are collected at our retail centres and offices and handed over to a competent Fund (USF) responsibilities, these digital positioning products sustainability of our recycler. We have also developed an e-waste information bulletin that is distributed to customers and other members of the public to raise awareness of this issue and to urge them to drop their e-waste villages are also empowering the and services differently. operational activities and, into our collection boxes for recycling. Looking ahead, we will embark on community-based e-waste entrepreneurs that own them as we offer a very attractive combination Accordingly, we have by extension, those of our collection next year and will provide public education on e-waste in Nairobi and other major cities and of free equipment, free set up shifted our approach from wider business ecosystem, towns. (See page 77 for a description of our performance.) and a fixed monthly charge once marketing the price/cost including our dealers and Electromagnetic We remain committed to ensuring that our activities pose no risk to the health and safety of the operational. value proposition of our suppliers. We believe that frequencies (EMFs) communities in which we operate. As part of this responsibility, we produce an EMF micro-website data offerings to lifestylesustainability is essential to and booklet that answer the questions that are frequently asked about mobile phone technologies, handsets and masts. Our EMF micro-website and booklet are constantly reviewed and updated and based promotions. This providing the best possible can be accessed online through this QR code link: shift in approach has been service to our customers backed up by a range and to our country. of customised offerings, We consider the effects of our campaigns and events activities on natural resources and World Environment We commemorate World Environment Day to help raise awareness of environmental issues. A number that include the following: the environment and try to minimise Day of conservation activities were undertaken by staff in 2012, including planting 4,500 tree seedlings in the these effects. We also recognise that hills of Ngong and participating in the National Mazingira Run at Uhuru Park in Nairobi. Outside of these • M-Shwari — tapping into the responsible and effective environmental Global and National Commemoration days, through the Safaricom and M-PESA Foundations, grant entrepreneurial spirit among the youth management offers a host of benefits, support has been given to community-based organisations to grow forests. These also serve as conduits through our mobile banking service including financial savings from reduced for employee participation in activities. waste generation and efficient energy • SKIZA Tunes — a popular way for the consumption, easier compliance with Staff training We have also begun training staff on aspects of our environmental management. Recent training youth to express their personalities environmental legislation, increased sessions included a carbon footprint calculation session, which was attended by 15 people, and an and entertain their friends with caller staff morale and pride, and improved environment and sustainability seminar, which was attended by 10 people. These staff members form welcome tunes customer relations. part of the broader sustainability team. • Niko Na Safaricom Live — our celebrated world-class music 54 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 55 Managing our opportunities (continued) Examples of our approach to promoting and managing sustainable practices within our Rolling out alternative energy solutions, ensuring energy security for our future growth wider business ecosystem include the following: We are committed to employing alternative energy solutions wherever possible, to Business Approach streamline our energy footprint and to reduce our reliance on fossil fuel energy. We partner are constantly investigating new energy technologies and processes and some of our recent initiatives include: Dealers Dealers are important business partners as they account for almost 70% of airtime sales and represent our brand in the market. As a result, we maintain close working relationships with our dealers and expect Renewable energy sites trained on solar and biofuels Going forward, we will be tracking them to share our business principles and ethical standards. Fourteen 100% solar-powered, diet technologies, as well as on energyour energy consumption per unit of We use a combination of explicit business partner policies and dealer management procedures to sites are already operational and efficient lighting and motors. telecommunications traffic (Erlang). This manage every process from new dealer recruitment to ordering and delivery, performance monitoring further solar power will be added to will allow us to benchmark ourselves and contract termination. power cube sites to reduce generator • M-KOPA Solar against other telecommunications There are a number of sustainable business practices that dealers must have in place to become part run hours. M-KOPA Solar is a GSM-controlled companies accurately. We will also be of our network, including business plans, bank statements, managed premises, trained staff, as well as domestic solar power system. undertaking remote energy monitoring other technical and legal requirements. • Hybrid solar solution for facilities Designed to help low-income at our sites to improve efficiencies and We also assign each dealer a dedicated manager who will engage with them on performance, new We are also looking for renewable households in rural areas liberate reduce downtime. market opportunities and financing through regular meetings, training sessions and annual contract energy solutions that we can use themselves from kerosene lighting renewals. We also recognise and reward strong performers through our ‘Dealer of the Year’ awards. in our facilities and have recently and having to rely on local mobile installed a hybrid solar power solution bureaus to charge their phones, the Suppliers Suppliers are key business partners who provide the goods and/or services that enable us to operate. In in the Safaricom gym to reduce system uses solar power to provide 3 order to manage supplier performance, we implement the following: consumption of grid electricity. light bulbs and a charger. Customers • Supplier qualification pay an initial deposit of KShs 2,500 All suppliers are pre-qualified and requalified regularly to ensure they are financial reliable and have • Staff training and daily instalments of KShs 40 for the all of the required accreditations and licences. We also ensure that they are fully compliant from As part of our ongoing focus on first 12 months (via M-PESA). Currently, a legal, insurance and regulatory perspective. Lastly, we also check that they have the required alternative energy solutions, more 15,377 households are benefiting from management policies in place, including OSH, customer service, staff integrity, environmental and than 20 staff members have been this innovative solution. CSR policies. • Supplier performance evaluations All suppliers undergo quarterly or bi-annual performance evaluations and are measured against the following indicators: cost of service; on time delivery of service; flexibility to respond to unexpected Safaricom demands; quality of service; general responsiveness; customer support; value addition; documentation and invoicing, and communication skills. A performance score is calculated with a performance target of 80% and suppliers whose performance is below the performance threshold are placed on performance improvement plans. • Supplier sustainability self-assessments Suppliers are required to complete a sustainability self-assessment that evaluates their performance in the following areas: fraud and ethics; human resources, health and safety, the environment, community and corporate giving, and regulatory compliance. We work with our suppliers to ensure that at all times we are supporting business that uphold the highest standards of integrity and ethical practices when it comes to employee rights. We aim to encourage fair employment practices that comply with current labour regulations and are supportive of a diverse and inclusive workforce, non discriminatory and afford freedom of association. The self-assessments will be followed by selected on-site verification exercises. For more information on the results of the supplier sustainability selfassessments, please refer to Section 7, page 79. • Supplier safety management programme Several initiatives have been taken around supplier safety management including: the development of an OSH in Supply Chain Management Standard to embed safety assurance processes in supply chain operations; two supplier safety conferences, and site safety inductions and awareness sessions prior to project commencement. • Supplier training on OSH OSH training is being conducted with high risk suppliers who also have to identify OSH gaps in their operations and devise plans to close these gaps within specified timelines. 56 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 57 Managing our opportunities (continued) Lobbying and driving policy to ensure a constructive business environment Promoting ethical business and good corporate governance We operate within an increasingly complex regulatory environment. As a result, we We view ethical business practices and good corporate governance as nonconsider public policy lobbying an important task and a vital way of ensuring that negotiable and continue to promote these principles in the following ways: the operating environment for the provision of telecommunications services in Kenya remains constructive. Activity Description As well as proactively ensuring that we comply with all licence obligations, relevant legislation, regulations, by-laws and regulator Kenya Association We recognise that we are part of a wider business ecosystem and need to partner with other businesses guidelines, we actively engage with regulators through face-to-face meetings, written submissions and memoranda when changes of Manufacturers in promoting business ethics. With this in mind, we facilitated a CEO breakfast with the Kenya Association to the existing business environment are under discussion. We attend stakeholder workshops to lobby on behalf of the industry (KAM) CEO of Manufacturers (KAM) that was attended by 30 CEOs. The breakfast focused on the role of private and facilitate our own workshops with regulators, members of the media and affected stakeholders to discuss public policy issues Breakfast on Ethics business in fighting corruption and the CEOs confirmed the commitment of their organisations. affecting the telecommunications industry. and Corruption United Nations The UNGC is a strategic policy initiative that encourages corporate responsibility and support for the We engage with regulators and industry stakeholders on a range of issues, including the Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The UNGC encourages businesses to align their operations following: (UNGC) and strategies to 10 ethical principles in the areas of human rights, labour, anti-corruption and the environment. We are signatories to the Compact and our CEO, Bob Collymore, is a member of the Global Board of the UNGC. Activity Description Sisi ni Amani We partnered with the community-based peace organisation Sisi ni Amani during the build up to the Universal Service The USF was created to support the roll out of telecommunication services to underserved areas where general elections. At the time, the aim of the organisation was to try and minimise election-related Fund (USF) operators may not be investing. Through the CCK, Government has set operator contribution levels at violence through targeted, localised SMS messages. Members of the public could also use the platform 0.5% of gross turnover. to report incidents of violence within their communities free of charge. We donated 50 million free SMS messages to the initiative. We share the concerns of other operators regarding the USF (its governance structure, regulatory framework and the lack of representation for contributors to the fund), but continue to fulfil our USF obligations while lobbying the CCK and other industry stakeholders on these issues. We have rolled out 2,300 ‘digital villages’ (cyber cafés in remote rural villages) in various parts of Kenya. Political messaging Cognisant of the post election violence in 2008, we decided that no bulk political messages containing guidelines discriminatory, partisan or hate speech content would be transmitted through our network during the general elections. We also engaged with the CCK, the National Cohesion and Integration Commission and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to develop clear national guidelines for the transmission of such messages. The new guidelines were launched in October 2012. Counterfeit The CCK issued a directive to all mobile operators to switch off counterfeit handsets by 30 September handsets 2012. Together with other mobile operators and handset manufacturers, we have engaged the CCK in order to ensure a coordinated approach to the phase out of these handsets. We continue to comply with this directive and have switched off approximately 700,000 counterfeit phones to date. 58 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 59 6 our stakeholders Transforming lives Our Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Key engagement issues Format and frequency of engagement Customers • Network quality: Information regarding planned • Daily communication through our Customer Care works and network failures is promptly disseminated to division. subscribers via the Customer Care division. • Daily interactions through our toll free customer care lines, social media presences, and our dedicated SMS, • Customer feedback: We engage our customers email and interactive voice response (IVR) channels directly to obtain their opinions, complaints and (e.g. our quality team has a dedicated 24/7 SMS suggestions regarding our products and services. number). • Regular contact through our web self-service portal and • Health and safety: We are committed to customer research projects and surveys. safeguarding the safety and health of our customers • Annual discussions through our customer forums. through risk assessments, safety and health audits, and • Monthly retail Customer Delight Index (CDI) reports. safety and health committee inspections. Employees • Innovation: We engage our employees on ways • Innovation: of improving customer experiences and product Frequent awareness meetings with strategy and and process development through our internal idea innovation divisions. management portal, Safaricom Ugwiji. Regular communication through Safaricom Ugwiji (internal idea management portal). • Ethical values and standards: We assist with the swift Sporadic campaigns like the Safaricom innovation Our stakeholders include resolution of ethical dilemmas. competition, which encouraged Safaricom staff to the diverse range of share ideas that could help improve our business • Customer experience: We engage with our processes, customer experiences and product communities, groups employees by explaining their role in ensuring customer development. delight and their contribution to Safaricom objectives; and individuals that by seeking their input on the relevance and impact of • Ethical engagements: directly or indirectly a customer-centric culture, and by developing brand Annual formal, face-to-face sessions. ambassadors. Ad hoc e-mail bulletins, posters and informal support, influence or are discussions. affected by our activities. • Health and safety: Employee engagement is Ongoing ethical dilemma resolutions. provisioned through joint management-employee Our stakeholders play safety and health committees. The role of the safety • Customer experience: and health representatives on these committees is that Weekly training and refresher courses on Safaricom an integral role in our of articulating employee matters and it is through them products and services during Monday morning continued success and that employees actively participate in implementing meetings and when new products are launched. safety and health provisions. Monthly retail data champions, sales champions and we attempt to take their customer service champions. varied perspectives into Bi-annual reviews of retail staff KPIs and performance. Bi-weekly acknowledgement of retail ‘customer account through both service heroes’ on the daily bulletin. Annual team-building forums to strategise and formal and informal communicate the yearly theme. engagement. This • Health and safety: summary identifies our key Quarterly meetings. stakeholders, outlines the Minutes of meetings and workplace inspection reports. issues that concern them and describes how we engage with them when managing our material matters. Internal • Customer experience: We continuously engage • Continuous engagement with our marketing team to stakeholders with our internal stakeholders to improve every aspect assist in campaigns and initiatives. (Support teams, of the customer experience, from devising customer • Engagement is targeted and cross-functional, based on including awareness campaigns and new products for specific the support needed to realise any on-going customer marketing, product customer segments, to ensuring the accuracy and journey initiatives. development, sales, timeliness of bills and monitoring the technical and billing and payment commercial support provided to customers. and service delivery) 62 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 63 stakeholder engagement (continued) Stakeholder Key engagement issues Format and frequency of engagement Stakeholder Key engagement issues Format and frequency of engagement The • Network quality: Engagement on CCK’s Targets (KPIs) • Meetings. The Competition • Competition issues: We engage with the CAK on • Meetings. Communications • Formal Correspondence. Authority of Kenya issues such as restrictive trade practices, consumer • Formal correspondence. Commission of • Submissions. (CAK) concerns and market dominance. • Submissions. Kenya (CCK) Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. Innovation • Value propositions: We engage our innovation • Daily Safaricom innovation email shares ideas with The Central Bank • Financial services: We engage with the CBK on issues • Meetings. partners partners on issues such as equipment development recipients and encourages them to express their of Kenya (CBK) such as Mobile Money Transfers (MMTs) and related • Formal correspondence. (mobile operators, such as Samsung and Nokia), feedback and interest. issues. • Submissions. developer and technology innovation (universities and Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. incubation centres, such as Strathmore University and iLab Africa) and financing (various venture capitalists). Ministry of • Telecommunication strategies and policies: • Meetings. Information and We engage with the Ministry of Information and • Formal correspondence. Communications Communications on telecommunications policy. • Submissions. Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. Business partners • Business principles: We engage with our business • At first engagement, through provision of Safaricom (Suppliers, dealers, partners on expected standards of behaviour, for supplier code of conduct. Kenya Revenue • Taxation: We engage with the KRA on issues such • Meetings. M-PESA agents) example, on health and safety standards, ethical • Annual formal supplier meetings. Authority (KRA) as the excise duty on Mobile Money Transfer (MMT) • Formal correspondence. principles, and corruption and bribery regulations. • Annual supplier sustainability self-assessment. services and VAT. • Submissions. Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. Developers • Application development: Developer engagement • Developer engagement is achieved through meetings, The National • Environmental compliance: We engage with • Meetings. consists of initiatives like the Vodafone App-star the Safaricom innovation email and competitions. Environment NEMA on e-waste management issues and the findings • Formal correspondence. Challenge and the Safaricom Incubation Challenge. Management and recommendations of Environmental Impact • Submissions. The Safaricom Incubation Challenge helps mobile Authority (NEMA) Assessments (EIAs). Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. developers to showcase their solutions and provides a platform for them to get recognition from the mobile The Betting Control • Promotions: We engage with the Betting Control • Meetings. industry for their efforts. and Licensing and Licensing Board on specific product and service • Formal correspondence. Board promotions that may be impacted by current laws and • Submissions. Auditors • Compliance: We engage with government, ISO 14001 • Annual desktop evaluations, site visits, audit inspections regulations. Frequency varies, depending on the nature of the issue. (Third parties and OHSAS 18001-approved auditors to undertake etc. involved in audits audits of our business operations for compliance or The Kenya Civil • Base Transceiver Stations: We engage with • Monthly meetings. and other assurance, certification purposes. These include audits of our safety Aviation Authority the KCAA on issues related to the acquisition and • Formal correspondence. (KCAA) construction of BTSs. due diligence or and health standards and performance, environmental verification exercises) audits, energy audits and testing EMF levels to globally approved standards. Kenya Association • Energy consumption training: We engage with KAM • Monthly engagement through email. of Manufacturers regarding training staff on energy matters. (KAM) Network • Network quality and stability: We engage with these • Meetings are held as and when necessary. stakeholders stakeholders in a number of ways, including through Local communities • Environmental impacts: We consult with communities • Meetings as required. (Telecommunication agreements with other mobile operators to share BTSs as part of the public participation process during service providers, (and vice versa), leases on land for BTSs, the provision of environmental impact assessments of proposed landlords, Kenya grid power for telecommunications equipment, and the projects. Power & Lighting deployment of renewable energy solutions. Company (KPLC) United Nations • Environmental awareness: We partner with UNEP on • Meetings as required. and renewable Environment environmental awareness events and campaigns, such energy contractors) Programme (UNEP) as World Environment Day and Clean up the World, as well as through environmental and sustainability sessions Government • Legislative and regulatory responsibilities: • Interviews once every two years. with local universities. agencies We engage with government agencies on a range • Annual meetings. of issues, including tax, tariffs and ethical business Shareholders • Sustainability and growth: We engage with the • Monthly meetings and teleconferences as planned and compliance. (Government of government through the relevant ministries on various required. Kenya, Vodafone environmental matters, such as the new e-waste The Directorate • Occupational safety and health: We engage with • Annual reports and meetings as prescribed by DOSH Plc, and Public regulations, and Vodafone shares information about of Occupational the DOSH as required under the Occupational Safety policies and procedures. (NSE)) new technologies and best practices in a host of key Safety and Health and Health Act of 2007. We submit reports on safety areas, including energy and carbon footprinting. Services (DOSH) and health audits, noise surveys, air quality and fire in the Ministry audits (undertaken by government-approved auditors) of Labour and on an annual basis. Human Resource Development 64 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 65 7 our PERFORMANCE Transforming lives Our Performance Our Performance Network quality The CCK carries out national Quality tests carried out by an independent of Service (QoS) assessments based company, based on an international The Communications Commission on these KPIs, to determine the benchmarking methodology, on our of Kenya (CCK) is mandated with level of compliance achieved by behalf (see following table). Network ensuring the provision of quality mobile operators. The results of these quality is one of our imperatives and, services by licensed mobile service assessments are released to the general as such, we are currently engaged in operators. To meet this objective, public and can also be found on the ongoing discussions with the CCK in an the CCK has developed eight Key CCK website. effort to understand these discrepancies. Performance Indicators (KPIs) to assess the performance of mobile operators. We are concerned by the latest The following table details the various Mobile operators are expected to meet CCK results (2011/12 FY) as there are CCK KPIs and our compliance at least 80% (i.e. 7 out of 8) of the targets several discrepancies between those performance status since 2010. set by these KPIs. released by the Commission and similar EXTERNAL KPI CCK BENCHMARK CCK RESULTS TARGET RESULTS 2012 2012 2011 2010 Our sustainability Completed Calls 90% performance is linked to our material matters. We Call Setup Success Rate 90% measure our performance using both qualitative and Dropped Calls 2% quantitative indicators. Blocked Calls 10% This section presents a brief report on our Speech Quality 95% of (MOS,PESQ Values) Samples achievements and > 2.7 progress in terms of each Handover Success 85% material matter during the Rate reporting period. Call Setup Time <13.5 Seconds RX Levels Outdoor -102 dBm Achieved Not Achieved 68 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 69 Energy security Network Total Total Electricity Facilities* BTSs MSRs FY 2013 FY 2012 Our ongoing independent network audits are also being used to track our progress Megawatt Hours (MWh) 8 801 65 528 22 034 96 362 118 233 towards our pledge to deliver the ‘Best Network in Kenya’ by November 2013. The rank of our network according to these measures is presented in the following table Gigajoules (GJ) 31 682 235 901 79 322 346 905 425 638 * Facilities includes retail stores in FY 2013 KPI name September April 2013 Our pledge Our electricity consumption has reduced compared to the previous year. This is largely due to more accurate data collection, 2012 which has allowed us to reduce some of the previous data uncertainty. This adjustment is also mirrored in our carbon footprint calculations as electricity consumption data is a key input. Call Setup Success Rate Diesel Consumption in Generators Network Total Total Facilities BTSs MSRs FY 2013 FY 2012 Dropped Call Ratio Volume (Litres) 166 955 4 577 921 1 003 321 5 748 197 8 424 563 Gigajoules (GJ) 5 993 164 342 36 018 206 353 305 470 Speech Quality We are still in the early stages of we are in the process of procuring and redundancy to guarantee operational measuring, monitoring and managing deploying smart meters that will enable business continuity (which has already our energy consumption and, as a result, us to measure and record our electricity been achieved to an extent) and to we do not have the historical data consumption patterns in detail. reduce our current reliance on just two records needed set targets and refine sources of energy (supplementing grid Mean Data User Data Rate-Download strategies based on detailed, actual In terms of future performance, we electricity and diesel generators with figures. To help overcome this challenge, are aiming to create enough energy other sources of energy). Innovation Mean Data User Data Rate-Upload Service Description Reach Objective AfyaTips An SMS-based information service that provides personalised 160,000 500,000 subscribers information and advice to individuals on a range of medical and subscribers in one year wellness issues. Mean Web Browsing Session Time ICow A mobile application that enables small scale farmers to access 70,140 users 200,000 users by 30 agricultural information and services on their mobile phones. June 2014 Refugees United A family tracing service that helps refugees, internally displaced 200,000 1 million registered and stateless people to search for, and reconnect with, missing registered displaced people KEY family or friends. people globally by 2015 Network Delay Safaricom An e-learning system that allows learners and instructors to access Pilot projects Every learner and Blackboard eBooks and online learning materials from anywhere 24/7. at select instructor KEY Best Network institutions TB Care Program A Tuberculosis (TB) patient and resource management system. Over 150,000 Steady growth KEY Best Network Second Best Management (TIBU) patients and 350 health officers KEY Best Network Second Best Beyond M-KOPA Solar A GSM-controlled domestic solar power system for low-income 15,377 Steady growth households. households Best Network Second Best Beyond 70 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY Second Best2013 REPORT Beyond SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 71 Customer experience Our employees In terms of future performance, we are aiming to be ‘the number one integrated Employee demographics The following tables detail our employee demographics by gender, grade, contract and location. services and fixed data provider’ from an enterprise perspective and ‘a clear market leader’ from a customer perspective. Contract Type Number of Employees* Location Number of Employees* KPI NAME MEASURES FY 2013 PERFORMANCE FY 2012 Permanent 2,667 Nairobi 2,394 TARGET ACTUAL STATUS PERFORMANCE Contractors (Fixed term 597 Western (Rift, Nyanza, 107 contracts) western) Customer Delight Index (CDI) • Retail Tracker (external survey and research, includes Total 3,264 Eastern (Eastern , Central 166 71% 73.2% 62.2% Mystery shopping, Face-to-face interviews and after service call backs) Coast) • Customer focus group sessions Total 2,667 * Please note: all employees are full time • Call Centre Tracker (Internal analysis of customer journeys i.e. accessibility, queue experience, IVR navigation and self help, agent interactions, query resolutions and alternative channel experiences, such as social media, e-chat, SMS) Job grade Total permanent & No. of Women No. of Men Gender ratio • Internal performance standards seconded staff 1-2 13 5 8 1:1.16 Enterprise Delight Index • Touchbase validation 71% 75.6% 69.3% 3 35 14 21 1:1.5 • Billing experience 4 143 41 102 1:2.49 • Service delivery experience 5 274 75 199 1:2.65 • General support experience 6 555 206 349 1:1.69 • Platinum support experience • Deployment Partner Performance 7 587 261 326 1:1.25 Index (DPPI) 8-9 1060 539 521 1:1.03 • Churn tracking Total 2667 1141 1526 1:1.34 • Attitudinal Equity (AE): How much 80.0% 84.4% 81.9% Brand Value consumers desire your brand relative to its competitors. • Market Effects (ME): How much market share a brand is winning from, and Total new hires 137 Total exits 169 losing to, competitors because of market effects. Rate of new employee hire 5% Rate of employee turnover 6% Male hires 90 Male exits 110 Female hires 47 Female exits 59 Total New Hires Total Exist New Total Hires Total Exist Age bracket Age bracket 18-24 =2 18-24 18-24 =2 =0 18-24 =0 25-29 = 67 25-29 25-29 == 67 41 25-29 = 41 30-34 =37 30-34 30-34 =37 =81 30-34 =81 35-45 = 30 35-45 35-45 == 30 42 35-45 = 42 >45 = 1 >45 >45 == 15 >45 = 5 72 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 73 Employee training hours by gender and grade Occupational safety and health statistics Incident Employees Contractors Third parties Total TOTAL NUMBER NUMBER OF TRAINING HOURS TOTAL TRAINING AVERAGE COST OF TRAINING BY classification CATEGORY/GRADE OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES TRAINED BY GRADE HOURS TRAINING HOURS GRADE Fatalities 0 4 2 6 Female Male Total Average Female Male Female Male Total Average Lost Time Injuries 4 2 0 6 Director / General 16 5 11 1,101 68.8 824 277 164.8 25.2 7,890,470 493,154 Manager Incidents 125 15 3 143 Medical Treatment 12 5 20 37 Department Head 48 21 27 1,806 37.6 833 973 39.7 36.0 15,341,680 319,618 Cases First Aid Cases 279 382 2 663 Senior Managers 210 61 149 7,178 34.2 1,860 5,318 30.5 35.7 24,046,129 114,505 Total Man-hours 7 255 200 Worked FIFR* 0 Managers 457 109 348 14,372 31.4 2,748 11,624 25.2 33.4 38,801,407 84,905 LTIFR** 0.11 * Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) is calculated as follows: number of fatal injuries per 200,000 hours worked/Total Safaricom Senior Officer 1,100 385 715 35,187 32.0 8,228 26,959 21.4 37.7 69,175,262 62,887 employee hours worked. ** Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is calculated as follows: number of lost time injuries per 200,000 hours worked/Total Specialist 1,135 522 613 23,077 20.3 6,262 16,815 12.0 27.4 57,196,381 50,393 Safaricom employee hours worked. Operative 2,770 1,671 1,099 46,245 16.7 25,197 21,049 15.1 19.2 27,217,739 9,826 Comparison of Comparison occupational occupational of safety safety and health and health performance performance 14 143 6 131 2 6 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2012 FY 2013 Incidents Fatalities Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 74 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 75 Upcoming initiatives Date of incident Gender Category Type of incident Location 29 Jul 2012 Male Contractor Fatal shoot-out by North Eastern In addition to ensuring implementation of the OSH plan, future focus areas include: armed bandits Wellness initiatives • Financial wellness program 14 Aug 2012 Male Member of public Road traffic accident Meru • Quarterly wellness magazine 19 Sept 2012 Male Contractor Fall from height Nyayo Stadium • Stress management initiatives 16 Oct 2012 Male Contractor Fatal shoot-out by North Eastern Consequence • Mechanism for recognising positive safety and health contributions and the inclusion of safety armed bandits management violations in the disciplinary code and policies. 26 Nov 2012 Male Member of public Criminal activities on a Mombasa Supplier safety • Full implementation of OSH in supply chain standards, including implementation of the ‘3 strikes’ BTS site management consequence management mechanism. 12 Dec 2012 Male Contractor Road traffic accident Kabarnet OSH responsibility • Formal cascade of safety objectives in Performance Appraisals, including senior management levels. and accountability High risk work • Acquisition of fleet tracking systems and monitoring of vehicle usage Lost time injuries control procedures • Implementation of an automated ‘permit to work’ tool integrated into site access procedures Gender Nature of injury Number of days lost • Implementation of a lock-out, tag-out and try-out protocol for electrical work There were six Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) Female Fracture 30 during the reporting period. These were Safety and health • Uptake of 29 OSH courses available in the Safaricom E-Class Portal all sustained in road traffic accidents. Female Fracture 42 awareness • Production of a safety and health induction video A description of these LTIs is provided in Male Fracture 50 Projects • Roll-out of ISOMETRIX system the accompanying table, including the Female Cut wound 3 • Development of a safety page on the intranet number of days that were lost. Incidents Environmental performance The majority of incidents that occurred during the reporting period were also due to road traffic accidents (approximately 75%). A breakdown of the nature of the reported incidents (as a percentage of the total number of incidents) is provided in the following Water consumption table. Water source FY 2013 Cubic meters FY 2012 Cubic meters (m3) withdrawn (m3) withdrawn Incidents Reported Nairobi Water Company 37 815 43 272 Water Tankers 11 148 14 148 Road traffic accidents 76% Total 48 963 57 420 Slips and falls 6% Property damage Environmental management 4% Proportional Safety and Health Criminal activity representation We have collected 10 000 kg of e-waste through our e-waste collection programme this year. We had 151 Environmental Impact 11% Assessments (EIAs) approved and submitted 430 Environmental Audits (EAs) to NEMA this year. We have not received any monetary Other fines from non-compliance. 286 employees are involved in the Safaricom 3% Safety and Health Committee, representing approximately 10% of the total permanent workforce. Carbon footprint We have calculated our carbon footprint for the second year using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised edition)). Once again, we used emission factors sourced from the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA)/Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) GHG conversion factors for company reporting, along with the latest electricity emission factor for Kenya published by the International Energy Agency. 76 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 77 Business Partners Our carbon footprint emissions are composed of ‘scope 1’ emissions, which include the diesel consumed in our generators, the fuel A self-assessment questionnaire was sent to 220 of our largest suppliers, 120 of used in our fleet vehicles and the fugitive emissions associated with our air-conditioning systems, ‘scope 2’ emissions, which are the indirect emissions associated with our consumption of purchased electricity, and ‘scope 3’ emissions, specified for the first time this whom responded, representing 55% of our largest suppliers (89 local and 31 foreign year, these include other indirect sources, such as air travel and taxi hire. Our total carbon footprint of 61 342 tCO2e is described in companies), with the following scores: the following table. Assessment category Company score KPI Name FY 2013 Carbon FY 2012 Carbon emissions (tCO2e) emissions (tCO2e) Local Foreign Diesel consumed in generators 15 387 19 014 Regulatory compliance 84% 80% Fleet: Petrol 1 388 307 Corporate and community giving 62% 53% Fleet: Diesel 1 071 2 140 Environment 57% 64% Fugitive emissions 11 076 4 002 Human resources 85% 83% Total Scope 1 Emissions 28 922 25 462 Fraud and ethics 79% 81% Electricity consumption 31 655 44 795 Total Scope 2 Emissions 31 655 44 795 Regulatory issues Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions 60 577 70 257 Indicator How we measure Units of FY 2013 Air travel* 360 performance measurement Performance Taxi hire 405 Public policy lobbying Public policy lobbying is • Methods of lobbying Measured per Total Scope 3 Emissions 765 measured qualitatively • Intended outcome of occurrence of Total Carbon Emissions 61 342 70 257 by the business through the lobbying lobbying. the quality of issues * Please note: the necessary processes to collect our air travel data were only implemented half way through this reporting period. presented during lobbying. Non-compliance fines Fines for nonNumber of fines. CCK imposed a fine of 52% The different emission sources that contribute to our carbon footprint are shown compliance are initiated KShs 500,000 in respect below. Electricity remains our largest source of emissions, followed by diesel consumed by the regulator. to non-compliance in generators and refrigerant gases. This year we worked on reducing some of with QOS parameters. the uncertainty in our carbon footprint calculations, particularly in our electricity 25% consumption data. We will look at including more emission sources, and engaging Anti-competitive behaviour Legal actions for antiThe number of actions No actions have been competitive behaviour lodged. lodged. further with our suppliers, in the coming year. are initiated by other 18% market players. 4% 1% 1% Looking ahead, we have set ourselves the target In terms of future performance, our target remains continued compliance with all applicable legislation and regulations affecting of implementing a comprehensive management our business. system that will lead to IS0 14001 certification by the Diesel consumed in generators end of the financial year. We also plan to expand our Ethics and values Actions taken in response to incidents of e-waste programme to reach more stakeholders and Fuel consumed in fleet corruption the general population. We do not have any water Refrigerant gases Indicator Description FY 2013 Outcomes Number consumption or waste generation targets at this stage; Performance of staff Electricity Air Travel Taxi Hire however, we will be working on this going forward. Percentage and total number of Percentage of units 100% Warning 8 business units analysed for risks analysed for fraud risks. related to corruption Dismissed 55 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Percentage of employees Percentage of high risk 60% Carbon footprint emission sources trained in anti-corruption policies staff trained on ethics. Reported to law 28 and procedures enforcement agencies 78 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 79 8 GRI table Transforming lives GRI Description Reference Page GRI Description Reference Page Section number (s) Section number (s) 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Executive summary: Message 16 18 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Not applicable organization (e.g. CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) from our Chairman outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly about the relevance of sustainability to the organization Executive summary: Message affect comparability from period to period and/or between and its strategy. from our CEO organizations. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Our strategy: Our material 30 35 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information No restatements provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such rehave been made on matters statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ information disclosed in Our strategy: Our imperatives periods, nature of business, measurement methods). previous reports. and opportunities 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Our performance: Energy 71 2.1 Name of the organization. Cover page 1 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the security 78 About this report 7 report. Our performance: 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. The reporting Our business: What we do 23 Environmental organization should indicate the nature of its role in performance providing these products and services, and the degree to 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in GRI Table 80 which it utilizes outsourcing. the report. Identify the page numbers or web links where the 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main Our business: What we do 23 following can be found: divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint • Strategy and Analysis 1.1 – 1.2; ventures. • Organizational Profile 2.1 – 2.10; 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Our business: What we do 23 • Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13; 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, Our business: What we do 23 • Governance, Commitments, and Engagement and names of countries with either major operations or 4.1 – 4.17; that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues • Disclosure of Management Approach, per category; covered in the report. • Core Performance Indicators; • Any GRI Additional Indicators that were included; and 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Our business: What we do 23 • Any GRI Sector Supplement Indicators included in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external About this report 7 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors Our business: What we do 23 assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: Our business: What we do 23 and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain • Number of employees; Our business: The value we 26 the relationship between the reporting organization and the • Number of operations have created assurance provider(s). • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Our business: How we are Sustainability Report Our performance: Our 73 revenues (for public sector organizations); committees under the highest governance body responsible managed 2013: Page 28 29 employees • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational Safaricom Limited Safaricom Limited Annual Safaricom Limited Safaricom Limited Annual equity (for private sector organizations); and oversight. Annual Report and Report & Group Accounts • Quantity of products or services provided. Report & Group Accounts Annual Report and Group Accounts 2013: 2013: Who Leads Us 2013: Financial Review Group Accounts 2013: Page 19 23 Corporate Governance Financial Review Statement Page 46 82 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body Safaricom Limited Annual Safaricom Limited is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within Report & Group Accounts Annual Report and the organization’s management and the reasons for this 2013: Who Leads us Group Accounts 2013: 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding About this report 7 arrangement). Corporate Governance Page 19 23 size, structure, or ownership including: Statement • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Safaricom Limited Annual Safaricom Limited formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for number and gender of members of the highest governance Report & Group Accounts Annual Report and private sector organizations). body that are independent and/ or non-executive members. 2013: Who Leads Us Group Accounts 2013: 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Our business: Awards 27 Corporate Governance Page 19 23 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for About this report 7 Statement information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About this report 7 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this report 7 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Our business: How we are 29 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its About this report 8 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. managed 24 contents. Include reference to processes regarding: Our business: Who keeps 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: About this report 7 60 • The use of shareholder resolutions or other mechanisms for us in business • Determining materiality; Our Strategy: Our Material 33 enabling minority shareholders to express opinions to the Our stakeholders • Prioritizing topics within the report; and Matters highest governance body; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. • Informing and consulting employees about the working relationships with formal representation bodies such as 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, About this report 7 organization level ‘work councils’, and representation of subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See employees in the highest governance body. GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Identify topics related to economic, environmental, and social 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of About this report 7 performance raised through these mechanisms during the the report. reporting period. 82 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 83 GRI Description Reference Page GRI Page Description Reference Section number (s) Indicator number (s) 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Our business: How we 28 – 29 Environmental body, senior managers, and executives (including departure are managed arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Our performance: Energy security 71 environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Our business: How we 28 29 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Our performance: Energy security 71 interest are avoided. are managed EN8 Our performance: Environmental 77 Total water withdrawal by source. performance 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise Our business: How we 28 29 EN16 Our performance: Environmental 77 – 78 of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, are managed Total direct and indirect greenhouse gases by weight. performance including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. EN17 Our performance: Environmental 77 – 78 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, Managing our 47 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gases by weight. performance and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social Imperatives: Protecting Human Rights performance and the status of their implementation. our reputation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Our business: How we 28 – 29 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and Managing our Opportunities: Promoting 56 organization’s identification and management of economic, are managed other business partners that have undergone human sustainable practices within our environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and rights screening, and actions taken. operations and business ecosystem 79 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Our performance: Business partners 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Our business: How we 28 – 29 Labour practices and decent work performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and are managed social performance. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Our performance: Our employees 73 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Our business: How we 28 – 29 contract, and region, broken down by gender. is addressed by the organization. are managed LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and Our performance: Our employees 73 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Our business: How we 29 employee turnover by age group, gender, and principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or are managed region. endorses. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Managing our Imperatives: Maintain a 46 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Our business: How we 29 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by productive, supportive and safe working national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: are managed major operations. environment • Has positions in governance bodies; LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective Managing our Imperatives: Maintain a 46 • Participates in projects or committees; bargaining agreements productive, supportive and safe working • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or environment • Views membership as strategic. This refers primarily to memberships LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in Our performance: Our employees 76 maintained at the organizational level formal joint management–worker health and 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Our business: Who 24 safety committees that help monitor and advise on organization. keeps us in business 60 occupational health and safety programs. Examples of stakeholder groups are: Our stakeholders LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Our performance: Our employees 75-76 • Civil society; absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by (Partially absenteeism data not • Customers; region and by gender. disclosed) • Local Communities; • Shareholders and providers of capital; LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and Managing our Imperatives: Maintain a 46 • Suppliers; and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce productive, supportive and safe working • Employees, other workers, and their trade unions. members, their families, or community members environment 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Our business: Who 24 regarding serious diseases. engage. keeps us in business 60 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Our performance: Our employees 74 Our stakeholders gender, and by employee category. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Our business: Who 24 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Managing our Imperatives: Maintain a 47 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. keeps us in business 60 performance and career development reviews by productive, supportive and safe working Our stakeholders gender environment 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Our business: Who 24 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Safaricom Limited Annual Report & Safaricom engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key keeps us in business 60 of employees per employee category according to Group Accounts 2013: Who Leads Us Limited topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Our stakeholders gender, age group. Minority group membership and Corporate Governance Statement Annual Report other indicators of diversity and Group 4.18 Disclosure of Management Approach Our Imperatives and 36 59 Accounts opportunities 2013: Page 19 23 84 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 85 GRI Page Description Reference Indicator number (s) LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Managing our Imperatives: Maintain a 46 men by employee category, by significant locations productive, supportive and safe working of operation. environment Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units Our performance: Ethics and values 79 analysed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s Our performance: Ethics and values 79 anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Our performance: Ethics and values 79 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public Our performance: Regulatory issues 79 policy development and lobbying Managing our imperatives: Protecting 47 49 our Reputation SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive Our performance: Regulatory issues 79 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Our performance: Regulatory issues 79 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Managing our opportunities: Promoting 51 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction positive customer experiences at all touch points Our performance: Customer experience 72 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Our business: The value we have 26 including revenue, operating costs, employee created compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by Managing our Imperatives: Maintain a 46 gender compared to local minimum wage at productive, supportive and safe working significant operations of location environment 86 SAFARICOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 www.safaricom.co.ke Scan this QR code to view the digital report
