Message from the CEO Since that memorable day in 1989, PACIFIC RIM INNOVATION AND MANAGEMENT EXPONENTS, INC. (PRIMEX), has grown to what it is today – a top performing Philippine management consulting firm and perhaps the only 100% Filipino consulting firm that has worked in 30 countries in the Asia-Pacific region. True to my vision of making the Company a PRIME consulting firm, we have managed to attain No. 1 status among Philippines-registered consulting companies doing business with ADB in terms of volume and value of Technical Assistance contracts from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2012 and from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2013. This is a significant achievement, considering that we are what you would call a ‘boutique’ consulting firm (with only 30 regular, full-time staff) operating in a highly competitive industry, where global firms with thousands of personnel and billions of dollars in resources have registered Philippine offices, qualify as Philippine companies, and compete with 100% Filipino firms like PRIMEX, both for projects in the Philippines and in other countries in the region. We are proud to say that in the last 25 years, we have won many contracts as Lead Firm through international competitive bidding, where the shortlists included large consulting companies from Europe (Italy, France, Germany, The Netherlands, Scandinavia), North America (Canada and USA), Australia, and New Zealand. We have also established an excellent reputation with our clients, so much so that we have been much sought after by developed country consulting firms to be their international associate in bids for projects in the Asia-Pacific region. Some of these firms even ask PRIMEX to take the Lead in the bids for projects, especially in our core sectors. I must say, though, that these achievements did not come easy. We have made–and will continue to make–significant investments in time, effort, and money, as well as numerous personal sacrifices and a shared commitment to, and passion for, Excellence. With the strong and unwavering support from our numerous partners, colleagues, and friends, both in the Philippines and overseas, we are confident that we will be able to deliver the same high quality of services to our clients in our core and emerging sectors, as we have done in the last 25 years. With God’s grace, we hope that the next 25 years will be as fruitful and successful as our first 25. ELVIRA C. ABLAZA President and CEO Communication on Progress (COP) 2013 To date, PRIMEX has completed over 250 projects, most of which adopted the10 principles of the UN Global Compact to protect human rights, uphold ethical labor conditions, preserve the environment, and combat corruption. Human Rights. PRIMEX upholds human rights violations. In January 2013, it developed a Reference Guide on Legal and Human Rights for community health outreach workers (CHOWs) and peer educators (PEs) working among people who inject drugs (PWID), which was crafted to further understand and know the context and legal impediments and perspectives that revolve around HIV and AIDS and drug use. PRIMEX also believes that gender equity and equality is an important dimension of the human rights approach to development. The empowerment of women and marginalized groups, such as indigenous peoples (IPs), has been a focus area in most of PRIMEX’s completed and ongoing projects. The analysis of the gender dimensions of projects and the subsequent formulation and implementation of gender action plans (GAPs) have been standard elements of PRIMEX’s work in several countries in the Asia-Pacific region in the last 25 years. Two of PRIMEX’s recent engagements paid special attention to women’s needs. The first, TA 7716-PHI: Decentralized Framework for Sustainable Natural Resources and Rural Infrastructure Management in the Philippines, involved the design and implementation of a comprehensive capacity development program in sustainable watershed and rural infrastructure management for provincial and municipal/city governments and communities, including women and IPs, in the province of Bukidnon in central Mindanao. The second, TA 7655-BAN: Urban Primary Health Care Sector Development Project, prepared the design of a health sector project that would provide a comprehensive essential services delivery package (ESD+) of services to poor women and children in urban areas, particularly in the slums, in all the city corporations and selected municipalities in Bangladesh. From 2008-2009, a PRIMEX team implemented a small-scale technical assistance project funded under ADB RETA 6143: Promoting Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment aimed to develop information and communication strategies and services for sexual and reproductive health and HIV/AIDS prevention and control among Filipino women seafarers. Labor. PRIMEX has been providing equal opportunity for all qualified persons and has not discriminated against any employee or applicant for employment because of religion, sex, age, disability, or any other protected status. PRIMEX has a very clear policy on child labor – it does everything possible to ensure that its products do not use child labor or is in any way remotely connected to any form of child labor. It abhors the exploitation of Filipino children in prostitution, pornography and sex tourism industries, as well as agriculture, domestic work, drug trafficking and child soldiering. On the contrary, PRIMEX supports the education of the youth. It is currently implementing an ADB technical assistance project that supports the Government in piloting a youth job search assistance and employment project called MyFirstJob (MFJ) in public employment services offices (PESO) in four local government units (LGUs). Environment. PRIMEX is fully committed to environmental sustainability. It has worked with multilateral organizations and government agencies in the conduct of environmental assessment and in the planning and implementation of environmental management, biodiversity conservation measures, and climate change adaptation initiatives. PRIMEX’s growing portfolio in climate change related work is expected to increase in the coming years. Anti-Corruption. PRIMEX has never been convicted of an integrity-related offense or crime related to theft, corruption, fraud, collusion or coercion. It recognizes that doing business with integrity is the only right way of doing business. PRIMEX actively pursues ethics, compliance, and corporate responsibility training internally. It is currently working on putting systems and procedures on anti-corruption in place. It will be introduced to supplement its ISO Quality Management and is designed to ensure that each part of the Company applies appropriate steps to comply with the Company's ethical standards and the law. Outputs and Outcomes. As PRIMEX is directly involved in the design and implementation of projects, it sets objectives and produces “deliverables,” tangible things produced by the project. These outputs include improved processes, training programs to develop or refresh skills, or specifications for a service; and measurements, tracking processes and status reports that pertain to planning, managing, and closing the project itself. All PRIMEX projects address two kinds of anticipated outcomes: those planned payoffs measured in real dollars, which the project intends to produce from the outputs, and those important but often difficult-to-precisely-measure longterm results. Quality Performance Measurement and Monitoring System. PRIMEX maintains its ISO Quality Management System, which is fully committed to quality and excellence, and carries out all assignments according to the highest standards of professionalism and integrity. To ensure that high quality standards are maintained and improved, the Organization monitors the work process to ensure the highest standards of Client satisfaction. Measurement is aimed at added value and benefit to the Client and the Organization. This process is Organization wide and involves all personnel. The scope of this procedure includes: (i) planning and control of all processes; (ii) collection and analysis of data and information; (iii) measurement of Client satisfaction and dissatisfaction; (iv) monitoring and improvement of process capability; and (v) continual improvement. PRIMEX focuses on achieving the strategic goals and objectives, as demonstrated through measurable outcomes. It makes sure that its transformation processes, coupled with human performance—including expertise and experience—constitute the core competencies of the organization and ultimately will result in a positive outcome.
