Committed to Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Meeting Customer Needs While Protecting the Environment 4 Letter from CEO 5 About the Report 6 About DyStar 6 Our Worldwide Presence 7 Our Products and Solutions 11 Memberships, Awards and Recognitions 12 Corporate Governance 12 Governance for Sustainability 13 Ethics and Compliance 15 Sustainability and the Apparel Industry 16 DyStar and Sustainability 17 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality 19 DyStar’s Response to Sustainability Trends and Stakeholder Expectations 20 Sustainability Vision 20 Target Setting 21 Lowering our Operational Environmental Impact 35 Helping our Customers Reduce Their Environmental Impact 40 Labeling our Products and Services 42 Economic Performance of DyStar 44 Ensuring Workplace Safety & a Productive Work Environment 47 Our Social Initiatives 49 Our Sustainability Performance in a Nutshell 52 GRI Index 69 UN Global Compact Index Letter from CEO Dear Stakeholder, to the local economies by relying heavily on local suppliers to meet our It is my pleasure to present DyStar Group’s third Annual Sustainability Report. input needs.Our company is committed to promoting sustainability as per This report gives an insight into our company’s progress and initiatives towards the United Nations Global Compact principles. We assess and report our sustainability through the year 2012. sustainability performance in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. Additionally, continuing our efforts from the last two DyStar continues to build upon decades of experience and innovation to years, we have also published our carbon footprint report on the basis of take care of customer needs and adhere to the highest environmental, the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. health and quality standards and laws applicable to our industry. This commitment has cemented our place as a leading manufacturer of chemicals and colours In 2011, DyStar Group established an internal target of 20% reduction in for textiles and leather products. GHG, water use and waste generation by the company, to be achieved by 2020. I am proud to declare that we have successfully reduced our GHG It is our vision to become the world’s most sustainable and responsible emissions by approximately 13%, which is a big leap towards our target. supplier of colors, chemicals and services to the global textile industry. Similarly, we also achieved 28% and 12.5% reduction in water use and Our commitment to sustainability covers all three of its pillars, namely ecowaste generation, respectively. Social sustainability is another key connomic, environmental and social sustainability. Our sustainability strategy cern that we address by committing ourselves to the highest international to minimize our negative impact on environment and society sits alongstandards for health and safety within the chemical industry and others side our goal of addressing the priorities of our business and satisfying our that are universally applicable. Some of the standards that we adhere to customers. are Responsible Care®, SA 8000, and ISO 9001 and 14001. We are also meticulous about product safety and meet the requisite regional and national We follow a two-pronged approach towards sustainability. First, we reduce standards such as EU Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restricour own impact by being responsible in the use of resources. We impletion of Chemicals (REACH®), Oeko-Tex® Standard 100, and Global Organic ment the principles of reduce, reuse and recycle throughout our producTextile Standards (GOTS). Besides our responsibility to our customers, we tion processes and promote them amongst our employees. Second, while are also concerned about the society. Hence, we engage in various comdelivering the best quality products to our customers, we also assist them munity development activities in order to engage with local communities in decreasing their environmental and social footprint through safe, clean and promote a cohesive society. and efficient products. Additionally, we offer a range of sustainable solutions for the textile supply chain that help brands, retailers and their indusOn the financial front, we implement carefully devised strategies which try partners reduce costs and wastage, shorten lead times, meet quality consolidate our business and build a strong hold in the markets. Our comspecifications and improve their environmental compliance. Hence, our pany is committed to building long term relationships with all the stakeofferings are in synchronisation with the demand for promoting sustainholders and, hence, we encourage them to have open and transparent ability in both textile and leather industry. dialogues with us. As DyStar continues to make an earnest effort to reach the pinnacle of economic growth, it also focuses on striking a balance in Our holistic approach towards sustainability and relentless efforts to the environmental and social aspects to ensure inclusivity of its growth. achieve our goals resulted in significant improvements through the year We hope to keep progressing along the path of sustainability in the future 2012. Having undergone significant changes in the ownership of the comand welcome all the ideas and suggestions from our stakeholders to help pany in the last few years, we have renewed our focus on improving our us in attaining this goal. financial performance and have been expanding the reach of our products to upcoming markets. Despite the downturn in the global economy, we have managed to maintain our revenues at a level comparable to the earnings in 2011. The close and productive relationship that we build with our suppliers is a key factor that contributes to our financial well-being. Harry Dobrowolski Simultaneously, we have ensured percolation of the benefits of our growth Group CEO and President 4 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group About the Report This is the third annual sustainability report of the DyStar Group. The report We have revised our direct energy consumption numbers for 2011. has been prepared for the year 2012 following the guidelines of Global An explanation has been provided for this change in the section on Reporting Initiative GRI 3.1. On the basis of the GRI Application Level Cri‘Energy Management’. teria, we self-declare that this is a Level B report. Our last two reports were prepared in 2010 and 2011. This report is also our formal Communication of Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. This report’s scope includes economic, environmental, and social performance data for all business units, facilities, and subsidiaries1 that are opA summarized GRI Content Index is available at the end of the report to erationally and financially controlled by DyStar Group. We have excluded help the readers in identifying the location of the standard disclosures. third party warehouses and agents from the report. The financial figures are presented in US dollars unless otherwise stated. Audience The intended readers of this report include individuals or groups who To ensure accuracy, the report presents information collected from priare capable of influencing company’s operations, may have an interest in mary official documents and records. them or may be affected by them. This group comprises employees, suppliers and contractors, shareholders and investors, customers, regulatory Reporting Process authorities, industry associations, non-governmental organizations, acaDyStar Group’s Sustainability Committee guided the process of preparation demics, industrial peers, media and local communities. of this sustainability report. This committee includes representatives from the senior executive management. Further, this committee was assisted Assurance by a cross-functional project team with representative members from all We have not sought any external assurance for the current sustainability production sites and offices. This team gathered, verified and reported the report. However, the data samples used in this report were tested for qualperformance data. The key material issues were identified through a wellity, accuracy and consistency by the consulting firm that we hired to assist defined formal process of engagement with the representatives of various in preparing this report. We also created an internal check-and-balance stakeholder groups. Details of this selection process and the prioritized system to validate the data being reported. topics are given in the “Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality” section of the report. The key aspects and indicators were chosen on the basis of Availability the material issues to form the content of this report. The report is made available in a PDF version online at www.DyStar.com. In accordance with our environmental policy to conserve resources, only a The report includes information pertaining to all such activities of DySlimited number of copies have been printed. tar group that have material impact on society and the environment. The Sustainability Committee was also responsible for assessment and deterContacts mination of the sustainability context, scope, boundary, materiality, and Any queries, comments, suggestions or feedbacks with respect to this prioritization, of the content included in this report. report can be emailed to sustainability@DyStar.com 1 Data only from subsidiaries with more than 20 employees has been included in the report. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 5 About DyStar DyStar Group is a global leader for dyes, performance chemicals, and color production facilities located in 12 countries including Germany, USA, Mexisolution services, offering a complete range of colorants, auxiliaries and co, Brazil, Portugal, Turkey, Japan, China, India and Indonesia. We have sales services. A privately held company, DyStar was established in 1995 as a companies in all key regions. We have almost 2,500 employees worldwide. joint venture between Hoechst AG, Bayer Textile Dyes, and Mitsubishi. In The company earned $760 million USD as revenue in the last financial year. 2000, DyStar established itself as a coloration specialist by integrating the Asian markets contributed 44% of our earnings, while 56% of the revenue textile dye businesses from BASF, including ICI/Zeneca Dyes, and Mitsui was earned in European and American markets. into its business. In the last decade, the company has undergone significant expansion through strategic acquisitions of Color Solutions, Yorkshire Plant Rationalisation America, The Rotta Group, The Boehme Group and Texanlab, which are In 2012, we ceased operations at two of our major plants in Leverkusen, core solution-providers in the global textile industry. Germany and Cilegon, Indonesia. These plants had become outdated and were highly energy intensive. Production from these plants has been shiftIn 2010, the company established its headquarters in Singapore following ed to more modern plants, where we have invested heavily in state-of-theits joint acquisition by India-based Kiri Dyes and Chemicals Limited and art production technology. As a result, products are now manufactured in China-based Longsheng Group. DyStar Group is now owned by DyStar a much less emission-intensive environment. We also ceased operations at Global Holdings (Singapore) Pte Ltd, a company jointly owned by its our laboratory facilities in France. acquiring companies. We continue to have a global outlook. We have 14 Our Worldwide Presence 6 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group I X A NL D I O FI X A Z LE VA E M EX GO R TT DI A PR N IN JDYC SEADRERM E N O IO OC LV S O O N A Z T R AS Our Products and Solutions DyStar offers a wide range of products and services, which support designers, retailers, brand manufacturers and suppliers, fibre and textile manufacturers, printing mills, dye houses, and laundries. Our product innovation has resulted in about 1,500 product-related trademarks across 100 countries worldwide. Our products and services are designed to provide solutions for the entire textile value chain as depicted in the figure below. We are committed to ensuring that our products meet global environmen02 CONCEPT tal and health & safety standards. We believe that we have a substantial poDESIGN tential to contribute towards the enhancement of sustainability in the tex01 tile industry. We have been at the forefront of promoting environmentally COLOR friendly coloration processes that use less energy and water and also comDEVELOPMENT ply with progressive global standards in the chemical industry. Our focus is on helping our customers lower their environmental impact, shorten lead times and reduce costs. All of our products are manufactured and sold in accordance with applicable chemical legislation such as REACH®, and offer FIBER & FABRIC PRODUCTION 03 compliance to industry eco-label standards such as Oeko-Tex® Standard 100, and individual brand and retailer Restricted Substances Lists (RSLs). 04 PRODUCTION ORDERS DyStar is a member of the Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic Pigments Manufacturers (ETAD®), and we apply the highest standards of safety and ecology uniformly through all our product ranges. PRETREATMENT 06 We are also committed to the Responsible Care® Principles, which guide our actions towards improvement of the environment, health, safety and security performance of our company. 05 DYEING & PRINTING 07 The range of our products is given below: GARMENT MANUFACTURING Dyes DyStar is a leading supplier of textile dyes with a wide range of products covering almost all fibers and quality specifications. We manufacture dyes 08 FINISHING for dyeing and printing of cellulosic, acrylic, polyamide, wool, silk and polyester. Our dyes can be classified in the following categories: GARMENT FINISHING 10 QUALITY 09 APPROVAL / DELIVERY 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 7 a. Reactive Dyes Reactive dyes are used to color cotton and other cellulosic fibers. Our market-leading dye-brands in this category are Levafix®, Procion®, and Remazol® Levafix® dyes are versatile, high performance dyes with excellent reproducibility and fastness properties in pale and very pale shades. Our latest additions to this range are Levafix® Amber CA-N, Red CA-N & Scarlet CA-N, which are AOX free and metal free. Procion® dyes guarantee maximum reproducibility and level dyeing in difficult dyeing conditions. Remazol® dyes offer an extensive range of economical dyes for cellulosic fibers. They provide high colour yield and excellent build up in deep shades. A recent addition to this range is Remazol® Scarlet RGB, which has a low neutral substantivity. Procion® PX dyes are a full range of powder and liquid dyes for printing & continuous dyeing of cellulosic fibers meeting increasing quality and ecology demands for apparel and home textiles. b. Direct Dyes Direct dyes, also known as substantive dyes, are primarily used for cellulose materials. Our Sirius® product line comprises an extensive range of direct dyes, which are utilised for exhaust and pad application on cellulose fibers. These dyes yield vibrant and bright colors. They are easily applied and are economical in use. The Sirius® L sub range meets the high light fastness requirements for furnishing fabrics and home textiles. c. Vat Dyes We manufacture a variety of Vat dyes, which produce excellent results on cellulosic substrates and their blends with synthetic fibers. Indanthren® dyes are very high fastness dyes, which also meet the highest ecological standards. Our Indanthren® brand hang tag promotes articles having high fastness and excellent ecological properties. 8 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group d. Acid Dyes our expertise in leather chemistry. These dyes are available in deep blacks, These are water soluble anionic dyes that are used for fibres such as silk, browns, and many vibrant colors. Our range of products and services are wool, and polyamide. Our acid dye range includes the Telon®, Supralan® available for the processes given in the figure that follows. and Isolan® ranges, which are used on wool and polyamide. They can be applied by several application techniques such as exhaust dyeing, As a global leader amongst suppliers of processing chemicals and dyes, we continuous dyeing, space dyeing or printing. This product range is also have the expertise to advise our customers on optimizing the ecological ecologically beneficial due to reduced water consumption and effluent profile of leather production and the use of our products. By taking adgeneration. For polyamide, DyStar offers a full product range and has an vantage of our specialised services our customers are able to meet a wide outstanding position in the sportswear sector and carpet industry. range of test specifications and ecological requirements. Some examples are Oeko-Tex® Standard 100, RSLs from various brands and the SG label for e. Disperse Dyes leather manufactured without toxic chemicals. DyStar offers a large range of disperse dyes under its Dianix® and Palanil® brands. These are water insoluble dyes that are used to dye polyester and other synthetic fibers. Dianix® dyes are used for apparel, sportswear, automotive textiles, carpets and upholstery. DyStar’s Dianix® CW-SF range meets the increasing demand for better fastSpecialities Soaking, ness and fulfils major ecological standards. Almost the entire range is AOXWashing, free. It meets the needs of most Restricted Substances List (RSL) and each Degresing dye is bluesign® approved. Finishing Auxiliaries Pickling, To meet the needs of our customers, we offer a wide range of textile auxilTanning iaries. These are broadly classified in three categories. a. SERA® high performance process auxiliaries used in textile preparation, pre-treatment and dyeing processes. Fatliquoring b. EVO® range of products includes finishing and effects chemicals. These Waterproofing Neutralizing chemicals are used for functional effects, water-based coating and for Retanning sizing and yarn lubrication of all kinds of textiles. Dyeing c. LAVA® is our denim laundry auxiliaries and effects producing range. It is used for washing, dyeing, spraying, curing, coating, printing and finishing purposes in denims. Leather and Fur DyStar has established itself as a reliable partner for the leather and fur industry, in addition to the textile industry. Amongst an extensive range of products, we offer superior quality leather dyes, which are made using 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 9 At Texanlab, apart from the fact that we assist Brands & Retailers in achieving and maintaining their sustainability goals, our endeavour has always been to frugally and efficiently use all resources while meeting and exceeding demands of our customers Rahul Bhajekar Managing Director – Texanlab Laboratories Pvt. Ltd. Services CPSIA, REACH®, EU Eco-label and brands & retailers’ RSLs (Restricted Suba. Ecology Solutions stances Lists). Brands and retailers in the textile industry are becoming increasingly concerned about protecting their brand integrity and minimizing the impact d. Sustainable Textile Solutions of their supply chains on the environment. Simultaneously, their consumSustainable Textile Solutions (STS) is dedicated to assisting brands, retailers are also demanding greener products. DyStar is positioned as an expert ers and industry partners implement sustainable textile production that partner for collaboration with brands and retailers, for chemical and envimeets their quality and eco-requirements and makes more efficient use ronmental management of the entire supply chain. of resources. The STS programs focus on three main components: consultancy, auditOur econfidence® program offers an extensive range of sustainable proding and capacity building. These are tailor made to meet the individual ucts and services. Our solutions package helps our industrial customers requirements of each client. undertake responsible and sustainable production. We advise them on relevant legislations and ecological issues along with recommending prodThe various STS programs enable brands and retailers to monitor and imucts suited to meet ecological specifications, laws, labels and logos. prove the capability of their supply chains and achieve compliance to their environmental, health and safety standards. b. Color Solutions Color Solutions International (CSI) is the leading provider of color standards and color communication tools for sustainable color communication services. As a constituent of the DyStar group, CSI supports brands and retailers by providing color tools, building color palettes, engineering colors and standards, and distribution to brands, retailers or industry partners. The tools available from CSI facilitate making the right chemical decisions at the color design stage with consequent benefits in the supply chain including reduction in paper used, and reduction in the number of lab dips. The commitment of DyStar and the use of CSI certified color standards give brands, retailers and their industry partners a head-start in being more sustainable and in reducing environmental impact in design, development and production stages. For more information on Color Solutions International please visit www. csicolors.com c. Testing Solutions We deliver expert testing services through our group company Texanlab. Our testing services are accredited to ISO 17025. Texanlab is a boutique testing laboratory with experience of testing over 125,000 samples of dyes, chemicals, fabrics and apparel for ecological parameters. Texanlab has expertise in ecology testing and analysis according to the requirements of 10 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Memberships, Awards and Recognitions DyStar believes in continuous engagement with key stakeholders to keep • Ankleshwar Industries Association, India itself abreast of the issues facing the market and the textile industry, par• Anyer Merak Cilegon Chemical Manufacturer Association, Indonesia ticularly those pertaining to sustainability, ecology and corporate respon• South African Dyers and Finishers Association, South Africa sibility. We are actively associated with organizations who are seeking to • German Chemical Industry Association (VCI), Germany promote sustainability in the textile and apparel industry. Some of our key • Society of Dyers and Colourists, UK associations are mentioned below: • American Association of Textiles Chemists and Colorists (AATCC), USA • American Apparel and Footwear Association (AAFA), USA. 1. CSR, Sustainability and Ecology Organizations • ABIT (Associação Brasileira das Indústrias Têxteis) – • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Brazilian Association of Textile Industries. • Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) • ABIQUIM (Associação Brasileira das Indústrias Químicas) – • Textile Exchange Brazilian Association of Chemical Industries. • The Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic • SINPROQUIM (Sindicato das Indústrias de Produtos Químicos) – Pigments Manufacturers (ETAD®) Union of Chemical Products Industries. • Bluesign® • ABQCT (Associação Brasileira de Químicos e Coloristas Têxteis)• Global Apparel, Footwear and Textile Initiative (GAFTI) Brazilian Association of Textile Colorists and Chemists. • Singapore Compact for Corporate Social Responsibility • National Committee of Responsible Care®, Indonesia 3. Awards and Recognition DyStar’s genuine concern and initiatives to promote sustainability are ap2. Industry Associations preciated throughout the world. In 2012, DyStar participated in the pres• Textile and Fashion Federation (Taff ), Singapore tigious “Parivartan Sustainable Leadership Awards” where we gained the • Brazilian Association of Chemistry, Brazil second position in the ‘Sustainability Stewardship Innovation in Shaping • Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM), China Sustainability in Supply Chains’ category. The aim of the Parivartan Sustain• China Dyestuff Industry Association, China ability Leadership Awards was to promote and showcase efforts that shape conservation action, innovation and corporate sustainability leadership. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 11 Corporate Governance DyStar Group is a privately held company. We have a Board of Directors The Group CEO and President also periodically informs all employees and a senior management team, which formulates our business strategy about ethical business practices and expectations through company and management policies. The Board determines the long-term goals, vimeetings and other internal communication channels. sion, utilisation of financial resources, and the appointment and compensation of senior management. It is also involved in managing risks, which Our Open Door Policy gives employees direct access to senior managethe company may face in the financial year, as well as ensuring legal comment to raise their concerns or suggest any improvements in our policies pliance and business ethics in all its functioning, operations and activities. or operations. They can also bring ethical concerns to the management, either directly or through the compliance mechanism. We promote transparency in the policies and operations of our company. Hence, our five-member Board of Directors, including the Chairman, is Our Board of Directors vested with the responsibility to oversee and support our efforts towards • Mr. Ruan Weixiang, Chairman good corporate governance. All board members hold an extensive knowl• Mr. Manish Kiri, Director edge of affairs pertaining to corporate governance through their industrial • Mr. Chang Sheng, Director expertise and significant corporate experience. The Board of Directors re• Mr. Xu Yalin, Director view business plans and the strategic direction of the company on a quar• Mr. Amit Mukherjee, Director terly basis. Our Senior Management DyStar has formed a number of committees, which help the Board in per• Mr. Harry Dobrowolski, Group CEO & President forming its tasks. The Audit Committee has been set up to conduct an in• Mr. Viktor Leendertz, Group CFO dependent review of the effectiveness of the financial reporting process • Mr. Eric Hopmann, Sales Area Management – Europe followed by our group. It also examines our company’s internal controls • Mr. Klaus Kadletz, Sales Area Management – TAME through regular audits. The results of the reviews are submitted to the (Turkey, Africa & Middle East) Board and act as input for its decisions. • Mr. Ron Pedemonte, Sales Area Management – Americas / DTS The Remuneration Committee is primarily concerned with reviewing and The Chairman of the Board is not an executive officer in the company. recommending a remuneration framework for the employees. It specifies remuneration packages for the Group CEO and President, and for members Governance for Sustainability of the senior management level. . The committee is responsible for ensurDyStar is committed to adhering to the highest safety and environmental ing that the remuneration and Human Resource policies of the company standards in its operations worldwide. We research new products and proare aligned with its strategic objectives. It also ensures that the policies are cesses with the aim to reduce our environmental impact and provide the well-suited for recruitment, motivation and retention of employees. best quality products to our customers. The Board is closely associated with the senior management team at DySTo achieve these goals, we have constituted a Sustainability Committee to tar. The Group CEO and President, in consultation with senior manageformulate and direct DyStar’s sustainability strategy. One of the key tasks ment, develops strategic plans and policies, which have to be approved by of the sustainability committee is to set a broad sustainability agenda for the Board. The other tasks attended to by the CEO include implementation DyStar Group and identify sustainability goals and initiatives. The comand monitoring business strategies across various business verticals, finanmittee also selects the GRI performance indicators for the company, and cial and operational management, overseeing organisational efficiency, reviews annual sustainability data. It conducts periodic reviews of overall compliance with legal policies, internal and external communication, and progress towards our sustainability targets, including the principles and promotion of a corporate culture that enables achievement of business performance relating to environment management systems, health and objectives. 12 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group safety, Responsible Care®, and ethical code of conduct. DyStar Sustainability Committee Structure This committee is headed by the Group CEO and President. It includes the Regional President President Americas & Global head of DTS, Vice President Chairman of the Global Manufacturing & Supply Chain, and Global Sustainability Group CEO / President Manager. We also have a global sustainability project team, which is closely associated with the sustainability committee. The team includes Heads of production plants and designated sustainability champions in countries where we operate. Our Global Sustainability Manager is responsible for communicating the committee’s decisions with the global sustainability Vice President Global projects team. Vice President Global Sustainability Americas & Global Manufacturing & Head DTS Supply Chain Manager Management Ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct As a company with global operations, DyStar must function in many different legal and cultural environments. We are committed to conducting our business activities with the highest levels of integrity and ethical standards, Global and aim to always act within the limits of the legal systems. We have generSustainability Project Team ated a Code of Conduct for the company, which reflects the core values of the company and provides guidance to our employees. It includes the legal and ethical principles that are the ideal for our group. This code is binding for all our employees and the companies who are a part of the DyStar Group. The matters included in our Code of Conduct are: 1. Compliance with laws and regulations: We are committed to complying with national laws, international public laws and international trade laws. We do not undertake any activities in contradiction to export control laws. 2. Intellectual property rights: Our company ensures safe handling of confidential data and provides right to access the information on needto-know basis. We have our rules to protect intellectual property of the company and our customers. 3. Fair competition: We ensure compliance with antitrust legislation and do not engage in anticompetitive behaviour. We also comply with merger control laws. 4. Separation of private and company affairs: We clearly demarcate business and personal affairs and do not entertain influence of personal interests on our business decisions. We do not offer any personal benefits to suppliers, officials, government representatives or customers. 5. Safety, health and environmental protection: We are committed to complying with environmental standards that are applicable to us. We check 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 13 CODE OF DyStar is certified according to ISO 9001 CONDUCT and ISO 14001. Quality and environmental management play an important role in our global business and is taken very serious. Sustainability is given by our globally defined processes. The characteristics of our products are monitored and measured. Magdalena Kochanek PRINCIPLES Global Director Quality Management VALUES a. Foster a culture of honesty and high ethical standards b. Evaluate and mitigate risks for the Company c. Raise awareness among employees on the need for adherence to laws and regulations PRACTICES d. Improve public image of the Company In order to support the actions towards compliance, we have a Global Compliance Officer who is accessible to all the employees of DyStar Group for reporting their concerns. The officer can directly approach the CEO to our products for any potential hazards. We are obliged to protect our employees as well as contractors by providing safe work place and regular discuss and address employees’ concerns. We also have designated per trainings. We encourage open and transparent dialogue on safety, health sons responsible for local compliance. They spread awareness about Comand environmental matters. pliance Management and the applicable laws/regulations/codes at site 6. Product and service quality: We aim to maintain high and globally unilevel. They are also responsible for coordination with the operative responform standards of processes, products, applications and production envisible person and Global Compliance Management through the General ronments. Technology leadership is the key to our success. Management. 7. Relationships with employees: DyStar prohibits any form of harassment, and child or forced labour. We respect the rights of the employees and aim The compliance structure also includes the Group Legal Counsel who to maintain congenial relationship with them. advises employees on laws and regulations, and legal considerations in 8. Cooperation with authorities: It is our duty to safeguard the rights of the case of deviation and non-compliance. The Counsel is responsible for inCompany and its employees. We cooperate fully with all competent legal teracting with governmental authorities in cases of deviation. All compliauthorities and agree to provide complete information required by them ance related issues are treated as high priority concerns and any corrective through our legal department. measures in this regard are implemented with utmost urgency. All the employees of the Group are provided contact details of those in Compliance For a detailed version of our code of conduct please visit our website Management through the company’s intranet. www.DyStar.com DyStar complies with international standards for environmental and soCompliance Management at DyStar cial responsibility. We are ISO 9001: 2008 and ISO 14001:2004 certified and Compliance is an integral part of our business and management practices have implemented and maintained Quality and Environmental Managethrough which we aim to reduce our risks and increase operational effiment Systems throughout the development, production, marketing, sales ciency. While each DyStar employee is responsible to ensure compliance and distribution of textile dyestuff and auxiliaries. We also conducted an with the Code of Conduct, we have established a Compliance Manageaudit, which verified that the management system fulfils the requirement ment Structure to support and coordinate their activities in this direction. of the standard. Compliance management includes all measures to support the adherence We ensure fulfilment of our social responsibilities by complying with the of processes, rules of actions, laws and standards, social accountability requirements of SA 8000. This international standard guides our approach guidelines, code of conduct, company guidelines and management directowards critical social issues such as child and forced labour, health and tives by DyStar staff. safety, freedom of association, right to collective bargaining, discrimination, disciplinary practices, working hours, remuneration, and manageThe company has established the Global Compliance function to attain ment systems. Further details on the company’s practices can be found as following four key objectives: 14 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Sustainability and the Apparel Industry The last three decades have seen a significant rise in the production of textiles and clothing, and an associated increase in local chemical and dyestuff manufacturing facilities to support these industries. In order to support this growth, dyestuff manufacturing has shifted out of Europe and North America to parts of Asia and Africa. While this shift has generated significant employment and greater revenues for the textile producers in the Asian and African countries, it has also increased their environmental impact, as the textile industry is an intensive user of water, energy and chemicals. Chemicals and dyes help garment manufacturers achieve bright shades that appeal to consumers whilst at the same time offering high levels of performance in use, such as fastness to washing, water-repellency and easy-care properties. Several of these dyes and chemicals are classified as hazardous substances that can have a negative impact on the environment and human health if they are not stored, handled, used and disposed of correctly. Water is a critical resource in textile production processes. Most of the water is consumed and discharged during ‘wet processing’, which involves preparation, dyeing, finishing and printing of the fabric. Dyeing and finishing processes have the highest usage, and can use up to 200 tonnes of water for production of each tonne of textile produced. The resultant wastewater contains a variety of pollutants including residues from the dyes and chemicals used during wet processing. Unless such pollutants are removed by treating the wastewater in Effluent Treatment Plants (ETP), there is a risk of water pollution on a large scale. It has therefore become imperative for the textile industry to promote sustainability at the global level and to regulate supply chain practices to minimize pollution. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 15 DyStar & Sustainability The DyStar Group acknowledges that the production and usage of our products has an environmental impact arising from GHG emissions, resource use, water and energy consumption, waste generation, and potenFor several years, DyStar has been fine-tuning its sustainability and tial water pollution. We are keenly aware of our responsibility towards the business strategy to align with market needs. We have adopted a environment and the health and safety of our customers, employees and dual approach to sustainability – decrease the environmental impact local communities. We work hard to design and implement strategies and of our operations and decrease the health and environmental imprograms to reduce the impact of our operations in these areas. We are pacts of our products. also fully committed to help our customers in the textile and leather industry reduce their environmental footprint through a range of ecological Having adopted a focussed sustainability strategy in 2011, we have solutions for their operations. streamlined our efforts towards attaining our sustainability goals. Key environmental concerns for our organization include: We continuously monitor our performance in these key areas, and • Emissions to air develop appropriate strategies to address relevant issues. We en• Releases to water gage with our employees across regions and verticals to ensure im• Land contamination plementation of such policies. DyStar’s “CEO Caring for The Future • Energy and resource consumption Awards” were instituted to encourage them through due recogni• Noise and vibration tion and rewards to take initiatives for sustainability. • Dust and odor • Waste disposal Our R&D team continues to find new ways to develop products that require less energy and water to use and those that result in lower We work continuously to reduce our impact across all of these areas. quantities of harmful waste. Sustainability reporting will continue to be a significant part of our A Word from our Global Sustainability Manager sustainability strategy. It has helped disclose our plans and achievements to our employees as well as our customers. We will continue At DyStar, we are driven by the need to be in lock-step with the to engage with all of our stakeholders in order to excel and maintain needs of our customers. We are proud to call some of the largest our leadership in this area of work. I look forward to receiving your textile brands and retailers our long-term customers. In our interactions feedback about our sustainability efforts. with them, we have seen sustainability emerge as an irreversible trend. Brands and retailers are looking for sustainable innovation and they want their suppliers to manufacture products using raw materials that have the lowest possible impact on the environment, Dr. Charu Jain across the life-cycle of the product. We are also bearing witness to Global Sustainability Manager the strengthening of global regulations concerned with the health DyStar Group and environmental impacts of chemical production, usage, and disposal. 16 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group DyStar’s leading market position evolved from its ecology, economy driven sustainability vision and its employees. Together with our business partners we strive to protect air and waStakeholder ter, wilderness and wildlife which are in fact plans to protect man. Engagement & Materiality Klaus Kadletz Sales Area Manager – Middle East and Turkey Our sustainability journey is closely aligned to the expectations our stakeholders have of us. It has been our endeavor to systematically expand our sustainability agenda among our stakeholders. Each year we ask our management team to re-evaluate how the influence of our stakeholder groups on the company has changed over the course of the year and how they foresee the influence changing in the near future. Based on this exercise, we develop a list of stakeholders who are most influential for our organization. Our key stakeholders for 2012, as determined by our management team are: • Employees • Shareholders • Customers • Suppliers We have well-documented and comprehensive systems to engage with these stakeholders and we have been working with them to improve our performance in line with their expectations. Our sustainability-oriented engagement has expanded from gathering feedback not only from our employees but also from our key external stakeholders. The table below provides a comprehensive view of our engagement activities: Stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations DyStar’s Responsibility Modes of Engagement Encourage an open-door policy to Continuously Review HR policies for provide employees at all levels access fairness and relevance. Management • Safe workplace; to management for sharing views and Interact with employees in a number • Opportunities for growth; offering feedback. Keep the emphasis of ways on daily basis. Arranged team Employees • Fair treatment; on workplace health and safety at our building and sustainability themed out• Reward for performance; production plants. Ensure ethical and ings for employees to keep the motivafair employment practices. Reward and tion levels high. Green award is awardrecognize performance. ed to the best location for Sustainability driven initiatives. • Reasonable return on investment; Create well informed business stratePeriodic meetings with key shareholdShareholders • Sustained and long-term growth of gies; Implement strategies effectively; ers to update them on company perforbusiness. Build long lasting brand equity. mance and sustainability initiatives. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 17 Through sustainability is how we become a company capable of offering innovative and quality products and services at the same time, we take care of the environment, the future of our planet and the new generations. Abraham Frem Managing Director DyStar Mexico Stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations DyStar’s Responsibility Modes of Engagement • Minimal environmental impact of Continuously improve quality of prodOrganize seminars for customers on DyStar products and materials ucts and services. Invest in research ecology and sustainability. Hold regular • Appropriate labeling of DyStar products and development facilities to develop meetings with customers to exchange Customers • Health & safety impacts of products more ecological products and services. information. Attend industry forums on customers Promptly supply information on prodand conferences. Provide information • Customer privacy ucts’ compliance with various standards through various channels such as our • Quality of products and regulations. website, product brochures, social media and updates. • Establish long-term relationships. Develop a network of reliable suppliers Ongoing dialogue with our key suppliers • Collaborate on supply quality products and work closely with them to source to better understand and explain issues Suppliers and services. high quality products and services. relating to quality, social, and environ• Fair selection, and respect for contractual Influence them to continuously immental performance. obligations. prove their social and environmental performance. This year we conducted a formal survey among representative members of our key stakeholder groups. The survey sought to understand the key sustainability issues that matter to our stakeholders. Stakeholders were divided into 4 groups: Internal stakeholders, top management, external stakeholders, and peer group companies. We assessed the key issues raised by this sample set and finally decided upon the most material sustainability issues for the organization. The key issues are highlighted below: Material Issues Material Issues Material Issues Material Issues Internal Stakeholders Top management External Stakeholders Final • Health & safety impacts of • Health & safety impacts of • Appropriate labelling of Dr. Charu Jain & safety impacts of • Health DyStar products on customers DyStar products on customers DyStar’s products and services Global Sustainability DyStar’s productsManager on customers • Economic performance of DyStar • Economic performance of DyStar • Environmental impact of materials DyStar Group • Appropriate labelling of • Disposal of solid waste from • Environmental impact of used by DyStar DyStar’s products & services DyStar operations materials used by DyStar • Environmental impact of • Environmental impact of • Compliance to national • Disposal of solid waste from DyStar’s products DyStar’s products & services environmental laws DyStar operations • Health & safety impacts of • Environmental impact of • Appropriate labelling of • Compliance to national DyStar’s products on customers materials used by Dystar DyStar’s products & services environmental laws • Management systems to ensure • Compliance to national privacy of DyStar’s customers environmental laws 18 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Enhancing sustainability performance is an inevitable requirement for improving the core competitiveness of enterprises. In the face of a severe macroeconomic situation and intense competition in the dyestuff industry, in 2012 DyStar China’s sites (Nanjing, Wuxi) carried through a comprehensive plan to implement energy efficiency projects. Significant progress has been made by taking a systematic approach to the issue of energy usage across the sites. Thanks to the efforts of all staff, this work has laid a solid foundation on which DyStar China’s sites will be able to further improve production and reduce site costs, so as to benefit the company, reward employees and contribute to society as a whole. Li De Zhong Production Head China DyStar’s response to sustainability trends and stakeholder ENGAGING WITH OUR EMPLOYEES: expectations CEO “CARING FOR THE Given the DyStar Group’s worldwide operations and clientele, we ensure FUTURE” AWARDS environmental sustainability in our processes through a stringent environmental management system (EMS) implemented at each of our plants. It provides a broad framework to ensure alignment between our operations and environmental goals of our group. This system requires identifying, evaluating, prioritizing and managing environmental aspects in the folSustainability at DyStar is driven by the integration of sustainable lowing areas: practices into its daily operations and value chain. An annual award • Design and development scheme linked to its Company-wide Sustainability Program, “Caring • Manufacturing for the Future”, was introduced in 2011 to motivate all production • Storage, packaging and transportation site and offices to uphold this core brand value. Several factors are • Environmental performance, practices of contractors and suppliers considered when determining the best performing Production Site • Waste management and Office for the “CEO Caring for the future” Award: Leadership and • Use and distribution of raw materials and natural resources team effort qualities; Thought process and knowledge flow; and • Distribution, use, and end-of-life of products Motivation and integration of sustainable production practices into • Biodiversity daily operations. The Award recipients are judged based on the implementation of specific initiatives in four critical areas for DyStar Our EMS defines a systematic approach for environmental impact management. The steps of the procedure followed by the plants are given namely water, energy, waste and CO2 emissions, and their achievebelow. ment in reduction targets that should be aligned with DyStar’s over1. Identify and assess environmental impacts and risks all 20% reduction target by 2020. 2. Establish objectives and, wherever possible, quantitative targets also for continual improvement in environmental performance. DyStar Sustainability Committee has decided to award the winners 3. Provide necessary training to employees with a Citation and a one day Social Visit to all employees of the site/ 4. Review the objectives and the progress periodically offices with one time meal at company expense. The aim is to use 5. Comply with all applicable regulatory requirements and, wherever this visit for community services/ sports activities/ team building acpossible, go beyond these requirements tivities which may further benefit the employees in attaining team 6. Co-operate and communicate with our neighbours, the public, government, spirit, happiness, relaxation from work and fulfill social commitment regulatory authorities and other stakeholders towards the shared goal through community help. of improving the environment 7. Conduct regular monitoring and auditing programs to ensure compliance with continual environmental improvement In 2012, DyStar China was the recipients for the award. The Award 8. Communicate environmental performance to employees and recipients implemented specific initiatives in the four material areas stakeholders (water, energy, waste and gaseous emissions) and achieved reduction targets which are aligned with our overall 20% reduction target by 2020 for the same four areas. This award policy would be reconsidered and updated on every two year basis depending upon the progress of our sustainability program. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 19 Eco-compliance is not an alternative for us, it’s a must especially if you work with European retailers acting globally, like Inditex, H&M, Next and others.. It has to be not only part of our business processes and policies but also part of our attitude towards our customers to offer quality product Eric Hopmann Sales Area Manager Europe Based on our assessment of our company’s environmental impact, we have set specific goals to lower our environmental impact: DyStar’s Process Model Table 1: Our Sustainability Performance Our process-based approach plays an important role in helping the Target area Target (Baseline 2010) Target Year 2012 Progress company maintain quality, production targets and plan quarterly 13% reduction achieved growth. We adhere to the process model prescribed by the international Greenhouse Gas 20% reduction in 2020 Emissions absolute emissions since 2010 standard ISO 9001. This model has four key modules, namely Management 23% reduction achieved Responsibility, Resource Management, Process Management, and module Energy 20% reduction in 2020 Consumption absolute energy consumption since 2010 for Measurement, Analysis and Improvement. These aspects essentially 26% reduction achieved involve planning, execution, review and checking. As we undertake work 20% reduction in Water use 2020 absolute water consumption since 2010 to meet our sustainability targets across the organization, our process-model 4% reduction achieved driven approach has allowed us to systematically address resource-use Waste 20% reduction in absolute waste generation 2020 since 2010 generation inefficiencies. Management Approach to Environmental Sustainability Sustainability Vision of new products and processes for synthesis and application. The R&D Our vision is to become the world’s most sustainable supplier of colors teams use technical know-how emerging from multiple disciplines. and chemicals to the global textile industry. We aim to be our customer’s We protect our innovations through patents and trademarks registered prime source for information and guidance on best sustainability practices throughout the world. in the global textile supply chain. We are proud to certify our products to be ecologically sustainable through our econfidence® program, which Sustainability Solutions & Services / ensures that our customers are able to reduce their environmental impact. Raising Awareness about Sustainability DyStar believes in reliable quality and high ecological standards and proDyStar seeks to spread awareness amongst brands, retailers and our indusduces ecologically responsible products. Our production processes, prodtry partners about textile dye and chemical ecology through a range of ucts and the application procedures of our products follow internationally products and services. We offer services to our industrial partners for prohigh standards and endeavor to minimize risks to customers, end-users or cess guidance and optimization for reduction in resource consumption, the environment. To attain our environmental goals, we have formulated testing their products to meet environmental standards, and build supply a Global Sustainability Policy. We aim to establish sustainability as a brand chain partnerships with them for sustainable textile production. value at all levels of our business. International Environmental Standards & Regulations Target Setting We adhere to international standards for environmental management Similar to the target-setting exercise in the economic sphere of our operations, such as ISO 14001: 2004. Our facilities in Nanjing and Wuxi (China) and in we have also defined specific reduction targets for carbon emissions, water Pietermaritzburg (South Africa) have been certified to this standard since usage, energy consumption and waste generation. These targets have 2008.We also comply with EU REACH® regulation, and give product selecbeen selected on the basis of our emissions in 2010. We are aiming for a tion guidance to our customers for various Restricted Substances Lists minimum annual reduction of 2% in electricity, water, waste and carbon of Brands and Retailers, Oeko-Tex® Standard 100, Global Organic Textile emissions and overall 20% reduction by the year of 2020. Standards (GOTS) and many other standards. Such guidance improves the credibility of our company’s efforts towards environmental sustainability. Sustainable Research & Development Research and development is an integral activity for the company. DyStar Overall, our strategy is to integrate environmental sustainability into all our maintains its leadership in the textile dyes and auxiliaries industry through operations by setting internal targets and providing products and services the support of our R&D department, which is engaged in the development which help to ‘green’ the textile supply chain. 20 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Lowering our Operational Environmental Impact A Word from our VP – Global Manufacturing & Supply Chain The thrust of our business model is to ensure that the needs of our customers are fully met. We maintain a close scrutiny over our production processes to ensure that the quality, safety, reliability and delivery standards set by our customers are duly met. Simultaneously, we also aim to ensure that our employees get a safe work environment, and attempt to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment. The surrounding communities also fall within the purview of our sustainability efforts such that our manufacturing processes do not harm them in any manner possible. We have a wide base of manufacturing units, which are located in 12 countries across Asia, Europe and The Americas. Our product range includes various chemicals and colours that have clientele in the textile and leather industry. These production operations are the most resource intensive segment of our company. The energy and water consumed, waste and wastewater generated through these units constitutes more than 90% of the overall consumption. Hence, the environmental impact of the production units is also the highest within DyStar. We constantly work towards reducing our resource consumption. Many initiatives were undertaken in 2012 to attain this goal. These measures have twofold benefits for the company. It limits our impact on the environment and also decreases our cost of production. Hence, it makes our company more competitive throughout the world. Additionally, we are particularly careful about storage and transportation of the stock of raw material and finished products since a large number of them can be potentially hazardous to the environment, and health and safety. We follow strict procedures with respect to these goods to avoid any spills and accidents. The employees undergo rigorous training to ensure proper use of equipment and adherence to the safety norms established by us. This report presents a detailed analysis of the efforts made at DyStar to promote its business and in conjunction the contribution made towards environmental protection and development of the society. Gerald Talhoff 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 21 When thinking about developing sustainability-oriented projects, anything that is done in favor of the environment, however small it may seem, will have positive impact and gives us the opportunity to have a better future Jorge Romero Production Head Mexico Managing our Environmental Impacts during Product Manufacturing Our products do not contain: 1. Asbestos How We Manage Our Materials 2. Chlorinated benzenes/toulenes 3. SCCP/MCCP Raw Materials 4. Octylor nonyl-phenol or their ethoxylates We are committed to manufacture our products as far as possible without 5. PCBs PCP/TeCP/TriCP the use of chemicals with unacceptable hazardous effects on either hu6. Phthalates man health or the environment. Our products are thoroughly evaluated 7. Organotin Compounds to identify any potential hazards and comprehensive advice is given to our 8. o-phenylphenol customers on the appropriate risk prevention measures. 9. Pesticides 10. Flame retardants econfidence®from DyStar 11. PVC Increased awareness of consumers about sustainability and the re12. Ozone depleting chemicals quirements of environmental and chemical legislation across the world 13. Polyhalogenated Dioxins/furans have prompted an increasing number of textiles brands and retailers to seek to encourage environmentally safe textile production practices within their supply chains. With the proliferation of various eco labels, Additionally, we also comply with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) laws and standards, textile manufacturers are looking for raw materials, “Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern for Authorisation” unwhich are less hazardous, have reduced environmental impact and der REACH®. None of our sales products intentionally contain any of the are safe for human health. DyStar, as a leading product and service chemical substances that are included in the Candidate list, as per the latprovider has always taken the safety and environmental impact of est revision. Our dyes and pigment preparations do not contain Phthalates its products seriously and we have encompassed this activity in our as intentional components. econfidence® program. Packaging Materials DyStar’s econfidence® program is our commitment towards the ecological We have also undertaken steps to reduce, reuse, and recycle packaging quality of our products. It has been developed to ensure to our customers material used at various manufacturing sites. We have taken initiatives to that all our products are in full compliance with chemical legislation worldreclaim packaging material from our customers and reuse them in the next wide. It is backed by the most extensive testing program of any dye and product cycle. Some of these measures implemented at various sites are: chemical supplier to the textile industry. We ensure that all our products are free from azo dyes that can break down to release carcinogenic amines, 1. Packaging and selling products in IBC containers of 1000 kg capacity and that they do not contain any dyestuffs that are classified in the EU as instead of 50 or 200 kg drum. carcinogenic, mutagenic, or reprotoxic. Our products also do not contain 2. Cleaning and reusing IBC and PE drums, which contained raw materials any allergenic disperse dyes as specified in the Oeko-Tex® Standard. for finished products. 3. Plastic IBCs and drums are emptied by customers and returned to our All our products are free of alkylpehnol ethoxylates (APEOs); i.e.; chemisupplier for cleaning and reuse. cals such as nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPEO) and octylphenol ethoxylates 4. All products, where applicable, are put into the recycling program for (OPEO) are not used as intentional ingredients in their formulation. Our plastic containers. products comply with the European Union’s programme for the cessation 5. We buy recycled PLCD200, 200 liter drums for packaging our products at or phasing out of the use of APEOs. the site in Naucalpan, Mexico. 22 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Public and customer expectations of sustainability performance are increasing all the time and through its Sustainability program DyStar is positioning itself as a safe and trusted partner. Sunarto Djuardi Sales Area Manager – South East Asia We also try to reduce the packaging material needs of our suppliers. At our for our employees and for delivery of goods to our customers add to our manufacturing site in Nanjing, China, the plastic bags of indigo powder are energy consumption. sent back to the supplier for recycling and reuse. While we did not estimate the overall reduction in the need for fresh packaging material during the We use both direct and indirect energy procured from primary sources. current reporting period, the above measures have positively impacted Direct energy is generated mainly through diesel, ethanol, fuel oil, gasoline, our usage of packaging materials. natural gas and liquefied natural gas (LNG), and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG). For indirect energy, we source our energy needs through purchase Table 2: Material Consumption at DyStar of electricity and steam. Material Consumption Data Our direct energy consumption decreased by 42% between 2011 and 2012 2012, primarily due to the closure of our Cilegon and Leverkusen plants. Raw Materials (MT) 103,188 Table 3: DyStar Direct Energy Consumption Packaging Materials (MT) 3,599 Unit 2011 2012 Percentage Change Associate Materials (MT) 1,002 Total Direct Energy KwH GJ 145,286,5602 523,032 84,511,631 304,242 -42% Energy Management Energy is a significant input for DyStar’s operations. Improving energy Figure 2: Direct Energy Consumption (kWh) efficiency of our processes has benefits in terms of cost saving as well as Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions reduction. Since the majority of our energy requirements are met by energy generated through non-renewable resources, an increase in our energy efficiency can make significant contribution to our environmental goals. Utilisation of less energy per unit of production increases the economic and environmental sustainability of -42% our business. As part of our commitment to environmental protection, we FOR DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION continuously review our production processes and improve them where it YEAR 2011 is possible to reduce raw material usage and energy consumption. 145.2 Energy Use at our Operations Our production units, with their processing equipment such as mixers, reactors, pumps, dispersers, spray dryers, milling lines, blenders, boilers, incinerators, and wastewater treatment plants account for majority of our 84.5 energy consumption. Our energy consumption is also heavily influenced by our product mix. Manufacture of customised products that help our clients in the textile and leather industries keep up with the latest fashion trends can significantly affect our overall energy utilisation. 2011 2012 Our laboratories, corporate offices and headquarters, along with our production 2 This number was incorrectly reported as 14.6 million kWh in our 2011 Sustainability facilities, use energy for lighting and air-conditioning. Our transport facilities Report. The error was due to a misalignment of unit conversion factors. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 23 Figure 3: Sources of direct energy 2012 We see a significant potential for reducing our customers’ energy consumption per unit through our products. We are engaged in continuous research and development of such innovative products, which require less energy during their use by our textile customers. 86% Our Lava® auxiliary and effects range for the denim industry, improves sustainability in the dyeing process by enabling reduced 4% consumption of energy. Such products create a win-win situation Diesel 2% for our customers, the industry and the environment. Gasoline 6% Natural Gas 2% Energy Efficiency & Energy Conservation LPG In the reporting period, we implemented several initiatives to enhance the Fuel Oil energy efficiency of our own operations. Some examples of steps taken in our production units are listed below: Our indirect energy consumption fell by 15.4% between 2011 and 2012. 1. Installation of variable frequency drives in our production unit in India Our overall energy consumption decreased by 24.8% in the same time to control the speed of our process water pumps depending on the line period. pressure, has reduced electricity consumption by 39,000 kWh. 2. The manufacturing unit in Thailand re-arranged its production planTable 4: Indirect Energy Consumption, 2010-2012 ning to save energy and fuel. The re-arrangement grouped products that needed to heat or pre-melt in the same period, thereby benefiting from Source (Indirect Energy) Unit 2010 2011 2012 Grid Electricity Purchased kWh 81,265,234 88,421,119 69,383,175 economies of scale for energy use. It also increased mixing quantities of GJ 292,554.84 318,316.03 249,779.43 some products. In case of small quantity and slow moving batches, the Purchased Steam kWh 170,905,257 176,776,084 154,820,431 mixing was done directly in the IBC 1,000 liter containers/drums. GJ 615,258.93 636,393.90 557,353.55 3. Renewal of the brine chiller at our Omuta plant in Japan led to savings of Total Indirect Energy kWh 252,170,491 265,197,203 224,203,606 approximately 5,000 kWh of energy. GJ 907,813.77 954,709.93 807,132.98 4. Replacement of 12 steam traps in our unit in USA resulted in energy savings of 2.4 million kWh. Figure 4: Indirect Energy Consumption 2010-2012 (kWh) 5. The Africa unit reduced cycle times for production. This resulted in lowering our electricity consumption for agitation and our fuel consumption 265.19 for heating. The combined savings amounted to 76,286 kWh. 252.17 We also encourage our employees in production units, offices and laboratories to practice energy conservation. There have been permanent campaigns in order to raise staff awareness about saving energy. We try 224.2 to use sunlight for some areas in our offices and decrease the use of artificial lighting. The employees are constantly reminded to turn off the lights, air conditioners, computers and other electronic devices when not in use. 2010 2011 2012 Such practices have resulted in substantial energy savings. 2 This number was incorrectly reported as 14.6 million kWh in our 2011 Sustainability Report. The error was due to a misalignment of unit conversion factors. 24 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group than 5% of our overall emissions, i.e. fugitive emissions from refrigeration Information Technology Strategy: Using Cloud-based and air-conditioning as well as emissions from chemical reactions. However, in the current reporting period we have broadened the scope of our systems to decrease energy consumption carbon calculations by including emissions from both these sources. We Our IT department uses the latest technology to support DyStar have not yet included Scope 3 emission sources, i.e. emission sources in Group’s business across all our locations. Most of these initiatives enour upstream and downstream supply chain, in any of the carbon footprint tail dual benefits by improving our business processes, and reducing reports. the environmental impact of our operations. Our global operations result in large repositories of data, with several layers of redundancy. We have voluntarily committed to an organizational-level target of reducThis redundancy increases our data storage requirements, thereby ing DyStar’s GHG emissions by 20% on an intensity basis (emissions per increasing our server capacities and energy requirements. Over tonne of production) by 2020. DyStar’s GHG emissions in the reporting pethe last two years, our IT team has migrated our essential applicariod were calculated to be 144,699 tonnes of CO2e. A comparison with the tion needs to cloud-based systems such as Office 365 and CSRWare. emissions equivalent to 166,509 tonnes CO2e in the base year, 2010, we These shared services have allowed us to reduce our data redundanhave reduced our emissions by 13%. cy, resulting in better communication platforms and service levels. We have made substantial progress in this project in the last two years and expect to complete it soon. We also plan to reduce the number of physical servers in the company, leading to lesser energy Making our offices sustainable consumption. Starting in 2014, we expect to bring down the numWhile the majority of our resource consumption is attributable to ber of servers by 30, and eventually another 50, and move to SAP our production units, we also promote sustainability in our offices Private Cloud technology through this project. and labs. DyStar China has assembled a sustainability team, which oversees and implements such to reduce resource use and limit the environmental impact of its operations. GHG Emissions DyStar Shanghai Trading, a unit of DyStar China, estimates to have For last three years, DyStar has published its Annual Carbon Footprint resuccessfully reduced its electricity consumption by 13.5% in year port. Our company is amongst a few in the industry who have taken this 2012, as compared to 2011. It reduced office space from two floors initiative. Measuring our carbon footprint and reducing our impact is an to one floor to further reduce electricity consumption. important part of our company’s agenda for environmental protection. We collect and assess data on greenhouse gas emissions from all our producIn a similar measure by DyStar China’s Hong Kong office, the office tion units and offices throughout the world. Our organisation is commitarea was reduced by 70% in September, which is expected to reduce ted to making our carbon footprint available to our stakeholders. electricity consumption by 30%. This section presents our GHG emission inventory for the year starting on Our offices in India and Pakistan encourage environmentally friendly 1st of January 2012 and ending on 31st of December 2012. The assesspractices such as reducing use of paper, and avoiding unnecessary ment was carried out in accordance with the principles and requirements printing of documents. These offices are constructed in a manner of ISO 14064: 2006 Part 1 standard and the GHG Protocol by the World that they can use natural light for illumination of the workspace. Employees are asked to turn off the computers and electrical appliResource Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable Develances when not in use. We also make efforts to green our office and opment. In our first two reports, published in 2010 and 2011, we focused surrounding areas. For this, we organise greening drives where our on quantifying the most material sources of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG employees and the visitors plants trees. Such practices are encouremission sources. Scope 1 includes refers to emissions and Scope 2 refers aged across all our offices, wherever it is possible. to indirect emissions. In previous years, since we were new to the reporting procedure, we excluded those sources of emissions that contributed less 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 25 We believe that our sustainability program plays an important role in enabling us to grow and develop our business in the future Dimas Teixeira Production Head Apuina Brazil Table 5: Summary of GHG emissions Emissions (tonnes c02e) Emissions source SUMMARY 2010 % 2011 % 2012 % OF GHG SCOPE 1 30,548 18% 31,019 18% 21,084 15% emissions SCOPE 2 135,961 82% 142,670 82% 123,615 85% Total CO2e emissions 166,509 173,689 144,699 Figure 5: Overall Summary of Emissions 142,670 135,961 123,615 13% FOR OVERALL EMISSIONS FROM BASE YEAR 2010 30,548 31,019 21,084 18% 82% 18% 82% 15% 85% 166,509 173,689 144,699 Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) 2010 2011 2012 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 Scope 2 emission sources, which include purchased steam and electricity, continue to contribute the majority of our total emissions. Amongst Scope 1 sources, emissions are primarily attributable to combustion of natural gas in stationary equipment and process chemical reactions. The percentage contribution of Scope 1 emission sources has reduced to 15% from 18% in previous years despite the inclusion of additional sources in this list. 26 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group As Y2012 CEO Award winner, DyStar China Sales Office & Lab optimized energy management system and monitor monthly indicator to analyze any difference in 2012, and take control actions accordingly. Effective data mining and analysis can help us to drive sustainability development in right way Gil Shen Quality Management Manager China Table 6: Emissions from Each Source Emissions (tonnes c02e) Emissions source DETAILED 2010 % 2011 % 2012 % SUMMARY SCOPE 1 of emissions Stationary Combustion 28,591 17% 29,095 17% 15,293 10.57% Company Owned Vehicles 1,957 1% 1,924 1% 1,180 0.82% Refrigerant Loss 1,459 1.01% Process Emissions 3,153 2.18% Total Scope 1 Emissions 30,548 18% 31,019 18% 21,084 14.57% SCOPE 2 Purchased Electricity 48,794 30% 52,255 30% 43,272 29.91% Purchased Steam 87,167 52% 90,415 52% 80,343 55.52% Total Scope 2 Emissions 135,961 82% 142,670 82% 123,615 85.43% Total CO2e emissions 166,509 100% 173,689 100% 144,699 100% Figure 6: Break-up of Emissions Sources 52% 52% 55.52% 30% 30% 29.91% 0.82% 2.18% 1% 1% 17% 17% 10.57% 1.01% 166,509 173,689 144,699 Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) 2010 2011 2012 Purchased Steam Purchased Electricity Process Emissions Refrigerant Loss Company Owned Vehicles Stationary Combustion We are progressing steadily towards our long term commitment to reduce energy intensity. While the emission intensity remained constant between 2010 and 2011, it has reduced by 27% in 2012 as compared to base year. The observed reduction is partly due to the closure of Leverkusen and Cilegon production plants, which were highly emission intensive as compared to the Group’s overall emission intensity. Production from these plants has been shifted to more modern plants, where we have invested heavily in state of the art production technology. As a result, products are now manufactured through a much less emission-intensive production process. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 27 Table 7: GHG Emission Intensity Per Tonne of Production SITE TYPE GHG % 2010 % 2011 % 2012 EMISSIONS INTENSITY Total CO2e emissions (tonnes) 166,509 173,689 144,699 Production (tonnes) 96,935 97,429 115,111 Emission Intensity (tonnes CO2e/tonne product) 1.718 1.783 1.257 Figure 7: GHG Emission Intensity Per Tonne of Production 1.72 1.78 1.26 2010 2011 2012 Emission Intensity (tonnes CO2e per tonne of production) Our production units continue to account for the largest share of emissions. They make up 96% of the total emissions, with offices and laboratories accounting for the remaining 4%. Our major dye production plants at Ludwigshafen and Nanjing have demonstrated reductions in their emission intensity by more than 50% as compared to 2010. The production plant at Gabus has also reduced its emission intensity. This is partially because of shifting of production from closed plants to these plants, which led to higher economies of scale. In addition, the overall product mix for 2012 was less energy intensive as compared to 2010 and 2011. Our office in Portugal set-up an automatic control for air conditioning, which reduced annual electricity consumption by 42,000 kWh. Similarly, it also implemented an automatic control system for office illumination. This system is expected to further save about 2,600 kWh of electricity per annum. 28 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Table 8: Emissions from Production and Non-Production Activities Emissions (tonnes c02e) SITE TYPE EMISSIONS % 2010 % 2011 Total 2012 % 2012 PRODUCTION AND NON-PRODUCTION Emissions from Production Sites 97% 96% 138,789 96% ACTIVITIES Emissions from Offices and Laboratories 3% 4% 5,909 4% Total 144,699 Figure 8: Emissions from Production and Non-Production Activities 97% 96% 96% 3% 4% 4% 166,509 173,689 144,699 Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) Total CO2e (tonnes) 2010 2011 2012 Emissions from production sites Emissions from offices and laboratories 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 29 By changing from single batch processing to back to back processing and by the use of a high pressure cleaners we were able to reduce water consumption and effluent amount per ton produced significantly. Frank Stohr Production Head South Africa Water Water scarcity is emerging as one of the biggest environmental threats Figure 9: Total Water Consumption around the world. With climate change, the overall availability of fresh and (million m3), 2010-2012 underground water is expected to reduce further. Saving water is therefore a high strategic priority for DyStar. Water is a key input for production and processing of textile and leather goods. Dyes and chemicals consume water in their production process as well as in their use by the textile manufacturers. Hence, it is our responsibil-28% ity to account for water consumption while evaluating the environmental impact of Dystar’s operations. 9.00 9.26 We have integrated practices that promote efficient use of water in our production units and offices. Our aim is to reduce and, wherever possible, recycle water in order to minimise our footprint. We also promote the optimised usage of water through research and development of processes 6.68 and products. In dyestuff production process, water is directly added to product for dissolution, dilution of concentrate materials, washing of product at various stages of production, washing of vessels, cooling systems, and for directly controlling the temperature to enable safe reactions. The amount of water used in various processes could vary with changes in the product mix. 2010 2011 2012 Our overall water consumption has decreased by 28% between 2011 and 2012, primarily due the closure of our Cilegon and Leverkusen plants. Our Figure 10: Water Sources, 2012 water use per tonne of product manufactured has declined by 39% in the same time period. Table 9: Water Consumption at DyStar Consumption from Water Sources (m3) 2010 2011 2012 Ground water consumption 180,144 194,660 115,599 Municipal water consumption Surface water consumption 3,152,523 5,584,470 3,244,336 5,821,265 1,214,418 5,353,361 Municipal Water 18% 80% Surface Water 2% Total Water Consumption 9,007,209 9,269,530 6,683,378 Water consumption 93 95 58 per tonne of production Ground Water 30 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Water Conservation & Recycling Figure 11: Quantity of water recycled Concern for water conservation arises primarily at our production units (m3), 2010-2012 since water is a critical input for dyes and chemical manufacturing processes. We have upgraded certain technologies to reduce the water footprint of our operations. At Naucalpan, Mexico, we have installed water saving devices at our production line, WC-S. The site is expected to save 180,000 RECYCLED liters of water each year. At our South Africa plant, drums are used in backto-back production to reduce demand for vessel cleaning. We have also started using high pressure cleaners for vessels instead of cleaning them 25% of our total water with boiling water to further conserve water. consumption in 2012 Use of recycled water 1,780,000 The ability to recycle our process and waste water plays a key role in helping us reduce our water consumption. At some of the sites, we recover the 1,720,000 condensate from our steam traps, which is then reused as process water. 1,691,079 A few of our sites are able to recycle water and use it again within the unit, though not directly for our production process. Most of the recycled water is used to wash equipment, vessels, and clean floors. It is also utilized for cooling purposes and in cooling systems. At our plant in Reidsville, USA, we have installed a dissolved air flotation device that removes oil and grease from our wastewater. This has allowed us to reuse 20% of our wastewater within the plant. Our site in Brazil reported a 10% increase in water consumption owing to the lack of engagement of the employees. To rectify this, the production unit plans to implement a program for water conservation and recycling 2010 2011 2012 in the following financial year. Towards Efficiency at DyStar Boehme, South Africa DyStar’s production site in South Africa undertook several initiatives during the year to improve their resource use efficiency. 1. An energy efficiency audit was carried out to identify areas of improved energy utilisation in its operations. 2. An Odour Management and Reduction Plan was initiated in the reporting year. We relocated the Drum Washing recycling service off site, which resulted in reduction of odours. This step also reduced total air emissions. Further, a significant decline in the amount of waste water and Chemical Oxygen demand was recorded. 3. This production unit has also adopted a waste strategy to reduce, reuse and recycle items such as paper, all types of plastic, IBCs, and metals. The unit recruited an organisation to segregate waste-streams at their source. This is a time saving and value adding initiative, which also has benefits such as reduction of landfill and complete tracking of all waste generated on site. We plan to continue this plan in the following reporting year with increased focus on air emission reduction strategies. We also organise an Open Day to engage with our stakeholders to help them understand the influence of our business on them. Our employees undergo regular training on the reduction of emissions and we adhere to emission limits and ensure periodic fence line and point source measurements. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 31 For 2012, Reidsville became more efficient production facility through stepwise analysis of processes and procedures. The goal in 2013 is to build on this improvement and look to reducing waste streams. Marc Bumberger Production Head Reidsville USA Impact during transportation and handling Impact during disposal Customers, distributors and freight companies are advised by DyStar with Waste respect to safe handling, storage, transportation, use and disposal of the Our processes produce both hazardous and non-hazardous wastes, and products. we make continuous attempts to reduce the amount of waste generated. For example, our production site in Omuta, Japan, has attempted to Information on how to handle, store, transport, use and dispose of our change flocculent to reduce fluid in the drainage sludge. The filter cloth products safely is available on our product Safety Data Sheets (SDS). We was also overhauled to reduce fluid waste. Our offices, labs, and produchave instituted ERP systems to automatically inform our customers, distion units are implementing recycling programs to recycle waste such as tributors and freight forwarders the necessary information to safely handle paper, cardboards, plastic bottles, glass, and aluminium. The Reidsville proour products. duction site, USA, has successfully reduced its waste sent to landfill by 25% in the reporting period. Employees are also encouraged to use less paper We are currently working on changing the information on the Shipping for printing and to reuse discarded prints for rough work. Turkey office has Notes/Delivery Notes to reflect the new GHS regulations. implemented centralized printing to save paper. As a result of our product handling processes most of our manufacturing Largely, our manufacturing units determine the disposal method for waste units’ maintained spill-free production throughout the reporting period. as per the regulations of the local governments, or the guidelines stated Despite our strong emphasis on handling our materials and products in by the pollution control boards. The amount of waste generated is monithe safest possible manner, in 2012 there were fifteen spills in our productored regularly at the unit level, sometimes with the support of external tion plants located in Africa, Indonesia, Turkey, and USA. All spills were hanconsultants. dled as per our spills management procedures and have not significantly harmed the environment. These incidents were caused by human error For hazardous waste, the units either ensure its disposal in the least harmand efforts are underway to ensure that our employees and contractors ful manner in a landfill, or they send it to a licensed contractor who is are adequately trained in material handling procedures, and are able to authorized to handle industrial wastes. Similar methods are followed to deal with spills in a safe manner. We also continuously review our processdispose non-hazardous waste from production sites, office and laboratoes to ensure that they are not leading to situations that may result in spills ries. Some sites, such as those in Mexico and Pakistan, separate organic, or accidents. inorganic, and recyclable wastes, which is further channeled accordingly. The municipal authorities and their waste management services also help Table 10: Spills, 2012 us in the disposal of non-hazardous waste. Product(s) spilled Total volume of spill Location of Spill (annual number) The waste generated in the manufacturing process is substantially greater Product – Chemical spills on than the volume produced in the offices and labs. The external discharge water & soil surface of waste is limited mostly to the city of production or neighboring cities. Indonesia – Gabus 10.3 m (6 spills) 3 Wastewater – Waste spill on water & soil surface None of the waste is transported outside the physical boundaries of the Tannit LSW country where the unit is located. Some production units, namely the ones Chemical spill on soil surface located in Africa, Japan, Indonesia, Turkey, and USA, send their waste to South Africa Diesel – 2.8m3 (6 spills) Pietermaritzburg Fuel spill on soil surface more than one sites, each located in a different city. Cutapol – Chemical spill on soil surface Our overall waste reduced by 12.5% between 2011 and 2012. BIP – Chemical spill on soil surface USA – Reidsville 25m3 (2 spills) Acetone – Chemical spill on soil surface Total 38.1m3 (14 spills) 32 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Table 11: Waste Generated, 2012 Figure 13: Waste Disposal Methods Waste 2010 2011 2012 Hazardous Waste (MT) 4,805 5,783 4,099 Waste send Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) 3,534 3,378 3,911 to landfill Total Waste 8,339 9,161 8,010 42.24% Hazardous waste per t of production 0.050 0.059 0.035 Non-Hazardous waste per t of production 0.036 0.035 0.033 Overall waste per t of production Water consumption 0.086 0.094 0.069 Deep Well 0.11 % 5% 47.84% 7.6 Injection % per tonne of production 17 Waste 2. Incenerated Save, Recycle, Reuse Waste Reused DyStar China Ltd. received a certificate for CO2 reduction in paper recycling. We collected 3,075 kgs of waste paper from files and handed Waste Recycled it to recycling company. Wastewater Our production plant in Portugal (Mem Martins) has taken up the Water is a critical resource for many industrial operations. Some of the watask of reducing its solid waste. For this, it plans to recycle plastic ter is consumed in the production process, while the rest is discharged. used in Hobbocks and other containers. It has set a target of recyDuring wet processing of textiles, and in production and use of dyes and cling 15 tonnes of plastic per year, starting from 2013. Among other chemicals, excess colours and chemicals are discharged in wastewater. If efforts for environmental protection, this unit is implementing a water reduction project. The project will setup a cooling water closed such polluted water is released in the environment without being treated, circuit, which is estimated to reduce water consumption by 220 cuit can pose a threat to flora and fauna. Legal regulations restrict the disbic meters each year. charge of such polluted water, especially in the Asian countries, which have seen a surge in the activities of both the textile and chemical industries in the last few decades. Figure 12: Breakup of waste, 2012 All DyStar’s production units are connected to wastewater discharge treatment facilities. We aim for the lowest feasible discharge of chemicals and other impurities from our plants. We have also set up systems for the reuse of water in some of our production units. Such recycling helps to reduce our dependence on fresh water obtained from surface and ground water sources, and municipal supplies. Additionally, it also reduces the cost of our production. None of our wastewater is reused by another organization. 49% 51% The Ankleshwar manufacturing unit in India is our first zero discharge plant. At other units, we regularly measure the amount of discharge through meters after treatment. A variety of techniques are used to treat Non-Hazardous Hazardous waste water, based on the conditions and suitability of technology, before Waste Waste releasing it into a water body. We use neutralization, coagulation and sedimentation technique, Anaerobic Pond Sequence Batch Reactor, vacuum evaporator, two stage reverse osmosis, and other chemical and biological processes for treatment. We have also implemented certain changes in the production process, which have resulted in reduction of the volume of 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 33 wastewater generation. The Thailand production unit has re-arranged proTable 13: Wastewater discharged, 2010-2012 duction planning and reduced the volume of water used to wash machinWastewater 2010 2011 2012 ery and equipment. Similarly, the USA manufacturing plant has installed a Total wastewater discharged (m3) 1,749,333 1,792,395 1,552,400 Dissolved Air Flotation device to remove oil and grease from wastewater. Wastewater intensity per t of production (m3) 18.05 18.40 13.48 Currently, this unit is recycling 20% of its wastewater and aims to increase it to 50%. Our sites in Africa, China (Hangzhou and Nanjing), and Portugal do not have waste water treatment facilities onsite and, hence, they discharge Figure 14: Total Wastewater (m3) it to an external water treatment facility. 1,792,395 1,749,333 Production Facility Destination of Treatment Method wastewater Settling tanks to allow sludge South Africa Darvill Waste Water to settle and treatment for Pietermartizburg Treatment Facility stable pH between 6.5 – 7.5 1,552,400 Wastewater goes through a City of Reidsville water coagulant tank, is pH adjusted USA – Reidsville treatment facility in a flocculent tank, and then 2010 2011 2012 passed through a dissolved air flotation unit before discharge 34 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Helping our Customers Reduce Their Environmental Impact A Word from our Head of DTS & Sales Areas America “The DyStar Textile Service” team continues to focus on providing Brands, Retailers and their Industry Partners services that improve their ability to deliver more sustainable products and processes. In 2012, we significantly increased our Sustainable Textile Service (STS) team. We now have over 30 auditors positioned in Asia and Europe to provide chemical and environmental compliance audits for Brands & Retailers.” The role of DTS is crucial in helping our customers save time, money and the environment. Our three-level check ensures that our supply chain is able lower its environmental impact. We work with textile manufactures to ensure that they use the correct colours, which match the designer’s inspiration. Too often, we have seen an improper communication of the color by the designer to the vendor or the textile mill, resulting in wasted of money and time. These errors cause delays in delivery at multiple levels across the supply chain. They also have a negative environmental impact due to product and energy wastage. DyStar, through DTS is extremely particular about providing only the correct colours to its clients so the whole supply chain can meet the demands in time and lower its environmental footprint. This cumulative improvement in color selection, reduction in wastage, delays and environmental performance has helped our customers enhance their brands’ reputation, ensuring that their customers continue to trust them for their textile sourcing needs. We will continue to work with our customers and partners to ensure that they are able to maintain high standards of quality and delivery while maintaining globally acceptable environmental standards. Ron Pedemonte 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 35 “Sustainability is one of the most important drivers for DyStar not just in Product Safety & Ecology but also in new product Research & Development. So, for example in 2012 we launched a new trichromie of disperse dyes with very high washand contactfastness properties and which feature newly-developed AOX-free chromophores.” Based on our econfidence® program, our customers can rest assured that they are buying quality products with the highest standards of ecological and toxicological information and guidance on their suitability for various Restricted Substance Lists and eco label requirements. Dr. Clemens Grund Vice President, Technology Our products are constituted from a wide variety of industrial chemicals, The REACH® Regulation places greater responsibility on the industry to some of which are harmful to human health if exposure is not controlled. manage the risks from chemicals and to provide safety information on DyStar takes great care to ensure that the products it sells are safe for huproducts. The regulation requires manufacturers and importers to gather man health and environment. information on the properties of their chemical substances, to facilitate their safe handling, and to register the information in a central database For example, vat dyes form an important component of our product range. administered by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) in Helsinki, FinMany tested vat dyes in the market contain elevated levels of heavy metal land and other hazardous impurities. Often marked differences occur between different lots from the same supplier, and even between samples and the In October 2008, the European Chemical Agency published for the first corresponding bulk supply. Therefore, permanent attention to quality contime a Candidate List of Substances of Very High Concern for Consultation trol is necessary to maintain acceptable limits of these heavy metals and under REACH®. Since then, the list has been updated and amended several other potentially hazardous chemicals. We assess all of our products for times and it currently includes 138 chemicals or chemical groups (as of health & safety impacts at each stage of the product lifecycle. December 2012). We are in a position to declare that DyStar products do not intentionally contain any of the 138 substance groups that have been Table 14: Health & Safety impact assessment across product lifecycles proposed in the ECHA Candidate List of Substances. Product Lifecycle Assessed for health & safety impacts? In 2012, we also successfully complied with Phase II of the regulation and Development of product concept Yes submitted 30 registration dossiers, most of them as Lead Registrant. BeR&D Yes sides our competence in textile dyes, these dossiers make use of our huge Registration Yes archive of toxicological and eco-toxicological testing reports that we have Manufacturing and Production Yes collected over many years. These registrations already cover most of the Marketing & promotion No high volume textile dyes that DyStar supplies to the European market. As Storage, distribution and supply Yes the deadline for the chemicals above 100 tonnes ends by May 31st, the Use and service Yes priorities for the first months of 2014 will be to complete the registrations Disposal, reuse, or recycling Yes for the dyes above 100 tonnes as well as the most important formulating agents. But since the market for textile dyes is dominated by specialities, the number of chemicals that require registration will increase significantly Ensuring Product Safety REACH® in the coming years up to the 2018 deadline. Product stewardship is one of DyStar’s core strengths. We work continuously to reduce the health & safety impacts of our products. Our R&D is We intend to register all individual substances contained in our products driven by the need to provide healthier, safer and ecologically friendly within the respective deadlines. DyStar has already successfully completproducts for the apparel industry. ed many registrations of new chemical substances according to chemical regulations worldwide. REACH® Update – DyStar focuses on registrations in the second tonnage band ZHDC (Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals) REACH® (the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of In response to the Greenpeace Detox campaign, a group of major apparel Chemicals) is the European Community Regulation on chemicals and their and footwear brands and retailers made a shared commitment to help safe use to protect the environment and health, which came into effect lead the industry towards Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) June 1, 2007. REACH® continues to be the most demanding international by 2020. chemical legislation. REACH® implementation and compliance has been a key priority at DyStar even before the legislation came into force. We have created a positive list of products in keeping with “Zero Discharge 36 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group We never compromise on eco-compliance, even when working on cost reduction projects. Our product portfolios contain top-end chemicals which comply with today’s legal requirements and Brand & Retailer RSL’s. Our target The Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 DyStar recommendations for product selection (edition 04/2013) is that all newly launched products are best in class. Fanny Vermandel Marketing Director, DyStar Coloration Business of Hazardous Chemicals” commitment and which indicates those DyStar DyStar joined the bluesign® platform as a system partner in 2008 and now products that do not include any of the 11 chemical groups restricted by has more than 900 textile dyes and pigment preparations and more than the ZHDC group. The vast majority of our products do not contain any of 200 textile auxiliaries listed in the bluefinder database so that manufacturthese chemicals as intentional ingredients. DyStar has always been comers have the widest possible choice of quality products to choose from mitted to the highest standards of product safety and through its econfiwhen they are seeking to produce bluesign® approved fabric. dence® program is actively supporting the objectives of the ZDHC Group. Oeko Tex® Standard 100 APEO (Alkylphenol Ethoxylates) The Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 is a testing and certification system for textile The most important APEOs or alkyl phenol ethoxylates for the textile inproducts operated by a global network of franchised laboratories. The tests dustry are NPEOs (Nonylphenol ethoxylates) and OPEOs (Octylphenol ethcover substances, which are prohibited or regulated by law, chemicals that oxylates) due to their detergent properties. APEOs are usually present in are known to be harmful to health and parameters, which are included as detergents, cleaning agents as well as other chemicals used for textile or a precautionary measure to safeguard health. leather production. A tested textile product is allocated to one of the four Oeko-Tex® Standard DyStar had already stopped the use of APEO in the manufacture of all 100 product classes based on its intended use. DyStar recently updated its global dyestuff and pigment preparations before the 2001 European Unbrochure giving product recommendations for articles required to comply ion agreement on a program for the cessation or phasing-out of AP and with Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 (Version 4/2013). APEO, and the 2003 EU directive 2003/53/EC introducing marketing restrictions on AP and APEO. We are GOTS approved! In recent years leading retailers and brands have launched organic cotton In 2011 the Greenpeace “Dirty Laundry” report brought these chemicals lines in their clothing ranges. DyStar offers a wide range of colorants and under renewed scrutiny and it is expected that the use of APEOs in the auxiliaries approved for use on organic textiles. We have received certificaglobal textile supply chain will be eliminated as far as possible. tion by the Institute for Marketecology (IMO), an organization approved by the Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS). Fulfilling our commitment bluesign® to the production of environmentally-advanced dyestuff production and The bluesign® standard is based on five principles of sustainability. These application processes, DyStar was one of the first companies to have its are: resource productivity, consumer safety, air emission, water emission products approved to the GOTS standard and now has an extensive range and occupational health & safety. of products approved to Version 3.0 of the standard Instead of testing a manufacturer’s finished product, the applied compoOur experts in cotton processing have defined how to use GOTS-approved nents and processes are pre-screened. This so-called Input Stream Manproducts to achieve sustainable and optimized results in organic cotton agement system ensures that the use of problematic substances is avoidprocessing using best available technology in pre-treatment, dyeing and ed from the start resulting in an entirely safe finished product. finishing. The bluesign® standard defines specific criteria applied to each phase Sustainable Innovation within the production chain to ensure compliance with the five principles Research and Development (R&D) is one of the key competitive strengths of sustainability. These criteria are based on the concept of “Best Available of DyStar. We have an active R&D Department that is responsible for inTechnology” (BAT). Fundamentally, they require a high level of safety both venting new textile dyestuff, auxiliaries and processes for synthesis and apfor human beings and the environment as well as a sustainable production plication. We have a rich heritage of about 150 years of R&D including inprocess. tellectual property inheritance from our antecedent companies. Our R&D 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 37 Management of chemicals in the supply chain has never been more important for textile and clothing retailers and brands. Through our econfidence® commitment on products and our STS services offer DyStar is recognised as a trusted partner for the industry Dr. John Easton Global Ecology Services Manager efforts have resulted in more than 1,700 patents and patent applications Restricted Substances Lists (RSL) Compliance Assessment worldwide. STS assists Brands & Retailers communication and implementation of RSLs with Industry Partners. Through focused and strategic collaborations with customers, industry partners, institutes and universities, we continue to anticipate and successThe STS team’s expertise lies in providing consultation and guidance on fully meet our customers’ needs. Our high performance textile dyes and suitability of dyes and chemicals as well as offering advice on test methods auxiliaries have improved ecological and toxicological profiles, and are of and procedures in order to help Brands, Retailers and Industry Partners efa consistently high quality that enables optimized coloration and superior fectively monitor chemicals along the apparel supply chain. technical, environmental and economic performance. A key innovation goal for DyStar’s R&D division is to help customers achieve new standards ZDHC Benchmarking & Improvement of product and process excellence, including shorter or more economical STS provides integrated advice on ZDHC compliance including advice on dyeing procedures, reduced water and energy consumption, and reduced third party testing results to further improve compliance. pollution due to waste water and air emissions. The 11 priority chemicals as identified by ZDHC are the pillars of this proWe have globalized our R&D activity to gain greater market proximity and gram. The STS team assesses the supplier, its full chemical inventory and insight, and to be closer to our customers in Asia-Pacific. provides advice to third party testing labs on most appropriate time and place to sample water analysis. STS provides in addition an interpretation In 2012, our R&D efforts have focused on improving the ecological perof test results and recommendations for improvement. formance of disperse dyes. We launched a trichromatic system (amber, rubine, navy) of disperse dyes with very high wash and contact fastness Textile Mill Efficiency properties. These dyes do not contain any halogens in the chemical strucSTS works directly with mills to raise productivity and efficiency levels in tures and can thus be classed as AOX-free. A new AOX-free disperse black textile processing. STS’s mill efficiency program’s objective is to support for the large medium-energy segment is under development. We have textile mills, dye-houses, printers and laundries in conservation of natural also developed metal-free dyes for wool and polyamides. resources like water and energy as well as savings in chemicals used by improving right first-time production levels. This STS program assesses the Because of the environmental impact of the water consumption of dyeing current textile processing practices and offers suggestions to improve proprocesses, “waterless dyeing” has gained importance in the last few years, ductivity and machine utilization. with dyeing from supercritical CO2 receiving particular attention. Special dyestuffs and auxiliaries to be used for this technology are being develChemical Inventory Management oped. STS understands global chemical legislation and the requirements of the textile and apparel industry. To improve the re-usability of recycled polyester, the decolorization of dyed polyester should be as efficient as possible. DyStar has participated The STS chemical inventory management program tool is designed to in an international multi-disciplinary project to investigate in detail the deidentify opportunities for improvement of compliance, and supply chain colorization processes of polyester. chemical management. This is further achieved by building capacity through trainings and awareness sessions in the supplier countries specifiSustainable Textile Solutions cally related to dyes and auxiliaries and their chemistry. Our Sustainable Textile Solutions (STS) programs help brands and retailers monitor and improve the capability of their supply chains in order to For more information on Sustainable Textile Solutions please visit achieve compliance with environmental, health and safety standards. www.SusTexSolutions.com 38 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Reducing Product Wastage for our Customers Textile manufacturers have to meet very stringent colour specifications prescribed by their customers (Brands & Retailers). It is very important for them to have a reliable way to identify dye combinations that meet their requirements. Very often this process can involve several rounds of trial and error that results in product wastage. DyStar is committed to helping our customers getting their colour specifications right first time thereby saving time, resources and money Color Solutions International (CSI) CSI, a subsidiary of DyStar, supports brands and retailers by providing color tools, building color palettes, engineering colors and standards, and distribution to brands, retailers or industry partners. Its expert staff provides the customers with a fast, efficient and accurate process to respond quickly and effectively to changing demands of the customers. Their products and services facilitate a sustainable design process. One of the ways it does this is by providing a virtual design environment. By using this technology, Brands, Retailers & their Industry partners have reduced the lab-dipping and bulk approval steps of color communication by more than 50%. This translates into a 50% reduction of lab-dip sample shipments via express couriers. The sustainable benefit to this technology is lower CO2 emissions by reducing air-freight sample shipments. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 39 Labeling our Products and Services Creating a better informed customer Since its first publication in 2003, the UN-GHS has been revised every two DyStar offers a wide range of products. Our dyes and chemicals are manuyears and latest revision GHS V. 5 was published in 2013. The GHS has been factured to be used for a wide variety of substrates including cellulosics, introduced to many countries/regions such as Europe, USA, China, Japan acrylics, polyamides, wool and silk, polyester, fur and leather. Given our and Korea via their own legislation or standards. global supply chain and customers, it becomes imperative that our labelling standards are consistent with internationally regulations, such as GHS, DyStar Hazard Labels as well as Safety Data Sheets – both for substances as well as recognized standards such as GOTS. and mixtures are reviewed and updated in compliance with the national regulations or standards respecting individual transitional periods for imDyStar & GHS plementation to ensure that information on physical hazards and toxicity DyStar’s Code of Conduct states: from chemicals is available in order to enhance the protection of human “DyStar is a chemical industry enterprise and is committed to the princihealth and the environment during the handling, transport and use of ples of sustainability and and follow the principles of Responsible Care®. chemicals, and to facilitate global trade activities. When using DyStar products, customers know that they are being offered environmentally sustainable solutions. Although some of the raw material All our labels display the following information: and intermediates we handle are hazardous materials we strive to ensure that our products are made, handled, transported and disposed safely and Table 15: Information on our labels in full compliance with the national law. Accordingly, DyStar is commitInformation Present on DyStar product labels? ted to the corporate principles and goals of maximum possible safety and The sourcing of components of the product No environmental protection. This embraces the thoughtful development of Content, particularly with regard to substances that Yes new products and processes, safe handling of products, safe operation of might produce an environmental or social impact Safe use of product Yes plants, a responsible attitude towards the environment and responsible Disposal of the product and environmental/social use of resources. impacts Yes Our products are continuously evaluated for potential hazards, and preventive measures are taken to limit or avoid risk. DyStar is committed to inFigure 16: Our GHS Compliant Label forming customers, sales partners and distributors about the safe handling, storage, transport, use, and disposal of DyStar products. The evaluation of hazards to health and the environment begins during the product planning and development stages and continues through commercialization”. In this context, DyStar welcomes the UN activities on development and revision of the “Globally Harmonized System of Classification, Labelling and Packaging of Chemicals (GHS)” and its national implementations. This system is designed to harmonize hazard communication elements i.e. replace different classification and labelling systems in different countries by one global system. GHS sets rules for classification and labelling of chemicals so that hazardous chemicals will be labelled according to the uniform rules using the same pictograms, hazard and precautionary phrases world-wide. Safety Data Sheets are also harmonized in this respect. 40 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group In countries like Pakistan, importance of Ecology and Sustainability in Textile Supply Chain is being newly recognized. Textile Industry is facing fresh challenges every day related to compliance and Manufacturers are looking upto dystar for environmental solutions. Our econfidence® products , certification and expertise are highly valued in the market. We have successfully established DyStar as the company who cares for the future. Mumtaz Faisal Managing Director, Pakistan Figure 17: DyStar’s DG labels Figure 18: OSHA label As a result of our labeling procedures, there have been no incidents of non-compliance with national/international labeling regulations. Table 16: Incidents of non-compliance with labeling regulations Category Number Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty 0 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning 0 Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes 0 Our econfidence® labels program Our econfidence® labels are well-structured programs for customers to show-case their commitment towards sustainable textile production. These hangtags allow our clients to promote their eco-products to their customers. These hangtags are provided to customers, if the textile uses DyStar products that are tested for meeting ecological parameters at our Texanlab facilities. It certifies that the products do not contain any harmful substances above defined limits. We also provide our customers with “econfidence® organic” hangtags if their textiles use with GOTS-approved dyestuffs supplied by DyStar. 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 41 Economic Performance of DyStar DyStar has gone through significant changes in its ownership structure in Table 17: DyStar’s Economic Performance, 2012 the last few years. The company established its headquarters in Singapore Direct Economic Value Generated (USD) following its joint acquisition by India-based Kiri Dyes and Chemicals LimRevenues 764,138,154 ited and China-based Longsheng Group in 2010. Asia 337,278,244 Europe 228,265,669 The new ownership structure has brought a renewed focus to expand the Americas 198,594,241 reach of our products to new markets as well as improve our financial perEconomic Value Distributed (USD) formance. The company has also had to contend with an overall downturn Operating Costs 634,772,023 in the global economy and fluctuations in the currency market that have Asia 335,195,564 impacted our revenues and profitability. However, we have retained our Europe 188,549,259 focus on ensuring that our sustainability programs continue unabated. We Americas 110,307,200 have also retained our focus on R&D and innovation. Employee Wages and Benefits 109,278,331 Asia 47,463,526 Creating local value, globally Europe 42,856,801 The value that a company creates for the economies where it operates Americas 18,958,003 can be determined by the direct economic spend by the company or Payments to Providers of Capital 23,329,111 economic value distributed. In 2012, DyStar distributed more value to the Payments to Government 7,150,427 economies where it operates, including employee wages and benefits, Economic Value Retained (USD) (10,391,737) payments to providers of capital and payments to government. This allowed us to continue the process of consolidation that was required after Table 18: Local supplier spend, 2012 the joint acquisition; by helping us retain the right talent and ensuring that 2011 2012 we do not lose focus on our high quality standards. Amount spent on local suppliers (USD) 282,266,532 263,173,985 Total material costs (USD) 502,218,771 526,028,854 The year also saw our production volumes grow by 18% to 115,111 tons, Percent sources from local suppliers 56.2% 50% despite the closure of two of our largest plants in Cilegon and Leverkusen. This could be achieved because of our continued focus on improving production efficiency. It is also a reflection of the quality of our relationWe also hire local services such as IT, transport, maintenance, calibration, ships with our suppliers that has allowed us to meet our higher produccleaning, security, freight transport, utilities, insurance, and consultancy tion targets, positively influencing our revenue/sales targets. Our suppliers services. are selected based on the requirements of individual units. This decentralized process allows site management to select the best possible suppliers Investing in Reducing our Environmental Impact based on cost of raw material, quality of goods and time taken to deliver DyStar’s production units maintain high environmental standards in all them. Additionally, we also give importance to environmental friendliness manufacturing processes. Each unit ensures compliance with national and of the supplier, past performance, and payment terms. international environmental laws applicable to the unit. Consequently, none of our sites have faced any legal proceedings nor were imposed Where possible, we emphasize on purchasing locally3 produced goods any fines for non-compliance in 2012. However, our production site in and supplies, provided they meet our strict quality requirements. This alReidsville, USA was sent three notices of violation in the reporting year for lows us to reduce transportation costs, meet delivery targets, and positivehigher than permitted values of BOD. Action has been taken to ensure full ly impact local economies. More than half of our sites obtain approximatecompliance going forward. ly 50% of their supplies from local sources. Such supplies include dyes and chemicals, fuels, packaging material, spare parts, and office equipment. Over the years we have closed/sold some of our largest production sites – 3 We consider national boundaries to be ‘local’. 42 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Brunsbettel, Leverkusen, and Cilegon, which has resulted in the company having to spend less on environmental expenditure; however, on average our per site spend has gone up by 10% compared to 2011 numbers. Table 19: DyStar’s environmental expenditure, 2012 2010 (USD) 2011 (USD) 2012 (USD) Environmental Protection 7,990,000 7,453,116 7,148,359 Expenditure a) Waste Disposal, Emissions 6,851,596 5,694,313 Treatment & Remediation Costs b) Prevention & Environmental 1,368,984 1,454,045 Management Costs Environmental Protection 470,000 465,820 510,597 Expenditure/Site Figure 19: Environmental Spend 2012, by Category Waste Handling Carbon Offsets 0.01% Environmental 28.32% Insurance 0.19% 16.28% Environmental Personnel 49.51% Wages/Salaries Wastewater Environmental Handling Services 0.63% Waste Environmental Equipment Reduction Depreciation 2.57% 1.19% R&D Environment 1.29% 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 43 Ensuring Workplace Safety & a Productive Work Environment DyStar endeavours to provide a safe and productive workspace for all its Table 21: Employee Turnover, 2012 2,001 employees. Our goal is to become and ‘employer of choice’. Key to Age Group Male Female Total meeting this aspiration is providing a workplace that engages our diverse < 30 years 3 3 6 workforce in a culturally responsible manner and provides them the ave30-50 years 7 7 14 nues enhance their professional careers. We put a lot of emphasis on keep> 50 years 14 0 14 ing our workforce up-to-date with the latest technological trends through Total 24 10 34 training programs and production-line enhancements. DyStar ensures freedom of association and right to collective bargaining Figure 21: Employee Distribution, by Region to its employees. We respect the right of all personnel to form and join Europe trade unions, and to bargain collectively. We also ensure that there is no discrimination against the representatives of trade unions and they have China access to their members at the workplace. We do not have any child or Turkey/Africa 15% forced labor at any of our sites; however we are yet to evaluate our suppliMiddle East ers for potential risks related to child or forced labor. 6% 8 % Details about our workforce is given in the tables below: North & Central America 9% 2 11 4% North East Table 20: DyStar Employees, 2012 4% % Asia Employee Type Senior Management Male 86 Female 15 Total 101 South America 23% South Asia Middle Management 193 93 286 Admin/Support Staff 298 328 626 Technical Staff 230 109 339 South East Asia Production Workers/Supervisors 636 12 648 Total 1,444 557 2,000 Figure 20: Employees, by Gender Figure 22: Employees, by age group Female 75% 68% 69% 59% 29% 40% 32% 31% 71% 25% <30 30-40 41-50 >50 Male Female Male 44 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Table 22: Employee Training Hours, 2012 changes in their organisational structure. We have separate Ecology, Health, Environment and Safety (EHES) departments at each of our sites. Employee Type Male Female Total All EHES managers’ report to the global EHES head who coordinates their Senior Management 209 92 301 activities. Middle Management 292 199 491 Admin/Support Staff 736 500 1236 In order to facilitate an open and transparent dialogue with on health and Technical Staff 478 456 934 safety, we have established channels of communication with our employProduction Workers/Supervisors 8,858 163 9021 ees around the world. Their concerns and suggestions on occupational Total 10,571 1,410 11983 health and safety are considered while defining actions, objectives and targets for the company. They are duly informed about any developments. Occupational Health and Safety Our employees work with dyes and chemicals, of which a few can be hazDyStar has developed and implemented a policy for plant safety and hazardous to employee health if adequate personal protection equipment or ard prevention. These are a part of our “Guidelines for Responsible Care in engineering safeguards are not provided. Some of the potential health and Environmental Protection and Safety”. We ensure that our plants are desafety risks may emerge from handling of hazardous materials, hazards of signed for safe operations. It is our policy to identify and assess the hazard pressure vessels, hazardous chemical reactions, flammable gases, vapours potential, and risks associated with processes. Such risks must be kept to a and dust hazards. Other potential hazards include heat stress, accidental minimum by selecting suitable processes. Safety, health and environmenescapes or spills of hazardous material, hazards due to corrosion, work in tal protection are essential criteria to choose the subcontractors who have confined spaces, slips, trips and falls, exposure to harmful substances and to work on our sites. disposal of waste. The employees may also suffer from common injuries such as chemical burns, skin irritation, respiratory irritation, back ache and At the policy level, DyStar emphasises on systematic development of safeother musculoskeletal injuries, and eye injury. ty concepts. Some arenas for such systematic development are as follows: • Plant safety must be subject of continual development. DyStar is dedicated to ensuring the wellbeing and safety of its workforce. • Technical standards in plants must be adapted in line with technological It is our responsibility to protect them from direct and long-term health advances. risks by identifying such hazards and providing information, training, and • Technical equipment must be inspected regularly and systematically. suitable protection. • Effective measures must be planned to deal with incidents and limit their impact. DyStar has developed and implemented an occupational health and • Detailed hazard prevention plans must be drawn up for all plants. If safety policy, with the assistance of our employees. This policy covers the necessary, these must be reconciled with the global specialist following aspects: department and authorities. • Employees must be trained to handle plant and equipment. 1. Operating procedures • The action to be taken in the event of emergencies and hazardous 2. Occupational safety situations must be practiced. 3. Preventive health care 4. Safety technology On-site Health & Safety 5. Hazardous substances All sites, including office and laboratories, adhere to strict norms with re6. Production processes spect to employee health and safety, and comply with the stipulated local and national health, safety regulations and labor laws of their local governThis year, our on-site health and safety teams have undergone minor ment ministries and regulatory authorities. Some examples are COIDA (Af2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 45 rica), ISHL (Japan), and OSHA (USA). We also have detailed internal guideof hypertension were also reported. lines for the employees pertaining to environmental protection and safety. Due to the nature of the injuries reported this year, a total of 266 work To avoid any injuries at work, we provide necessary safety equipment to days were lost . This is significantly higher from figures reported in 2011, all the employees. We also impart regular training to both new and expewhen only 34 work days were lost. None of the injuries reported in 2012 rienced employees, through safety camps, toolbox talks, and safety camwere fatal. paigns. We ensure that the employees adhere to our strict measures on PPE usage. New machines to be installed on-site and new products to be No cases of occupational disease were reported this year across any of our launched in the market undergo requisite safety assessment as per the leoperational units. gal norms. The measures that we introduce to improve occupational safety are based on thorough investigation of the previous incidents. The working hours reported in 2012 are equal to 1,930,988 hours. Our production unit in Omuta, Japan, conducts daily and monthly safety Table 23: DyStar Safety Record, 2012 meetings, which has resulted in zero incidences of injuries. Our office in 2010 2011 2012 Pakistan conducts regular fire drills to prepare the employees well. We also periodically audit our facilities to ensure that they meet the safety requireTotal Lost Days – Injury 309 34 266 ments and make changes, if necessary. The employees also undergo periLost Days Rate 15.92 2.42 27.55 odical medical checkups, which is followed by special treatment for those Total Occupational Disease Incidents 3 0 0 suffering from any health issues. Occupational Disease Rate 0.15 0 0 Total Workplace Injuries 18 8 9 Injury Rate 0.67 0.57 0.93 Our Health & Safety Performance DyStar makes every endeavour to provide a safe and healthy working Fatalities 0 0 0 environment and prevent accidents and injuries. We believe that a safe workplace is the collective responsibility of DyStar management and its employees. We depend on our employees to observe all regulations and policies with respect to work-related health and safety. Their personal commitment is critical to make further improvements in safety. In the year 2012, 9 injuries have been reported across our operations. This has risen from 8 injuries reported in our last sustainability report. 6 of these injuries happened in our production unit in USA, 2 in Nanjing, and 1 was reported in South Africa. The injuries reported in USA constituted minor back injuries and slight exposure to chemicals. As a remedial measure, the services of the operators found responsible for these incidents due to non-adherence to the safety procedures were discontinued. The remaining DyStar plants have been able to carry out their operations without any injury at the workplace for the last two years. This is significant progress towards safety of our employees at workplace. In 2012, acid burns, chemical exposure, contusion, laceration, and back ache were some of the common injuries observed at the sites. A few cases 46 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Our Social Initiatives Social Accountability We did not receive any complaint against any of our office and laboratory In April 2010, DyStar formalised its Social Accountability Declaration. We facilities through the reporting period. define social responsibility in keeping with main points of SA 8000, which is the international standard on accountability. As per our commitment, Engaging with Society we also follow the principles of Responsible Care® that imply: DyStar believes in creating a congenial environment for the communities around it. We engage with local communities to build a cohesive society • Safe production, handling, transport, application and disposal of our through community development activities. Our offices and production products. units are engaged with local communities through charity and direct • A responsible attitude to the environment and natural resources. participation programs for activities such as HIV/AIDS prevention, care for • Protecting our employees from accidents and health hazards. disabled people, food and environmental drives, and educational tours. • Treating employees, customers and suppliers fairly, respecting people We are associated with the Red Cross Society, and other local and national and avoiding discrimination. charitable entities, which work at the grassroots and help us, reach out to the community. We have strict policies against child labour and forced labour. We do not support, tolerate, or engage in such practices. DyStar does not tolerate disOur organisation’s major thrust is on development of textile chemicals and crimination of any kind. We also do not tolerate behaviour that is sexually creating the technical knowledge for the textile industry. Seeing knowlcoercive or threatening. edge as the core functional area for DyStar, we have chosen the field of technical education as our primary focus area for community developDyStar has set out its commitment to the Social Accountability Declaration ment. in the form of a directive in the company’s Code of Conduct. We regularly review and check the adequacy and effectiveness of this directive, and One of our first initiatives is the establishment of the Advanced Academy strive to improve its contents. We analyse and respond to every infringefor Development of Textile Technologists (AADTT) in India in collaboration ment of this formal obligation. Expanding the scope of the directive bewith our partners in the industry. This initiative was taken to impart techniyond the company, we also ensure that our suppliers and sub-contractors cal education to students for skills highly in demand by the textile industry. act according to this Declaration, as long as we have the power to do so. The Academy also benefits industry by developing a trained workforce. Advanced Academy for Development of Textile Technologists Dealing with Complaints This academy was established in 2010 in cooperation with the most diDyStar works earnestly to minimize negative impact of its operations on versified and vertically integrated textile manufacturer in India, Alok Inthe employees and the surrounding areas. However, during the reporting dustries. India faces a shortage of trained textile technologists who have period, some of our plants received operations-related complaints, which the key skills required by the industry. This collaborative effort was initiwere also publicized in the news media. These complaints were addressed ated in India as a not-for-profit academy. It provides an excellent platform fully and with the utmost priority. for identification, training, placement, and career development of textile professionals. It has helped impart knowledge to the students and raise In April 2012, a complaint was raised against the Pietermaritzburg plant standards of textile manufacturing in India. Presently, AADTT is established (South Africa) claiming for unsafe carriage of wastewater away from the as a charitable trust. unit. The problem occurred due to a damaged pipeline that belonged to the municipal infrastructure – an area outside the jurisdiction of our comAs an advanced academy, AADTT is committed to providing quality trainpany. DyStar effectively liaised with municipal authorities for the need to ing, impart practical knowledge, evolve innovative technology, encourage fix the infrastructure and resolved the issue. entrepreneurship and mould youngsters into highly qualified and trained professionals. We see AADTT as a catalyst to enhance the work culture and 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 47 technical knowledge of next generation of workers in the Indian Textile Industry. To recruit the students, the institute has signed memorandums of understanding (MOUs) with more than ten premium institutes across the country, such as the Society of Dyers and Colourists (SDC), American Association of Textile Chemist and Colorists (AATCC), and ASTM among others. The year-long program provides candidates with training, accommodation, transport, and a stipend to support them through the training period. The curriculum combines theoretical understanding, and specific application expertise and practices, which are relevant and adapted to meet the needs of the modern textile industry. The students are able to learn directly from renowned and well-trained industrial experts. This institute provides the students with the opportunity to build a successful career in the textile industry. AADTT is also a student chapter member of AATCC. It helps the students accomplish activities like industrial visit programs, technical seminars and presentations, social events, and group activities. It helps to enhance leadership qualities in every individual member of the chapter. The academy organised its first convocation in 2011 with 10 students completing their course. In 2012, the graduation class increased to 15 students who have been successfully placed at the leading textile companies in India. 48 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group Our Sustainability Performance in a Nutshell GRI Indicator Description 2010 2011 2012 Economic EC1 Economic Value Generated (USD) – – 764,138,154 Economic Value Distributed (USD) – – 774,529,892 Economic Value Retained (USD) – – (10,391,737) EC6 Total Material Costs (USD) – 502,218,771 526,028,854 Amount Spent on Local Suppliers (USD) – 282,266,532 263,173,985 Environment EN1 Raw Materials (MT) – – 103,188 Packaging Material (MT) – – 3,599 Associate Materials (MT) – – 1,002 EN3 Direct Energy Consumed (KwH) – 145,286,560 84,511,631 Direct Energy Consumed (GJ) – 523,032 304,242 EN4 Indirect Energy Consumed (KwH) 252,170,491 265,197,203 224,203,606 EN8 Total Water Consumed (m3) 9,007,209 9,269,530 6,683,378 EN10 Total Water Recycled (m3) 1,720,000 1,780,000 1,691,079 EN16 Total Direct GHG Emissions – Scope 1 (tCO2e) 30,548 31,019 21,084 Total Indirect GHG Emissions – Scope 2 (tCO2e) 135,961 142,670 123,615 Total GHG Intensity (tCO2e/ton of production) 1.718 1.783 1.257 EN21 Total Wastewater Discharged (m3) 1,749,333 1,792,395 1,552,400 Wastewater intensity per t of production 18.05 18.40 13.48 EN22 Hazardous Waste (MT) 4,805 5,783 4,099 Non-Hazardous Waste (MT) 3,534 3,378 3,911 Total Waste 8,339 9,161 8,010 Hazardous waste per t of production 0.050 0.059 0.035 Non-Hazardous waste per t of production 0.036 0.035 0.033 Overall waste per t of production 0.068 0.094 0.069 EN23 Total number and volume of spills – – 38.1m3 (14 spills) EN30 Environmental Protection Expenditure (USD) 7,990,000 7,453,116 7,148,359 Environmental Protection Expenditure/Site (USD) 470,000 465,820 510,597 Labor Practices & Decent Work LA1 Senior Management – – Male: 86 – – Female: 15 – – Total: 101 Middle Management – – Male: 193 – – Female: 93 – – Total: 286 Admin/Support Staff – – Male: 298 – – Female: 328 – – Total: 626 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 49 GRI Indicator Description 2010 2011 2012 Labor Practices & Decent Work Technical Staff – – Male: 230 – – Female: 109 – – Total: 339 Production Workers/Supervisors – – Male: 636 – – Female: 12 – – Total: 648 Total – – Male: 1,444 – – Female: 557 – – Total: 2,000 Breakdown by region China: 30% China: 25% China: 28% Germany: 21% Indonesia: 19% South East Asia: 23% Indonesia: 19% Germany: 18% Europe: 15% India: 5% India: 9% South Asia: 11% Brazil: 4% Singapore: 4% North & Central USA: 3% USA: 4% America: 9% Singapore: 3% Brazil: 3% Turkey/Middle East/ Others: 16% Turkey: 3% Africa: 6% Others: 16% North East Asia: 4% South America: 4% LA2 – < 30 years – – Male: 3 Employee – – Female: 3 Turnover – – Total: 6 30-50 years – – Male: 7 – – Female: 7 – – Total: 14 > 50 years – – Male:14 – – Female: 0 – – Total: 14 Total – – Male: 24 – – Female: 24 – – Total: 34 LA7 Total Lost Days – Injury 309 34 266 Lost Days Rate 15.92 2.42 27.55 Total Occupational Disease Incidents 3 0 0 Occupational Disease Rate 0.15 0 0 Total Workplace Injuries 13 8 9 Injury Rate 0.67 0.57 0.93 Fatalities 0 0 0 50 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Indicator Description 2010 2011 2012 LA10 Senior Management – – Male: 209 – – Female: 92 – – Total: 301 Middle Management – – Male: 292 – – Female: 199 – – Total: 491 Admin/Support Staff – – Male: 736 – – Female: 500 – – Total: 1,236 Technical Staff – – Male: 478 – – Female: 456 – – Total: 934 Production Workers/Supervisors – – Male: 8,858 – – Female: 163 – – Total: 9021 Total – – Male: 10,571 – – Female: 1,410 – – Total: 11,983 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 51 GRI Index 52 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 53 GRI Index 54 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 55 GRI Index 56 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 57 GRI Index 58 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 59 GRI Index 60 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 61 GRI Index 62 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 63 GRI Index 64 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 65 GRI Index 66 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group GRI Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 67 GRI Index 68 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group UN Global Compact Index 2012 Sustainability Report DyStar Group 69 Committed to Sustainability. At DyStar, our products and services help customers worldwide reduce costs, shorten lead times and meet stringent quality and ecological specifications. Raunheim Ludwigshafen Milan Porto Kyunggi-do Reidsville, NC Mem Martins Istanbul Corlu Osaka Charlotte, NC Nanjing Wuxi Omuta Cairo Ankleshwar Shanghai Karachi Hangzhou Naucalpan Taipei Mexico City Navi Mumbai Dhaka Hong Kong Samutprakarn Singapore Global Headquarters Jakarta DyStar Office Gabus Key Production Site Agencies in 50 other countries São Paulo Apiúna Pietermaritzburg Information and our technical advice whether verbal, in writing or by way of trials are given in good faith but without warranty, and this also applies where proprietary rights of third parties are involved. Our advice does not release you from the obligation to check its validity and to test our products as to their suitability for the intended processes and uses. The application, use and processing of our products and the products manufactured by you on the basis of our technical advice are beyond our control and, therefore, entirely your own responsibility. Our products are sold in accordance with our General Conditions of Sale and Delivery. bluesign is a trade mark of bluesign technologies ag, Oeko-Tex is a trade mark of Forschungsinstitut Hohenstein, Responsible Care is a trade mark of European Chemical Industry Council, GRI is a trade mark of Stichting Global Reporting Initiative, Greenpeace is a trade mark of Stichting Greenpeace Council, ETAD is a trade mark of The Ecological and Toxicological Association of Dyes and Organic Pigments Manufacturers. Dianix /Levafix / Telon / Isolan / Remazol / Procion / Sera / Evo / Lava are trade marks of DyStar Colours Distribution GmbH Global Headquarters DyStar Singapore Pte Ltd 09.0917-00.1402 Tel: +65 66 71 28 00 Fax: +65 66 59 13 28 DyStar.Singapore@DyStar.com www.DyStar.com
