Communication on progress 2014 Statement of continued support In an increasingly global world and an equally international market, the need for guidelines and common values becomes ever more apparent. We seek to use our skills in areas that help keep the wheels of society running smoothly and create conditions that enable people to improve their lives. When working with projects and partners, we always do our best to apply solutions that are sustainable, economical, and just plain sensible. The 2011 acquisition of Public Architects A/S and the ongoing integration process of the two original companies’ work culture and employees have led us to work actively with the company’s core values. In this process, we have been strengthened in our conviction that Gottlieb Paludan Architects is on the right path, focusing our design and consulting expertise on the types of common facilities needed to support well-run communities and on environmentally and socially sustainable architectural solutions. We still find that membership of the UN Global Compact initiative supports and expresses our aspirations in this regard, and we wish to contribute to the improvements that the initiative embraces. We therefore proudly give our continued support to advance the goals and principles behind the UN Global Compact. Copenhagen, July 2014 Kristian Hagemann CEO, Architect MAA Gottlieb Paludan Architects 3 New Nørreport Station, Long-Distance Platforms Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S Kalvebod Brygge 30 1560 København V T 4171 8200 W gottliebpaludan.com CVR 1835 5949 Communication on progress 2014 • Introduction 6 • Projects 8 • Professional and organizational development 10 • The four global compact focus areas 12 • Measuring outcomes 14 Introduction Modern cities and communities are complex and dependent on many things to work. Secure supply of electricity, heat and water are basic, like a well-functioning infrastructure and mobility is also crucial. Without them there is no growth, development and prosperity. At Gottlieb Paludan Architects, we focus on these basic functions, and it is our mission to shape better cities and societies through architecture of the highest technical and aesthetic quality. In 2014 we developed a new brand strategy that strengthens our focus on sustainability and public spirit. Our new brand mission is “We shape better cities and societies, beautifully and sustainably.” This mission takes point of departure in our existing business focus, but also sharpens the societal and environmental elements in our profile. It has already proven a strong frame for understanding how our projects and other activities contribute to the common good. Of the three dimensions in sustainability, we consider environmental and social sustainability to be the dimensions where we can contribute the most. In the following pages we will go into more detail on how we have developed further our expertise within these two areas, both via hands-on project execution, formal training and organizational restructuring. 7 Randers Cycling Bridge Projects Environmental projects Among the new projects that Gottlieb Paludan Architects have won, and which have a positive environmental impact, the new energy, climate and environmental park under Hillerød Utilities is one of the most ambitious. The aim is that the park will be a showcase for the future of water treatment, recycling, heat supply and related attractive jobs. Another water project that we have won in 2014 is the new water house in Køge. The new water house will include both waterworks, water testing center with research and teaching facilities and a water park where children and other visitors can play with and learn about water. The water house will also contain the new headquarters for the Køge Utilities company. We have also completed many projects with a positive environmental impact, and here the Bagsværd water works stands out in the way it blends into the surrounding residential area and in its state of the art carbon filtration technology. Societal projects In March 2014, together with a number of external partners, Gottlieb Paludan Architects was selected to design the 27 stations with surrounding urban space and landscapes on the upcoming Copenhagen Light Rail. When realized in 2021, the project will reduce congestion in Copenhagen, strengthen public transport and contribute to the economic and social development in the Copenhagen suburbs. Another recent project with significant societal implications is the revitalization of downtown Bording, a sleepy commuting town in Jutland that suffers from a dying downtown. In this project Gottlieb Paludan Architects breaks new ground in city and landscape planning. The key grip in our winning proposal is to allow an invasion of 2,335 new trees, as many as the number of residents in Bording. This aims to 9 strengthen public life the and spontaneous encounters between people in the small town. Our proposal also suggests how a restructuring of the town infrastructure can encourage citizens to take the bike instead of the car, and how the cycling and public transport can be directed through the town center and contribute to a more vibrant urban life. Bording City Centre, re-developement Professional and organizational development Professional development We continue to develop our sustainability tools and expertise. Thus, Naja Hoffmeyer, architect and project manager in the department of City & Landscape, is due to complete a certification as a DGNB consultant within city districts in 2014. Another architect in the department of City & Landscape, Brunella Vejbæk, continues to participate in the networking group “Water in the City”, where she receives and shares news, knowledge and experiences on water management in cities and urban areas. Organizational development In 2014 we have further developed our organization in order to meet the challenges from our strong growth and from a market that demands increasingly specialized advisory services. To this end we have established five new departments that will concentrate our competencies and permit stronger knowledge creation and sharing within each department. This will strengthen our client services within all business areas and thus position us stronger as an architectural firm that shapes better cities and societies. The five new departments are: • Mobility & Infrastructure • Energy & Utilities • Buildings & Design • City & Landscape • Client Consultancy 11 Bagsværd Water Works The four global compact focus areas Human Rights Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that supports the principles regarding both Human rights and Labour. We take care to uphold the basic principles of general human rights for everybody through all our work. Labour Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the ”Funktionærloven”, that supports the principles regarding both Human rights and Labour, including the prevention of child labour, forced labor and employment discrimination. All employees have the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Environment Anthropogenic climate changes and their impact on our world require the inclusion of new methods and new ways of thinking in the field of architecture. Our work is driven by our belief in the sound business sense of increased focus on ethics, sustainability and holistic thinking, and our goal is to continue the promotion of greater environmental responsibility through our work. Anti-corruption Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ main activities lie in Denmark and Scandinavia which are traditionally topping Transparency International’s list of least corrupt countries. We never encounter corruption in our daily work and will continue to oppose any signs of it. 13 Hillerød Utility Company Measuring outcomes During the last reporting period, Gottlieb Paludan has made progress on the following issues: Expanding focus on environmentally friendly project areas The Copenhagen Light Rail assignment is a milestone in our development as a company with a sustainable profile. It will expand our work and expertise within infrastructure and public transport and we are proud to contribute to the environmental, economic and social development in the Copenhagen suburbs. We have also expanded our work and expertise in bicycle planning. In March 2014, together with a number of external partners, we won the assignment of creating 13 new safe school routes for cyclists and pedestrians in Southern Copenhagen. The aim is to enhance the security, accessibility and road safety for the school children in the area. Investments in environmentally sustainable development projects We continue to support the business PhD-project regarding the transformation of worn-down suburban and industrial areas and buildings that is due to be completed in October 2015. This project is already producing results for our organization, as we have succeeded in using the PhD-candidate and his cutting-edge competencies on numerous projects, including a large transformational assignment in Norway. Since our last COP-report we have established a new business PhDproject with a focus on rainwater handling and SUDS, expected to be completed in September 2016. In accordance with the PhD-contract we also enjoy the possibility of using the PhD-candidate and her competencies in ongoing projects, most recently on the rainwater project “Fæstningskanalen” in Copenhagen. 15 Environmental screening of new projects Over the last year the screening procedures of new projects have not been adequately rigid. Going forward, it is our ambition to allocate the necessary resources to ensure that the screening will happen on more projects and that the reporting will be conducted in a methodological way. Our own environmental impact We continue to encourage all employees to bike to out-of-office business engagements and this also happens to a very large extent. Most recently we have decided to renew our bicycle park with four new bikes. However, sometimes our engagements are located out of biking distance, and here we use our three company cars. To reduce our carbon footprint we have decided to renew our entire car park with a mix of low emission gasoline cars for longer drives and electrical cars for shorter drives.
