2013 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Synergistiq Contents Section Page Message of Support from our Managing Partner 2 Human Rights 3 Labour 5 Environment 6 Anti-Corruption 7 synergistiq pty ltd. abn 20 059 274 430 ph +61 3 9946 6800 97 drummond street, carlton, victoria 3053 australia 1 Message of Support from our Managing Partner To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Synergistiq reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dr. Stephen Duns Managing Partner, Synergistiq synergistiq pty ltd. abn 20 059 274 430 ph +61 3 9946 6800 97 drummond street, carlton, victoria 3053 australia 2 Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals, and their Implementation Synergistiq is committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our business activities are low risk in relation to human rights violations, as we are a small, office based consultancy located in Melbourne, Australia. Human Rights are a central part of Synergistiq’s core mission – “To nurture systemic improvement in social justice and human rights.” We promote social progress and better standards of life within our sphere of influence, both internally and externally, harnessing our expertise and values to make a difference in six key areas:  Promoting and supporting community inclusion  Prioritising the voices and participation of indigenous peoples  Making a difference in family violence and sexual assault  Seeking and creating courage and principles in leadership  Equity in access to high quality education  Supporting and contributing towards health and wellbeing Throughout the year, Synergistiq has proudly worked on many significant Human Rights related projects, including: Evaluation of the South Australian Implementation Plan (SAIP) for the National Partnership Agreement on Closing the Gap in Indigenous Health Outcomes (Dec 2011-Dec 2013) This evaluation was a $1m project concentrating on a system-wide, high level analysis of how the policy and 22 state-funded programs encompassed under the SAIP were working and interacting. This involved extensive data collection from each of these programs developed and delivered by specialist Aboriginal Community Controlled Organisations and mainstream health organisations. It was a three-tiered evaluation: the program level evaluation provided an assessment of how each individual program or initiative influenced short and medium term outcomes, as specified in the Program Logic for each initiative; the initiative focus area level evaluation enabled an investigation of the cumulative impacts of multiple programs within a single focus area (e.g. Tackling Smoking); and the meta-evaluation explored the impact of the suite of programs as a whole on the overall policy objectives. Evaluation of Bastow Institute Professional Learning Programs (Jan 2010 to Mar 2013) This evaluation examined a suite of professional learning initiatives offered by the Bastow Institute, aimed at creating educational environments that realise the potential of all children and young people. Our evaluation was a longitudinal study involving extensive data collection across three years, assessing over 30 professional learning programs to ascertain the changes in participant expectations, learning, and changed behaviours in order to determine how each program contributed to the Institute’s intended outcomes. We worked in partnership with Bastow’s partner organisations to ensure our evaluation reflected individual program logics and complemented existing evaluation activities. synergistiq pty ltd. abn 20 059 274 430 ph +61 3 9946 6800 97 drummond street, carlton, victoria 3053 australia 3 Other examples of our work in this areas include:  Provision of Consultancy Services to Undertake the Development of the National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Peoples Drug Strategy for the Department of Health and Aging (DOHA)  Facilitation of Material Aid and Emergency Relief Planning Day for the Asylum Seeker Support Network  Focus Groups for the review and reform of the maternal and child health service for Department of Education and Early Childhood Development (DEECD)  Evaluation of Circles of Care for Mission Australia  valuation of Professional Coaching for Child Protection Leaders for the Department of Human Services (DHS)  Focus groups with NDIS participants for Committee for Geelong  Provision of Art of Hosting training for 30 community organisation leaders in collaborative and participatory leadership practices While our business is low risk in relation to human rights violations, a potential area of human rights related risk has been identified as that concerning employee well-being and workplace safety. We have comprehensive internal policies and procedures in place relating to OH&S, leave entitlements & workplace wellbeing, which comply with national and international standards, and which serve to mitigate these risks. Furthermore, we are committed to ensuring that all employees have access to alternative working arrangements that suit their needs. As per our Flexible Working Policy staff are encouraged to adopt flexible work practices, we support maternity and paternity time and compassionate leave, we offer parttime working, and support sabbatical or career break. Measurement of outcomes During 2013, we grew our projects in social justice and human rights by 12% we continue to provide highlevel services in the area of social justice and human rights throughout the government and community sectors. We continue to lay the foundations for establish our practice internationally with projects expanding into New Zealand in 2013. We have also started to develop our social justice services for expansion into the corporate sector, with focus areas on social leadership, community and consultation and stakeholder engagement and supporting organisations to understanding the extent of their impact on a community when starting and or exiting from a location of market space. synergistiq pty ltd. abn 20 059 274 430 ph +61 3 9946 6800 97 drummond street, carlton, victoria 3053 australia 4 Labour  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals, and their Implementation As an Australian company operating solely within Australia and New Zealand, Synergistiq is fortunate that most, if not all labour-related risks referred to in Principles 3, 4 & 5 are virtually non-existent in our marketplace. Synergistiq recognises its employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and upholds and promotes the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation within the workplace. Synergistiq’s labour practices are managed by a number of internal policies and processes, including our OH&S policy, our Equal Opportunity Policy, and a commitment to diversity that is enshrined as one of our core principles. As outlined in the Human Rights section of this COP, Synergistiq is committed to ensuring employees have access to alternative working arrangements, and is fully supportive of parental leave, as well as working parents and return to work arrangements, as stated in our Flexible Working Policy. As we seek to expand in to new geographical regions we will need to be conscious of potential practices contrary to these Principles, and we commit to offering our services only where these Principles can be upheld. Measurement of outcomes A number of approaches are used to monitor the labour practices performance of Synergistiq in the areas relevant to our business. Synergistiq is a diverse and inclusive workplace and employs people without discrimination. As an example, our Advisory board and our staff team has an even split of males and females. Our team comprises people of different race, gender and sexuality. We offer flexible and parttime arrangements to balance maternity/paternity, family, health and personal commitments with work. Workplace health and safety are monitored on an ongoing basis, with all incidents required to be reported to a Manager and recorded in a register. OH&S incidents continue to be shared with the Leadership Team on a regular basis, without violating privacy requirements. synergistiq pty ltd. abn 20 059 274 430 ph +61 3 9946 6800 97 drummond street, carlton, victoria 3053 australia 5 Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals, and their Implementation Synergistiq is committed to operating our business responsibly, complying with, and ideally exceeding, environmental legislation and approved codes of practice. We are aware that this demands ongoing review and internal housekeeping, and aim to continually improve our performance. In 2013 we completed an Environmental Policy which is currently being implemented across the business. The policy outlines Synergistiq’s commitment to the environment and minimising any negative impact we might have on our surroundings while creating a healthier and safer workplace for our staff. Our commitment is to continually reduce our ecological footprint by:  Purchasing with waste avoidance, reduction of environmental impacts and social benefits in mind.  Minimising waste both through minimising the use of products as well as maximising recycling.  Minimising the production of greenhouse gases through efficient practices of energy usage in the office environment, commuting and use of vehicles.  Minimising the use of water. With this policy in place, team members are reminded to take care of our environment and to not use water, electricity, gas, paper and travel recklessly. A specific area identified by our team is the use of paper and the use of printing. Synergistiq has changed printing guidelines, which now requiring the purchase and use of recycled paper for all internal printing, and the use of double sided printing and printing multiple pages to a sheet. As often as possible and where appropriate we promote and use of softcopy and sharing information via our ICT network. We anticipate significant reduction in our paper use and waste within the next COP reporting period. Further examples of environmental initiatives within the business include:  Collection of food scraps to feed a team member's chickens  Paper recycling  Celebration of Ride to Work Day to support and encourage staff to cycle to work, rather than drive  Use of biodegradable crockery and cutlery at Synergistiq functions in order to reduce consumption of plastics Measurement of outcomes Solid data relating to the above policies and initiatives will be available once policy implementation is rolled out across the business. It is anticipated this will occur during the 2014 COP reporting period. synergistiq pty ltd. abn 20 059 274 430 ph +61 3 9946 6800 97 drummond street, carlton, victoria 3053 australia 6 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals, and their Implementation  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Synergistiq continues to consider the risk or corruption within our business, or involving our clients, as low. Synergistiq’s two current marketplaces, Australia and New Zealand, both rank within the top ten least corrupt countries in the 2013 Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index. Additionally, within the reporting period, 76% of our work was with government clients, and the remaining 24% was with community organisations, further reducing the risk. We follow the strict state and federal procurement guidelines and we are vigilant in monitoring any possible conflicts of interests in all work we apply for and carry out and it is our policy to declare any such potential conflicts to the relevant clients and bodies as soon as we become aware of them. Measurement of outcomes Due to the factors outlined above, Synergistiq is confident that there has not been any corruption, extortion or bribery experienced by or associated with our activities. The Synergistiq 2013 Communication on Progress will be made easily accessible to all interested parties on the company website – www.synergistiq.com. synergistiq pty ltd. abn 20 059 274 430 ph +61 3 9946 6800 97 drummond street, carlton, victoria 3053 australia 7
