Cosmo Oil Group Profile of the Cosmo Oil Group Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2014) Name Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Dealers 241 offices Head office 1-1-1, Shibaura, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8528 Japan Service stations 3,228 (stationary) Telephone +81-3-3798-3211 Branch offices Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Kanto-Minami, Nagoya, Established April 1, 1986 Osaka, Hiroshima, Takamatsu, and Fukuoka Capital ¥107,246,816,126 Refineries Chiba, Yokkaichi, and Sakai 1 Main business Oil refining and sales Oil depots1 36 locations (including 33 subcontractors) No. of employees 1,837 Bases outside Abu Dhabi (UAE); Beijing (China); Doha (Qatar); History Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. was established on April 1, of Japan2 Huston, Texas (USA); London (UK); Singapore 1986 through the merger of Daikyo Oil Co., Ltd., Maruzen Oil Co., Ltd., and their refinery subsidiary, 1. As of April 1, 2014 the former Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Asian Oil Co., Ltd. 2. As of August 4, 2014 was merged into Cosmo Oil on October 1, 1989. Financial Data Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Ordinary and Net Income (¥ billion) (¥ billion) Ordinary income Net income 96.1 4,000 100 3,537.8 3,109.7 3,166.7 61.4 48.4 3,000 2,771.5 50 36.4 41.8 2,612.1 28.9 4.3 2,000 0 -10.7 -9.1 1,000 -50 -85.9 ×0.75 0 -100 ×0.015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity and Shareholders’ Equity Ratio Non-Consolidated Sales Volume Shareholders’ equity Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) (Megaliter Gasoline & naphtha Kerosene & diesel fuel Heavy fuel oil Other or tonne) 50,000 21.1 39,656 19.2 18.9 40,000 38,824 37,930 37,093 36,890 (¥ billion) 13.2 13.7 16,784 16,140 400 15,372 15,814 15,332 315.7 332.7 30,000 316.9 300 230.5 231.9 20,000 13,304 13,824 12,329 13,679 13,195 200 10,000 7,140 6,506 7,170 5,877 100 6,675 2,427 2,352 1,850 2,058 2,560 ×0.75 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) ×0.9 Consolidated Cash Flows Consolidated Profit Ratios (¥ billion) Operating activities Investing activities Financing activities (%) Return on equity (ROE) Return on assets (ROA) 200 20 159.3 8.9 125.6 104.7 1.9 100 -0.7 -0.6 0 26.3 43.6 35.8 11.6 1.8 0.3 2.3 -2.8 0 -3.3 -5.0 -25.8 -21.0 -20 -61.0 -100 -73.1 -86.1 -80.5 -31.4 -93.3 ×0.009 ×0.6 -200 -40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 1 Cosmo Oil Group Import & Export Locations (Only consolidated subsidiaries) Contents Profile of the Cosmo Oil Group 1 Sakaide Distribution Terminal Overview of Cosmo Oil Group Businesses 3 Cosmo Oil Head Office Cosmo Matsuyama Oil (Tokyo) Message from the President 5 Chiba Refinery CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Oil Group 7 Special Features Yokkaichi Refinery Sakai Refinery Yokkaichi LPG Terminal 1 Revising the Business Continuity Plan 9 Editorial Policy 2 Strengthening International Partnerships 11 The Cosmo Oil Group Environmental Report was first published in fiscal 2001, then replaced by the Sustainability Report in fiscal 2004. It was 3 Cosmo Smart Vehicle 13 renamed the Corporate Report in fiscal 2010 for use as a comprehensive communication tool. This year’s report was prepared with reference to the Global 4 Initiatives in the Power Generation Business 15 Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 and includes a special feature that highlights issues deemed important to stakeholders. The issues have been selected to reflect stakeholders’ Performance Reports views as expressed in questionnaires and other sources, as well as the Group’s management philosophy, its business strategies, and the risk Fiscal 2013 Performance on CSR factors that it considers to be material. In the sections starting on page 17, the Group reports on various Initiatives 17 activities according to items prioritized in the CSR Initiative Policy. The Group references the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 Priority Item 1 published by the Ministry of the Environment in calculating the Strict Safety Management 18 Company’s environmental performance. Note: Employee job titles and departmental assignments referred to in this report are Priority Item 2 current as of April 2014. Working with Integrity 22 Material Issues in Report Priority Item 3 Enhancing Human Rights/Personnel Policies 25 Importance for stakeholders Reported in the Priority Item 4 printed version or on Promoting Environmental Initiatives 29 the CSR website according to materiality Priority Item 5 Implementing Better Internal and External Communication 32 Strategic importance for the Cosmo Oil Group Independent Assurance Report 34 Corporate Report 2014 and the Website The Cosmo Oil Group is committed to making the information in In this report, this mark indicates that the data has been Corporate Report 2014 available to as many stakeholders as possible. assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. The Group publishes two versions of the report: a concise print version that provides report highlights and an online version that provides detailed data. Access the publicly available Web version of the report at the official Cosmo Oil website. Month of Issue CSR website www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/csr/ November 2014 Period Covered Next issue (tentative): November 2015 (previous issue was This report covers the Cosmo Oil Group’s efforts in the area of corporate November 2013; report issued annually) social responsibility in fiscal 2013 (April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014), though some sections include content from fiscal 2014. An overview of the Inquiries Cosmo Oil Group’s petroleum business and Group organization is CSR Management Department, Risk Management Unit, provided on pages 3–4. Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. Report Boundary TEL: +81-3-3798-3134 FAX: +81-3-3798-3187 http: www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/eng/ This report includes information on the 25 Cosmo Oil Group companies covered by the CSR Initiative Policy, which are indicated by an asterisk in Cosmo Oil welcomes your feedback on Corporate Report 2014 the list on pages 3–4. Data, however, that pertains only to Cosmo Oil or and the Group’s CSR activities. Please send feedback by e-mail only to certain companies is footnoted to indicate this. to the address below. Note: There have been no major changes in the boundary coverage since the fiscal 2011 Email: cosmo_csr@cosmo-oil.co.jp report. 2 Overview of Cosmo Oil Group Businesses Business Segments Business operations Crude oil procurement, exploration and production Marine transport Oil Exploration and Production Tanker transport of crude oil from The Cosmo Oil Group purchases crude oil from oil-producing countries, promotes independent procurement sources, and development Procuring crude oil through independent development of crude oil in cooperation with and transport of imported petroleum development and from oil-producing these countries, and transports crude oil to products based on supply and demand countries refineries in Japan. Refining and manufacturing Refining and Sales The Group produces gasoline, kerosene, and Producing gasoline, diesel, kerosene, other petroleum products and sells/delivers and raw materials for petrochemical these products to service stations, oil depots, products to meet market needs and users across Japan. Petrochemicals manufacturing Petrochemicals The Group also manufactures and sells Maintaining a production system in petrochemical products, including xylene and and outside of Japan and meeting other raw materials used in such everyday increased demand household goods as clothing and PET bottles. Renewable energy ALA Environment In addition to undertaking wind and solar power generation, the Group is focusing on the Realizing mass production and lower Operating wind and solar power costs for ALA, an important amino acid production of ALA (5-aminolevulinic acid) in the generation facilities across Japan for promoting plant growth plants and agriculture field. Cosmo Oil Oil Exploration and Production Refining and Sales Group Crude oil procurement, exploration Refining and manufacturing  Chiba Cosmo Koun Co., Ltd.  Tohoku Cosmo Gas Co., Ltd. Companies and production Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd.*  Cosmo Lubricants Services Co.,  Osadano Gas Center Co., Ltd.  Cosmo Energy Exploration & Production  Cosmo Oil Lubricants Co., Ltd.* Ltd. Co., Ltd.*  Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan)* Transport in Japan  Yokkaichi LPG Terminal Co., Ltd. Tozai Oil Terminal Co., Ltd. Legend:  Qatar Petroleum Development Co., Ltd.  Sales in Japan (Japan)*  Hokuto Kogyo Co., Ltd.* Consolidated  Cosmo Oil Sales Corp.*  Cosmo Oil Ashmore Co., Ltd.  Cosmo Kaiun Co., Ltd.* subsidiary  United Petroleum Development Co., Ltd.  Sogo Energy Corp.*  Cosmo Delivery Service Co., Ltd.* Equity-method (Japan)  Cosmo Property Service Corp.  Cosmo Petro Service Co., Ltd.* affiliated company Import/export of crude oil and  Sakurabashisangyo Co., Ltd.  Cosmo Techno Yokkaichi Co., * Indicates the 25 petroleum products Ltd.*  TOCOS Car Support Co., Ltd. group companies  Cosmo Oil (U.K.) Plc.*  Cosmo Oil International Pte. Ltd.*  Kansai Cosmo Logistics Co., Ltd.*  Cosmo Reform Co., Ltd. covered by the CSR  Cosmo Oil of U.S.A. Inc.*  Sakaide Cosmo Kosan Co., Ltd.*  Amtecs Co., Ltd. Initiative Policy Storage  Cosmo Petroleum Gas Co., Ltd.* As of June 30, 2014  Okinawa CTS Corp. 3 2014 initiatives for the future Export of petroleum products More crude oil exploration and production  Increasing production in existing lots in Qatar  Ongoing drilling in promising lots  Starting early production in the new Hail oilfield in Abu Dhabi  p. 11 Exporting petroleum products from  Partnership with CEPSA Japan, according to demand  p. 11 Customers, homes, and industry Stronger initiatives for profit Transport in Japan Sales in Japan stabilization  Reconstructing the supply system  Strengthening the retail business (Cosmo Smart Vehicle)  p. 13–14 Safe and stable refinery operations  Revising business continuity plan Selecting the means of transport, Supporting motoring lifestyles through (BCP)  p. 9–10 taking cost, distance and location into service station sales, while  Improving safety management consideration emphasizing regional characteristics systems  p. 18–19 Distribution Strengthening the para-xylene and sales (PX) business  Starting full production of PX in Storage South Korea  p. 12 Stockpiling at least 70 days’ worth of private crude oil reserves Strengthening the renewable Research and development energy business  Starting full operation of the solar power generation business  p. 15  Expanding profits in the wind power generation business  p. 16 Expanding the ALA business  Expanding ALA applications in Researching more advanced manufacturing technologies and developing the healthcare, cosmetics, and environmentally friendly products health food fields Petrochemicals Environment Other Businesses Petrochemicals manufacturing Wind power generation  Akita Wind Power Laboratory  Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd.*  Summit Trading Co., L.L.C.  Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd.*  EcoPower Co., Ltd.* Co., Ltd.  Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd.*  Musashi International Co. W.L.L.  CM Aromatics Co., Ltd.  Hazaki Wind Farm Co., Ltd.  GotoKishiku Wind Power  Cosmo Business Associates Co.,  Abu Dhabi Enterprises (Japan)  Maruzen Petrochemical Co., Ltd.  Choshi Wind Farm Co., Ltd. Laboratory Co., Ltd. Ltd.* Co., Ltd.  Hyundai Cosmo Petrochem Co.,  Dangamine Wind Farm Co.,  Cosmo Computer Center Co.,  A.D. Marine Inc. ALA business Ltd. Ltd. Ltd.*  Cosmo Oil (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.  Cosmo ALA Co., Ltd.  Ikata Eco Park Co., Ltd.  Cosmo Research Institute*  Cosmo Oil Europe B.V.  Wakkanai Wind Power Co.,  Cosmo Sea Farming Inc. Ltd.  TOCOS Enterprise Co., Ltd.  Tachikawa Wind Power  Kitagas Fureasuto Hakodate Laboratory Co., Ltd. Minami Co., Ltd.  Eco World Kuzumaki Wind  Senshinsya Co., Ltd. Power Co., Ltd. 4 Message from the President “The Cosmo Oil Group is united in socially responsible management, working to earn public trust and to help build a more sustainable society.” Socially Responsible Management at the Cosmo Oil Group Fiscal 2013 marked the first year of the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan that will guide the Cosmo Oil Group through the next five years. Under the plan, we are redoubling our focus on socially responsible management. As a corporate group that handles petroleum products so important to people’s everyday lives, we must ensure that our business fulfills all of our corporate social responsibilities. We are determined to earn the trust and meet the expectations of our many stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, people in local communities, and the broader society. In response to the damage that occurred during the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake and the asphalt leak accident that we experienced in June 2012, we have even further heightened our emphasis on safety and stable operations. One of the priorities that we outlined in the CSR Initiative Policy (Fiscal 2013–2017) is to practice uncompromising safety management. In order to improve our safety and risk management, we established a Refinery Safety Reform Committee and created a Risk Management Unit, adding these into our corporate structure. These measures, together with the initiatives conducted at work sites, have helped to reinforce the safety framework and kept safety practices at our refineries at an all-time high. In fiscal 2014, we will continue to position safety front-and-center every day at refineries and all other Group facilities, aiming to build an unshakeable bedrock of safety culture across the Group. Another priority that we have outlined in the CSR Initiative Policy is to make sure everyone always works with integrity. This has brought a renewed focus on rigorous compliance with all regulations and rules, even in the smallest daily tasks, and we are communicating this stance to all stakeholders. Supply Framework With petroleum demand in Japan projected to continue declining, we conducted an overall review of our refineries including such factors as location and production volume. As a result, we shut down the refinery operations of the Sakaide Refinery in July 2013, leaving three operating refineries. In April 2014, the former refinery officially became the Sakaide Distribution Terminal. We Keizo Morikawa will fulfill our responsibility to supply Shikoku and other President, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. regions from the terminal, which is the Group’s largest logistics facility in western Japan and also serves as an emergency supply point. Cosmo Oil has signed an MOU with the Tonen General Sekiyu Group on collaboration between our Chiba Refinery and the Chiba refinery operations of Kyokuto Petroleum 5 Industries, a subsidiary of Tonen. Under the MOU, the Corporation (49% stake). Through these efforts to partners will form a joint company to pursue synergies that strengthen revenues in our business segments, will enhance international competitiveness, taking concrete we are aiming to become a vertically integrated measures such as constructing a pipeline linking the global energy company. refineries and achieving joint facility optimization. A Trusted Corporation That Alliances with Japanese and Contributes to the Larger Community International Partners The Cosmo Oil Group has pledged its commitment to the The Cosmo Oil Group will pursue alliances with ideal United Nations Global Compact since 2006, under which business partners in each business segment and region, we are advancing initiatives that adhere to its basic as we seek to maximize corporate value. We regularly principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, meet with IPIC1 to explore potential joint projects. This led the environment and anti-corruption. These basic to a strategic comprehensive cooperation agreement principles are conveyed in our Cosmo Oil Group Code of with CEPSA2 of the IPIC Group in fiscal 2013 aimed at Conduct to guide the conduct and shape the attitudes of expanding petroleum exploration. In the LP gas business, our employees. We expect each employee to contribute the Group has been discussing integrating the wholesale to our mission of ensuring the safe operation of refineries operations of Cosmo Oil, Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K., and a stable supply of petroleum products. This is the Tonen General Sekiyu K.K., Sumitomo Corporation, and foundation of our effort to earn public trust as an energy Enessance Holdings Co., Ltd., which was established in company that helps build a more sustainable society. 2008 by Showa Shell Sekiyu (51% stake) and Sumitomo In fiscal 2014, the Group will work as one to practice socially responsible management as we work toward the 1. The International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) is a sovereign wealth fund wholly overall objective for fiscal 2017 in the CSR Initiative owned by the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, the largest member of the oil-producing United Arab Policy: “Earning social trust and always making a positive Emirates (UAE). It was established with the aim of constructing an oil industry value chain contribution to society.” funded by the country’s own crude oil. IPIC mainly invests in oil and petrochemical companies outside the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. 2. Compañía Española de Petróleos, S.A.U. (CEPSA) is an integrated petroleum company based in Spain. Corporate Organization Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. has been reviewing its organizational services and strengthening industry operations. The structure to better position the Group to deliver on the Fifth subsidiary functions like a department within the Cosmo Oil Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan. Under the Head Office, implementing ongoing business process plan, the Company spun off its oil exploration and reengineering and expanding the scope of its influence production business, forming Cosmo Energy Exploration & across the Group. The Company also consolidated sales Production Co., Ltd. in February 2014 to facilitate nimbler promotion for Cosmo Oil Group service stations and auto management. In June 2014, the Company established leasing operations under Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd., Cosmo Business Associates Co., Ltd., an administrative to strengthen support. subsidiary tasked with creating efficiencies in specialized New Organization (As of June 30, 2014) General Meeting of Shareholders Corporate Auditors/Board New Departments Departments undergoing changes of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Note: Secretaries Office and Internal Audit Office are Secretariat of Audit & Executive Officers’ Supervisory Board Committee Officer’s Meeting placed under direct control of the president. Risk Management Corporate Corporate Project Development Technology & Planning Supply Business Unit Sales Business Unit Research Unit Management Unit Business Unit Unit Unit (Name changed) Internal Audit Office CSR Management Corporate Planning Corporate CommunicaInformation Technology Crude Oil & Tanker Nine branch offices Industrial Fuel Marketing Lubricant Business Research & DevelopRefinery Safety Accounting & Finance General Affairs Human Resource Production Technology Wholesale Marketing Petrochemical Business Power & Gas Business ALA Business Technology & Research Secretaries Office Supply Department Sales Department Three refineries Purchasing Center Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department ment Center tion Department Department Department Department Department Department Department 1. Cosmo Petro Service Co., Ltd., Tozai Oil Terminal Co., Cosmo Kaiun Co., Ltd. Sogo Energy Cosmo Delivery Service Cosmo Oil Sales Corp. Cosmo Trade & Service Cosmo Oil Lubricants Cosmo Petroleum Gas Cosmo Research Institute Cosmo Energy Exploration & Cosmo Business AssociCosmo Computer Center EcoPower Co., Ltd. Cosmo Engineering Co., Two petrolatum E&P Hokuto Kogyo Co., Ltd. Four outsourcing Petrochemical Cosmo Techno Yokkaichi Co., Ltd., Kansai Cosmo Logistics Corporation companies2 companies companies1 Co., Ltd., Sakaide Cosmo Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Production Co., Ltd. ates Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Kosan Co., Ltd. 2. Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd., Maruzen Petrochemical Co., Ltd., CM Aromatics Co., Ltd., Hyundai Cosmo Petrochem Co., Ltd. 6 CSR Initiatives of the Cosmo Oil Group In order to realize the Management Vision of the Cosmo Oil Group, all employees are conscientiously engaged in CSR activities. CSR management is being promoted under the Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan and the CSR Initiative Policy, based on the Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct. In striving for harmony and symbiosis among Cosmo Oil Group Management Vision our planet, humankind, and society, we aim for sustainable growth towards a future of limitless possibilities. Cosmo Oil Group Code of Conduct Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan (Fiscal 2013–2017) Under the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan (Fiscal 2013–2017), the Group intends to improve its position mainly by increasing profitability in the oil refining and Chapter 1 We strive to deliver stable energy supplies marketing business, while working towards a resumption of dividend payments. Over the long term, the Group aims to become a vertically Chapter 2 We aspire to become a safe, accident-free integrated global energy company that company contributes to society. Chapter 3 We value people CSR Initiative Policy Chapter 4 We take care of the global environment Filling Up Your Hearts and Safety (Fiscal 2013–2017) While promoting CSR management based on Chapter 5 We value communications with society the Management Plan and CSR Initiative Policy, all employees of the Cosmo Oil Group perform their work conscientiously in order to realize the Chapter 6 We strive to maintain our position as an Management Vision and meet the expectations honest company of society. 7 Corporate message to customers Corporate message to society “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” “Living with Our Planet” Harmony and Symbiosis with the Creating the Value of “Customer First” Global Environment Harmony and Creating Future Creating Value from the Diverse Ideas of Harmony and Symbiosis between the Individual Symbiosis Energy and Society Value Creating Value by Expressing Collective Harmony and Symbiosis between Wisdom Companies and Society “Six Programs” under the Basic Policy Basic Policy Five years to establish a solid business 1. Further Enhancement of Safe Refinery Operation and Stable Supply foothold for further expansion Related information See Special Feature 1 on p. 9 ● Regain profitability in the oil refining and 2. Extensive Rationalization Focusing Mainly on the Supply Division marketing sector ● Secure stable income from investments 3. Strengthening the Retail Business made during the previous medium-term Related See Special Feature 3 on p. 13 information management plan ● Further strengthen alliances with IPIC and 4. Petrochemical Business Hyundai Oilbank1 Related information See Special Feature 2 on p. 12 ● Further enhance CSR management 5. Oil Exploration & Production Business Related See Special Feature 2 on p. 11 information Long-term goal 6. Renewable Energy Businesses Vertically integrated global energy company Related See Special Feature 4 on p. 15 information Five Priority Items in the CSR Initiative Policy 1. Strict safety management Initiative Themes Priority p. 18 Item 2. Working with integrity ● Safety and Integrity (Restore social trust) Priority p. 22 Item ● Sharing and Self-driven (Share across the organi3. Enhancing human rights/personnel policies zation until established as routine) Priority p. 25 Item 4. Promoting environmental initiatives Priority p. 29 Item Goal for Fiscal 2017 5. Implementing better internal and external communication Priority Cosmo Oil Group—Earning social trust and Item p. 32 always making a positive contribution to society 1. See p. 12 for more information concerning Hyundai Oilbank. 8 Special Feature 1 Revising the Business Continuity Plan New Group Business Continuity Plan Covers the Supply Chain to Ensure Preparedness for a Large-Scale Disaster Cosmo Oil has revised its original business continuity plan (BCP) and developed a new Group BCP that covers its supply chain. This effort is part of its commitment to ensuring a stable supply of petroleum products even after a large-scale disaster. The new BCP will help to ensure that the Group is positioned to quickly supply petroleum products even if a large-scale disaster hits, such as a major earthquake in Tokyo or the Nankai Trough. Comprehensive Review of BCP and BCP Manual Organizational Framework under BCP Manual Cosmo Oil originally developed a BCP and BCP manual in June 2006 based on the scenario of a Crisis Response Headquarters major earthquake in Tokyo, to secure business execution in a large-scale disaster. Subsequent Alternate for President decided events—such as the Great East Japan Earthquake Director President based on designated order of senior management officers in 2011 and an organizational change that saw the creation of the CSR & Environmental Affairs Assistant Risk Management Officer Department (now the CSR Management Directors Corporate Planning Officer Department) under the Risk Management Unit in June 2013—necessitated a comprehensive review of the risk management framework and BCP Members Officers and assistant officers of Business Units manual. Meanwhile, the Company developed a new Group BCP that covers the whole supply chain, from refineries to service stations. These Secretariat efforts are consistent with guidelines from the Secretary GM of CSR General Management Dept. Petroleum Association of Japan that aim at GM of Corporate public-private cooperation for energy security. Assistant Planning Dept. Secretary GM of Refinery Generals Safety Dept. Systematic Targets for Securing Rapid CSR Management Dept. Delivery of Petroleum Products Members Corporate Planning Dept. Refinery Safety Dept. A new manual was also created for the Group Response BCP based on the latest scenario from the Teams Cabinet Office of Japan concerning a major earthquake in Tokyo or the Nankai Trough. Risk ● Refinery ● External affairs For on-site support restoration ● Public relations assessments were conducted at each division ● Product ● Human ● Service station using the manual, and specific targets were set supply resources support ● Sales ● General affairs for the length of time needed to rapidly restore ● Systems ● Materials ● Systems restoration shipments from refineries and reopen service ● Community stations in disaster areas. These targets were response ● Refinery restoration adopted as company-wide targets, in order to support facilitate business continuity efforts at the divisional level by clearly identifying the actions to take and challenges to overcome. 9 Updating the Response Framework for a LargeScale Natural Disaster Cosmo Oil has reviewed its organizational framework for the On-Site Response Headquarters response to a large-scale natural disaster based on the newly developed Group BCP, and reorganized the Crisis Response Works with Crisis Response Headquarters Headquarters (see the chart at left) in order to achieve targets following policies of the Group BCP for rapidly restoring shipments. The headquarters includes specialized teams such as a refinery restoration team which would collaborate with the Cosmo Oil Head Office and refineries Refineries to achieve quick operational recovery. Each team has designated personnel to work on initial response and securing Group Companies, business continuity. Service Stations Staff Relationships Fill in Initial response ● Cosmo Matsuyama ● Cosmo Trade & personnel Transition to Crisis business continuity Oil Service Coordination Crisis personnel upon ● Cosmo Computer ● Cosmo Petro Service Response Response Instructions arrival of Crisis Center ● Cosmo Techno Headquarters Reporting Headquarters Response Personnel ● Cosmo Engineering Yokkaichi Headquarters Business personnel ● Cosmo Oil Sales ● Kansai Cosmo Logistics continuity ● Sogo Energy ● Sakaide Cosmo personnel ● Cosmo Kaiun Kosan Fill in ● Cosmo Delivery Service● Hokuto Kogyo Group BCP for Securing the Entire Supply Network On-Site Response Headquarters Under the Group BCP, which sets unified business continuity Coordinates information under the policies, the Group will conduct joint drills aimed at securing the BCPs of individual companies to product supply in an emergency throughout its entire supply prevent business losses network including refineries, oil depots, transport companies, and service stations. The Group is additionally installing portable fuel Individual Group Companies pumps, satellite phones, and emergency power generators at some 400 service stations across Japan. As of March 2014, the ● Abu Dhabi Oil ● Cosmo Oil Lubricants equipment had been supplied to 257 stations. (Japan) ● Cosmo Petroleum Gas ● Cosmo Energy ● Cosmo Business Exploration & Associates From left: Portable fuel pump, Production ● Cosmo Research emergency power generator, ● EcoPower Institute connection box for emergency power generator Photos courtesy of Tatsuno Corporation 10 Special Feature 2 Strengthening International Partnerships Expanding International Partnerships as a Vertically Integrated Global Energy Company Promoting Independent Oil Exploration and Production Cosmo Oil has been involved in oil exploration and production for more than 40 years in the Middle East, specifically in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates (UAE). Exploration of Hale Oil Field Concession in UAE Signing of the strategic agreement with CEPSA Cosmo Oil established Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan)1 after obtaining concessions in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, Joint Projects in Oil and UAE in 1967. Production of oil supplied to Japan is taking place in three oil fields in UAE through Abu Dhabi Oil. In Gas Exploration February 2011, Cosmo Oil obtained concessions for the Hale oil field that lies adjacent to the existing oil fields, and Cosmo Oil has formed a strategic agreement is steadily developing it. The new field is expected to in the oil-related business with Compañía generate about as much oil as the three existing oil fields, Española de Petróleos, S.A.U. (CEPSA) in order which will together provide a stable supply of energy. to look into the potential for joint business in oil 1. Cosmo Oil Group owns a 63% stake in Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. (Japan) and gas exploration. Location Map of Abu Dhabi Oil Concession Area Iraq Iran Qatar Kuwait Strategic Comprehensive Cooperation Saudi Arabia Agreement with CEPSA Oman United Arab Emirates In January 2014, Cosmo Oil reached agreement with CEPSA, a leading integrated petroleum company based in Spain that is part of the IPIC Group, to identify and Umm Al Anbar Field Mubarraz Field develop mutually beneficial opportunities for exploration Neewat Al Abu Dhabi City and business. Under the agreement, the companies will Ghalan Field focus on jointly obtaining new oil and gas concessions to reinforce their growing exploration and production businesses. The two companies will jointly pursue new Hail oil field, new concession area business opportunities created by their cooperation. Emirate of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 11 Cosmo Oil is actively pursuing business outside of Japan by further strengthening alliances with IPIC and Hyundai Oilbank, as a basic strategy under the Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan. Seeking to increase corporate value, Cosmo Oil is expanding upstream development to better position itself to secure stable energy supplies and address increased global demand for petrochemical products. Ramping Up the Paraxylene Business in South Korea Cosmo Oil operates a joint venture with Hyundai Oilbank. In January 2013, the venture opened new manufacturing facilities with an annual production capacity of 800 kilotonnes, making the venture one of the world’s leading paraxylene manufacturers. Responding to Growing Global Demand for Petroleum Products New paraxylene manufacturing facilities The venture, Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical Co., Ltd., was established in November 2009 and then acquired paraxylene manufacturing facilities (380 kt of annual production capacity) in Daesang, South Korea from Large-Scale Production Framework Hyundai Oilbank in February 2010. New 800 kt facilities Cosmo Oil 50% Joint Venture 50% Hyundai Oilbank were built and commercial production started in January 対策本部要員の stake stake Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical 2013. The出社後joint venture is now a world leader in paraExisting MX1 New MX PX2 manufacturing and sales PX business 事業継続要員へ facilities facilities Inherited xylene manufacturing, with a total annual production capacity of 1,180 kt. Existing PX facilities 300 kt/year 300 kt/year 2011 380 kt/year 2010 Naphtha supply Cosmo Oil will respond to growing demand for 初動要員 対策本部 petrochemical products in China and the rest of Asia, MX supply New PX facilities 800 kt/year 2013 要員 pursuing opportunities for business partnerships and joint ventures in a wide range of fields. External MX procurement PX sales 事業継続 1,180 kt/year 要員 1. Mixed xylene 2. Paraxylene Employee Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical operates Cosmo Oil’s only petrochemical plant Viewpoint outside of Japan. The joint venture manages paraxylene manufacturing facilities and develops strategies to improve revenues. The cooperation of our South Korean colleagues is vital, but cultural gaps can get in the way. Internally, we all communicate in English, but since neither Japanese nor Korean staff speak English natively, we have to choose our words carefully. I am studying the Korean language, history and culture so that I can better understand our local staff. Going forward, our goal is to become the leading petrochemical company in our region. Looking ahead, I want to keep developing my international and cross-cultural communication skills so that I can tackle new challenges. Global Human Resources Related information Development on p. 25 Takashi Okuyama Senior Process Engineer, Hyundai Cosmo Petrochemical Co., Ltd. 12 Special Feature 3 Cosmo Smart Vehicle Offering a New Way to Own a Car to Support Motoring Lifestyles Cosmo Smart Vehicle—Enhancing Motoring Lifestyles Drive a new car with monthly fixed payments Mandatory Affordable Ryusuke Hiratsuka car inspection fees, taxes ownership Discounts on fuel Product Development Group and maintenance Manager, Sales Department, costs all included Lighter operating Sales Business Unit, Cosmo Carefree costs driving Oil Co., Ltd.1 1. The departmental assignment is current as of March 2014. Cosmo Smart Vehicle—A New New Business Model Developed Way to Own a Car in a Group Effort Cosmo Smart Vehicle is a car lease product offered via Cosmo Smart Vehicle is a lease product unlike any other the Cosmo Oil Group’s service stations. Consumers car lease, developed collectively by the Cosmo Oil Group make fixed monthly payments to use a vehicle for a fixed in an effort to create a completely new business. It also term, which includes all costs such as mandatory represents a new business model that leverages Cosmo inspections, insurance, taxes, and maintenance. The Oil’s network of service stations across Japan to provide product is ideal for consumers who find it bothersome to total support for the motoring lifestyles of consumers. deal with these costs separately. Consumers also receive Numerous hurdles had to be overcome in bringing the discounts on fuel, as the product more broadly supports product to market, including the difficulty in partnering everyday motoring lifestyles than a conventional car lease with a leasing company. The eventual success is a credit can. Cosmo Smart Vehicle offers an entirely new way to to the dedication of the employees involved in developing own a car, adding new energy to motoring lifestyles. the product and the corporate support they received. The Cosmo Oil Group is working hard to energize motoring lifestyles and further expand the services provided by Cosmo Smart Vehicle. Cosmo Smart Vehicle Tops 10,000 Vehicles Leased Cosmo Smart Vehicle, an independent service targeting service station users, was launched in earnest in April 2011. Since then, the service has proven to be particularly popular among women and seniors, who often find it bothersome to deal with the various formalities required by car ownership. In February 2014, the service reached a landmark as the 10,000th vehicle was leased. Cosmo Oil will keep working to enhance the service and respond to the motoring lifestyle needs of consumers. 10,000th vehicle leased in April 2014 13 Cosmo Oil is working on several initiatives to transform its business model to one of providing value for motoring lifestyles by tailoring solutions to consumers. Cosmo Smart Vehicle, at the center of this strategy, offers a new way to own a car. Cosmo Oil aims to enrich the lives of consumers with this new business. Takuichi Yoshimura Assistant Manager, Retail Support Department, Sales and Planning Division, Cosmo Oil Sales Corp.1 1. The departmental assignment is current as of March 2014. Training 3,000 Service Station Reshaping the Motoring Lifestyles of Employees Consumers Cosmo Smart Vehicle is a new type of car lease service Cosmo Smart Vehicle has gained a following among offered at service stations that customers regularly visit women and seniors who are less informed about cars and use. Service station staff had to be trained to offer and find it bothersome to deal with the formalities of the service, since their customer support was crucial to owning a car. In addition to raising service recognition the success of the service. Following the full-scale among consumers, the Group is seeking to expand the launch of the service in April 2011, the Group service by offering more options such as exclusive car conducted ongoing and systematic training for some models available only through Cosmo Smart Vehicle, in 3,000 service station employees across Japan to order to appeal to a broader range of consumers. We are ensure product understanding and show them how to working to reshape the motoring lifestyles of consumers share information using success stories of offering and through the service—selling the concept of using cars selling the service. Thanks to the effectiveness of this instead of owning them. training, the Group exceeded its first-year target for the number of vehicles leased. Consumer We use our Cosmo Smart Vehicle as a second car. My wife mainly uses it to take the kids to daycare and back. I learned about the service when I was given a flyer while Viewpoint refueling at the Shin-Kashiwa Service Station. I was already thinking about replacing the car that I had driven for the last five years. I compared the service with what car dealers were offering, but the fact that the product included all maintenance costs was the deciding factor. We can get all the maintenance work done when we have to stop in to refuel, so it helps my wife who doesn’t like to deal with these things and also means less bother for me. The service gives a discount of ¥5 off every liter of gas, so it is also budget-friendly. I think this, combined with the better fuel economy of a mini-car, has reduced our gasoline costs considerably. Cosmo Smart Vehicle is perfect for what we need in a second car—it saves us money and reduces the hassle of owning a car. Makoto Hatakeyama Cosmo Smart Vehicle user of Daihatsu Tanto (5-year lease with Gold maintenance package) 14 Special Feature 4 Initiatives in the Power Generation Business Actively Developing the Renewable Energy Business as an Integrated Energy Company Moving into the Mega-solar Power Business Cosmo Oil has moved aggressively into the mega-solar business in an effort to provide a clean and safe supply of renewable energy in Japan. Hitachi Solar Power Plant (CSD Solar) Solar Power Plant Built on Former Sites of Oil Depots In March 2013, Cosmo Oil established CSD Solar, a joint venture with Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. and the Development Bank of Japan Inc., marking the Company’s full-scale entry into the mega-solar power business. Solar panels will be installed on eight sites, including the Company’s former oil depots whose operations were ended due to streamlined logistics. The panels were made by Solar Frontier K.K., a subsidiary of Showa Shell Sekiyu. The eight mega-solar sites, which will start operation sequentially as construction is completed, are expected to output a total of 24,000 kW. Oita Solar Power Plant (CSD Solar) Planned Power Generation Facilities Projected output 20,000 kW 16,000 kW 28,000 kW Scheduled start of the Scheduled start of the Scheduled start of the Hirogawa-Hidakagawa Aizuwakamatsu Wind Watarai Project Cosmo Oil is surveying areas Wind Farm with favorable wind Farm (Fukushima Pref.) (Mie Pref.) (Wakayama Pref.) conditions and negotiating with local governments and December April community residents to develop new wind farms. 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cosmo Oil will be a wholesaler of power generated at eight solar power generation facilities across June July October November Japan, including five facilities that are scheduled to start operation Operation started Scheduled start of Scheduled start of Operation started at Operation started in fiscal 2014 by the joint at Tokushima Solar the Taniyama Solar the Fukui Solar Hitachi Solar Power at Oita Solar Power venture CSD Solar. Power Plant Power Plant Power Plant Plant (Ibaraki Pref.) Plant (Oita Pref.) (Tokushima Pref.) (Kagoshima Pref.) (Fukui Pref.) Generating capacity 384 kW 1,229 kW 573kW 1,188 kW 1,966 kW 15 Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, renewable energy has been in the spotlight for its potential to help improve public energy security and serve as a major energy source for the future. As an integrated energy company, Cosmo Oil is contributing to the stable supply of energy by proactively expanding its power businesses encompassing wind and solar power generation. Expanding the Wind Power Generation Business Cosmo Oil is actively expanding the wind power generation business as a cornerstone of its future growth strategy, endeavoring to increase earnings at EcoPower Co., Ltd. in its renewable energy business under the Fifth Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan. Building New Wind Farms Cosmo Oil is working to achieve the best mix of energy procurement to meet its responsibilities as an integrated energy company. The Company moved aggressively into the wind power generation business in 2010 with the acquisition of EcoPower Co., Ltd., a pioneering wind power generation company with a proven track record. The acquisition of EcoPower is part of Cosmo Oil’s focus on renewable energy as a clean energy solution. EcoPower currently operates 128 wind turbines across Japan, including in Hokkaido and Tohoku, with a total power generation capacity of some 145,000 kW. Responding to public expectations, Cosmo Oil and its group companies are expanding the wind power generation business by building new wind farms. Operation Group Effort to Realize Wind Power Generation The Cosmo Oil Group works Transporting equipment on Assembling equipment Studying wind conditions special trucks that travel at Checking generators and other on the entire process of during calm wind hours and environmental impacts only 10 km/h equipment regularly such as on mornings wind power generation, from initial surveying of potential wind farm sites to construction, operation, and maintenance, through the collaboration of EcoPower and Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd., which also oversees Surveying Transport Assembly Maintenance plant construction. Detailed information EcoPower Co., Ltd. http://www.eco-power.co.jp/crp_profile.html Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd. http://www.cosmoeng.co.jp/english/ Report on Wind Turbine Accidents On December 5, 2013, the wind turbine blade and other parts fell from the No. 1 turbine at On January 31, 2014, the No. 2 turbine at the Ororon Wind Farm in Hokkaido operated by EcoPower. EcoPower formed a committee the Oiwake Soran Wind Farm in Hokkaido including an outside expert to investigate the accident. Below is a summary of the causes of was found to have a damaged blade tip the accident and preventative measures that were recommended. and fallen parts. With input from outside experts, the inspection concluded that the damage was caused due to inadequate maintenance, and possible preventative Causes of Accident Preventative Measures measures were proposed. 1. Lightning conductor inside of blade broke and was no 1. Improve the lightning protection system. These accidents are being taken longer functional. 2. Improve the inspections to enhance safety. seriously by EcoPower, which is working to 2. Lightning hit, causing the other lightning conductor to melt. 3. Suspend turbine operation when indicated improve operational safety by implementing 3. Pressure inside of turbine blade rose due to electric by lightning forecasts. preventative measures. discharge, damaging the blade. 16 Fiscal 2013 Performance on CSR Initiatives Under the CSR Initiative Policy (Fiscal 2013–2017), the Group prioritizes the following five areas: strict safety management, working with integrity, enhancing human rights/personnel policies, promoting environmental initiatives, and implementing better internal and external communication. Specific action themes for each priority item have been identified to ensure socially responsible management. Fiscal 2013–2017 Fiscal 2013 Initiative Results Priority Items Initiative Themes Enhanced PDCA-based management Set management indicators, identified issues at each refinery and set tasks, Safety management initiatives for evaluated execution and progress refineries by Refinery Safety Reform Committee Executed priority measures for safety, maintenance and operational management Created detailed handover rules between construction and operation, prepared 1. Strict safety  p. 18 (Also see p. 20 for reference) reference materials to improve maintenance precision, and modified manuals to facilitate technology transfer management Implemented safety initiatives for each division  p. 18–19 Group-wide safety management initiatives Implemented safety and environmental inspections  p. 19 by Group Safety Promotion Committee Reviewed committee contents and frequency of meetings Emphasize CSR, ensure compliance, and increase employee understanding of Revised the corporate ethics training  p. 22 Code of Conduct Revised the BCP to account for possibility of major earthquakes in Tokyo and Restructure risk management structure Nankai Trough  p. 9–10 2. Working with integrity Reviewed the risk matrix Group-wide quality management by Comprehensively executed measures to eliminate quality problems  p. 23 Quality Assurance Committee Pursuit of customer satisfaction “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration  p. 23 Increase work efficiency and better Reduced the total hours worked per year (1,966 hours/person versus target of manage working hours 1,900 hours/person)  p. 26 Launched the Cosmos Project  p. 25, 27–28 Encourage work-life balance Encouraged employees to utilize programs and benefits  p. 26 3. Enhancing human Maintained and improved employment rate of people with disabilities (2.07% versus rights/personnel Create workplaces with respect for legal requirement of 2.00%)  p. 25 policies diversity Encouraged hiring of persons aged 60 years and over (employed 100% of persons who wished to keep working) Maintain/improve mental and physical Provided online health management tool (34% of employees received an A rating, health up from 31% over previous year) Eliminate power/sexual harassment Training to secure comprehensive awareness Reduced annual CO2 emissions (by 633 kt, through efficiency improvements to Respond strategically to prevent global refinery operations)  p. 30 warming Operation of wind and solar power generation facilities  p. 15–16 Reduced industrial waste (achieved final disposal rate of 0.35% at Cosmo Oil and 4. Promoting 4.01% for Group)  p. 29 environmental Reduce environmental impact Promoted Eco Office activities (Cosmo Oil reduced copy paper by 10.9%, company initiatives car fuel consumption by 13.5%, and office electricity consumption by 7.8% compared to goals, and achieved green purchase rate of 89.4%)  p. 30 Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund (conducted 14 projects and held eco tour for Promote environmental cardholders)  p. 32 contribution activities Conducted Cosmo Forest activities (five events in Chiba, Sakai and Community initiatives Matsuyama cities)  p. 32 5. Implementing better Conducted cleanup campaigns (held at 39 locations, with 14,772 participants) internal and external Social initiatives  p. 32 communication Internal and external corporate Held CSR liaison meeting of CSR managers from affiliated companies communications 17 Priority Item 1 Strict Safety Management Safety Initiatives The Cosmo Oil Group prioritizes strict safety management as part of the CSR Initiative Policy for fiscal 2013–2017. Under the Consolidated Medium-Term Safety Plans (Fiscal 2013–2017), the Refinery Safety Reform Committee concentrates on safety management at refineries, with the Group Safety Promotion Committee advancing safety management at the group-wide level. The committees strive to eliminate work-related accidents and incidents in each division and to secure safe operations and stable supply. Fiscal 2013 Safety Initiatives Divisions Highlights of Main Safety Initiatives  Working group activities of Refinery Safety Reform Committee in four areas Refining and manufacturing 4 refineries and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil  Safety and environmental inspections  p. 19  Cosmo Oil Small Group Initiatives and Proposals (by safety circles at each refinery)  p. 19  Review of work manuals and securing adherence to manuals Cosmo Oil Lubricants (manufacturer of lubricating  Enhancement of safety education to raise safety awareness, increase safety, and eliminate oil) work-related accidents  Safety inspections, legal compliance inspections Cosmo Petroleum Gas (LPG storage/delivery)  Safety training for employees and dealers Crude Oil & Tanker Dept.:  Safety meeting Crude Oil & Tanker Dept. and Petroleum Product  Crude oil tanker emergency drills  p. 19 Dept. (product import/export) Petroleum Product Dept.:  Contingency plan to transfer functions to Cosmo Oil International  On-board safety inspection (implemented 1,069 times) Distribution Cosmo Kaiun (sea shipments)  Campaigns for safe docking and undocking (January–March) and pointing and calling for safety (July–August)  Biannual on-site audits of delivery companies (for all 75 garages) Cosmo Delivery Service (ground shipments)  Various training  Collection of 20,000 cases of near-miss accidents and provision of feedback  Emergency drills on leaving the berth Oil depots  Preparation of work manuals for each oil depot  Safety patrols at service station construction sites Sales and other operations Sales & Marketing Coordination Dept. (Service  Forum for construction safety at service stations Station)  Group-wide inspection for sign poles at service stations  p. 19  Education on preventing leakage of underground tanks at service stations  Safety “play catch” initiative Research and Development Center  Systematic hazard prediction training at monthly workplace safety, sanitation, and environmental meetings  Effective risk assessment hazard prediction including for business partners Cosmo Engineering  Safety expert program Main Safety Initiatives at Refineries Refinery Safety Reform Committee Established Safety Caravan In March 2013, the Cosmo Oil Group established a  Verify effectiveness of safety-related Refinery Safety Reform Committee headed by the Objective initiatives and measures president, operationalizing the Group’s strong  Further raise safety awareness management emphasis on refinery safety and stable Secretariat of Refinery Safety Reform operations. The committee focuses on safety Description Committee engages in dialog with management, maintenance management, operation production floor employees at each refinery management and human resources development. In each area, the committee identifies and analyzes issues to improve safety infrastructure, and reviews and verifies initiatives and measures. In fiscal 2013, the committee established a system for ensuring the implementation of plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycles, emphasizing the visualization of initiatives. Moving forward, the committee will advance practical safety activities and prepare frameworks for accident prevention. In addition, a Safety Caravan program was launched to carry out dialogue between the committee secretariat and production floor employees at each refinery. Safety Caravan meeting 18 Priority Item 1 Strict Safety Management Safety and Environmental Inspections at Refineries Key Improvements to Safety and Environmental Inspections at Refineries in Fiscal 2013 The Cosmo Oil Group has established the Group Safety  A specialist on the Fire Service Act was added to the refinery Promotion Committee in the Cosmo Oil Head Office in order inspection team, to provide a valuable third-party perspective to advance safety management across the Group. The so that the team can make effective improvements and provide guidance. committee implements safety and environmental inspections  Instead of conducting separate summary meetings on for refineries and for Head Office divisions and Group inspection results for each site, employees of four refineries and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil gathered at the Cosmo Oil Head companies. In fiscal 2013, inspections were conducted at 12 Office to jointly discuss issues and solutions. This will effectively sites and divisions, including four refineries. strengthen the safety and environmental management. Cosmo Oil Small Group Initiatives and Proposals Refineries operate small safety circles in every workplace to facilitate improvements, aiming to achieve safer operations, stable supply, and even better competitiveness. Representative groups from each refinery then gather at an annual presentation meeting to share the results of their activities. The fiscal 2013 meeting included a safety group from Qatar Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. Participants in the group-wide meeting for Cosmo Oil Small Group Initiatives Safety Initiatives in Transport Crude Oil Tanker Emergency Drills An emergency drill was conducted under the scenario of a pirate attack on a crude oil tanker traveling from the Middle East to Japan. The drill was triggered by a simulated emergency call from the company that operates Cosmo Oil’s private vessels, with staff assembling on short notice to verify the emergency response and information sharing. Issues that arose during the drills were studied and used to strengthen the emergency response framework. Safety Initiatives at Service Stations Group-wide Inspection for Sign Poles at Service Stations In July 2011, the Cosmo Oil Group started inspection of sign poles at all service stations to prevent topple or collapse of signage. The Group inspected 3,000 poles in two years and conducted repairs and replacement of poles as necessary. The Group also has established response frameworks for typhoons and other major natural disasters in order to rapidly ascertain damage at service stations, prevent secondary damage from occurring, and quickly restore operations. Photo courtesy of Asahi Etic Co. 19 Industry Collaboration on Industrial Safety Representing the petroleum refining and wholesaling industry, the Petroleum Association of Japan formulates voluntary action plans to secure industrial safety in Japan. Cosmo Oil is committed to implementing these industry action plans, developing and implementing initiatives to fulfill its social responsibility as a petroleum company. Highlights of Initiatives Implemented by Cosmo Oil Period: April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Safety Management by Cosmo Oil Group-wide Voluntary Safety Initiatives Head Office The secretariat of the Refinery Safety Reform Committee The Refinery Safety Reform Committee headed by the presiconducts “Safety Caravan” dialogs with production floor dent was launched in March 2013. The committee is responsiemployees at each refinery, aiming to improve communication ble for securing safe operations and stable supply through between the Head Office and refineries. Refineries also develop management involving the execution of Plan-Do-Check-Act safety frameworks driven by group leaders to ensure their (PDCA) cycles for the progress of refinery safety measures, and voluntary initiatives perform well. to evaluate and improve the measures. Survey and Assessment of Target Setting Targets for Industrial Safety Achievement and Execution of Measures  Fiscal 2014 Cosmo Oil Group Safety Policy: Establish “a Based on the revised target framework, which links group-wide culture of safety” for compliance in good faith safety targets with refinery measures, the Refinery Safety  Fiscal 2014 Safety Goal for Refineries: Maintain a record of Reform Committee receives regular reports from refineries and zero fires, explosions, off-site leaks, major leaks, and serious conducts assessments. work-related accidents Management Commitment to Implementation Plan for Industrial Industrial Safety Safety Measures The Cosmo Oil Group stands united in its mission to ensure the A. Concrete measures to reduce accidents safe operation of refineries and a stable supply of petroleum 1. Facility management (corrosion, etc.) products. We are working harder than ever on our CSR initiatives with the goal of earning the complete trust of Collection of reference materials to improve maintethe public. nance precision. (The management commitment was communicated through 2. Preventing human errors the Cosmo Oil Corporate Report and other avenues.) Hazard prevention meetings to identify potential risks in irregular operations, and initiatives to increase safety awareness such as calling out before carrying out operations. Preventing Industrial Accidents Related to 3. Preparation of procedures and manuals Natural Disasters Expansion of existing manuals with the addition of diagrams, photographs, and past troubleshooting examples to facilitate technology transfer to younger  Revision of business continuity plan (BCP) manual: The operators. original plan was redesigned to be applied to the entire supply chain including refineries and service stations, in B. Training and drills consideration of disaster scenarios involving the possibility of Hands-on and emergency drills to raise hazard major earthquakes in Tokyo and the Nankai Trough. awareness and case-study meetings on internal and  Upgraded seismic standards for high-pressures gas facilities: external accidents. Facilities were assessed in order of priority, from the standpoint of preventing damage from a major earthquake and based on experiences in the Great East Japan Earthquake. Necessary seismic upgrades are underway. 20 Priority Item 1 Strict Safety Management Highlights 2013 Chiba Refinery: LPG Tanks Rebuilt LPG tanks at the Chiba Refinery, which were damaged in a fire that occurred in the Great East Japan Earthquake (March 2011), restarted operation in July 2013 after completing reconstruction in May 2013 with modifications to address the causes of the fire. The tanks were originally full at the time of the earthquakes and toppled over, causing piping to break and leaking LPG which caught fire. The eight LPG tanks that were not damaged in the earthquake also received the same modifications. Modifications to Prevent Future Accidents  Improved the sprinkler piping  Raised the seismic standards for full tanks  Redesigned emergency shutoff valves to operate independently  Redesigned the piping to have greater tolerance for expansion and contraction  Installed a flammable gas detection and warning panel  Separated areas where pipes branch off, so that the sections are independent of each other  Improved the emergency operation system  Added piping cutoffs for when tanks are full  Improved the footing to address liquefaction Chiba Refinery: Centralized Smokestack Repainted After accidents in 2011 and 2012, the Chiba Refinery suspended operation for an extended period before recently restarting. To show again the determination to ensure safe and stable operations, the centralized smokestack was repainted for the first time in 20 years. Under the six programs of the Consolidated Medium-Term Management Plan, the Group is investing ¥28 billion in refurbishments of the Chiba Refinery to address overall infrastructure aging. Photo courtesy of Nippon Paint Co., Ltd. Sakaide Refinery: Dismantling of Refining Equipment As part of changes to the Group’s supply framework, all undertaken by the Cosmo Oil Group. Now called the refining operations at the Sakaide Refinery were shut down Sakaide Distribution Terminal, the facility will partner with in July 2013 to convert the facility into a distribution Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd. to take every safety terminal. The refining equipment will be dismantled in two precaution in carrying out the project, working closely with years. Very rare in Japan, this is the first such project to be administrative agencies and business partners. Voice Mitsuharu Matsumoto Oil Terminal Section, Sakaide Distribution Terminal, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. The dismantling project is already one-third completed as of June 2014. I was involved with operating the refining equipment for some 40 years since joining the company, so it is somewhat sad to be dismantling it. When we first started the project, the dismantling subcontractors were not familiar with the refining equipment or the rules at our site, causing repeated unexpected actions. We corrected these actions by training and ensuring adherence to our site rules, for everyone from the foremen and supervisors of the general contractor to the workers. We are now working smoothly together with excellent communication, sharing information at daily progress meetings and construction safety meetings for key operations. The dismantling project requires a lot of cutting using gas burners. Despite our initial concerns about residual hazardous substances such as petroleum and flammable gases, almost none have been detected through residual oil checks and gas detection. The dismantling is going smoothly because our colleagues took great care in shutting down the equipment, knowing the purpose and methods by which we would be dismantling the operations. We will make every effort to see that their efforts do not go to waste and finish the project without accidents. 21 Priority Item 2 Working with Integrity Compliance Promotion Corporate Ethics Promotion Framework As the organization responsible for the execution of matters Corporate Ethics Promotion Framework under the CSR Promotion Committee, the Corporate Ethics Corporate Ethics Committee Committee has been established to decide, promote, and implement basic policy relating to corporate ethics. The Corporate Ethics Promotion Office has also been set up to Corporate Ethics Promotion Office serve as a facilitator for the Committee. Additionally, the Cosmo Oil Group has set up helplines Cosmo Oil Group Corporate Ethics within the Group and at an outside law firm by which Consultation Helplines employees or persons outside the Group can discuss legal or ethical problems concerning Group operations. Details of the Number of Helpline Inquiries report and the Group’s response to the reported issues are forwarded to the Corporate Ethics Committee and are 10 reflected in future activities. There is also a consultation helpline 9 9 within the Human Resource Department for matters related to 5 5 5 sexual and power harassment. 2 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) Corporate Ethics Training The Cosmo Oil Group conducts annual corporate ethics Fiscal 2013 Results for Corporate Ethics Training training for employees. In fiscal 2013, the training focused on Training Category and Theme Participants Hours keeping consistent personal/organizational awareness of Compliance and corporate ethics; Code New corporate ethics; raising sensitivity to underlying issues; and employees of Conduct; and Company decision66 2–3 making rules promoting identification, discussion, and correction of problems. The format was changed from a lecture format to a Newly Compliance; role of line managers to promoted line 29 1.5 participatory workshop. Employees were asked to discuss promote corporate ethics managers everyday situations that might happen at the Cosmo Oil Group Message from the president on to raise their ethical awareness. The new format was Training at commitment to corporate ethics, helpline 3,2501 1.5 work sites system, CSR management and corporate welcomed, and participants found the content easy to ethics, case studies and discussion understand and stated that it improved their ability to think 1. Conducted 73 sessions at all 36 work sites through situations and exposed them to new points of view. 22 Priority Item 2 Working with Integrity Pursuing Customer Satisfaction Securing Trust in Petroleum Products Initiatives to Eliminate Quality Problems Quality Assurance Committee Framework The Quality Assurance Committee operates out of the Quality Assurance Committee Cosmo Oil Head Office and is responsible for establishing (Secretariat: CSR Management Dept.) the group-wide framework for quality assurance. For fuel oils, the committee is focusing on safety management in two areas: thorough measures to secure safety and stable ALA Product Quality Assurance Lubricant Business Power & Gas supply, and ensuring prompt and appropriate response if Quality Assurance Meeting Dept. Business Dept. Meeting (Managed by: a product issue arises. (Managed by: ALA Technology & In fiscal 2013, there was a mixed-oil accident at a Business Dept.) Research Dept.) Cosmo Oil service station caused by human error during unloading. The rapid initial response prevented further escalation. In order to prevent similar accidents, the Sales departments Supply departments Cosmo Oil Cosmo (Overseen by: Group enforced a procedural checklist for loading and Sales Dept.) (Overseen by: Lubricants Petroleum Gas Technology & unloading operations that all employees must follow, Research Dept.) improving mutual checks with the receiving station. “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration Under the “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration, the sense of comfort, peace of mind, and trust when they visit Cosmo Oil Group is working hard to give customers a true service stations. “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration Cosmo Oil Group Promises True to the “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too,” Declaration, Cosmo Oil is working to fulfill the following three brand promises to customers. Comfort Customers will be greeted with a welcome and a smile at clean Cosmo Oil service stations. Peace of mind Cosmo Oil service stations will offer quality-assured products and services. Trust Cosmo Oil service station staff will be responsible for their answers to customers’ queries. Securing compliance and Evaluation for Three Promises Customer Center environmental consideration Evaluation for CSR Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund Business continuity planning Providing value for motoring lifestyles Under the brand promises of providing comfort, peace of mind, and trust, the Group is transforming its business model from that of petroleum sales focusing on fuel oils, to one of providing broad-based value for motoring lifestyles. 23 Ensuring Customer Support The Cosmo Oil Customer Center facilitates communication Number of Customer Inquiries with customers through a support phone line, which has 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 2009 been available 24 hours a day since 2010. 5,048 Inquiries 3,793 1,255 In fiscal 2013, the overall number of inquiries to the 2010 Feedback 5,343 support line remained about the same as the previous 4,099 1,244 year. Calls with customer feedback, however, were down 20111 6,326 by 104, or 15%, to 619 calls. 5,197 1,129 2012 10,998 10,275 723 2013 10,733 (Fiscal year) 10,114 619 1. The number of inquiries and feedback received in fiscal 2011 does not include Sample Comments Received by Customer Center those connected with the Great East Japan Earthquake. I chose to fill up at a full service station, but when I When I went to fill up at around 9:00 p.m., the service station staff pulled in, the three employees were talking amongst came out to greet me even though it was night. They bowed to every themselves, and they didn’t bother to greet me or guide single departing car. I was quite impressed and it put me in a good Feedback me into a bay. They didn’t act friendly and I had a poor mood. Praise experience. 0 200 Response from the service station operator: Our staff always Response from the service station operator: We take the effort to make our customers happy, so it is great to receive verified that this took place using surveillance camera this kind of praise. footage. We have addressed the topic with all of the staff. Service Evaluations for Fulfillment of Three Promises The Cosmo Oil Group focuses intently on customer Evaluation Results for Three Promises of “Filling Up Your Hearts, Too” Declaration for Fiscal 2013 satisfaction. The Group surveys its customers to assess the level of comfort, peace of mind and trust provided by service (Points) 24.7% 100.0 stations and reviews the fulfillment of the Three Promises Satisfaction with operations −A 0.1% BA 2.8% AA 11.4% made to customers. 95.0 The assessment approach was updated in fiscal 2013 to −B 0.8% BB 5.8% AB 13.3% emphasize customer intention to return to the same service 90.0 station. The survey was conducted at 2,144 service stations −− 22.2% B− 25.0% A− 18.8% and found that 24.7% of those surveyed earned both a very 0.0 0.0 6.0 9.0 10.0 (Points) high customer revisit intention and high satisfaction with Revisit intention operations (both 9 or more points out of a possible 10). Survey of CSR at Service Stations The Cosmo Oil Group conducts annual privacy policy (PP) Average PP and EM Points PP points EM points surveys and environmental management (EM) surveys to (Points) 98.7 98.6 100 98.3 98.0 check and improve regulatory compliance at service stations. 94.3 In fiscal 2013, inspectors visited 1,174 service stations, and 90.2 96.5 96.6 97.8 97.6 more than 1,800 service stations conducted their own self-assessments. 89.5 80 86.1 0 First half Second half 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 2009 2009 Note: Higher scores are better. 24 Priority Item 3 Enhancing Human Rights/Personnel Policies Respect for Human Rights and Better Working Conditions Under the Consolidated Medium-Term Human Rights/Personnel Plan (Fiscal 2013–2017), the Cosmo Oil Group is providing even better working conditions for employees, focusing on five areas: increasing work efficiency and better managing working hours, encouraging work-life balance, respecting diversity, maintaining and improving mental and physical health, and eliminating power and sexual harassment. Global Human Resources Development There are 109 Cosmo Oil Group employees stationed in Number of Employees Number of Employees Stationed Outside Japan by Stationed Outside Japan: eight countries outside Japan, engaging in resource Country: Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2009–2013 development, crude oil and petroleum product As of March 31, 2014 transactions, and project operations in the petrochemical Country No. of Fiscal Year No. of Employees1 Employees1 and ALA businesses. With the aim of becoming a vertically UAE 75 2009 84 integrated global energy company, the Group has an Bahrain 1 2010 91 urgent need to develop human resources that can Qatar 16 2011 89 respond to a variety of challenges both in and outside Japan. Building on the strengths of the current China 2 2012 94 international employees, the Group is developing more USA 3 2013 109 global human resources with a diverse range of UK 2 1. The number of employees includes those dispatched from Cosmo Oil experience and skills. The Group will actively promote the Singapore 3 and full-time employees of Cosmo transfer of young and mid-career employees to South Korea2 7 Engineering Co., Ltd., Cosmo Trade & Service Co., Ltd., and Cosmo international offices to increase the number of personnel Research Institute. that can operate effectively outside Japan. 2. Related information: Employee Viewpoint  p. 12 Respecting Diversity and Providing Equal Opportunity The Cosmo Oil Group set the goal of maintaining and Employment of People with Disabilities (data reported to Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare)1 improving its employment rate of people with disabilities June June June June June under the theme of sustaining fair employment 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 practices. In fiscal 2013, the Group achieved Japan’s Total number of employees 46 45 46 41 39 with disabilities legally mandated rate of 2.00% or more, with an actual (Number with severe 25 23 23 21 20 result of 2.07%. Accordingly, the Group is striving to disabilities) Employment rate of ensure that it maintains and improves the employment people with disabilities2 2.1% 2.1% 2.3% 2.1% 2.07% rate of people with disabilities through measures that Shortfall in the mandatory number of employees 0 0 0 0 0 aim to create workplace environments where diverse with disabilities 1. For Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd., as of June 1 in each year human resources can demonstrate their respective 2. Legally mandated employment rate: 2.00% (rounded to the second decimal abilities to the fullest extent. place) Launch of the Cosmos Project One of the Cosmo Oil Group’s top priorities is encouraging active participation of women in the workplace. In January 2014, the Group launched the Cosmos Project,1 which is led by a panel of 11 women from various departments, to propose ways to facilitate more active involvement of women.The Cosmos Project aims to create working conditions that enable all employees to flourish and develop their careers. 1. Reference information: Stakeholder Dialog  p. 27–28 25 Facilitating Work-Life Balance The Third Consolidated Medium-Term Human Rights/ Personnel Plan identifies child/family care leave and leisure Voice Working Part-time from Home activities as important elements for employees to balance Atsuo Fujii work and home life, and it focuses on enhancing various Production Control Section, Sakai Refinery, Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd.1 systems to provide better support. The Cosmo Oil Group is committed to creating positive and dynamic work I started working from home to support my wife, who tended to get environments for all employees and respects the values and sick during and after her pregnancy. life perspectives of each employee. The Group is implementing I am grateful to my colleagues in the initiatives to enable employees to achieve a work-life balance workplace for accepting my choice. with the flexibility to tailor their desired lifestyles. Working from home once a week gives me the The fifth action plan required for general business owners flexibility to do household chores and look after our baby for fiscal 2013–20141 was submitted to Japan’s Ministry of during my lunch break, using the time that I would have Health, Labour and Welfare, as part of Cosmo Oil’s support otherwise spent commuting to work. There are certain for the raising of the next generation of children. work tasks that I can’t do from home, so working from 1. Action plan required for general business owners: These plans outline home once a week has made me more conscious of my timeframes, objectives, and duration of implementation for measures to support schedule and of finishing work that needs to be done and enhance working conditions for workers who are raising children. when I’m at the office. Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave: I will use this as an opportunity to work more Fiscal 2010–2013 efficiently and balance my work and parenting. 2010 2011 2012 2013 Men 2 1 2 4 1. The departmental assignment is current as of March 31, 2014. Women 9 12 15 17 Physical and Mental Healthcare The Cosmo Oil Group has been working with the Cosmo Number of Inquiries Submitted to the Health and Counseling Online Hotline Oil Health Insurance Society to fully implement the special General health: Medicines, gastrointestinal illness, child fever, influenza, other check-ups. The Cosmo Oil Health Insurance Society Psychological counseling: Anxiety, parental and family issues, spousal relations, other operates a Group Health and Counseling Online Hotline 400 that is staffed by specialists in psychiatry and 290 psychosomatic medicine, which employees and their 300 266 families can access to receive immediate counseling on a 217 184 variety of subjects. 200 132 100 71 52 31 34 9 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) Reducing Long Working Hours The Cosmo Oil Group has set limits on the number of Total Annual Work Hours: Fiscal 2012–2013 overtime hours on a monthly and yearly basis in order to 2012 2013 promote work-life balance among employees and maintain Total annual work 1,954 1,966 hours employee health. Under the Consolidated Medium-Term Regular working Human Rights/Personnel Plan, Cosmo Oil has set a goal of hours1 1,817 1,817 reducing the total number of hours worked per year and Target for total 1,900 1,900 working hours seeks to improve performance in a number of different 1. Average of employees excluding shift workers categories. However, the performance in fiscal 2013 declined in many categories, due to overtime hours that were logged from the Company reorganizing its supply framework. 26 Priority Item 3 Enhancing Human Rights/Personnel Policies: Stakeholder Dialog Creating Working Conditions That Enable All Employees to Realize Their Full Potential The Cosmo Oil Group’s new Cosmos Project, led by a panel of women, aims to incorporate input from women workers into the Group’s vision for the future. More men than women work for the Group, so it is making a special effort to ensure women’s voices are heard. Meetings and interviews with employeess started in January 2014, and by late July 2014, the project will submit its proposals on how the Group can encourage more active participation of women in the workplace. On February 12, 2014, the project team invited an expert in this area, Akiko Fukuda, to provide her input on the Cosmos Project’s efforts to encourage the active involvement of women. Fukuda is vice executive chairperson of the labor union of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, and is also a member of Gender Equality Office of the Japanese Federation of Energy and Chemical Workers Unions. Note: Names of project members are not displayed below in order to protect the privacy of interviewed employees. Sending a Corporate Message to Fukuda: It is very important for the company to make a clear statement of its position. When Mitsubishi Tanabe Encourage Active Participation of Women Pharma started a project encouraging women’s active participation in the sales departments, many women Employee A: Ms. Fukuda, you have said that it is employees were unsure if the company really wanted them necessary to shrink the gender gap in domestic roles, as to continue and have careers. They saw the project in a well, in order for women to play an equally active role as different light, even though the company actually wanted men in society. women to stay with the company. So the company gave a Fukuda: The workplace should not have to compensate progress report on the project at every meeting of branch for gender inequalities in the home. For example, if a GMs, who in turn briefed all employees—not just women— woman (mother) has to leave work early every day to pick on the project. Over time, this sent the message that the up her child at daycare, she needs to make use of company wanted to see women continue their careers. It support from her husband, relatives, and community to took five years to put the rules and programs in place, and ensure gender equality at home, and then use the two years for it to be accepted. programs offered at her workplace. Employee B: Does gender equality at home need to be explicitly stated? Enabling Women to Talk about the Fukuda: When will the Cosmo Oil Group send a message Home at Work encouraging the active participation of women? If you believe gender equality at home needs to be explicitly Fukuda: In Japanese companies, it is still frowned upon stated, that would be a good opportunity to do so. to talk about the home at work. Employee A: The report from the Cosmos Project will Employee C: I felt that talking about the home was just probably include a request for senior management to issue seen as an excuse in the workplace. a clear message on the active participation of women. The Fukuda: Attitudes need to change. At the Cosmo Oil company will decide on the content of the message. Group, do you usually talk about your personal situation only if your workload becomes too much to handle because of circumstances at home? Employee E: Yes, it is hard to tell others about private matters unless it is a situation like your kids being sick or hospitalized. Employee F: Sometimes we will talk about our personal situation if we go out to eat after work, but generally we do not talk about it, until it gets to the point where it affects the work of others. Employee G: I wish that others would let us know about their home situation, because we would be better prepared if that person had to take time off from work. But I am not so sure that I could volunteer this information myself. 27 Fukuda: It is great that you are conducting interviews to get raw feedback. But you also need to understand the background of the people you are interviewing. Employee H: Our project is just starting, and we are not always sure of how to organize our efforts. Fukuda: It is hard to include every opinion, so you need to thoroughly discuss and consider what your emphasis will be. Employee I: Some women are happy with the way things are. Fukuda: I can understand that. I worked for 19 years at the Hiroshima office of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma. Back then, I might have convinced myself that I was satisfied with not being given challenging work. Employee C: From our interviews, we sensed a gap between Tokyo and other areas. If we push for changes, it will reflect our perspective from Tokyo but not the wishes of women outside of Tokyo. Fukuda: That is an important consideration. You need to think about exactly how the company wants women to Fukuda: When we talk about this subject, the conclusion work. Rather than elevating every single woman to is invariably that people need to talk about their home management, the company needs some women to situation. But it is surprising when you say that you are continue doing their current work. Some women may wish unable to talk about your personal affairs or home to make small strides, while others might wish to make situation at work. large strides in their careers. Either way is fine. The Employee C: Nowadays, I get emails from male important thing is to provide avenues for those who want colleagues saying that they are taking a day off because to move ahead. As members of the Cosmos Project, you they are expecting a baby. I am happy for them and do need to consider how you yourselves want women to work not think bad of them, so I wonder why we hesitate to talk at the Cosmo Oil Group, and let this guide your efforts. about these things. Employee D: There are workplaces that only have the bare minimum number of staff, where it can be a problem if one person is not there. Turning Feedback into Expanded Women’s Participation Employee H: As part of the Cosmos Project, we interviewed women at different workplaces and found that their views differed depending on their particular situation. Employee E: When we are covering for colleagues working shorter hours for child/family care, our workload may increase at peak periods. Highlight Senior Management Training Cosmo Oil conducts annual training on human rights and personnel policies for officers of Cosmo Oil and its group companies, and department GMs at the Head Office. Under the Consolidated Medium-Term Human Rights/ Personnel Plan, one goal is to create a corporate culture conducive to the active participation of women. So the Group invited Yoko Yajima,a senior research analyst with Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting Co., Ltd., to speak at the Cosmo Oil Head Office on April 9, 2014. An expert on diversity in the workplace, Yajima spoke about active participation of women and the shift in emphasis from “balancing work and home life” to “being actively involved in the workplace.” Cosmos Project members participated in the lecture and had many questions for Yajima, a pioneer in advocacy for the active participation of women. 28 Priority Item 4 Promoting Environmental Initiatives Environmental Initiatives The Cosmo Oil Group has been focusing on strengthening its environmental initiatives since fiscal 2002. Under the Consolidated Medium-Term Environmental Plan (Fiscal 2013–2017), the Group has three priorities: responding strategically to prevent global warming while ensuring continuation of business, reducing environmental impact, and promoting environmental contribution activities. All of these efforts are aimed to realize Cosmo Oil’s corporate message, “Living with Our Planet.” Environmental Management Structure The Cosmo Oil Group has acquired ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certification for 10 sites, including refineries, which have Environmental Global Environment Committee Inspections significant environmental impact. In addition to internal audits, external audits are conducted by certification Plans and instructions to Reports on the status of carry out necessary environmental verification agencies to regularly confirm that measures management environmental management systems are operating Cosmo Oil Group companies effectively. The Group operates a cross-divisional Global Environment Committee which drives its overall environmental management, formulates the Consolidated Sales sections Refining and (functioning as distribution sections Medium-Term Environmental Plan, reports on environmental (certified under management points) ISO 14001) performance and evaluates results under the plan, and provides feedback to business divisions. Consolidated Medium-Term Environmental Plan (Fiscal 2013–2017) Theme 1: Respond strategically to prevent global Theme 2: Reduce environmental impact Theme 3: Promote warming while ensuring continuation of environmental contribution activities business 1. Reduce CO2 emissions: Reduction of CO2 emissions by 1. Respond to environmental issues in business 1. Continue promoting environmental 853 kt between fiscal 2013–2017, from the emissions level activities communication in fiscal 2010 2. Reduce industrial waste 2. Promote protecting biodiversity 2. Manage greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions: Energy 3. Enhance internal/external audits for thorough management consistent with Japan’s Act on the Rational environmental management Use of Energy 4. Adopt rigorous measures to ensure soil preservation 5. Promote Eco Office activities and green purchasing Reducing Industrial Waste Cosmo Oil Co., Ltd. has set a goal of keeping final landfill Percentage of Industrial Waste Disposed in Landfills in Fiscal 2013 disposal of industrial waste generated from refineries, oil Target Actual depots, and the Research & Development Center to less than 0.5%, in an ongoing effort to reduce waste. In fiscal Cosmo Oil Less than 0.5% 0.35% 2013, only 0.35% of this waste was disposed in landfills. Cosmo Oil Group ― 4.01% Note: Target not established for Cosmo Oil Group, based on the difficulty of establishing a target due to the variety and volume of industrial waste generated by the dismantling project managed by Cosmo Engineering Co., Ltd. Addressing Soil Contamination The Cosmo Oil Group conducts soil surveys for service Cumulative Number of Soil Surveys at Service Stations stations and sites, seeking to prevent soil contamination 1,200 1,007 1,021 and to ensure a quick response if an oil leak is detected. If 925 956 875 needed, soil remediation and monitoring are undertaken 800 to address environmental impacts. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 29 Initiatives in Response to Global Warming Energy Conservation in Refining and Manufacturing Approximately 60% of the Cosmo Oil Group’s CO2 emissions Energy Consumption and CO2 Emissions at Four Refineries are generated by refining. The Group is working to reduce Energy consumption Unit energy consumption (Ml-crude oil) (kl-crude oil/Ml) this figure and conserve energy by introducing high-efficiency 3,000 12 10.36 10.11 10.16 equipment and improving operational performance. 9.12 9.41 9.45 The Group’s unit energy consumption1 and CO2 2,000 8 1,721 1,821 emissions per crude oil equivalent throughput improved in 1,490 1,439 1,578 1,396 1,000 4 fiscal 2013 due to recovery of production volume at the Chiba Refinery and review of group-wide operational 0 0 efficiency. The rise in total energy consumption and total 1990 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) CO2 emissions was impacted by the restart of the Chiba CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per unit of crude oil equivalent throughput Refinery, which had been mostly shut down since 2011. (kt) （kg/kl） Compared with fiscal 2010 data, the shutdown of refining 6,000 27.04 26.09 26.52 30 24.19 25.02 25.19 operations at the Sakaide Refinery and energy-savings 4,566 4,840 4,000 4,207 20 measures at other refineries resulted in a decrease of 633 3,889 3,600 3,756 kilotonnes of CO2 emissions. 2,000 10 1. Unit energy consumption indicates total energy consumption divided by the total crude oil equivalent throughput, taking into account the complexity of refining technology. The unit 0 0 used is kiloliters of crude oil equivalent/megaliters (kl-crude oil/Ml). Total energy 1990 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) consumption is calculated by converting heat, electricity, and other energy use into the megaliters of crude oil equivalent (Ml-crude oil). Note: In addition to the figures shown in the graph, N2O released from the catalyst regeneration tower amounted to 18 kt of CO2 equivalent in fiscal 2013. Reducing Transport-related Energy Consumption The Cosmo Oil Group continues to transition to larger Transport-related Energy Consumption vessels and transport trucks and is securing higher Unit energy consumption ( Tanker truck Tanker ） CO2 emissions stowage rates, seeking to improve energy efficiency in (kl/Mt-km) (t) 60 161,937 160,399 180,000 distribution. The unit energy consumption1 for marine 148,000 143,585 153,637 transport using coastal tankers decreased to 6.70 40 120,000 kiloliters per million tonne-kilometers (kl/Mt-km), down 37.81 36.93 36.26 35.43 35.62 0.07 kl/Mt-km year-on-year due to reduced transport 20 60,000 between refineries made possible by the restart of the Chiba Refinery. For truck-based ground transport, the 0 8.95 6.19 6.62 6.63 6.70 0 volume transported per vehicle was flat year-on-year at 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) 19.12 kiloliters, but unit energy consumption was 35.43 1. Unit energy consumption in transport (kiloliters/million tonne-kilometer) is calculated by kl/Mt-km, up 0.18 kl/Mt-km due to steps taken to improve energy consumption (kiloliters of crude oil equivalent) divided by cargo tonne-kilometers (weight in tonnes of material transported multiplied by the number of kilometers transport efficiency. transported). Eco Office Initiatives The Cosmo Oil Group engages in Eco Office initiatives in Eco Office and Green Purchasing Performance in Fiscal 2013 an effort to conserve energy and resources in offices. % PerformArea Unit Organization Goal Result Compared ance Focusing on four areas listed in the table at right, the to Goal 10 Cosmo Oil 1,132 1,009 −10.9% Group tracks performance at each site, with each office  Copy paper thousand sheets Group companies 1,888 1,899 +0.6%  and affiliated company responsible for achieving targets Company Cosmo Oil 206 178 −13.5%  set for each fiscal year. car fuel consumption kl Group companies 783 705 −10.0%  Office Cosmo Oil 740 682 −7.8%  electricity MWh Performance Criteria: consumption Group companies 1,799 1,616 −10.2%  Copy paper, fuel consumption of company vehicles, office electricity consumption: Green Cosmo Oil 70.0 89.4   Achieved  Not achieved, but down year-on-year × Not achieved % purchasing Group companies 70.0 77.9  Green purchasing (percentage purchased):  70% or above × Below 70% 30 Priority Item 4 Promoting Environmental Initiatives Environmental Impact of Business Activities Environmental Impact in Fiscal 2013  SOx and NOx figures for “Crude Oil INPUT Business Activities OUTPUT Extraction,” “Crude Oil Transport,” and “Product Transport and Storage at Oil ● Energy ● Emissions into atmosphere Depots” are estimated based on LCI for Crude Oil CO2 1,210 kt Petroleum Products by Fuel and Fuel 21,704 TJ Environmental Impact Assessment for Extraction Petroleum Products, published in March SO x 16,683 t 2000 by the Japan Petroleum Energy NOx 2,677 t Center.  For “Manufacturing” and subsequent stages, energy consumption is calculated in accordance with the Act on the ● Energy Crude Oil ● Emissions into atmosphere Rational Use of Energy. Transport CO2 728 kt  CO2 emissions for “Manufacturing,” Fuel 10,649 TJ “Product Transport,” and “Sales (Service SO x 15,852 t Stations),” which is based on data from NOx 19,637 t Cosmo Oil Sales Corp., are calculated in accordance with a manual for GHG emissions accounting, reporting, and disclosure systems published by Japan’s ● Raw materials Manufacturing ● Emissions into atmosphere Ministry of the Environment and Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Crude oil 21,853 Ml CO2 4,451 kt  Figures given for “Manufacturing” include Private-use fuel 3,864 kt data from the Cosmo Oil refineries, Others 1,657 Ml Yokkaichi Kasumi Power Station, Cosmo Purchased power 229 kt ● Energy Matsuyama Oil, and Cosmo Oil Hydrogen production process 359 kt Lubricants. However, data from Cosmo Purchased power 4,133 TJ Oil Lubricants is not included in the SO x 4,208 t figures for water, wastewater, SOx, and (426,372 MWh) NOx. NOx 2,255 t  “Industrial waste” refers to waste Private-use fuel 59,733 TJ (1,541 Ml of crude oil equivalent) ● Wastewater generated during business activities, which includes waste that could be sold. Wastewater 356,836 kt  “Electricity sold” refers to electricity ● Water supplied externally by the Chiba Refinery, (incl. 344,848 kt of seawater) Yokkaichi Kasumi Power Station, and Industrial water 41,899 kt Chemical oxygen Cosmo Matsuyama Oil. CO2 emissions Seawater 344,848 kt demand (COD) 113 t from “Manufacturing” were calculated by deducting the portion of CO2 emissions Nitrogen 60 t attributed to electricity sold. CO2 emissions from utility (power) were includPhosphorus 1t ed in the CO2 emissions from “Manufacturing.” ● Industrial waste/PRTR substances  “Steam sold” refers to steam sold by the Generated 65,430 t Chiba Refinery and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil. CO2 emissions for “Manufacturing” Recycled 23,304 t were calculated after deducting the Final disposal 229 t portion of CO2 emissions that results from the generated steam sold. PRTR Law designated chemical substances  CO2 emissions from product transport Released 140 t include data from the specified consigners in accordance with the Act on Transferred 42 t the Rational Use of Energy.  CO2 emissions for “Consumption (Product Use)” are calculated by multiplying shipped volume of fuel products (such as Production Sulfur recovered Electricity sold Steam sold CO2 sold gasoline and heavy fuel oil) by CO2 Products emission coefficient. CO2 emissions 22,779 Ml 214 kt (by-product) 1,319,966 MWh 973 TJ 90 kt attributable to generated electricity and steam sold are calculated separately.  SOx emissions for “Consumption ● Energy Product ● Emissions into atmosphere (Product Use)” are included for reference, and were estimated from the sulfur Fuel (transport) 2,332 TJ Transport and CO2 (transport) 161 kt content of products without accounting Fuel (storage) 27 TJ Storage at Oil CO2 (storage; fuel) 2 kt for sulfur reduction during use. Accordingly, actual SOx emissions are Purchased Depots CO2 (storage; purchased power) lower than the estimate.  Data for “R&D Centers” includes the R&D power (storage) 14 TJ 1 kt Center of Cosmo Oil and the R&D SOx 1,435 t Laboratory of Cosmo Oil Lubricants.  Figures given for “Offices” include data NOx 2,779 t from the Cosmo Oil Head Office and branch offices. Fuel/Purchased power Sales CO2 27 kt  The Cosmo Oil Group’s total direct (Service (Scope 1) emissions from business 490 TJ activities were 3,896 kt CO2 equivalent, Stations) and its indirect (Scope 2) emissions were 314 kt CO2 equivalent. Consumption CO2 49,158 kt (Product Use) (Excludes CO2 emissions of 891 kt attributable to generated electricity sold and CO2 emissions of 49 kt Detailed information attributable to generated steam sold) SO x 94,751 t Environmental accounting http://www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/csr/ environment/ev_accounting.html Fuel 46 TJ R&D CO2 6 kt Purchased power 57 TJ Centers Fuel 3 kt Purchased power 3 kt Purchased power 26 TJ Offices CO2 1 kt 31 Priority Item 5 Implementing Better Internal and External Communication Environmental Activities Promoted with Society Cosmo Earth Conscious Act Cleanup Campaign Since 2001, the Cosmo Oil Group has been promoting Cosmo Earth Conscious Act initiatives for the preservation and conservation of the global environment. The effort includes cleanup campaigns, where participants enjoy nature while cleaning up mountains, rivers, and beaches throughout Japan. At 514 locations over the past 13 years, these campaigns have involved 201,883 participants who collected a total of 5,353,617 liters of garbage. Activity information As a part of the initiative, a clean campaign is also held at Cosmo Earth Conscious Act official website Mt. Fuji each summer. In fiscal 2013, the event drew 187 http://www.tfm.co.jp/earth/ participants who collected 20,475 liters of garbage while enjoying Mt. Fuji trekking. Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund The Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund has developed “Living with Achievement of a Our Planet” projects to protect the irreplaceable global sustainable society environment for future generations. Thanks to donations Restoration and preservation of the environment in Japan and overseas Education of the next generation from approximately 73,000 cardholders, it marked the Global environmental issues 12th year of the projects in fiscal 2014. These valuable Initiatives in response to global warming Preservation of biodiversity donations are used to find solutions to environmental issues and fund environmental preservation activities Fiscal 2013 Projects under the themes of environmental restoration and presTropical Rainforest Conservation Noguchi Ken Environmental School 1 8 ervation, and educating the next generation. Project (Papua New Guinea) (Japan) In fiscal 2013, 14 projects were carried out. For more 2 Tropical Rainforest Conservation 9 Seed Planting School Project (Solomon Islands) (Hokkaido) information, see the Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund Activity Silk Road Afforestation Project Acorn Forests—Satoyama 3 10 Report 2014. (China) Regeneration (Nagano) South Pacific Countries Support Biotope Floating Islands—Waterfront 4 11 Project (Kiribati) Ecosystem Restoration (Saitama, other) South Pacific Countries Support Study on the Preservation of Endangered 5 12 Species in South Pacific Countries Project (Tuval) (Japan/South Pacific countries) Related information: Cosmo Oil Eco Card Fund Activities Qin Ling Mountains Forest and Living with Flying Squirrels— http://www.cosmo-oil.co.jp/company/publish/ecoreport/index.html 6 Ecosystem Recovery Project (China) 13 Satoyama Regeneration (Yamanashi) Satoyama Preservation School Great East Japan Earthquake 7 14 Recovery Support (Miyagi) (Nagano) Cosmo Forest Activities for Satoyama Preservation The Cosmo Forest Initiative is a program that works with local governments to preserve satoyama (managed woodlands near populated areas) close to Cosmo Oil Group sites across Japan. The aim is to maintain these forests for future generations. The Sakai Refinery and Cosmo Matsuyama Oil Co., Ltd. hold Cosmo Forest conservation activities twice a year, with the participation of employees and their families. The Chiba Refinery holds events at a nearby Cosmo Forest for local children throughout the year. 32 Priority Item 5 Implementing Better Internal and External Communication Various Social Contribution Activities United Nations Global Compact The Cosmo Oil Group has pledged its commitment to the Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationHuman Rights ally proclaimed human rights; and United Nations Global Compact since 2006, supporting Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ten principles (listed at right) in the areas of human rights, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; labor standards, the environment and antiLabour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and corruption. The Group’s embrace of the Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Global Compact shows that it is committed Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to to CSR from an international perspective and environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Environment that it is striving to improve its initiatives for and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly social responsibility. technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-Corruption extortion and bribery. International Technology Exchanges The Cosmo Oil International Cooperation Center maintains International Technical Cooperation and Training Projects and develops positive relations with oil-producing nations in Fiscal 2013 through technical cooperation and training projects. These Trainings with Trainees Accepted efforts have earned high praise from the countries with Country Description of Training No. of Sessions which the Center conducts exchanges. The Center also UAE Refining technology 1 utilizes subsidies offered by the Japan Cooperation Training for senior Center, Petroleum (JCCP) and other organizations to Qatar management 4 conduct projects. Environmental In the area of technical cooperation, the Group Vietnam management 1 participated in a fiscal 2013 study of environmental Total 6 improvements of equipment and operations in a refinery in Oman, under a JCCP-led project to develop oil industry Trainings with Experts Dispatched infrastructure in oil-producing nations. For training Country Description of Training No. of Sessions projects, the Group accepted trainees for six sessions and sent instructors for one session, working with six Oman Facility maintenance and 1 safe operations organizations in four countries including the UAE, Qatar, Total 1 Oman, and Vietnam. The Group also conducted five training seminars led directly by JCCP. Main Social Initiatives Cosmo Oil pursues social initiatives under a management Social Initiatives in Fiscal 2013 vision to achieve harmony and symbiosis between Program Description Dates companies and society. These initiatives focus on Nature camp for elementaryeducating children for the future development of 21st Cosmo Waku school-aged children who have been Aug. 8–10, 2013 Waku Camp orphaned as a result of traffic society, conservation of the global environment, accidents and cultural development. Let’s play musical Concert program in which residents Since 1993, the annual Cosmo Waku Waku Camp instruments! living near Cosmo Oil Group sites can Jan. 25, 2014 Cosmo Family (Yokkaichi) has been organized for elementary-school-aged children Concert participate who have been Project to send Christmas cards with Christmas Card orphaned due to car Project 2013 words of encouragement to children in Nov.–Dec. 2013 long-term hospital care accidents, giving them Charity concert to benefit the Family the opportunity to Jazz Night at House, a housing option for families of Sept. 6, 2013 Gyoranji Temple experience and children in long-term hospital care consider the Cosmo EkaKids Hands-on craft workshop conducted Nov. 30, 2013 by Group employees at an orphanage importance of nature. A project to make “happy dolls” with Cosmo Oil remains Happy Doll Project children in long-term hospital care Mar. 28, 2013 committed to these Sept. 2, 2013; Feb. Participants enjoying an outdoor meal at and many other the Cosmo Waku Waku Camp 25, 2014; conductBlood drive Employee blood-giving drive ed at Cosmo Oil social initiatives. Head Office and other sites 33 Independent Assurance Report Report on Independent Assurance Work This report begins with an overall business summary of quantitative data on the CO2 emissions that are being the Cosmo Oil Group, leading into special features on the saved by the wind power generation business and the Group’s business tie-ups for oil and gas development, supply of bio-gasoline. paraxylene business in South Korea, and wind power In terms of qualitative information, the report describes generation business, helping to give a balanced picture of how the Group is sending more employees from Japan to the Group’s diverse businesses. At the same time, there its international offices, aiming to become a vertically is a slight bias toward the petroleum refining and sales integrated global energy company. It is important to business in the performance data and initiatives that are similarly provide qualitative information on the training that described. More could be written about performance data employees receive before they are sent abroad. and initiatives for businesses other than petroleum refining and sales, to provide a more accurate overall picture of the Group. With regard to quantitative data, there is an increasing emphasis today on creating shared value through business that creates both corporate and social value at the same time. In that respect, the report could provide Shinichiro Akasaka KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. 34 The design and printing of the Cosmo Oil Group Corporate Report 2014 incorporates the following materials, processes and principles. Color Universal Design This report incorporates Color Universal Design principles to convey information to people who see color differently, in addition to people with normal color vision, and is certified by the non-profit Color Universal Design Organization (CUDO). Printed in Japan
