Our Contribution To Social, Environmental & Economic Sustainability 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Table of Contents Message from the CEO ..........................................................3 About GLOBAL CSR ................................................................4 Social Sustainability ...............................................................6 Environmental Sustainability ...............................................18 Economic Sustainability .......................................................21 2 M ESSAGE FROM THE CEO It is important to GLOBAL CSR that we continuously contribute, whilst avoiding becoming a barrier, to Our purpose is to promote sustainable development. sustainable social, environmental and economic As a given, we act in accordance with the principles development. We continue to support the UN Global we advise clients to apply. We believe that the Compact using the UN Guiding Principles on Business and internationally agreed upon principles for sustainable Human Rights (UNGPs) to provide for a consistent and development add needed quality to the field of CSR. transparent system for managing adverse CSR impacts. We The Principles-Based Approach to CSR enables us to acknowledge the importance of the UN Global Compact in address impacts in areas essential to sustainable streamlining international principles for sustainable social, environmental and economic development. development with business and of the UNGPs in establishing Furthermore it provides cost-efficient approaches to the minimum required practice in – or the minimum better manage such impacts. We intend to maintain standard for CSR. our leadership position in the field ensuring that fulfilling our purpose is also profitable for our To put the principles into practice, we rely on the business enthusiasm, creativity and inspiration of our employees and relationships with inspiring businesses to adopt profitable, It is my pleasure to present our fourth Corporate Social engaging and solid, sustainability strategies. We look Responsibility (CSR) report, providing samples of internal forward to continuing our work with CSR in 2014, and aim and external efforts during 2013. GLOBAL CSR was to improve our performance in areas of key importance to established as a consultancy in 1996. As one of the first the future of our planet. professional advisors on CSR worldwide we continue to optimise the social, environmental and economic impacts of our business. The report describes our top priorities for action and provides information on our performance in Sune Skadegaard Thorsen, CEO 2013. The report also includes our objectives for the future. 3 A BOUT GLOBAL CSR O UR W ORK GLOBAL CSR is a privately owned consultancy firm located GLOBAL CSR assists and advises corporations in developing in Copenhagen, Denmark. As a leading Corporate Social and implementing strategies in line with internationally Responsibility (CSR) consultancy firm, we specialise in recognised principles covering the triple bottom line. We creating sustainable solutions for private companies, public named this the Principles-Based Approach to CSR. authorities and organisations in a range of countries and With more than 18 years of practice in CSR and an industries. Since 1996, GLOBAL CSR has carried out extensive network of skilled partners, we are able to assignments in all parts of the world. provide the most qualified, up-to-date and experienced consultancy – anywhere in the world. GLOBAL CSR advisers are recognised as leading experts on the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Our goal is to continue to develop innovative and costHuman Rights (UNGPs) and the International Bill of Human effective tools and processes to address sustainability, Rights as the basis of CSR activities in relation to social enabling our customers to fully benefit from their sustainability. CEO, Sune Skadegaard Thorsen is an active investments in CSR. In addition to differentiation and costmember of several international professional bodies efficiency, we can assist in creating appropriate space and developing the field of CSR. attention to our customers’ activities. Integrity is pivotal to the way we do business. We offer GLOBAL CSR has experience working with the full cycle of advice that leads to long term sustainable solutions for our CSR implementation from pre-assessment, impact customers and society. Furthermore we only support CSR assessments (identification), risk & opportunity analyses, activities, which genuinely contribute to sustainable vision statements, strategies, policies (policy commitment), development. capacity development, project design, action planning, implementation (prevention & mitigation), responsible sourcing, responsible investments, responsible distribution and accounting (tracking performance and communicating). 4 In addition, our team has vast experience in evaluating both GLOBAL CSR will run a profitable business by: corporate and public programmes.  Performing work for sustainable development based on Our comprehensive understanding of business realities in the Triple Bottom Line: social, environmental and most sectors and for all sizes of businesses allows us to fully economic sustainability. address the needs and wishes of our clients.  Inspiring and assisting corporations, governments and organisations in developing and implementing CSR and O UR V ISION thereby creating shared value qualified by international principles. We envision a world of social, environmental and economic  Maintaining high professional integrity while delivering abundance and sustainability; in which all human beings innovative, cost-effective and simple solutions, which enjoy the full realisation of their human rights in create value for our customers. appreciation of their diversity. A world where businesses live by principles essential to co-creating a brighter future for our planet, humanity – and not least for economic development. O UR M ISSION GLOBAL CSR’s mission is to be a catalyst for positive social development. We enjoy the ability to function as a preferred partner in advising corporations, governments, multilateral organisations and non-governmental organisations on how to make core international principles for sustainable development operational and manageable. 5 S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY New Practices on Human Rights Impact Assessment With the UNGPs, new practices around Human Rights Impact With the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Assessments need to be developed. To our knowledge no pre-2011 practices or tools were aligned with the UNGPs. Rights (UNGPs) from June 2011 the world’s businesses got GLOBAL CSR has conducted extensive research in the area an authoritative globally recognized reference point for since 1996. The UNGPs require companies to assess impacts on all 48 human rights from the International Bill of Human respecting human rights, including the core labour rights. Rights (UNGPs 12). When conducting the Assessment on all 48 rights in all business units, we are expected to engage – The UNGPs describe what should be expected from any as a minimum with affected stakeholders (UNGPs 18). GLOBAL CSR reviewed the few publicly available business in the world in terms of managing adverse impacts assessments. It appears that companies seek to meet the new requirements by applying pre-2011 approaches. As an on human rights, i.e. the rights that are also referenced in example, some assessments seek to predetermine the scope the first 6 principles of the UN Global Compact. to a few human rights only (typically including impacts on 812 human rights). Some assessments combined limiting the scope of rights with a preconceived notion of typical human This Communication on Progress (COP) demonstrates how rights impacts from a certain ‘business function’, in addition to assessing impacts from a limited number of business GLOBAL CSR implements the UNGPs, thus ensuring respect functions only. Finally, some assessments focus attention to for human rights in the organisation. We hope to inspire pre-defined issues involving human rights aspects, such as migration, land issues, etc., rather than adopting a rights other businesses, which are about to do the same. based approach. Also GLOBAL CSR is concerned that very large corporations In addition we will outline where we work beyond appear to outsource the entire assessment to experts like us. compliance, contributing to fulfilling specific human rights Considering that assessments have to take place in all operational units and with regular intervals such practice will principles. not be sustainable; focus could be oriented towards local capacity development to conduct assessments. Companies need to develop capacity locally empowering local management to take responsibility and ownership of the process. 6 CSR C OMPLIANCE became the first customer of this essential product, purchasing 100 copies for distribution to its customers that over the coming years will use the book to understand and The basic human rights principles are essential for the appreciate the meaning of the 48 human rights that all dignity, well-being and development of all people. Dignity, businesses are expected to assess impacts upon. well-being and development of people are essential for conducting and expanding business. Thus ensuring respect GLOBAL CSR also implements the UNGPs. We have for human rights is good for business. “Respecting human embedded a commitment to respect all human rights rights” for business is now defined by having in place a throughout our organization, and we continuously work with management system that, as a minimum, meets the our customers and other relationships to enable them to do standards outlined by the UNGPs. In short the UNGPs the same. We did not cause or contribute to any severe enable all businesses to know their potential and actual adverse impacts in 2013. We are, however, advising some adverse impacts and to show what they are doing to of the largest companies in the world. Thus, we are directly address such impacts. linked to considerable potential and actual adverse impacts on human rights. We are using our leverage as advisors to All companies regardless of where they operate will have establish solid systems implementing the UNGPs, and both potential and actual adverse human rights impacts. whenever we identify severe human rights impacts through Additionally, all companies have experiences managing such our work or such impacts are otherwise brought to our impacts; e.g. in our efforts to create safe and healthy knowledge, we provide confidential advice addressing such working conditions. We are now expected to identify impacts. Our legal privilege enables us to keep such potential and actual impacts, and what we do to manage information confidential and our legal ethical commitments such impacts, in relation to all human rights; not just the require us not to report about concrete impacts. right to safe and healthy working conditions. In addition we have identified a range of less severe, yet important, potential and actual adverse human rights In 2013 GLOBAL CSR wrote and published “Human Rights impacts and are taking action to prevent and mitigate such Explained – for business”. The Danish Export Credit Agency 7 adverse impacts; where we do not fully prevent adverse are causing or contributing to such impacts act in impacts from occurring, realising we ensure access to accordance with the UNGPs. remedy for the persons impacted. Our commitment to human rights is evident throughout the organisation. However, in 2013, following our identification This COP serves to communicate highlights about this process, we developed a formal Human Rights Commitment ongoing work. that is to be approved by our board in 2014. We are specialized in business and human rights and all employees, from CEO to project assistants are passionate about creating shared value and spreading knowledge of and respect for human rights. On a daily basis we communicate to our employees and assist business relations on how to respect human rights in alignment with the UNGPs. The new publication Human Rights Explained for business provides an accessible way to understand the 48 human Policy Commitment rights from the International Bill of Human Rights in a business context. The publication aided the less experienced In all our activities we seek to identify potential and actual employees in acknowledging their rights and how they may adverse impacts on all 48 human rights included in the be impacted. Furthermore we made our commitment clearer International Bill of Human Rights. In addition we throughout our organisation in 2013, by using tools created continuously seek to influence our relationships, primarily for clients. We will continue this work in 2014. our clients, to respect human rights as well. Whenever actual adverse impacts are identified in our value chains, Our strategic CSR focus is contributing to the realization of where we did not cause or contribute to such impacts, we ‘right to education’. Innovation and cutting edge knowledge intend to use our leverage to make the party or parties that characterises our business and the competences of our 8 staff; thus our best and most logical choice when Further elaboration on the implementation of processes contributing to fulfilling the objective of social sustainability to prevent/mitigate adverse impacts on health, is by focussing our proactive engagement on the ‘right to in particular stress and other mental health issues education’ – primarily in cost-effective capacity A priority area is employee wellbeing, yet the employee development of stakeholders; from students and peers to handbook/contracts do not adequately advise employees how to raise concerns about this; e.g. ensuring that psychological executives. well-being can be raised and acknowledged as an adverse impact on the right to safe and healthy working conditions, while ensuring that we best possibly avoid adverse impacts on In accordance with our 2012 targets for GLOBAL CSR’s the right to privacy. We may consider identifying external resources that could assist employees in dealing with such internal compliance activities, we have assessed our challenges. employee manual, standard project assistants’ contract, and In 2014 GLOBAL CSR will clarify how best to deal with such the standard contract for permanent employees against all potential adverse impacts in light of our financial capabilities. 48 human rights in 2013. In this process we identified conditions and requirements that could lead to adverse Due Diligence Process impacts if not properly administered. In order to create greater clarity for employees these terms will be clarified in The first step of the due diligence process is identification of order to prevent adverse impacts in the future. The analysis potential and actual adverse impacts. In 2013 we involved also revealed adequate procedures and needed measures all of our employees in the identification process; not least for enhancing the implementation of our responsibility to in terms of informing GLOBAL CSR where employees would respect. experience potential or actual adverse impacts on their rights arising from our actions or omissions. The Human Examples on findings from our assessment are presented in Rights Impact Assessment was based on the 48 distinct the next column. human rights referenced by the International Bill of Human Rights following some training of new employees on the understanding of the rights. The list below provides for an overview of adverse impacts identified by our employees. 9  2. Right to non-discrimination  8.b Right to adequate clothing Example of an identified potential adverse impact and  3. Right to work  9. Right to health  4.a Right to equal pay for equal  11.a Right to take part in measures for prevention and mitigation work cultural life  4.b Right to a living wage  11.b Right to benefit from We identified a potential adverse impact in relation to the right  4.c Right to safe and healthy scientific progress to safe and healthy working conditions. Using the KnowShowTM working conditions  11.c Right to material gains tool a respondent reported that “being a consultancy  4.d Right to equal opportunities from inventions automatically poses a risk of adverse impacts on health since the for everyone to be promoted  11.d Moral rights of authors environment can be stressful.” Handling stress is a known  4.e Right to rest, leisure, and  12. Right to life paid holidays  23. Right to privacy challenge in consultancy firms. The uncertainty of future  5. Right to form and join trade  24. Right to freedom of assignments, the need for optimal performance every day and unions and the right to strike thought, conscience and religion the need to stay on top of the subject, make the work as a  6. Right to social security,  25.a Right to freedom of consultant challenging. GLOBAL CSR is well aware of our sector including social insurance opinion challenges and in 2013 we improved our focus on causes of  7.a Right to protection of  25.b Right to freedom of stress, and general employee satisfaction. Our strategic focus on mothers before and after expression the right to education where we have scaled up our course childbirth  29. Right to protection of the  7.b Right to children's and family and the right to marry activities also helps create a more stable income thus minimising young people's protection from  31. Right to participate in public uncertainty for our employees. In 2014, this issue remains on exploitation affairs our agenda.  8.a Right to adequate food and its fair distribution Nevertheless the increased course activity also means that employees are regularly positioned as ‘leaders’ in a group. In the occurrence of an emergency being able to provide first aid is a necessity to minimise physical and psychological damage. In order to prevent and mitigate adverse impacts on the right to GLOBAL CSR conducted our Human Rights Impact health and the right to life, all employees – from CEO to project Assessment by engaging the employees while assistants took part in a two-day intensive course on the provision of first aid during work hours in 2013. accommodating the UNGPs criteria of meaningful participation of the potentially affected stakeholders in Further examples of measures for prevention and mitigation of adverse impacts on the right to safe and healthy working identifying adverse impacts. The Assessment also served to conditions include the purchase of siesta beds for the office, and further develop employees’ capacities on the UNGPs and the implementation of walking meetings as an alternative to sitting around a table. human rights. Where potential adverse impacts were identified employees were asked to present ideas for addressing such impacts effectively. 10 The exercise of collecting identifications was performed by impacts. In the following we will provide a few examples of using GLOBAL CSR’s own Human Rights Impact Assessment the potential adverse impacts that were identified. All App; KnowShow™. Being fully aligned with the UNGPs, employees were invited to see all identified impacts. KnowShow™ provides a tool to conduct Human Rights Through the examples we will elaborate on how we are TM Impact Assessments across the organisation. KnowShow preventing and mitigating the potential adverse impacts offers a platform to collect, organise and process reported before they emerge as actual grievances. data from the informants holding the tablets. The exercise was introduced at a regular staff meeting and employees Example of an identified potential adverse impact and measures for prevention and mitigation were given information on how to use the app along with 10 Being headquartered in Denmark represents a potential adverse days to respond during work-hours. All of GLOBAL CSR’s impact on the right to non-discrimination; it is a fair assumption info@global-csr.com employees were guided through the that the Danish society has little focus on raising awareness on discrimination and societal patterns that uphold stereotypes and identification of potential and actual adverse impacts on the prejudices. The identification pointed to potential adverse impacts full range of human rights. Through this exercise we on the right to non-discrimination – related to gender. identified 25 potential and actual adverse impacts. GLOBAL CSR is an equal opportunity workplace that values diversity. In order to prevent and mitigate this potential adverse Furthermore the exercise enabled us to recognise that we impact GLOBAL CSR trains employees, promotes diversity and could do better in guiding our employees on the difference seeks to best share the knowledge of our senior advisor in the field; the leading specialist in Denmark on structural discrimination. between actual and potential adverse impacts. In order to Gender balance among shortlisted candidates, is a criteria in our simultaneously increase the employees’ understanding of recruitment process. Furthermore we believe that dialogue regarding sensitive issues is essential in order to become aware of, the terminology of impact assessments while actively and be able to prevent, discrimination. We work actively to uphold working to prevent and mitigate adverse impacts, GLOBAL an open environment where employees feel comfortable discussing discrimination; and to ensure that our clients are aware of the CSR will focus on developing a thorough due diligence potential risks. process in 2014. An element of this process will be to In 2013 we increased our focus on gender balance in our board and conduct regular internal mini-seminars, each focusing on welcomed a new female board member. We will continue to provide opportunities for career coaching to our advisers in order to one of the identified adverse impacts, and engaging with enhance their possibilities for advancing their careers. employees in a dialogue on how to prevent and mitigate 11 Development of practises in regards to In 2014 we will strive to further develop grievance use of social media mechanisms and transparent information channels in order Another finding from the assessment concerned balancing to facilitate an ongoing interaction regarding businessthe right to privacy, freedom of opinion and freedom of expression with employees’ representing the GLOBAL related human rights impacts. A possible improvement CSR brand outside of the office and using personal social media (Facebook, LinkedIn etc.) for work purposes. This could be achieved by a formal representation of employees is also important for striking a work-life balance. The at the advisory board level. review made it clear that we need to establish a practice and guidance on what management can anticipate from employees in relation to their use of social media; during An example of a grievance mechanism office hours and spare time. For instance we need to deal with scenarios where employees may be asked to use Project Assistants at GLOBAL CSR have a contact person to their private social media profiles for commercial benefit confide in and help them develop during their internship. of the firm, or not to post certain information. Assistants are encouraged to contact their contact person This issue constitutes another priority area for GLOBAL whenever needed and in addition we formalise such possibilities CSR to develop a policy on. for grievance by arranging regular meetings with the assistants throughout their internship. In addition, all employees are encouraged to raise grievances or potential impacts with I can’t see the rest… management. Remediation In 2013 GLOBAL CSR experienced no legal or professional conduct actions. In relation to our employees the assessment has enabled us to focus discussions and to solicit for better solutions through our regular meetings among employees; it has helped to prioritise time and improved the confidence to express grievances or observations that management should consider in enabling a dynamic and constructive workplace. 12 (distribution) and in investments. By assisting our clients to B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE strategically focus contributions, while complying with the We recognise that knowledge is our primary resource. The globally agreed upon minimum for social sustainability, we success of our business depends on our knowledge and ensure that CSR efforts optimise shared value in the best competencies and our abilities to communicate this way possible. We are experts in identifying both CSR knowledge. It is important for GLOBAL CSR to continuously challenges and opportunities through direct application of improve our competencies on CSR and sustainable the universally agreed upon principles for sustainable development in theory as well as in practice. It is also development. important for us to share our knowledge; support the development of the CSR field to find better, more costIn an effort to contribute to sustainable development, we efficient and innovative ways to address global challenges in share our knowledge by advising organisations and relation to social sustainability. Two key principles of social initiatives that are key players in the continued sustainability, which we promote through our know-how and development of CSR. In 2013 these efforts included both products are: (i) The right to education and (ii) freedom of compensated and pro bono work for organisations such as information. the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Global Business ”Our primary contribution to social sustainability is Initiative on Human Rights, the Institute for Business & through the actions of the clients we advise” Human Rights, CSR Europe, AIM Progress, the Danish Industrialisation Fund for Developing Countries, the Danish As a consultancy firm we assist corporations that are both Government Centre for CSR, and a range of civil society experienced within the field of CSR as well as corporations organisations. that have only just begun working on their societal impacts in a structured manner. Our services also span across Our greatest contribution in regard to time consumption in borders, both when we provide services to international 2013 was lead authoring the guide for civil society on how corporations and when we advise clients to address CSR in best to use the UNGPs to address adverse impacts on all their relations; both in supply chains, downstream human rights in collaboration with any business linked to 13 the impacts. The guide “Constructive Campaigning” was In 2013 GLOBAL CSR gave presentations at numerous pre-launched at the II Annual Forum for Business and national as well as international seminars, workshop, Human Rights in Geneva. The guide was written for the trainings and debates on CSR with a special emphasis on International Commission of Jurists, Danish Section, and building capacity and awareness on the UNGPs. In addition Reprieve, with support from the Dreyer Foundation in GLOBAL CSR invested heavily in developing new tools for funding printing and illustrations. businesses: Capacity development on UNGPs and human rights  GLOBAL CSR has concentrated its resources on capacity development and training in the UNGPs and human rights; targeting government representatives, civil One of the greatest challenges ahead in globally scaling up society, academia, corporations, and CSR experts. the responsibility to respect human rights among During 2013 we informed and trained more than 400 businesses is awareness and capacity development. individuals in the UNGPs, including 100 client Because of our competencies and position in the field, we representatives that received in-depth training. recognise the important role GLOBAL CSR can play in addressing this global challenge.  GLOBAL CSR’s e-learning platform, learnCSR has received great feedback and through 2013 it The greatest global challenge in implementing the UNGPs consolidated itself as a popular tool for its ability to train “Limited capacity is a far greater obstacle to rapid progress in business and human rights than we tend to acknowledge; it’s many persons in an effective, flexible and cost-efficient much easier to blame someone. Limited capacity affects the manner. In 2013 we developed a new module on human ability of all stakeholder groups, including governments, rights in a business context, Human Rights Explained. businesses, NGOs and the UN system to play their necessary This new module allows users to develop an roles.” understanding of the 48 specific human rights from the th John Ruggie, December 4 , 2012, UN Forum, Geneva International Bill of Human Rights. Developed with business in mind, users are enabled to identify business 14 impacts on each human right through a mixture of businesses seeking to respect human rights and can be learning resources, business scenarios, and testing purchased from GLOBAL CSR. probes. The tool can be accessed at www.learncsr.com.  GLOBAL CSR has developed Self-Assessment Tools based on the UNGPs. One tool enables business to assess  In collaboration with the International Marine Purchasing processes needed to implement and ensure compliance Association, GLOBAL CSR has developed and launched with the UNGPs. The second is used for the concrete local the IMPA ACT; the world’s first UNGPs based initiative on operation to assess impacts in light of each human right. Responsible Supply Chain Management. These tools are designed for internal use in companies or in collaboration with corporate relationships. Furthermore  In 2013, GLOBAL CSR also revised the CSR Compass for the tools are used in our two basic UNGPs courses – ‘CSR the Danish Government – a simple tool for Danish SMEs Compliance Lab’ and ‘Human Rights Explained’. offering practical guidance on how to conduct responsible supply chain management; now in alignment with the  Additionally GLOBAL CSR spent 2013 developing the UNGPs. world’s first Human Rights Impact Assessment App. KnowShowTM provides for an empowering, solid and  At the second UN Forum on Business and Human Right in scalable identification process and software for tracking Geneva December 2013, GLOBAL CSR was proud to subsequent management of adverse impacts. launch our new booklet, Human Rights Explained – for business. The booklet provides employees and managers GLOBAL CSR regularly participates in public debate on with basic understanding of all 48 human rights business and human rights and the Principles-based contained in the International Bill of Human Rights. Approach to CSR. We regularly publish articles and Concrete scenarios on adverse impacts, the application participate in national and international working groups of the UNGPs and positive contributions demonstrate the related to the 10 UNGC principles, the UNGPs and CSR. We relevance of all rights in a business context. Human devote time to engage in debates as we believe this brings Rights Explained – for business is an important tool for added value to our clients and to society. 15 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and Thus continuing to promote social sustainability and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, Preamble. in particular the UNGPs is an ongoing objective for “…The State Parties to the present Covenant undertake to GLOBAL CSR and an area where we can make a difference. guarantee that the rights enunciated in the present Covenant will be exercised without discrimination of any kind as to race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, Turning adverse impacts into opportunities national or social origin, property, birth or other status…” We also recognise that all people are prone to reduce A known country risk in Denmark is the right to noncomplexity by establishing stereotypes and thus discrimination. Since GLOBAL CSR is based in Copenhagen occasionally will act with prejudice. A business that actively this country risk becomes a potential adverse impact for our supports diversity can improve employee satisfaction, company. Turning this obvious risk for potential adverse productivity, and retention. Also a diverse workforce is impacts into an opportunity by working for increased better equipped to understand the global marketplace which diversity is a focus area at GLOBAL CSR. We believe that we serve. diversity enables organisations to improve abilities to innovate. 70 percent of our knowledge is tacit, i.e. resting An example of how GLOBAL CSR seeks to address and with our employees. 70 percent of an individual’s knowledge promote the right to non-discrimination, identified as a lies with her network. In sum, the more diversity we potential adverse impact manage to establish, the more knowledge we can access,  We teach anti-discrimination (direct, in-direct and structural) and the better decisions we are able to make. at universities – all employees are asked to participate  Several employees participating pro bono in public debates As an example our internship programme develops about discrimination in order to create awareness about this particular country risk in the public students’ knowledge about applying the principles-based  We conduct research on structural discrimination approach to CSR in practice, while GLOBAL CSR benefits  We promote a workplace environment where it is encouraged from the fresh input and the extended network. to address stereotypes and prejudices immediately 16 T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH promote our operationally centred, cost-effective and manageable human rights impact assessments. S OCIAL S USTAINABILITY In order to avoid the potential adverse impact where In 2014 we will continue implementing the UNGPs in the employees fear that sharing their views via social media organisation. In our work we are involved in establishing could have consequences for their position even if avenues for access to remedy and grievance mechanisms to expressed outside office hours we will work on formulating apply our knowledge regarding such mechanisms internally a social media SOP in 2014. as well. Finally, we will continue to ensure the quality of our In 2013 we achieved full gender balance in our board that activities and tools through use of other external experts in reflects diversity on other parameters as well. In our work order to secure coherence with best practice working with beyond CSR compliance GLOBAL CSR will continue to international principles. address the global challenge of capacity development focused on the UNGPs and human rights both through our services, course activities and our e-learning modules. We will continue to develop and refine tools for companies, organisations and public authorities enabling them to implement the UNGPs and assisting them in respecting human rights. In particular we will focus our efforts to continue developing and communicating about our approach to responsible supply chain management and responsible investments in alignment with the UNGPs; in addition we will seek to 17 E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY Due diligence We continuously seek to reduce our environmental impacts Companies of every size and type have adverse impacts on by always using the most environmentally friendly means of the environment through their business operations and transportation. All executives and employees cycle, use activities. When preventing and mitigating our adverse public transportation, or carpool as the predominant means impacts on the environment we address the subject areas of transportation. When possible we have meetings through covered by UN Global Compact’s principles 7-9. video and teleconferences, to minimize our use of air travel. During 2013 we participated in several meetings through CSR C OMPLIANCE teleconferences with clients in Asia, Americas, Europe and Scandinavia. Using online technology to meet with clients “We aim to minimise our negative environmental brings both economic and environmental benefits and impacts and where possible enhance our positive contributes positively to our employees’ right to rest and environmental impacts” leisure (work-life balance). Policy GLOBAL CSR supports and strives to demonstrate environmental responsibility through our work, as well as internally in our business. We aim to minimise our environmental impacts and where possible enhance our positive environmental impacts. Our external contribution to environmental sustainability stems from assisting businesses in minimising their negative environmental impacts on the planet. 18 Our e-learning platform, learnCSR has allowed us to bulk of our CO2 emissions stems from international air decrease the environmental impact of our company and our travel. clients even further, since our consultants and course In 2013, GLOBAL CSR continued implementing the participants can avoid travelling to specific locations to environmental action plan developed in 2010, which participate in lessons, but can enjoy the latest learning promotes green purchasing options e.g. new energy technology and knowledge regarding social sustainability efficient office supplies and an improved waste and anti-corruption regardless of time or space. Several disposal/recycling system. As an example we use recycled thousand employees have already been trained through paper, reusable printer cartridges and strive to print only learnCSR constituting a significant CO2 abatement. when strictly necessary and using both sides of the paper Nonetheless, being a consultancy that serves clients around Remediation the world, we cannot eliminate air travel. Our physical presence is often needed as part of our work. Ensuring high In 2013, we witnessed an increase in our CO2 emissions quality service often requires that we perform onsite from air-travel. Due to great uptake on the UNGPs globally assessments of clients’ operations and branches. Change management and capacity development are essential the demand for face to face training is increasing. Being a components of our work and both require interpersonal consultancy that works with clients on human rights in more communication and presence. Examples of GLOBAL CSR’s than 80 countries makes it difficult to foresee air-travel engagements in 2013 that have required physical presence needs. GLOBAL CSR, however, successfully reduced of our experts includes the launch of IMPA ACT at the electricity spending from 2012 to 2013. The increase in the world’s first CSR in shipping conference. use of paper is directly caused by an increase in course activities. We endeavour to maintain and expand our position as frontrunners in the field of CSR. This requires that we GLOBAL CSR will collaborate with public authorities and participate in debates to develop the field; which often other partners, if we identify any major adverse impacts on involves presenting at international conferences. Thus, the the environment. No such events were identified in 2013. 19 Environmental Impact advised clients to perform environmental impact 2011 2012 2013 assessments, life cycle assessments, carbon and water CO2-emissions from air travel in tons 8,37 4,71 7,83 footprint assessments. Electricity in KWh 1156 4094 3788 Paper (sheets) 2500 2500 7500 In addition, we have participated in seminars and workshops, as well as facilitated and held several seminars *Our electricity numbers from last year were set lower in previous reports due to a miscalculation. Thus our KWh for 2011 is not, as and workshops on, for instance, the cradle to cradle formerly stated, 1156 but 2832. concept, as part of raising public awareness and meeting the growing need for education on CSR and the business B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE case for being environmentally responsible. GLOBAL CSR works to promote environmental protection and efficiency policies with our clients. In 2013, GLOBAL CSR assessed and advised Danish and international clients T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH on principles 7-9 of the UNGC into their core business E NVIRONMENTAL S USTAINABILITY operations. These three principles serve to support precautionary approaches to environmental challenges, to It is our goal for 2014 to make a positive contribution to the undertake new initiatives on environmental responsibility development of environmentally responsible profiles and and to encourage the development and diffusion of practices for businesses as an integrated and strategic way environmentally friendly technologies. of doing business. In particular we continue to promote aligning environmental bottom-line management systems In 2013, we assisted our clients in meeting the growing with the process requirements set forth in the UNGPs. environmental challenges, requirements and expectations that they face today. In the long run, it is GLOBAL CSR’s goal to become CO2 neutral in our operations and increasingly generate a We work in cooperation with strategic partners that are positive impact on the environment beyond our indirect leading experts on environmental sustainability. We have contributions through the actions of our clients. 20 E CONOMIC S USTAINABILITY Due diligence Corporations seek to incorporate their contributions to GLOBAL CSR is a value based company and we are sustainable development into their core business strategies, proactive in encouraging positive norms and values while ensuring that no functions have adverse impacts. Besides amongst our employees and business relations. We are also focusing on making a profitable business, economic a financially transparent company and seek to foster an sustainability also means ensuring that we do not have open and transparent culture internally in the organisation. negative impacts on the economy in particular in relation to In addition to having an external accountant, we corruption and bribery. communicate about our budget internally amongst all employees. We consider these practices to be proportionate CSR C OMPLIANCE to our size and the risks that the company faces. “Our mission is to run a profitable business through We are aware that we run higher risks when operating promoting sustainable development” abroad in markets where bribery is commonplace, compared to Denmark. Thus we are diligent in Policy commitment communicating our values as the basis for doing business; and making sure to build business relationships based on GLOBAL CSR has a zero tolerance stance on bribery and trust and common understanding. corruption in the business and in relations with our clients and partners. In line with principal 10, we work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion, and facilitation payments. We are committed to complying with internationally recognised principles, such as the UN Convention referenced by the Global Compact principle 10, as well as local and extraterritorial anti-corruption and bribery laws. 21 B EYOND CSR C OMPLIANCE An example of an actual adverse impact on economic sustainability Whereas corporate economic responsibility initiatives need In 2012 we experienced an actual adverse impact when the CEO only address the international principles on anti-corruption, hired his daughter as project assistant, circumventing agreed we also advise our clients in relation to good corporate recruitment procedures and constituting an adverse impact on governance and the up-coming issue of sustainable tax the prohibition of nepotism, a feature under corruption. payments. As a family owned business and appreciating that the new project assistant possesses skills essential to our work, the Through our work we contribute to the elimination of decision was discussed with, and accepted by, all employees. In corruption, as we advise clients on corporate economic addition the new project assistant was informed that her responsibilities and opportunities. In cooperation with our relationship to the owners would not change her opportunities or strategic partners we help our clients implement the 10th the expectations to her work deliveries. principle of the UNGC strategically into their businesses. The employment was completed 2013. As consultants we were still confronted with the realities of the economic downturn that made most corporations very hesitant to spend resources on external consultants. We do, Remediation however, experience that businesses, governments and The risks of being involved with corruption and bribery vary organisations increasingly realise the importance of, and from one business culture to the next. GLOBAL CSR has opportunities in, addressing CSR diligently. developed two e-learning modules on anti-corruption, Especially with the unanimous endorsement of the UN ‘Anti-corruption for employees’ and ‘Anti-corruption Guiding Principles, we witnessed great interest in our for managers’; as a tool to build capacity with businesses competences from businesses, governments, organisations and employees in achieving a corruption free business and sectors initiatives. The increase of CSR initiatives in the environment. private and the public sector appear to be on the increase in 22 2014 leading to greater financial results for our business as T HE F UTURE C HAL LENGES AND W ORK WITH well as for social, environmental and economic E CONOMIC S USTAI NABILITY sustainability. The impacts of GLOBAL CSR on sustainable development are best measured through the actions and GLOBAL CSR intends to continue to participate in and results of our clients. contribute to both national and international debates on the In 2012 GLOBAL CSR formed an initiative providing for establishment of viable international principles for business learning and advisory services to Small and Medium sized to apply when planning and executing tax payments for Enterprises (SMEs). The initiative provides participants with international operations. the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of CSR, while creating Also GLOBAL CSR continues to develop practical solutions a forum to share experiences and promote efforts. The for applying the UN Guiding Principles (UNGPs) in Socially initiative supports the Danish Government's goal (from the Responsible Investments (SRI). The UNGPs provide a action plan 2012) to promote CSR among SMEs. In addition standardised reference point, thus reducing costs for it corresponds with the guide for SMEs that we finished for investors while contributing to scaling up the responsibility the EU Commission in 2012 and in general the to respect human rights. Commission’s priorities. We have received feedback that the guide throughout 2013 has contributed considerably to making CSR initiatives practicable also among SMEs. ‘Our contribution’ is published in English only and will be permanently available for download online on www.global-csr.com and on unglobalcompact.org. For feedback or further information, please contact us at info@global-csr.com or +45 44 99 55 06. 23
