The difference is quality DURDANS HOSPITAL ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 The difference is quality At Durdans Hospital we are proud of what we do. Yet we know our industry is a rapidly evolving one, involving constant advances in technology, processes, governance and regulation. That’s why we make sure that we keep pace with global trends in healthcare services, moving towards international accreditation and strategising towards .continuous improvement within the hospital, at every level of operation We believe that at Durdans Hospital, the difference we offer is quality; the quality of our services, our technology, our clinical expertise and the care we bring to each patient we serve. This report profiles in detail the activities we have undertaken to keep serving our patients better; from promoting specific improvements in patient safety to .focusing on specific areas of concern and developing best practice solutions to resolve such issues .That’s why, at Durdans Hospital, the difference is quality Durdans Hospital The difference is quality ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 1 2 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Contents Vision, Mission & Core Values 3 Independent Auditors Report 63 Financial Highlights 4 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 64 Business Portfolio 7 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 65 A journey of excellence 24 Statement of Changes In Equity 66 Chairman’s Review 26 Statement of Cash Flows 67 Board of Directors 29 Notes to the Financial Statements 68 Senior Management Team 31 Value Added Statement 106 Operational Review 32 Ten Year Summary 107 Financial Review 36 Durdans’ Island-wide Reach 108 Sustainability Reporting 38 Share Information 109 Enterprise Governance 46 Notice of Meeting 112 Notes 113 Financial Information Form of Attendance 115 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Form of Proxy Voting Shareholders 117 Affairs of the Company 58 Form of Proxy Non-Voting Shareholders 119 Statement of Directors' Responsibility in Corporate Information Inner Back Cover Relation to Financial Statements 61 Audit Committee Report 62 Durdans Hospital is an established and respected tertiary healthcare provider in Sri Lanka, focusing on patient care above all for Sri Lankan and overseas patients. It is a modern, multi-speciality private hospital with state-of-the-art medical facilities, conveniently located in the heart of Colombo. Since 1945, generations of Sri Lankans have been cared for by Durdans Hospital, a trusted and recognised name for patient healing. Today, it is synonymous with the medical expertise, trusted nursing care and modern facilities that has become our tradition: it’s all about caring. The new Sixth Lane Wing continues to embody tradition with a higher level of dedicated service, care and attention in a pleasant environment. We offer our patrons a further selection of rooms with improved service areas, specialised consultation rooms, new theatres and additional critical care. Our Sixth Lane Wing theatre complex comprises of five new specialised theatres equipped with cutting edge technology for general surgery, obstetric surgery, genitourinary surgery, orthopaedic surgery and laparoscopic surgery. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 3 Core Values Compassion Empathy for all the lives we touch and the desire to help, which is abundantly expressed to the patients, their families, staff and society Innovation Innovating as we move forward, questioning the Vision status quo, and offering solutions which provide the dynamism to what we do every day Durdans to be acknowledged regionally Excellence as the leading healthcare partner to the The outstanding mind set which requires us to community at large. constantly upgrade our offerings to deliver excellence in everything we do Mission Transparency and Integrity Our moral uprightness, ethical values and strong Our management team and professionally principles help us deliver high professional standards trained staff supported by cutting edge whilst ensuring transparency in all our commitments technology will deliver globally compatible Team Spirit patient care in an innovative, trusted and The power of a cohesive group of people working safe environment. We at Durdans are together to deliver best possible outcomes in a synergistic environment committed to a customer centric culture to create a positive impact upon all our Collective Awareness Being responsible to all our patients, families, staff and stakeholders. society to create awareness on health and wellness 4 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Financial Highlights Group 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Turnover (Rs. Mn) 2,451 3,054 3,547 3,830 3961 Profit Before Interest and Tax (Rs. Mn) 287 391 512 513 476 Profit after interest and tax (Rs. Mn) 110 158 286 300 258 Fixed Assets NBV (Rs. Mn) 2,331 4,000 4,310 4,239 4158 Net Assets (Rs. Mn) 1,962 2,441 2,917 3,050 3039 Earnings Per Share (EPS) Rs. 3.52 3.78 7.35 7.81 6.98 Dividends Per Share (DPS) Rs. 1.50 1.50 2.00 2.00 Annual Income Growth (%) 12.89 24.60 16.14 8.00 3.40 Interest Cover (Times) 2.35 2.59 2.73 2.64 2.38 Net Assets Per Share (Rs.) 57.90 60.27 71.70 75.46 79.91 Turnover (Rs. Mn) Profit Before Interest and Tax (Rs. Mn) 3,830 3,961 3,547 512 513 476 3,054 391 2,451 287 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Profit after interest and tax (Rs. Mn) Fixed Assets NBV (Rs. Mn) 286 300 4,310 4,239 258 4,000 4,158 158 2,331 110 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 5 Net Assets (Rs. Mn) Earnings Per Share (EPS) Rs. 7.81 7.35 3,050 3,039 6.98 2,917 2,441 1,962 3.52 3.78 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Dividends Per Share (DPS) Rs. Annual Income Growth (%) 24.60 2.0 2.0 6.98 1.5 1.5 16.14 12.89 8.00 3.40 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Interest Cover (Times) Net Assets Per Share (Rs.) 79.91 2.73 71.7 75.46 2.59 2.64 2.35 2.38 57.9 60.27 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 6 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 7 Business Portfolio We set trends, we trail blaze, we inovate and shape the way private health care is delivered in Sri Lanka, making it possible to provide the ultimate experience in clinical care for the people of Sri Lanka. A history spanning 69 years has made us constantly evolve and sharpen our offering to deliver the best the industry offers. Today Durdans Hospital stands for the best in private healthcare that can be benchmarked easily with international service providers. Our worldclass modern health care facility is backed by the dedication of over 2000 loyal team members including medical doctors, nursing officers, paramedics and support staff. Patrons have access to over 275 visiting consultants, covering all important disciplines. These specialists, together with our competent team for support, are able to offer the best in clinical care to all who seek our services. Therefore, for most the association with Durdans is not a random connection, but a continuous relationship that delivers a focus on health and well being. For us at Durdans, ‘It’s all about the quality of care.’ 8 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. Cardiac care “ The pioneering stance taken to establish a world-class cardiac care, under the trusted Durdans umbrella has delivered and established its value offering to all Sri Lankans” Heart disease is established as the major cause of morbidity and mortality in Sri Lanka. Our visionary leaders identified this trend many years ago and realised that the public healthcare infrastructure would not be able to cope with the growing need. The pioneering stance taken to establish a world-class cardiac care, under the trusted Durdans umbrella has delivered and established its value offering to all Sri Lankans. The renowned Durdans Cardiac Center has gained top of the mind awareness at any time of need. Due to the excellence in service standards, the center has been able to achieve a premier position in the list of consideration. The Cardiac Care portfolio, one of our ‘Core Competencies’ covers non invasive cardiac investigations, invasive and interventional cardiology and cardiac surgical procedures. In addition we also offer support for lifestyle changes post procedure and advice on the importance of healthy lifestyle to the family and well wishers, advocating a preventative platform. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 9 Our world-class facility is totally equipped to support any cardiac complication and our team is fully competent to handle any emergency or planned intervention A Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (CICU) with 14 beds, including facilities for paediatric cardiac surgical operations. A Heart Station equipped with ultra modern facilities, supported by renowned cardiologists and cardiac surgeons including dedicated consultation chambers. A Catheterisation Laboratory, which is equipped to handle angioplasty, stent placement, valvuloplasty and pacemaker implantation. A Digital Cath Lab to support intricate procedures. A state-of-the-art Cardiac Operating Theatre fitted with ultra modern ventilators, vein harvesting machine, heart-lung machines and intraaortic balloon pumps , with round the clock support, by a dedicated residential team. Heart Command Center The 15 bed facility is equipped with CCU monitoring systems as well as all modern technology available to handle any acute cardiac related issue. The team supporting the unit can be benchmarked with similar teams practicing in the most advanced cardiac centers in any developed Country. Our dedication to Cardiac care is relentless. We believe it is our responsibility to serve the people of the country with the best of knowledge available in the world. Therefore we are committed to continuously explore developments, innovations and learnings related to this specialty and ensure the transfer of such know-how as fast as possible. 10 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. Paediatric Care “Our strengths have evolved over generations and our capabilities have been enhanced by the advances in technology and development” Pediatric care falls into the ‘Core Competency Category.’Thus we operate a ‘Center of Excellence.’ Our strengths have evolved over generations and our capabilities have been enhanced by the advances in technology and development. The specialty binds families with the service provider resulting in long term relationships that nurture the well being of children. We have always ensured that the support systems available are the best the country offers. Our teams work extensively to upgrade our standards with evolving knowledge and technical discoveries. Today, the facility offers even a Special Care Baby Unit (SCBU), along with pediatric rooms containing centrally distributed gas lines as well as suckers. We are able to handle any pediatric need across age groups, effectively and efficiently. From a simple vaccination to a complex surgery, our team will handle it with the same dedication and commitment. The patrons will experience the same high standard of our quality care, whether they visit us as an outpatient for diagnostics or as an in-patient. Our quality care is molded by our strengths Our team includes Senior Paediatric Specialists and a support team consisting of specialist children’s nurses, dieticians, physiotherapists as well as specially trained diagnostics staff. Highly advanced infrastructure with dedicated beds and Treatment Room including monitoring facilities. A special Neonatal Intensive Care Unit with ventilators. A child friendly, dedicated outpatient area for speedy consultation. Capability to provide any advanced surgical procedure under the most sophisticated facilities. Pioneered Triple Photo Therapy. Introduced the first ambulatory incubator for neonatal transfers. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 11 Obstetrics and gynecology “The maternity wards consist of facilities supported by state-of-the-art technological input enabling the delivery of our services at a paramount level” Over 69 years ago when we established our business we dedicated our primary focus to the area of maternity care. Even today, after six decades our reputation in maternity care continues to grow and remains unblemished. We have had several generations whose every new addition to the family has seen the world with us and have been nurtured by the dedicated team at Durdans. Our team has been a part of their lives through the journey of life, from conception, to delivery, growing up, and succeeding in life. We ensure our service standards are up to date, and the capabilities match world-class standards. The maternity wards consist of facilities supported by state-of-the-art technological input enabling the delivery of our services at a paramount level. The dedicated labour rooms, maternity theater and the private labour rooms provide the discerning patron the privacy and the attention they require. The comfort, security and care offered throughout the interactions and the stay with us creates a lasting impression every time. We continue to grow as a centre of excellence in Gynecology and obstetrics, and our infrastructure consultation facilities as well as our service levels are constantly upgraded to maintain the high quality standards we are renowned for. 12 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. Ophthalmology “Ophthalmology at Durdans is a ‘Center of Excellence’ and is a service that is sought after by a majority of Sri Lankans. With the growing aging population, vision related complications have become common to most” Ophthalmology at Durdans is a ‘Center of Excellence’ and is a service that is sought after by a majority of Sri Lankans. With the growing aging population, vision related complications have become common to most. We conduct the highest volume of cataract operations in the private healthcare sector which bears testimony to the reputation we have earned. The specialist trained support team caters to the needs of the many who seek our expertise, and are guided by the renowned surgeon and his team of experts. With the trust placed in our team and the high level of precision in delivery, it is no surprise that we are industry leaders. Our success is strengthened by the capabilities we possess A spacious eye clinic with a customised architecture to improve the efficiency and sealing capacity by approximately 100 was unveiled to the public in the Sixth Lane Wing. A laser therapy unit to perform advanced ophthalmology procedures. A Carl Zeiss Operating Microscope and accessories. Ocular CT machine with advanced technology. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 13 General Surgery “The-state-of-the-art surgical complex with multiple theatres is managed by a team of exceptionally competent Surgeons, nursing staff and technicians” The need to enhance the General Surgical capabilities at Durdans was identified a few years ago. However at that point, the lack of space prevented it from becoming a reality. With the expansion of the business and the setting up of the Sixth Lane Wing, the need was fulfilled and the round the clock surgical support became functional. The facility not only handles planned surgical procedure but is able to successfully handle emergency procedures. The-state-of-the-art surgical complex with multiple theatres is managed by a team of exceptionally competent surgeons, nursing staff and technicians, who are committed to deliver the paramount service quality standards. Post surgical recuperation is facilitated at dedicated surgical wards with the ideal ambiance for faster recovery. The personnel dedicated to the units are the best in the industry and therefore are capable of exceeding all expectations. Our Surgical capabilities are supported by An expert Resident Consultant Surgeon, available on call for any emergencies. The state-of-the-art theater complex and the team of experts who deliver service excellence. Fully equipped laparoscopy theater with the advanced video system and high definition displays for accurate diagnosis and minimally intrusive interventions with least amount of discomfort. 14 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. Diagnostics “We are able to offer our services across the country, making it possible for anyone to seek the Durdans expertise closer to home. Durdans quality endorsement on clinical diagnostics is respected by clinicians in both the private and public sector” With the advancement of medical science, diagnostics play an important role in success. Precision and accuracy of diagnostics have become a critical factor sought by clinicians who depend on the results to proceed with treatment. Service providers have the responsibility to ensure that the quality of the service offered lives up to its promise and technology is constantly upgraded to meet world class requirements. At Durdans we have achieved a reputation for precise results, with speed and reliability. We are able to offer our services across the country, making it possible for anyone to seek the Durdans expertise closer to home. Durdans quality endorsement on clinical diagnostics is respected by clinicians in both the private and public sector. We make it our duty to be present in the most advantageous location in the country and to provide the best in class service in diagnostics for a wide portfolio of investigations. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 15 Our strengths in Diagnostics is supported by The renowned consultant pathologists and competent technical staff manning one of the largest laboratory networks in the country, delivering precision and accuracy always. The Path Lab with advanced clinical analysers, endorsed by two internationally recognised organisations in the USA, for quality assurance. The collection network that spans the country, supported by strategically placed fully fledged laboratories. The technically advanced Radiology Department, providing comprehensive interventional radiology through highly experienced, competent radiologists. State-of-the-art, contemporary ultrasound equipment and scans to support Endoscopy, Videoendoscopy, Colonoscopy, Sigmoidoscopy and Bronocoscopy. Diagnostic centers with ECG and Treadmill ECG services, in central locations. Consultation facilities in identified centers to support required needs. Continuous upgrades to equipment, technology and service standards to support emerging needs and knowledge. 16 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. ENT Surgery “A-state-of-the-art Carl Zesis ENT Microscope is utilised to perform highly intricate ENT surgical procedures” Today Durdans is renowned for its ENT Surgical capabilities supported by the most sophisticated equipment in the country, including an ultra modern opmi-sensera ENT microscope. It has the distinction of being the first hospital to successfully perform a cochlear implant by a Sri Lankan team. A-state-of-the-art Carl Zesis ENT Microscope is utilised to perform highly intricate ENT surgical procedures. We will pay attention to enhancing ‘Audiology’ as an integral component of our path of growth. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 17 Renal Care Unit “The modern Renal Care unit is geared to handle kidney transplants on a regular basis. The unit is also equipped with dialysis facilities provided to patients with ultimate care” Kidney related complications are becoming common and are a frequent occurrence. Whilst the debate continues on the reason, it is evident that today’s fast paced lifestyle is not contributing positively towards perfect health and wellbeing. Renal care is progressively being sought by many, to prevent quality of life being compromised. We make it our responsibility to ensure that the patrons are able to live their life to the fullest even after being diagnosed with the dreaded disease. The modern Renal Care unit is geared to handle kidney transplants on a regular basis. The unit is also equipped with dialysis facilities provided to patients with ultimate care. Our competent team of professionals are dedicated to ensure that a kidney patient continues to live a meaningful life. 18 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. Emergency Care Unit “Our ECU is geared to handle medical or surgical emergencies around the clock, providing the best clinical care required” Emergency Care is an essential component of a fully fledged tertiary care facility. An entity such as ours has to place a high level of attention to ensure that the emergency care treatment facility and protocol lives up to the same high standards that we are known for. Our ECU is geared to handle medical or surgical emergencies around the clock, providing the best clinical care required. The facility is supported by the most advanced technology used in the best hospitals of the world including a mobile fleet of ambulances which are capable of supporting emergencies, and are constantly connected to base with monitoring systems. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 19 GENITO-URINARY CENTRE “We are the first private health care institution to introduce the modern stone laser machine for minimally invasive procedures relating to the removal of Kidney stones fast and pain-free” Durdans specialises in providing the most advanced treatment at its fullyfledged -world-class stone management unit for any complication in the genito-urinary discipline. We are the first private health care institution to introduce the modern stone laser machine for minimally invasive procedures relating to the removal of kidney stones fast and pain-free. Our strengths include the technical and clinical capabilities Availability of a Stone Laser machine as well as the high definition flexible and semi flexible Ureterescope and Cystoscope. Renowned GU surgeons supported by highly trained and qualified nurses and technical staff make up the zealous ‘Stone Management Team’ of Durdans. A dedicated GU Theatre with stateof -the -art equipment. 20 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. ORTHOPEDIC “The dedicated Orthopedic Surgical Theatre, with state-of-the-art, technology and infrastructure enables the handling of procedures from minor to major complexity” Orthopedic procedures have become a necessity with the rapidly aging population and the sedentary, high pressure lifestyle led by the majority of the corporate workers. Attention is sought for chronic as well as acute complications, by most and thus the renowned Orthopedic Center at Durdans today has become the ultimate solution. The dedicated Orthopedic Surgical Theatre, with state-of-the-art, technology and infrastructure enables the handling of procedures from minor to major complexity. These span from arthroscopy procedures to major orthopedic surgeries such as knee and hip replacements. Our team led by the most renowned Orthopedic Surgeon in the country, supported by a specially trained dedicated team of clinical staff, ensures the delivery of worldclass treatment, right here on our soil. The treatment includes rehabilitation post surgical procedures as well. Our strengths are based on our resources Orthopedic care at Durdans is headed by the most renowned and skilled senior orthopedic surgeon in Sri Lanka. A dedicated Orthopedic Theatre with the latest state-of-the-art technology and ample facility for consultation and follow up. Highly experienced, dedicated nursing and technical staff. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 21 Diabetes and Endocrinology Centre “Consultation and lifestyle management is conducted by a team consisting of a diabetalogist or physician which may include referrals to a Nephrologist, OPthalmologist, Vascular Surgeon, Cardiologist, Neurologist or a Nutritionist, as and when necessary” Managing the life of a patron who is doomed with the dreaded disease requires a professional approach. Today with 25% of the population categorised at risk, early and regular interventions have become a dire necessity. Our center specialises in early detection and remedy before irreversible damage is caused to vital organs. The complete process covers detailed diagnostics, understanding the individual’s needs based on the status and support to manage of the condition. Regular health check-ups are an integral part of the process. Optimum foot care is an important component in the management of the condition. The procedure includes total foot check up, complete foot tests, special foot wear with off loading facilities and foot treatment procedures under the supervision and guidance of a professional podiatrist. Consultation and lifestyle management is conducted by a team consisting of a diabetalogist or physician which may include referrals to a Nephrologist, Opthalmologist, Vascular Surgeon, Cardiologist, Neurologist or a Nutritionist , as and when necessary. Our center offers a holistic approach to managing and living with diabetes, which has become a common dilemma. 22 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Business Portfolio Contd. Dental Care “The specially designed unit equipped with modern investigative and treatment procedures, provides a friendly environment” The Oral Health of the Sri Lanka population seemed to be under severe stress. According to the latest statistics released by the Ministry of Health and Nutrition , the 20 million population account for 1.2 Million cavities. It is known that children and adults suffer from both tooth and gum problems. Thus, the need for professional dental care needs little justification. It is our belief that dental care should be a regular routine, and could result in a beneficial effect on the current condition of oral health. Our Dental Care unit managed by the expert residential Dental Surgeon delivers a holistic and convenient solution. The specially designed unit equipped with modern investigative and treatment procedures, provides a friendly environment. We have managed to enhance the experience of a patient to a level of excellence. The Dental surgery Unit at Durdans also offers the specialist services of Oro-Maxillofacial surgeons for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and irregularities involving the teeth, gums and other tissues of the mouth. In addition, injuries and defects, both functional and aesthetic of the oral and facial region are also treated with advanced technology, by the experts in our team. We believe in a patient centric model where the treatment portfolio includes the active engagement of the patient in the informed decision making process. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 23 Neurology “The Neurological center was created with the latest technologies available in the world and we are committed to monitor the rapid progress in this area of specialisation” The growing need for Neuro care was clearly established a couple of years ago and our decision to provide this much needed service was confirmed after a careful study. The Neurological center was created with the latest technologies available in the world and we are committed to monitor the rapid progress in this area of specialisation. At Durdans Hospital, the team is supported by several highly qualified consultant neurologists and neuro surgeons to treat neurological conditions. Our broad spectrum of neurological services, include a systematic approach to providing patient information, education, engagement and support through advanced surgical procedures and extensive caring support through the whole rehabilitation process. We use a connected multidisciplinary approach as a contemporary, world-class hospital and our specialists will closely work with the other medical experts who treat the patient, to provide a holistic treatment procedure. Post surgical rehabilitation also plays a critical part in the programme. We are geared to handle the process with well established physiotherapy programmes as required. 24 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality A journey of excellence A military hospital Durdans establishes commences a strategic alliance to serve British A Maternity ward with Escorts Heart military personnel and OPD opens Institute and stationed in the with the purpose Research Centre Heart Command colony of Ceylon of providing Introduces Sets up in New Delhi, a Centre and Heart where ‘Durdans‘ highest quality Radiology Services Endoscopy renowned institute Station become stands now. service. to the public Unit. in the cardiac field. operational. 1939 1968 1984 1995 1997 1999 1945 1982 1993 1996 1998 2000 A group of Sets up Pediatric Opens formal Pathological Commences fiveSets up cardiac enterprising medical Ward, Surgical Ward Incentive Care Laboratory and year remodeling surgical doctors, fired with and the Operating Unit. Blood Bank and modernisation operations and a vision to develop Theatre Complex. commences programme for the invasive and private healthcare operation. hospital. interventional in this country, take cardiac over the former procedures. military hospital and establishes Ceylon Hospitals Ltd. Durdans begins its corporate voyage. Durdans opens its doors to the Sri Lankan public with a special focus on maternity care. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 25 Embarks on advanced eye Commences surgery. the operation of Medical and Surgical Implements ERP Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. Durdans embarks system for the (Six Lane Wing) on a quality Formal Group and pioneers Commences enhancement Emergency Company listed cochlear Implant Phase II of the Successfully project leading Establishment Treatment Unit on the Colombo Surgery in the Expansion implemented webto an internal of the Neuro set up. Stock Exchange. country. Project. based ERP system. accreditation. Centre. 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 Completes Establishment Completes Phase Incorporated new Durdans Medical Commenced Two New mini the five –year of Neonatal Unit I of the Expansion subsidiary Durdans and Surgical the operation of satellite laboratories modernisation and Dialysis Unit. Project and Medical and Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. a Diabetes and were opened programme and Commencement establishment of Surgical Hospital was unveiled to endocrinology in Kalutara and modernisation of phase I of the the Audiology Unit. (Pvt) Ltd. (Six Lane the public and Centre and Dental Gamapaha of the theatre expansion project. Wing ) as a BOI became fully Centre and launched Districts and Three complex. approved entity operational. a new technology new collecting and commenced for Cardiac Fractional centres in Chillaw,. the constructions. Flow Reserve (FFR) Kahatagasdigiliya Measurement and Kebithigollewa. System which is used to evaluate the inner diameter of a blood vessel. A Medical Centre was launched in Negombo and a new Satellite Laboratory in Ratnapura. 26 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Chairman’s Review We, your trusted health care partner competently maintained our consistent approach towards business development, innovation and investment in the latest technology I present this Annual report to you in the dynamic back drop of the Healthcare in Sri Lanka Private health care sector. Whilst the expansion in the industry has Private health care has been a clearly visible area for the past few been significant, the challenges faced also escalated with every years. Significant levels of investment have been directed by all major passing day. We, your trusted health care partner competently contenders towards, expansion, upgradation and capacity building. maintained our consistent approach towards business development, innovation and investment in the latest technology. Our primary According to available data, the capacity in the private health care objective as always has been the need to serve our patrons with sector doubled during the last five years, resulting in the current state-of-the-art health care services. It has been an active year for excess capacity. In fact we have witnessed a decline in occupancy the team as they successfully managed multiple, equally important levels since August 2013. Therefore future strategies will have to projects successfully. adopt to an environment which no longer has supply restrictions. The importance of exceptional clinical capabilities, world class The most significant activity which received the most attention was technology, know-how and ultimate patient care will become even the drive towards international quality accreditation. We are proud to more important for the industry. announce that the initial quality audit was completed in November 2013 and the focused audit is scheduled for the middle of this year. It has been our belief that rapidly changing lifestyles are responsible Once accredited, the organisation’s commitment towards world for much of the health care needs that have evolved. Whilst we class clinical care will be formally endorsed. Our team has been are committed to gearing our services to support the needs of the driving this delivery with incredible connectivity and commitment. people with the best in industry solutions; we as an organisation I acknowledge the contribution of every single member of the advocate preventive care as an important factor. We strongly believe Durdans team for the perseverance displayed towards enhanced that we can become the catalyst in generating the required lifestyle patient care. changes for most and also encourage involvement in preventative care. Macro Economic Situation According to available statistics, the year 2013 saw a GDP growth of Our achievements during the year under review 7.3%, establishing Sri Lanka as one of the fastest growing economies As the management team of your organisation we take our in the world, at a time when the global economy faced one of its responsibilities very seriously. We are aware of the enormous trust most volatile years. External sector inflows from worker remittances you have placed in us, to constantly create equity for the strong and increased tourism supported this delivery. The trade deficit has Brand you have placed your trust in and simultaniously maximise the been narrowed and the currency has achieved some stability. Interest return on your investment. We are proud to say that our performance rates have gradually reduced and whilst this should theoretically has been consistent and dependable as always. benefit borrowings it negatively impacts personal investment. Inflation remained at single digits. During the year under review, your company achieved a turnover of Rs 2647 Mn, which is a 7% increase over the previous year. Turnover According to the Central Bank the forecast remains optimistic and of the Group reached Rs 3961 Mn, 3% over the last year. states “The Sri Lankan economy is poised for stronger performance with recovery observed in external sectors.” Sustained momentum Increases in total overhead costs were witnessed due to the was also experienced in the construction and manufacturing sector. investments that had to be made related to the quality drive With the monitory aggregates performing as expected inflation is undertaken by the team. This will result in significant improvement to also expected to remain low and stable. the way we operate. The total finance costs for the Group stood at ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 27 The underlying fundamental to our continued success was the strategic direction that is created for the business, at periodic intervals. The fourth such session was conducted during the year under review, with the guidance of the renowned strategic guru Professor Lester Massingham, enabling the creation of the “Road Map towards 2020” Rs. 186 Mn, compared to the Rs 182 Mn of last year. Net profit Durdans team have become more formidable recorded for the year was Rs. 185 Mn for the Company and Rs. 257 The strength of our medical services was enhanced with Dr R Wimal Mn for the Group. Jayantha joining the team as the Director Medical Services, the driving force for clinical excellence. Our most involving and challenging task during the year was to align our systems, processes and the mind sets of one people with the He has over 30 years of experience in the public sector and has requirements of the international quality standards. We have been been responsible for significant achievements during his career. pursuing aggressively. I am proud to state that we have completed His experience and knowledge as a Senior Medical Administrator, this satisfactorily with the initial audit and would now be gearing acquired through multiple responsibilities he handled both locally towards face the focus the region of the next audit which will be and internationally will help us at Durdans to forge ahead with conducted by the end of the quarter. greater vigor. Continued “Excellence in Cardiac Care” Durdans ready for the journey towards achieving the We take pride in driving the Cardiac discipline in Sri Lanka. It is our 2020 – Strategic Plan constant vision to ensure that the most advanced technology in the The underlying fundamental to our continued success was the area of cardiac care is made available to the people of Sri Lanka. strategic direction that was created for the business, at periodic intervals. The fourth such session was conducted during the year During the year under review we evaluated to install a new under review, with the guidance of the renowned strategic guru – catheterisation laboratory to keep abreast of the latest generation Professor Lester Massingham, enabling the creation of the “Road Map of technology. This will be installed and commissioned by second towards 2020.” quarter of 2014/15. With the new technology available at Durdans, cardiac procedures will be conducted in an even more advanced Our team will now take the responsibility to set the strategy into environment which provides greater levels of safety for the patient action. and a greater level of investigative capability for clinicians. This advanced technology will reduce radiation exposure by 50% making Special focus areas it very secure for the patient, clinicians, technicians and staff. We believe that our strength will be enhanced by constantly monitoring our costs and optimising our human resources. Therefore Durdans TeamWe have become stronger during the forthcoming year we plan on paying significant attention Our team have been the pillars of our success. During the drive for to these points. world class quality, our main asset has been consistently under focus. The skill and competency levels of every single member have been Parking has been a limiting factor for us for many years and whilst we further assessed and today the team is certified as being competent have been able to find several short term solutions to this burning to meet the expected stand and of delivery that will be endorsed by issue, so far it has not been possible to resolve the issue fully. Within international quality accreditation. the next 24 months we will work towards finder a solution to this problem. 28 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Chairman’s Review Contd. Our most involving and challenging task during the year was to make our systems, processes and the people compatible with the requirements of the international quality standards. I am proud to state that we have completed this satisfactorily with the initial audit and would now be gearing to face the focused audit which will be conducted by the end of the quarter Conclusion best in the industry worldwide. I commit to guide the best team in It is my duty to place on record my heartfelt gratitude to all the healthcare industry to face any challenges that will be fielded stakeholders who are an integral part of the success of our business. our way in the future as well, to generate greater return on your I am humbled by the dedication and the commitment of every investment. member of our team which has resulted in the delivery of world-class service standards. I convey my special appreciation to the Senior I conclude with this quote Management team for their uncompromising loyalty to this business and the focus and commitment to drive it to a higher level year after We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence then is not an act but a habit year. Last but not least, I am grateful and consider it an honour to be Aristotle supported by a Board of Directors from multiple disciplines, who help me in guiding this operation efficiently and effectively. Our promise is sacred to our valued stakeholders. Your organisation will continue to be the pivotal force in shaping private health care in Ajith E Tudawe this country. We will also ensure that our service delivery will excel Chairman & President the expectations of our patrons. Our quality of service will match the ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 29 Board of Directors During the year under review, your company achieved a turnover of Rs 2647 Mn, which is a 7% increase over the previous year. Turnover of the group reached Rs 3,961 Mn Ajith Erandan Tudawe College of General Practitioners of the UK in November 2008. He Chairman / President also serves as the Deputy Chairman of the South Asian Board of the Ajith Tudawe holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting from the RCGP-International S.A., and as the Patron of the South Asia Primary United Kingdom. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Care Research Network. Accountants in England and Wales, a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, a Fellow of the Association of Sathis Prithiviraj Tudawe Chartered Certified Accountants in the UK, Fellow of the CPA Australia Board Member / Senior Vice PresidentAdministration and Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing in the UK. He is Chairman Technical and Maintenance Subcommittee also a past president of the ACCA Sri Lanka. Ajith Tudawe is a Group Sathis Tudawe in his capacity as the Senior Vice President – Director of Tudawe Brothers Ltd., including all the Subsidiaries and Administration supervises the technical and maintenance aspects of Associate Companies. the business. He chairs the Technical and Maintenance committees. Upul Dulip Tudawe In addition he also advises and guides the security and transport Executive Vice-President/ Director related operations. He is a Group Director of Tudawe Brothers (Pvt) Upul Tudawe holds a BSc in Microbiology from Texas Tech University Ltd., its Subsidiaries and Associate Companies and has over 38 years as well as a BSc in Medical Technology from the University of Texas experience in the construction industry. Health Science Centre Houston, Texas, USA. He is a Member of the American Society of Clinical Pathology (ASCP) and also of the Y Nimal Ranjith Piyasena Australian Institute of Medical Scientists (AIMS). Upul Tudawe acts as a Board Member Group Director of Tudawe Brothers Ltd., including all the Subsidiaries Nimal Piyasena is the Managing Partner of Y R Piyasena & Company. and Associate Companies. He is also the Vice-Chairman of Hotels Star Dust in Pottuvil. Dr A D Preethiraj A Wijegoonewardene Asoka S Abeyewardene Board Memebr / Senior Vice-President Medical Board Member Preethi Wijegoonewardene has MBBS from India, with a Postgraduate A S Abeyewardene is a Fellow of The Institute of Chartered Diploma in Family Medicine from the Postgraduate Institute Accountants of Sri Lanka, Fellow of the Certified Management of Medicine (PGIM) – Colombo. He is a fellow of the College of Accountants of Sri Lanka and a Fellow of the Institute of Directors General Practitioners of Sri Lanka. He functioned as the President UK He is a former partner of KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton & Co., of the College of General Practitioners of Sri Lanka (2004 – 2007), Chartered Accountants. He is an Independent Director of Ceylon Past President of Sri Lanka Medical Association (SLMA) 2002. He Hospitals PLC and is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and was elected as the Regional President of WONCA – MESAR (World Remuneration Committee. He is also an Independent Director of Organization for Family Doctors – ME/SA region) in July 2007. He was Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. He serves as an re-elected as the Regional President of WONCASouth Asia from May Independent Director of J L Morrison Son & Jones (Ceylon) PLC and is 2010 to 2013. He was awarded the Honorary Fellowship of the Royal the Chairman of the Audit Committee of that Company. 30 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Board of Directors Contd. Dr Narendra Y Wijemanne Board Member Narendra Yayathi Wijemanne, having earned an MBBS (Ceylon), Fellowships at Royal College of Edinburgh and Royal College of England, joined the Board of Directors of Ceylon Hospitals PLC in year 2009. He has been serving in the public sector for over a period of 40 years. He brings to the board a vast amount of experience both locally and internationally. Prior to joining Durdans, he was the most senior Plastic Surgeon at the National Hospital of Sri Lanka. Dr Wijemanne was one of the first to volunteer as a surgeon to the Sri Lanka Army. He served in all the conflict areas supporting the forces during the major battles in the North and East at the time. He helped to set up several surgical facilities in these areas and has received several commendations from the Army commanders and field commanders. He was awarded the Vadamarachchi medal for services rendered. He was a volunteer Surgeon to the Military Hospital in Colombo until 2006. Su-ayid Ismail Su-ayid Ismail is a Fellow Member of the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Fellow of the Chartered Management Accountants of UK and Member of the Institute of Internal Auditors. He is a Former Partner of Ernst & Young Chartered Accountants and has been the Director of Risk Management for the Heraymila Investments Group, Dubai. He is currently the Founder/CEO of BAS Consultants Private Limited and has more than 30+ years’ experience in the areas of financial management, risk management, auditing, consulting and business advisory services. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 31 Senior Management Team Dr R Wimal Jayantha and is a Member of the Institute. He is responsible for the Durdans Director Medical Services laboratory services network located island wide. Dr Wimal Jayantha joined Durdans Hospital in 2013 as the Director Medical Services. Having earned MBBS from Faculty of Medicine Aminda Tudawe Colombo, he obtained a Masters Degree in Community Medicine Manager Supply Chain from the Post Graduate Institute of Medicine, Colombo. He has Aminda Tudawe joined Durdans Hospital in February 2011 as a undergone special training in health management at University of Management Executive after completing a BSc (Hons) degree Boston in USA and University of Birmingham in United Kingdom. He in Business Management from the University of Wales, UK. He is is a Fellow of the College of Medical Administrators of Sri Lanka. He presently serving as the Manager Supply Chain with the mandate to functioned as the President of the College of Medical Administrators enhance the equity of the corporate brand whilst being responsible from 2004-2005. Dr Wimal Jayantha has represented Sri Lanka for creating a world-class customer service experience throughout in several international forums related to health Management in the organisation. He is directly in charge of all the critical business countries such as India, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Japan, China and functions covering the supply chain and has been responsible for represented Sri Lanka at the World Health Assembly of the World driving efficiency and effectiveness whilst maintaining integrity and Health Organisation for six consecutive years. He had been serving ethical practices. the public sector for more than 30 years and held senior positions such as Deputy Director General of Health Services, Director of the Dr Jithendri Perera National Children’s Hospital, Director of the Castle Street Maternity Manager Medical Services Hospital, Director of the Kalutara General Hospital. He functioned Dr Jithendri Perera took over the responsibility as the Deputy as the National Coordinator of the Special Project on Health Manager-Medical Services in November 2012. Infrastructure Development to rehabilitate healthcare institutes affected during the Tsunami. She is an MBBS Graduate from Rajiv Ghandhi University in Bangalore, India. Post qualifying, experience was gained at two hospitals in India Jayantha Pathiratne and subsequently in Sri Lanka as an Intern at the Negombo Base Manager Human Resources Hospital. Jayantha Pathiratne joined Durdans Hospital in 2004 as the Human Resources Manager. He is a Fellow Member of the Institute of She joined Durdans in November 2006 and has acquired knowledge Personnel Management, Sri Lanka and also was a Council Member on the operations across the group. She was absorbed into the of the Institute. He is functioning as a member of the Wages Board management team in 2012. Currently in her capacity as the Managerfor the Nursing Homes Trade since 2006. He is an alumni of INSEAD Medical Services her responsibilities support all the functions and the recipient of HR Leadership Award for 2010-11 at the Global under the Medical Services function. She acts as the management HR Excellence Awards held in Mumbai. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree champion supporting the current quality enhancement drive in Management Studies (HRM) with 2nd Class Upper from the Open pursued by the orgnaisation. University of Sri Lanka, M.Sc in Defence and Strategic Studies with 2nd Class Upper from the University of Madras and a MBA from Sirimal Senaratne the Indira Gandhi National Open University in India. He is presently Manager Finance reading for his PhD at University of Colombo. Sirimal joined Durdans Hospital as Manager-Finance in April 2013. He has over 15 years of experience in the field of Finance, Banking, Mahanil Perera Accounting and Auditing in both local and foreign companies. Manager Marketing and Business Development Mahanil Perera joined Durdans Hospital Group in mid 2011 as an Sirimal is an Associate Member of the Institute of Chartered Assistant Marketing Manager and was promoted to the Senior Accountants of Sri Lanka, holds a Master of Business Administration Management team. He has over 20 years of hands on experience Degree from the University of Southern Queensland Australia, a Post in sales and marketing, with several organisations, in different ranks Graduate Diploma in Financial Administration from the Institute of from Sales Executive to Marketing Manager. He holds a Post Graduate Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Diploma in Information System Diploma in Marketing from the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing Security Control Audit and a Diploma in Marketing Management. 32 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Operational Review Our innovative spirit has been the cornerstone of the strides we have taken, and it has kept us leading the pack Ending another eventful year in a dynamic and competitive We are committed to delivering environment, we celebrate our achievements with humility. The excellence in clinical care, to anyone operating environment created many challenges, but our team who were totally committed to our goals, completed the year with seeking our services and this requires that satisfactory levels of performance. our people, policies, systems, technology and know-how is constantly updated Our ‘Core Competency’ areas, which operate as ‘Centers of Excellence’ and improved. The ongoing quality continued to drive the business. Every single focused area, such as Cardiac, Orthopedics, Gynecology and Obstetrics, Ophthalmology enhancement programme leading to and so on performed at the level of expectation, and managed to world-class accreditation has generated ensure that we delivered excellent care to our patrons, every time. the need to clinically inspect every single All ancillary services were well geared and aligned with precision element in our process, to improve further to enhance the delivery. significant investments in terms of human capital technology and infrastructure were wave made to sustain our where possible world -class healthcare delivery standards. Extensive attention and effort was diverted towards the quality introduce every single advancement in private health care offered in enhancement programme, currently peaking at its optimum. The Sri Lanka, and we plan on continuing to be in the forefront. engaging activity spans across the hospital, looping every single member of the team, which results in delivering higher levels of Innovations in the private healthcare space, happens rapidly. At clinical care to our patrons. Customer interaction and welfare is an Durdans we keep in constant contact with the ground situation to integral component in the process and today our organisation and keep abreast of new technology, machinery and equipment, as well the people have gained the required knowledge on how to capitalise as methods of treatment. The Consultants who offer their services on making an exceptional experience. at our facility are the best in class in their fields of specialisation and invariably are either driving the changes or play an active part in it. We are committed to delivering excellence in clinical care, to anyone Given that the healthcare infrastructure we possess is the best of its seeking our services and this requires that our people, policies, kind, the combination is the best a patient can ask for. systems, technology and know-how is constantly updated and improved. The ongoing quality enhancement programme leading to Our progressive approach to health care has gained respect from the world-class accreditation has generated the need to clinically inspect top clinicians, who have joined hands with us to serve and have sick. every single element in our process, to improve further where We continue to gain the attention of the up and coming surgeons possible. and clinicians as they prefer to work in a professional environment. During the year our focus was to build our capabilities in the general Keeping in touch with the evolving trends to maintain our surgical area providing of round the clock facility. With the advanced edge theater complex and the most up to date, cutting-edge technology, Our innovative spirit has been the cornerstone of the strides we have it is not a surprise that the highest expectations of both the patients taken, and it has kept us leading the pack. We have been the first to and the clinicians are supported by the entity. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 33 Durdans gearing for 2020 Dr Wickrama Adithya Salgado The success of the Durdans Healthcare Group (Durdans Hospital), is Resident Consultant Radiologist no accident, it is the result of a carefully created plan which has been reviewed every step of the way. Strategic Planning is an ingrained concept at Durdans. Every five years the Board and the management team up collectively to develop the pathway for growth, and supported by a professionally qualified competent facilitator. The Management team thereafter takes up the responsibility to implement the plan into action with periodic monitoring of the progress. The success of this approach has resulted the business results that have been delivered and, which continue to gather momentum. Not only does the team deliver exceptional share holder value, they also commit to deliver customer service excellence to the patrons. The road map for 2020 was carved out during the period under review. The Management team has already taken the blue print and I decided to specialise in Radiology for two reasons. has included it into the action plan for the forthcoming year. Given Firstly, because I was intrigued by the technological the meticulous attention that is placed in the planning of the action advances since childhood and Radiology being one of it is evident that the organisation would be able to continue its the fastest developing technology related areas with aggressive growth. rapid innovations in the field of medicine. Secondly because Radiology provides the clinicians the foundation to make accurate diagnosis and therefore help them embark on effective treatment. Following my Post graduate qualifications, I worked in Australia, where I was exposed to the state-of-the-art technology and highest standards of practices. I have extensive experience with the public sector across this country, and after almost 10 years of Government service I decided to join the private sector. My experience at Durdans has been amazing. My work life balance is now at the optimum level. I work in an environment which is modern, contemporary, caring and stimulating. The technology available for Radiology and Imaging at Durdans is world-class, and the team involved is excellent. They are oriented to serve, are actively engaged in the process and are extremely disciplined. The management is very responsive and committed to enhance the service standards always. They are also keen to provide opportunities for continuous learning as well as exposure overseas to keep abreast with the rest of the world and with the rapidly evolving changes in the field I am involved. I am proud to be a part of this team...! 34 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Operational Review Contd. Upgrading the pediatric care recuperation facility Our Pediatric Care is renowned and is placed in a class of its own. Durdans believes that our We have with us many generations of most families who consider Durdans as the only option in their time of need. During the year service quality should be under review, infrastructure upgrades were conducted in the benchmarked against the Pediatric Ward 5 located in the Alfred House Wing. Today the facilities match up to any international hospital and the ambience provides best in the world. We strive the expected mood for recovery. With the excellent care provided by the eminent Pediatricians and the highly competent staff at Durdans, to enhance the way we do business with every step we the recovery process during an illness would meet all expectations. Quality enhancement drive Durdans believes that our service quality should be benchmarked take against the best in the world. We strive to enhance the way we do business with every step we take. The current focus on obtaining international accreditation for Durdans epitomises our promise to We continue to enhance our delivery by constantly upgrading our deliver the best in clinical care. The quality enhancement process already existing facilities. During the year under review, the lab in has already begun and we expect to successfully complete the Galle was renovated and facilities were expanded. We are now able programme soon, resulting in international accreditation for the to service the people in and around that area even better. facility. In other developments, two mini laboratories were established in the Gampaha and Nagoda areas to support the needs of the people in Continuous upgrading of information systems the surrounding areas. Three new collection centers were established The management information system is a dynami in our business. We in Chilaw, Kahatagasdigiliya and Kabithigollawa to support increasing continue to assess the needs of the evolving organisation and modify demand. the information capture, analysis and provision of management information. This dynamic approach ensures the constant review of our operational needs and ensures that they are robust and effective systems and processes. Finally this results in enhanced customer service and efficient management of operations. A few areas that were enhanced are as follows; fully automating the process of the physiotherapy unit, automating drug requests and issuing of the inpatients, supporting predefined packages for eye surgery and automated medical record room etc. Lab network continues to grow Our diagnostic capabilities are now spread around the country and it helps us to support the people of Sri Lanka with high quality analysis for preliminary assessments. The importance of accurate diagnostic results play a very important role in the management of the treatment. Clinicians depend on accuracy for success, thus the source of information is of high importance to all. With Durdans’ quality diagnostic services now accessible throughout the country, patients do not need to travel to distant places to get medical tests done. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 35 Dr Kesava Dev Resident Consultant, Cardiac Thoracic Surgeon We specialise in Arterial Grafting, Beating Heart Surgery and Mitral valve repairs. We have performed Redo CABGs, and Aortic Aneurysms. Our team has generated the expertise to handle minimal invasive surgeries which allows faster recovery and lesser restrictions to life style such as 1. Multi vessel MIDCABG – for suitable patient even with 3-4 blocks 2. Aortic Valve replacement , through mini sternotomy 3. Mitral valve surgery through small thoracotomy. I am from Kerala and I completed my graduate and post The last ten years of my life has been very meaningful graduate medical education at JIPMER , Pondicherry. as I have, together with the great team of people in the Durdans Heart Centre, been able to make a difference to During the early years I had the choice of Plastic Surgery the lives of many people. I derive immense satisfaction or Cardiac Thoracic Surgery for specialisation, and from my work and enjoy working with this organisation. decided to focus on the latter.Therefore I did my super Our work has been recognised and rewarded, the credit specialisation training and degree in Cardiothoracic for which goes to a dedicated team who steps beyond Surgery. the call of duty. The management of the organisation is extremely supportive and provides us a conducive My skills were then sharpened at the cardiac unit of the environment to carry out our work. renowned Railway Hospital in Chennai, after which I moved to Banglaore as a consultant Cardiac surgeon for a couple of years. The next 4 years of my life were spent in UK , both in terms of work as well as further qualifications, After my stint in UK ,I returned to Hyderabad and served for 5 more years as Chief Consultant Cardiac Surgeon. My move to Sri Lanka took place in 2004. Today Durdans Heart Center is renowned for Cardiac Care and is most sought after for cardiac procedures and surgeries. We have evolved over the years to such an extent so as to provide the most advanced procedures, based on the individual needs of each patient. During the last ten years we have completed over 6500 surgeries. Our care revolves around the holistic welfare of the patients. We stop at nothing to ensure that they get the best in clinical care, using the best technology available. 36 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Financial Review The group recorded a strong revenue growth to reach Rs. 3.96 Bn for the year Your Company had a year of mixed fortunes emerging from the of 7%. The post –tax profit of the company recorded a reduction and changing competitive environment and regulatory and the likely end up at Rs.185.9 Mn against previous year’s achievement of Rs. legislative pressures. These challenges have tested our strength 210.9 Mn. and our ability to adapt and conform whilst ensuring that the sustainability of our business is not affected. Operating Expenses The overhead costs of the Group totaled to Rs. 2.03 Bn over the Sri Lankan Economy 2012/13 total of Rs.1.88 Bn an increase of 7%. The increase in The economy grew by 7.3 per cent compared to the 6.42 per cent operational expenses excluding interest and depreciation was 7% growth recorded in 2013, largely supported by domestic economic over the previous year. The main contributor to the increase was activity, as external demand remained weak. Despite a slow growth the personnel costs which rose by 12%. The increase in overheads rate Sri Lanka continued to grow faster amongst the newly emerging is partially attributable to the investments made in expanding and markets, with inflation contained during the period under review upgrading the diagnostic network, and will result in increasing future due to the prudent measures taken by the Government. revenue streams. The deficit in the external current account contracted due to the The organisation continued its disciplined approach to expense improved trade balance and increased earnings from trade and management while diligently evaluating costs versus benefits. services and through worker remittances. The overall balance of payments (BOP), recorded a lower deficit on account of increased The finance cost of the Group increased by 2% to reach Rs. 187 Mn foreign investment in Government Securities, foreign loans and for the year under review from Rs.182 Mn previous year. incremental investment in to the private sector. Taxation Revenue and profit Performance The Group tax expense increased to Rs. 32.09 Mn compared to The Group recorded a strong revenue growth to reach Rs. 3.96 Bn for Rs. 30.34 Mn in last year. The effective tax rate of the Group profit the year, up 3% year on year. The revenue growth in combination was 11% compared with 9% in the previous year. The deferred tax with continued operational improvements and constant focus on provision has been reversed as a tax expense for the period, due managing the operational costs led to the Group posting a healthy to the change in the income tax rate applicable to the health care EBITDA of Rs. 746 Mn in the year 2013/14 in the back drop of the sector in 2012. difficult conditions of the sector. Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) The post-tax profit of Group decreased to Rs. 257 Mn in 2013/14 from The return on capital employed for the Group was reported at 8% as Rs. 300 Mn in 2012/13, a deficit of 14% or Rs. 43 Mn. against 10% in the previous year. The revenue of the company increased to Rs. 2.65 Bn during the year under review from Rs. 2.47 Bn the previous year, recording an increase ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 37 The revenue growth in combination with continued operational improvements and constant focus on managing the operation costs lead to the Group posting a healthy EBITDA of Rs. 746 Mn in the year 2013/14 Capital Expenditure The investment in acquiring capital assets for the Group was Rs. 195 Mn whilst the Group incurred Rs. 111 Mn on revenue generating assets (Medical Equipment) during the year. Mrs Sajie Gamage Cash Flow Net cash from operating activities decreased to Rs. 425 Mn as Mt. Lavinia against Rs. 527 Mn mainly due to decreased profits. Net cash used in investing activities was Rs. 235 Mn (2012/13: Rs. 145 Mn). In the Being a patient of Dr Colonne – The Consultant current year, cash invested in the purchase of property plant and Gynecologist, who was consulted by us at Durdans equipment was Rs. 192 Mn which is more or less equal to the during my pregnancy I had the comfort of walking into previous year. the maternity ward at any time be it day or night with regard to any concern I had. The nurses and ward doctors There have been no defaults under any covenants given on loans or would immediately attend to me and communicate any borrowings in the year under review or the prior year. such concerns to Dr Colonne and I would be provided with a remedy promptly, if required. This was an Share Price, Net Assets and Total Equity impressive system they had in place. Basic earnings per share of the Group decreased to Rs. 6.98 from Rs. 7.81 in the previous year and the company’s earnings per share With regard to my confinement , the treatment I received decreased to Rs. 5.49 from Rs. 6.23 last year. in the private labour room for close upon twelve hours The share price of Durdans ranged from a low Rs. 97 to a high of Rs. was exceptional! Starting from the senior nurses to the 120 during the year for the voting shares and low of Rs. 68.60 to a attendants , the humane and professional treatment high Rs. 87.60 during the year for the non-voting shares. they gave me was beyond satisfactory and I am certain it immensely contributed towards keeping my baby and The net asset per share increased by 6% to Rs. 76.99 from Rs. 71.49 in me calm throughout my extended hours of labour. the previous year of the company. To be very honest , before getting admitted to Durdans, The Group total equity has been decreased to Rs. 3,039 Mn from I wasn’t sure what to expect, but the experience I Rs. 3,050 Mn compared to previous year. had at Durdans has left me with no regrets and only a very positive impression of the high standard of care. I hope you will continue to strive to provide even better standards to your patients with each year that passes by Thank You Durdans for the excellent care 38 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 39 Sustainability Reporting 40 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Sustainability Reporting Sustainability is not an alien concept to us at Durdans. We have Our commitment to world-class quality always considered the method of inclusivity as a fundamental Private health care is one of the fastest growing sectors in the country practice. Our efforts connect our internal team, our patrons including and around the world. Therefore it is necessary to ensure that the other stake holders and the community at large. We believe it is our processes, resources and technology used are monitored and duty and responsibility to behave, conduct our business in a manner controlled to deliver the highest standards of quality always. Today that adds value to all relevant parties and safe guard the right of all there is clear benchmarking available to measure delivery. We at our stakeholders. Therefore our business objectives never have a Durdans embarked on a journey to obtain accreditation of the most narrow focus, but clearly relate to how we touch the world around us. accepted standards in the world. This process required us to review every single process practiced, the skill and competency levels of our Our Company in a sustainable environment teams and an assessment of the technology / know-how available. We are in the business of “Caring.” Our role is to act as a catalyst to Hence we have sharper and effective best practices incorporated transform “ill health” to “good health.” While we fundamentally address into the way we operate, which provides a constant indication of the method of “Curing” we believe that “prevention” should also be how we fare. Our dashboard alerts the team and ensures they are addressed through lifestyle changes. We focus many of our activities connected to the processes on a permanent basis. to encourage our patrons to lead a healthy lifestyle. Our team has met the required standards, with the extensive skill and As a company we believe it is our mandate to provide the latest competency development programmes that have been conducted available curative care, know-how, technology to enhance our during the last year. Every single team member is aware of the how service standards always. his role fits into the organisation’s master plan and makes sure that his role is fulfilled at the optimum level. This culture of quality will Similarly we also believe that our team needs to be constantly aware enhance our already existing reputation for ‘caring care’ and will of the skill upgrades that are required in the field, and resources are consolidate our position in the market as the trusted, leading private aligned to make it a reality. care institute. Our future plans include ongoing improvements to the processes and development needs. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 41 Making Relevance to our patrons Our business operates on the fundamental principle of providing the ‘ultimate in clinical care’ for patrons who seek our service. Our long years of history confirm this unique proposition which differentiates us from the rest. Many generations continue to consider us as the only private health care service partner for their family due to the trust in our quality of service. We have carefully studied the needs of our patrons, needs that already exist, as well as emerging needs based on changing variables. Our ambition is to develop the necessary skills and competencies, as well as technical capabilities to support medical needs identified both in the areas of communicable and non communicable diseases. Thus our portfolio becomes dynamic, it is reviewed, revised and upgraded to suit evolving needs. all Sri Lankans throughout the country. Therefore we believe in There is a growing demand to ensure that specialist support is continuously expanding, upgrading and controlling the high quality available throughout the day. We are gradually building our internal standards of our services. resource pool with resident consultants who will be available to serve our patients at all times. Currently several core competency areas Our Community have been supported in this manner. We supported the needs of an Ancient Pirivena Our care extends to address the needs of the community. We were Our belief that General Practitioners should play the primary role of made to understand the needs of the historic Wanni-based centre supporting patients on a regular basis, and should be aware of the for Buddhist scholarship, Isinbessagala Pirivena in Vavuniya through medical history, has allowed us to connect them with us for specialist the 211 Brigade Headquarters of the Security Force Headquarters – support. Therefore the family GP continues to play an active role even Wanni (SFHQ-W), for basic furniture and other supplies for their day in the case of hospitalisation, whereby the continuation of their role to day activities. Our team made a significant contribution confirming is maintained. our commitment to society. Diagnostics play the critical role of assisting clinicians to embark on the ideal and optimum clinical care for each patient. We believe it is our responsibility to ensure that the ‘excellent, accurate and fast Diagnostic’ capability we possess is available for access to 42 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Sustainability Reporting Contd. Donation to the District Base Hospital –Rikillagaskada The hospital indicated to us the immediate needs that needed addressing which resulted in our team visiting and handing over administrative equipment including filing needs, storage cabinets and a modern baby weighing scale for the pediatric unit. Donation to Poramadulla Central College In our CSR activities we make it a practice to support a key education institute in the area with prevailing needs, with the view to supporting the school for the benefit of the students. The above school was selected as the beneficiary of our efforts during the year under review. Durdans Hospital donated sports equipment including leather cricket bats, leather cricket balls, batting pads, wickets, footballs, rugby balls and shuttlecocks among many other sporting goods to ‘Durdans Cares’ CSR Programme in Rikillagaskada be used by the students of the school. We take our Corporate Social Responsibility very seriously. Generally the activity to be conducted is carefully planned, to align our CSR The team who visited engaged in an interactive cricket match with activity with our core competencies, and to make sure our team the students of the college, and shared an afternoon of enjoyment. takes an active part in the programmes. We are keen to have a clear engagement with the identified community which invariably results Rikillagaskada-Durdans Health Camp – Durdans way of in building extreme goodwill with the community and generate caring for the community valuable experience to our staff. The staff of Durdans Hospital visited We believe it is important for the community to understand the the town and community of Rikillagaskada on the 29th and 30th of need for preventative care vs curative care. Although our primary March and conducted a series of activities to enhance the goodwill responsibility as a private healthcare service provider is to dedicate of the identified community. our energy towards curative care, we make it our responsibility to educate the community on the importance of maintaining a health Donation to the Sri Sudarshanarama Temple in conscious lifestyle. It emphasises the need for people to ensure that Rikillagaskada their critical indicative signs are monitored regularly to assess any The staff visited the temple and met the clergy and made donations likelihood of impeding ailment. Therefore the health camp focuses towards equipment for administrative work. on providing screening for the participants for “Early detection for a ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 43 healthy heart.”Thus the health camp conducted in Rikillagaskada had Our People the facilities of having Fasting Blood Sugar, Lipid Profile, ECG, under For us ‘Our team’ is the most important asset of the organisation. screening tests and Blood Pressure Monitoring followed by a Physical We are committed to ensure that our asset is safeguarded and Examination by the hospital’s resident cardiologist. groomed to support our challenging objectives. Our goal is to strengthen alignment between the organisation’s strategies, goals, Over 650 participants arrived at the Poramadulla Central College hall, and objectives and its people. Designing activities and programs to and had screening and physical examinations conducted. The results meet the needs of our employees from the day they enter our team of the diagnostics were provided within the day and advice on how is a fundamental part of our ‘People Agenda.’ to manage/ handle individual issues. Any person who needed further attention was advised on what needs to be done as the next step. We invest in our team Our training has been extensive during the year, as it was important Our Patrons to ensure our team skills and competencies match the standards “Taking care of your heart” – Durdans Heart Club required by the international quality accreditation programme The regular interactive events conducted to support education adopted by us. among the patrons who have undergone cardiac procedures, as well as the family members who are keen to learn and change their We take care of our assets our people lifestyle, with the objective of achieving a healthy fulfilled life, have Our recruitment policy ensures that there is no discrimination in any been appreciated and well received by the audience. form, covering race, gender, religion etc. We provide a conclusive working environment and a safe atmosphere for them to deliver their The event also provides them an opportunity to interact with others work. All statutory obligations are fulfilled according to the laid down who have gone through similar experiences, and also the ability guidelines, to ensure people welfare. Our working environment is to meet and talk to the surgeon, cardiologists and the team who free of sexual harassment as we practice a zero tolerance policy. supported them during their stay with us. All team members once confirmed are entitled to comprehensive medical cover for themselves and their immediate family members. Every event conducted so far has generated immense goodwill, as The company has in place a grievance handling procedure that it establishes that at Durdans we believe in relationships with our allows any dissatisfaction to be addressed effectively. patrons and do not consider the patrons as ‘patients’ who come just for a procedure. Our Environment We are committed to maintain a sustainable environment that Therefore an association with Durdans is a never an interaction, but achieves both our corporate as well as social obligations. the beginning of a longstanding journey which benefits the patron. 44 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Sustainability Reporting Contd. We are in the business of “Caring.” Our role is to act as a catalyst to transform “Ill health” to “good Health.” While we fundamentally address the method of “Curing” we believe that “prevention” should also be addressed through lifestyle changes. Less Waste Safe usage of Chemicals We understand that our waste disposal practices can have a health Partnering with our suppliers, we have taken steps to control usage impact on the communities we serve. Therefore we ensure that of chemicals, identify safer alternatives and effective methods of waste disposal is done in an appropriate manner. storage and handling of the same. The proper management of waste generated by the healthcare Smart Purchasing processing system (such as Bio-medical waste, Infectious waste The purchasing department and the team is fully focused and and Hazardous waste) requires daily attention for disposal under purchases high quality items for various types of requirements, the laid down guidelines. We ensure that our responsibility in this ensuring premium quality at the best price and safety of the product sphere is fulfilled to support our commitment to safeguarding our to the user and to the environment. environment. Compliance with Environmental Authority regulations The process includes segregation and environmentally friendly The Environment Protection License is issued only when the disposal methods by a qualified team. monitoring authorities are confident that an organisation fully complies with the requirement. We have obtained all the necessary All electronic and office waste such as cartridges, ribbons and other compliance documentation for our operations. discarded items are resold to third parties for safe disposal. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 45 In addition, I act as the Education Coordinator for our internal training school and hold the responsibility to plan and ensure the quality of the programmes, we conduct in house foundation training as well as refresher training. We have also conduct two NAITA programmes which I have been directly involved in. I consider myself privileged to be working at Durdans, an organisation that holds the same values that our profession believes in. The compassionate care that we provide to people has no discrimination and helps speedup the healing process initiated by the great clinicians who serve here. It is an honor to be part of this great team and I am Ms Indra De Silva committed to deliver the best care expected of us. Matron My home is in Badulla, but today I have made my second Home at Durdans. With over 40 years of nursing experience, in the public sector, truly serving the people of Sri Lanka, I joined Durdans in 2007 and in the last 8 years have been able to make a great contribution to the society and to my profession. Today I am responsible for the surgical wards and accident and emergency units. As the Matron in charge, ensure that our service to our patrons will meets excellence in nursing care. 46 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Enterprise Governance Establishing Enterprise Governance is no longer an option, it stakeholders. A clearly identified medium term Strategic Plan is becoming the framework under which good governance is becomes the foundation of the yearly plans. Business planning, being benchmarked. Regulatory requirements now expect the allocation of accountability, managing the performance and complimenting of the same fundamentals. To the shareholder, it is rewarding based on performance is already an entrenched sequence his right to expect that his organisation follows the guidelines and which, today has become a key motivator for the senior level staff to conducts a business which is profitable, yet ethical and sustainable. perform beyond expectations, and cascading of the same process Enterprise Governance is defined as “the set of responsibilities and has already commenced. This has enabled the organisation to practices exercised by the Board and executive management with confidently achieve the sound foundation needed to meet all future the goal of providing strategic direction, to meet the set objectives, challenges as we continue to be the most preferred healthcare whilst ascertaining that risks are managed appropriately and verifying partner for the Sri Lankan consumer. that the organisations resources are used responsibly.” (IFAC 2001) With the clear objective of providing world class health care to the The Enterprise Governance framework encompasses complex nation and beyond, the team works tirelessly to achieve standards yet essential accountability standards that need to be maintained that are required to benchmark us with the best in the world. by any organisation, under the dimensions of conformance and performance. Achieving conformance is now a hygiene factor in Conformance Measurements all well managed businesses. The fundamental elements covered The Composition of the Board of Directors under the Corporate Governance framework such as the structure The Board of the company consists of seven directors including two of the Board, the roles of its members and the remuneration of Executive Directors and five Non-Executive directors. The names of the executives is already well defined and the processes are well the Directors and their profiles are detailed on pages 29 to 30 of this entrenched at Durdans. Annual Report. The performance aspect is enhanced as a dynamic involvement to The presence of five Non-Executive directors conforms to the holistically deliver on the Enterprise Governance measurements. stipulated rules of the CSE of having more than one-third of the total The organisation has embarked on a further quality improvement as Non-Executive Directors. The Board consists of individuals who exercise which, when completed would result in clearly have competencies and skills in both technical and commercial differentiating our business against the competition. As a reputed, aspects, who thus are able to add extensive value in the strategic respected and trusted enterprise, the organisation has ensured decision making and monitoring process. all stakeholder interests are fully addressed, in the most ethical, transparent and just manner. With the fundamental core values of Chairman / President the organisation reiterating the care and compassion offered to The Chairman holds the supreme position of Executive Chairman patrons, the new business health check via Enterprise Governance but this in no way compromises open and independent views being further reinforces the commitment of the organisation, and the shared by all members of the team. The organisation encourages management to continue its diligence. the contribution of innovative ideas by all members, resulting in a continuous upgrade to our functional excellence. Being a listed company, we honor our responsibility by fulfilling all statutory and regulatory requirements of Corporate Governance Responsibilities of the Board stipulated by the Colombo Stock Exchange. We comply fully with The management team holds the primary responsibility to map the requirements of the listing rules of the CSE (refer pages 50 to 51 out the direction of the business based on identified needs. The for status on compliance). The company also adheres to the Code of Board holds the responsibility to validate the management team’s Best Practice jointly issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants recommendations on strategic direction. It also ensures that the of Sri Lanka and the Colombo Stock Exchange. In addition ongoing organisation’s overall performance is in line with the plans it has efforts are made to improve operational standards to conform to created, whilst making sure the risks are well managed and that evolving best practices in our own industry. The current emphasis on organisational ethics are upheld with the utmost respect. Operational quality improvement would result in international accreditation for accountability lies with the management team based on the set plan. the business in the near future. The Board approves the annual business plan in the form of SIA (Strategy into Action) of the company, and plays an active role in Overall business management practices have been enhanced deciding on the investments relevant for the business. to ensure world class standards in meeting the needs of all our ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 47 Effectiveness of the Board Individual and organisational performance, thus serving as a key The business effectiveness is safeguarded by the Board. The Board motivator for the team. comprises of members representing key management disciplines such as Finance, Medical, Engineering and Marketing, and thus are Audit Committee able to effectively contribute to the betterment of the organisation The Audit Committee oversees the preparation, presentation and and maintain a macro perspective of the ongoing operations. It adequacy of disclosures and the integrity of the Financial Statements, focuses on monitoring financial performance against plans, whilst Risk Management processes and Internal Controls. It also oversees observing and regulating the management committee and the sub the organisations’ compliance with financial reporting requirements, committees. information requirements of the Companies Act No 07 of 2007 and other relevant financial reporting related regulations as well as Formal, well planned Board meetings are held at regular intervals, the independence and performance of the External Auditors and with Board papers related to the agenda being circulated to monitors the internal audit function. The committee is responsible to the members well in advance, to ensure full, well deliberated ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements participation of all members. and determine the appointment, evaluation, terms of engagement and fees of the Auditors. The Committees Under the Purview of the Board Remuneration Committee The present Audit Committee comprises of three independent NonThe Remuneration Committee consists of three independent NonExecutive Directors; Mr A S Abeyewardene, Chartered Accountant Executive Directors, Mr A S Abeywardene acts as the Chairman of the (Chairman of the Committee), Dr N Y Wijemanne and Mr Y N committee. Mr Y N R Piyasena and Dr N Y Wijemanne are members. R Piyasena. The Chairman, Mr Ajith Tudawe and Executive ViceThe Chairman of the company plays the role of an observer in the President, Mr Upul Tudawe participate at the meetings by invitation process. as the Executive Directors. The Finance Management Consultant joins the team by invitation, The Director -Medical Services, Manager – Medical Services, Manager when compensation packages are being reviewed. The Committee Finance, Manager Human Resources, Manager – Marketing and meets once a year to review policy framework related to the Business Development and Manager Supply Chain attend the remuneration of the Senior Management team, Executive Directors meetings by invitation. The Internal Auditors Messers Ernst & Young and the Chairman. The key focus is directed at ensuring that high Advisory Services (Pvt.) Ltd are represented by a partner and his team performers are recognised and rewarded. All rewards are linked to attends the meeting by invitation as well. Enterprise Governance Framework at Durdans Shareholders Board of Directors Remuneration Audit Committee Chairman/ President Commmittee Executive Director Executive Management Group Management Committee Committee External Auditor Internal Auditors Critical Care Medical Services Technical Business Development Committee Committee Committee Committee Management Team Credentialing and Medical Ethics Medical Audit Privileging Committee Committee Procurement Committee Risk Management Committee Pharmocotheraputic Quality Assurance Committee Committee Infection Control and Condemnation Prevention Committee Committee Hospital Safety and Emergency Legal Compliance Preparedness Committee Committee 48 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Enterprise Governance Contd. Group Management Committee (GMC) Procurement Committee (PC) The Group Management Committee assumes overall responsibility The Procurement Committee was established to ensure purchasing for all strategic and operational functions and is only preceded by efficiency and controls on all purchases within the Group. Whilst the Board. This Committee comprises of the Chairman, Executive delivering buying efficiency, the team is expected to display Director, Senior Vice-President Administration, Senior Vice-President transparency and best practices in the purchasing procedure. Medical, Vice-President Critical Care, Manager Marketing and Meetings are held once a month. Business Development, Manager Supply Chain, Director Medical Services, Manager Medical Services, Manager Finance and Efficiency of the supply chain is a critical ingredient for our success; Manager Human Resources. we constantly strive to upgrade our processes by benchmarking ours with the best practices in supply chain management. The GMC acts as the intermediary body to validate strategic decisions that need to be made by the Executive Management Committee. The committee comprises of the ManagerSupply Chain, Manager The GMC may seek Board approval when necessary on matters Marketing and Business Development, Manager Finance, Director related to macro implications. Medical Services, Manager Medical Services and Manager Human Resources. The team is guided by the Chairman and Executive Executive Management Committee (EMC) Vice-President. The Executive Management Committee comprises of the Chairman, Executive Director, Manager – Marketing and Business Development, Credentialing and Privileging Committee (C & P C) ManagerSupply Chain, Director Medical Services, Manager Durdans strives to constantly upgrade the quality standards of our Medical Services, Manager Finance and Manager Human operations, and is currently focusing on achieving world recognised Resources. This Committee holds regular meetings weekly and takes accreditation soon. The process requires that we match the skill set full responsibility for the operational efficiency of the organisation. of the medical professionals involved with the required skill to make our business more meaningful. The objective of the newly formed Critical Care Committee (CCC) committee is to screen all consultants, and medical officers to ensure The Committee is chaired by the Vice-President Critical Care and their credentials are in line with the services undertaken. comprises of the Vice-President -Medical Services, Executive Director, Manager Human Resources, Manager Medical Services, two The committee comprises of the Consultant Microbiologist, Senior Medical Officers from the Critical Care Units, Chief Nursing Officer Vice President Medical Services, Director – Medical Services, and Matrons. The Senior Consultant Cardiac Surgeon and the Senior Manager – Medical Services and other team members. Consultant Cardiac Anesthetist attend the meetings by invitation. The committee discusses all pertinent issues related to the Critical Medical Ethics committee Care Units and issues related to Infection Control throughout The newly formed committee is responsible to facilitate good the organisation. Their observations are reported to the Group governance and ethical practices in the organisation, by being an Management Committee at its fortnightly meetings. advisory body to the management. The participants include Senior VicePresident Medical, Consultant Physician, DirectorMedical Medical Services Committee (MSC) Services, Manager – Medical Services, Chief Nursing Officer and The Committee is chaired by the Senior Vice-President – Medical other members representing the medical and nursing profession of and includes the Executive Director, Critical Care Director, Director the organisation, along with external support from a member of the Medical Services, Manager Human Resources, Manager Medical legal profession, a religious leader and a member of the public. The Services, Chief Nursing Officer, Resident Physician, Resident committee meets once a month. Pediatrician and the Senior Medical Officer. The meetings are held once a month, addressing all issues pertaining to the medical Medical Audit Committee management of the full hospital, such as patient’s complaints, issues The committee is responsible to independently monitor, review and concerning doctors and nurses and all other aspects of patient care, report to the Chairman/Head of Organisation on the processes of logistical problems of patients, accommodation, medical and nursing clinical governance and where appropriate, to facilitate and support staff concerns etc., It also addresses the aspects of CPD and CME through its independence, the attainment of effective processes and programs of doctors and nurses. The observations are reported to the clinical care protocols. The committee comprises the Senior ViceGroup Management Committee at its fortnightly meetings. President – Medical, Director – Medical Services, Manager – Medical Services, Chief Nursing Officer, Resident Consultants and the Medical Record Room Officer. The committee meets once a month. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 49 Quality Assurance Committee statutes and ordinances. The committee is headed by the Executive The committee meets once a month chaired by the Chairman and Vice-President, Director – Medical Services, Manager Finance, attended by the Senior Vice-President Medical, Vice-President Manager – Marketing and Business Development, Manager Supply Critical Care, Director Medical Services, Manager Medical Services, Chain, Manager Medical Services, Manager – Human Resources and Manager Finance, Manager – Marketing and Business Development, Chief Nursing Officer. Manager – Supply Chain, Manager – Human Resources and other members as relevant. Hospital Safety and Emergency Preparedness Committee The Hospital Safety and Emergency Preparedness Committee has the The committee has the mandate to ensure that all quality parameters mandate to provide a safe and secure environment to both patients identified in the SOP, is assessed against the established KPIs and and staff in the hospital. The committee is headed by Senior Viceearly attention is given to any deviations. The process is aligned to the President Administration and several other department heads who organisation wide quality drive that has been initiated to benchmark also get involved with the functioning of the committee as relevant. against world class standards. Accountability and Audit Pharmocotheraputic Committee The Board takes necessary steps to ensure the integrity of the The committee which meets once a month works with the accounting and financial reporting systems and internal control objective of streamlining the systems and processes related to all processors which are subject to periodic reviews. The Board employs pharmocotheraputic issues across the organisation, including setting a Senior Chartered Accountant to provide the required knowledge up the best practices and regular audits to ensure adherence to set and guidance on finance matters to ensure the financial and processes. operational controls, ethical conduct and compliance with legal and regulatory requirements are maintained at all times. Infection Control and Prevention Committee The committee is chaired by the Consultant Microbiologist with the The Company has complied with the mandatory disclosure Executive Vice-President, Senior Vice-President Medical Services, requirement on Corporate Governance for Listed Companies in Sri Vice-President Critical Care, Director – Medical Services, Manager Lanka issued by the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) as set out below. Medical Services, Chief Nursing Officer, all resident Consultants, as well as other relevant members in attendance. The committee meets once a month. The committee has established the scope of the function and critical measurements that need tracking. The key objective of the committee is to ensure that all parameters are kept within the acceptable norms, delivering against the required international benchmarks set. Condemnation Committee The Committee is headed by the Executive Vice-President, supported by Senior Vice-President Administration and attended by the Manager Finance, Manager – Marketing and Business Development, Manager Supply Chain, Manager Medical Services along with relevant departmental heads. The key objective of the committee is to streamline the condemnation process and to ensure that ethical and safe measures are practiced by the organisation. The committee meets once a month. Legal Compliance Committee The Legal Compliance Committee shall provide over the compliance with oversight the applicable laws and regulations for all hospital operations. The key objective of the committee is to up date information on all the applicable hospital laws and regulations, 50 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Enterprise Governance Contd. Compliance Rule No Area Covered Requirement Details Status 7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors Two or one third of the total number Compliant Five out of Seven Directors are of Directors whichever is higher Non-Executive Directors should be Non-Executive 7.10.2(a) Independent Directors Two or one-third of Non-Executive Compliant Three out of five Non-Executive Directors, whichever is higher should Directors are independent be independent 7.10.2(b) Non-Executive Directors Each Non-Executive Director should Compliant All Non Executive Directors have submit a declaration of indepensubmitted the declaration in the dence/non-independence prescribed format 7.10.3(a) Disclosures Relating to The names of the Directors who Compliant Directors determined to be ‘independent’ will be set out in the Annual Report 7.10.3(b) Disclosures Relating to A determination has to be made by Compliant Directors the Board as the independence or the non-independence of Non-Executive Directors 7.10.3(c) Disclosures Relating to Brief resume of each Independent Compliant Page from 29 to 30 in the Annual Directors Director should be disclosed in the Report Annual Report 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee A listed company shall have a RemuCompliant Page 47 in the Annual Report proneration Committee vides the Remuneration Committee Report 7.10.5(a) Remuneration Committee i) Remuneration Committee shall Compliant The Remuneration Committee Composition comprise of a minimum of two comprises of three independent independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors Directors or a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, whichever is higher ii) Non-Executive Director shall be Compliant Mr A S Abeywardene, independent appointed as Chairman of the Non-Executive Director functions as Committee by the Board the Chairman of the Committee 7.10.5(b) Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee shall Compliant Please refer the Remuneration recommend the remuneration of the Committee Report on page 47 Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Directors 7.10.5(c) Remuneration Committee The Annual Report shall set out; i) Names of Directors comprising Compliant Page 47 in the Annual Report the Remuneration Committee ii) Statement of Remuneration Compliant Page 47 in the Annual Report under Policy Remuneration Committee iii) Aggregate remuneration paid Compliant Page 80 in the Annual Report to Executive & Non-Executive Directors 7.10.6 Audit Committee A listed company shall have an Audit Compliant Please refer the Audit Committee Committee Report in the page 47 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 51 Compliance Rule No Area Covered Requirement Details Status 7.10.6(a) Audit Committee The Audit Committee shall comprise Compliant Audit Committee comprises of of two independent Non-Executive three independent Non-Executive Directors or a majority of independent Directors Non-Executive Directors, whichever is higher The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Compliant The CEO is a member of the Financial Officer shall attend Audit Committee and the CFO attends on Committee meetings invitation One Non-Executive Director, who is a Compliant Mr A S Abeywardene functions as member of a professional accounting the Chairman of the Audit body shall be appointed as Chairman Committee of the Audit Committee by the Board 7.10.6(b) Audit Committee Audit Committee shall have funcCompliant Please refer the Audit Committee tions as set out in section 7.10.6 of the report on the page 47 listing rules 7.10.6(c) Audit Committee The Annual Report shall set out the Compliant Please refer the page 47 names of the Directors that comprises the Audit Committee The Audit Committee shall make a Compliant Please refer the page 62 determination of the independence of the Auditors and disclose the basis for such determination The Annual Report shall contain a Compliant Please refer the page 62 Report of the Audit Committee setting out the manner of Compliance of the functions Enterprise Risk Management in Action Risk Management Committee – the functions of the Enterprise Risk Management covers strategies, techniques and committee include proactively mapping the potential risks, approaches in recognising, acting upon and mitigating any current assessing the likelihood of occurrence, and assessing the or potential threat the organisation could encounter which would impact of each event on the business. hamper the progress of the organisation. Today it covers not only A risk-awareness culture is being created throughout the the conventional financial and insurable hazards but transcends into organisation by educating the team leaders on the risks faced a wide variety of strategic, operational, reputational and regulatory by the organisation. This awareness and training has been information risks. With over six decades of experience behind us we put into practice in each area of functions and thereby risks have become exceptionally competent in taking calculated, prudent of the organisation at an operational level are mitigated and risks to support our objectives. managed. The accountability and the responsibility of each type of risk This learning has also generated a strong ability within the has been identified and are reviewed periodically. organisation in creating a strategic competitive advantage by Empower business areas/departments to be responsible for managing risks in a proactive manner, with careful study. Whilst Risk managing risks in accordance with the organisation’s Risk Management is prudent but pragmatic, the following processes Management policy and reward risk optimisation initiatives – and methodologies have been implemented to ensure maximum necessary training has been provided to all the departments effectiveness. The processes are validated periodically to ensure best for the successful monitoring and management of identified fit to emerging needs. risks. 52 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Enterprise Governance Contd. Generate continuous assessment and improvement – the The impact of the event is estimated by ascertaining the possible loss process is monitored on an ongoing basis for necessary that would be incurred by the company in the event the risk occurs. interventions. A five point ranking is being used to assess the gravity; Very High, High, Moderate, Minor and Insignificant. Risk Management Process at Durdans The following process is in place, and will continue to be reviewed at The likelihood of the occurrence is also categorised in a similar the beginning of every year. manner; rare, unlikely, possible, likely, almost certain. The probability of the occurrence is assigned using the extensive experience the Identifying the potential risks team has in the business. The risks are further classified on dual Identifying the level of the impact, in the event it occurs parameters of the likelihood of occurrence and the impact on the Identifying the likelihood of occurrence business using an assessment of; Very High Risk, High Risk, Moderate Mapping the risk in the Risk Rating Matrix Risk, Minor Risk and Insignificant Risk. Deciding on the action plan to mitigate or manage the risk The following table explains how the risk mapping is done at Durdans. 5 Very High 4 High Impact 3 Moderate 2 Minor 1 Insignificant Rare Unlikely to Possible to Likely to Almost certain occur occur occur to occur 1 2 3 4 5 Likelihood of Occurring The committee holds full responsibility in applying an effective of our core strengths we use the Adverse Incident Reporting Risk Management Strategy in the company. The identified risk and Mechanism, effectively. suggested managing methodologies will be reported to the Group Management Committee by the Risk Management Committee and The organisation is now well into a quality enhancement programme the Group Management Committee will review the effectiveness of which is internationally accredited. This world renowned programme the action plans and monitor the implementation. covers the full business operations in maximum depth, establishing that world class best practices are in place at Durdans. Given our Clinical Risk continuous drive to innovate and improve the way healthcare is Clinical risks are detrimental to our business. We believe in mitigating delivered in Sri Lanka, this programme will set our operations even the Clinical risks by creating high quality standards and paramount further apart from all other contenders. Our commitment to this safety standards in what we do every day. At the same time the team significant improvement further endorses our dedication towards deliberates extensively to identify any potential risk to the patients, ensuring the best of care to all our patrons. and to ensure preventative measures are in place. Awareness Programs are conducted to achieve necessary cultural Our fundamental business philosophy revolves around the excellent and mindset changes among the team members to initiate medical, clinical and after care we provide. Every single member of volunteer reporting forming a strong foundation to this process. the team is conscious of this discriminator that sets us apart from The activities implemented towards good Clinical Risk Management the rest in the healthcare sector. To ensure the further strengthening include: ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 53 Credentialing of medical staff Our planning starts from understanding current and emerging Incident monitoring and tracking needs and aligning our offering to deliver the ideal solution to fit the Complaints monitoring and tracking needs. During the process, we continue to keep vigil on emerging Infection control innovations in healthcare in the developed world, borrowing Documentation of medical records with pride the technical and resource based knowledge and competencies. It is the reason for our ability to stay ahead, carving the Operational Risk path for healthcare in general in Sri Lanka. The Group aims to reduce operational risks such as damages to property, interruption to business and liability that could form a risk Innovativeness in offering unique services, ensuring the best value for to our business through active risk reduction measures. The objective money, maintaining the highest standard of quality and maintaining of our operational risk management is to identify and minimise risks high efficiency are some of the fundamental strains that have made associated with operations, assets, environment and personnel. The it possible for us to demarcate our edge in mitigating industry risk. entire organisation is covered by the fire protection system. The remaining risks are covered with insurance to the maximum extent Financial Risk as defined by the management and the Board of Directors. With our continuous drive to invest in technical superiority, continuous investment becomes a critical need. The organisation is The organisation obtains the consultation from an external risk mindful of the gearing levels and manages its borrowings carefully. management organisation. This organisation evaluates the risks faced Whilst meeting all obligations on time, the management places the by the company at the beginning of the financial year and provides a utmost diligence in monitoring any fluctuations in the interest rates report to the Board of Directors. Appropriate actions are taken to put and uses extensive negotiations to obtain the best return for the the recommendation in the report into operation. organisation. Economic Risk The liquidity position of the organisation is monitored closely on We operate in a highly volatile and dynamic environment, various a daily basis and cash flows are managed extremely well. Any factors that impact the economy of our country, tends to have investment opportunity is backed by an extensive feasibility report implications on the success of businesses in general. study prior to embarking upon so that Return on Investment (ROI) is guaranteed. With healthcare being an almost essential service we are somewhat insulated, compared to some other industries. However, we have Credit Risk to be very agile in identifying potential risks that could impact our With corporate customers and insurance companies comprising a business plan and generate proactive steps to mitigate the same. The significant share of our customer portfolio, credit risks are constantly company follows a detailed management review process enabling monitored. To mitigate the credit risk, the Group has devised a the team to take prompt action to reverse any negative impact fast. mechanism of stringent monitoring, wherein credit limits are With the collective experience of the team at the helm, generally reviewed and renewed constantly, based on ratings generated, anticipating changes are effectively done, and the adverse impact pertaining to business volumes and speedy settlement records. minimised always. Reputation Risk Industry Risk Reputation Risk may create immeasurable damage to the equity of The health care industry has been expanding at a rapid pace. During the brand, if and when it happens. Durdans guards its reputation with the past couple of years, we witnessed significant investment by zeal, by carefully following laid down guidelines to handle consumer all contenders in the private healthcare space, resulting in a large grievance if any. The team places greater focus on making a every number of beds being added to the industry. Whilst this move is experience a memorable one to every customer, at every point of seen to endorse the opportunity the industry presents and the interaction. Constant improvement to an already well established economic agility, some concerns have already surfaced regarding the way of operation is undertaken by the management on a daily basis. long term sustenance of this capacity. Given the highly competitive environment that has developed in this area, it will be important to Patients and Staff Safety create the strategic direction of the business in a meaningful manner. Patient and staff safety is held in very high importance. We have The focused strategic planning process which has been a hallmark evaluated this area in adequate depth and have mapped out all of the success we have achieved so far ensures that we mitigate potential areas with clearly defined actions being in place. potential industry risks and continue to maintain the momentum of growth. Exposure to environmental risk is a challenge that is real today. We take responsibility to review and discuss any such risk and implement fast preventative actions when necessary. Vaccination against 54 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Enterprise Governance Contd. Dr Dushyanti Perera Resident Consultant Head of Anesthesia and Critical Care train the staff, sharing my knowledge and experience to make a significant difference to the patrons. The International quality assurance drive currently underway , supported the process improvements that I was driving and today we can be benchmarked against the best entities of the world. I am very happy to be a part of this team and to lead the team that work in the discipline instilling the best practices. I believe the private sector has an enormous role to play as the engine of growth for private health care, and we shoulder a huge responsibility to introduce and maintain Having completed my MBBS at the Medical Faculty the cutting edged technology as well as people oriented University of Colombo and the MD in Anaesthesiology caring . from the Postgraduate institute of Medicine and working in the UK, I successfully qualified to become a Fellow of the Royal College of Anaesthesia UK. I then returned to Sri Lanka as a Consultant Anaesthetist and Senior Lecturer of the Faculty of Medicine, University of Kelaniya a position I held for the next 10 years. My passion for Critical Care and teaching resulted in me taking a sabbatical to work full time in Intensive Care at Durdans Hospital. This involved teaching and training staff and commencing a morbidity mortality review process. As Durdans was also in the process of expansion at that time I played a major role in the development of the new critical care units. Retaining my interest in Education I was nominated to a seat on the speciality Board in Critical Care a post which I still hold and was part of the group that developed the curriculum for a Diploma and more recently a MD in Critical Care Medicine. I also am an examiner in critical care for the PGIM. I also applied for and obtained recognition for Durdans to be a training center for the Diplomates in Critical Care. Durdans commitment to critical care impressed me immensely. We discovered there was potential to deliver a great service. I have been able to support the team , ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 55 infections such as Hepatitis B is given to staff members that are vulnerable. Regular screening tests are conducted for staff of critical Mrs Leonie Jurie care units to minimise hospital borne infections. Awareness programs Nugegoda initiated for medical, clinical staff and healthcare professionals to tackle some of the most formidable issues help to create defensible I was always aware that Durdans was renowned for it’s medical records. care. My recent experience in the Durdans Heart Center further endorsed my belief. Patient safety is upheld as paramount in our business always. The current ongoing drive for accreditation places this are at the helm I am obliged and take pleasure in refering to the and process reviews and modifications are being done to eradicate unstinted capacity and skill of the Cardiac Surgeon potential limitations. Dr Kesava Dev. During my experience he was keen to rule out any complications both pre and post surgery level. Human Resources Supported by the equally dedicated team of doctors, We continue to value our people as our most important asset. They ward sisters and nurses in the cardiology unit, their make our vision a reality by delivering the utmost care to our patrons, main objective was to ensure patient welfare. Nothing time after time. Every single employee epitomises our values while at is compromised to provide ultimate care, comfort and work and away from work. In other words, the caring nature inherent best of clinical support. I knew I was getting the best care to our culture is part of the DNA of our people. However the dynamic possible . It was truly a Home away from home, during a private healthcare sector, makes it necessary for us to constantly trying time. enhance our proposition. We have managed to address the need of keeping our team constantly motivated with a carefully designed Thank You Durdans for your excellence in care. performance driven culture. Every team member clearly understands how his/her function delivers value in the system and is committed to uphold the highest standard of delivery in everything they do. We have been making positive progressive steps in transforming our organisational culture to be able to create a cohesive team environment at every level. Today we are able to cascade information quickly and effectively through our Team Leaders which has resulted in open and realistic communication being disseminated across the total organisation. Gaps identified through the employee satisfaction survey conducted have been addressed effectively. Information Security The operations at Durdans is run on a fully computerised environment and information security is considered very important for uninterrupted service. The loss of data, due to technical failures, system down time and the threat of viruses have been identified as key risks. Steps have been taken to ensure the protection of the system from such issues. The system runs on a high-end Vmware VSphere 4 server and system down time is zero due to the availability of a back-up server. Further the accessibility to the server has been restricted to the maximum level. Patient data which is confidential needs to be stored and protected in a secure manner. The organisation has taken steps to set up adequate firewalls to protect unauthorised access. Spam control and mail firewalls, protect the system from getting affected via regular communication. External labs are connected to the system via a secure IPVPN connection. 56 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 57 Financial Information Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company 58 Statement of Directors' Responsibility in Relation to Financial Statements 61 Audit Committee Report 62 Independent Auditors Report 63 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 64 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 65 Statement of Changes In Equity 66 Statement of Cash Flows 67 Notes to the Financial Statements 68 Value Added Statement 106 Ten Year Summary 107 58 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company The Board of Directors of Ceylon Hospitals PLC takes pleasure Mr Y N R Piyasena has served more than eleven years on the Board. in presenting its report together with the audited Consolidated The Board, taking into account all the circumstances, is of the opinion Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2014. that Mr Y N R Piyasena is nevertheless independent. The details set out herein provide the pertinent information required Mr S P Tudawe and Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene play a consultative by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Colombo Stock role in the Group Management Committee. Exchange Listing Rules and are guided by recommended best practices. ELECTION & RE – ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Dr N Y Wijemanne will vacate office as per the requirements of CORE COMPETENCIES Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and a separate We specialise in providing healthcare par excellence to the discerning resolution will be tabled at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting consumers of Sri Lanka. to obtain the sanction of the shareholders to reappoint him a Director of the Board as per Section 211 of the Companies Act. A comprehensive review of our competencies, the operations and future plans are fully explained in the Chairman's Message of the Mr A S Abeyewardene will vacate office as per the requirements of Annual Report. Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and a separate resolution will be tabled at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to obtain the sanction of the shareholders to reappoint him a The Financial Statements of the Company are given on pages Director of the Board as per Section 211 of the Companies Act. 64 to 105. The Board unanimously recommends their re-appointments. AUDITORS' REPORT The Auditors' Report on the Financial Statements is given on RECOMMENDATION FOR RE-ELECTION page 63. Mr S P Tudawe comes up for re-election under Article 58 of the Articles of Association and being eligible offers himself for re-election. ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Board unanimously recommends his re –election. The Accounting Policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are given on pages 68 to 78. New Directors Mr Ahamed Su – Ayid Mohommed Ismail was appointed an THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Independent Non Executive Director with effect from 02nd May The composition of the Board during the period under review is 2014 and comes up for election as per Article No. 65 of the Articles of highlighted below: Association. Executive Directors The Board unanimously recommends his election. Mr A E Tudawe Chairman/President Mr U D Tudawe Executive Director Independent Advisor Dr Lester Charles Massingham was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Directors Advisor to the Durdans Healthcare Group with effect from 01st May Mr S P Tudawe 2014. Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene Mr Y N R Piyasena INTEREST REGISTER AND DIRECTORS' INTEREST IN Mr A S Abeyewardene CONTRACTS Dr N Y Wijemanne Directors interest in contracts or proposed contracts are disclosed under Note 30 to the Financial Statements and have been disclosed Independent Non –Executive Directors at Meetings of the Directors and recorded in the Interest Register as Mr A S Abeyewardene per the Section 192 of the Companies Act No.07 of 2007. Dr N Y Wijemanne Mr Y N R Piyasena ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 59 DIRCTORS’ INTEREST IN SHARES 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 No of Shares No of Shares Voting Non -Voting Voting Non –Voting Mr A E Tudawe 205,052 205,052 Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene 199,462 199,462 Mr S P Tudawe 307,936 307,936 Mr U D Tudawe 170,616 170,616 Mr Y N R Piyasena 553,134 553,134 Mr A S Abeyewardene 1,440 1,200 1,440 1,200 Dr N Y Wijemanne 762 762 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION CAPITAL EXPENDITURE The Directors' remuneration is disclosed in Note 07 to the Financial The total capital expenditure during the year amounted to Statements. Rs. 138 million for the company. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT The Board is committed to maintain high standards of corporate Details of property, plant & equipment are given in Note 10 to the governance, the process by which the Company is directed and Financial Statements. managed. The corporate governance report is given on pages 46 to 51 of the Annual Report. STATED CAPITAL The stated capital of the Company as at 31st March 2014 was Rs. RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL 916,366,104/represented by 25,527,272 voting shares and 8,345,454 The risk management report is given on pages 51 to 55 of the Annual non voting shares. Report. SHAREHOLDINGS The Directors accept the ultimate responsibility for the system There were 2,460 registered Voting Ordinary Shareholders and 1,498 of internal controls of the Company. The systems are geared to Non-Voting Ordinary Shareholders as at 31st March 2014. provide reasonable assurance that the assets of the Company are safeguarded and that all transactions conducted as relevant are The distribution of share holdings is shown on page 109 of the properly authorised and duly recorded. Further details of the internal Annual Report. control systems in operation are also contained in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities on page 61 and the Audit committee SHARE INFORMATION Report on page 62 of the Annual Report. Information relating to earnings, dividends, net assets and market value per share is available under Share Information on pages 109 to TAXATION 110 of the Annual Report along with information on share trading. The tax liability of the Company has been computed according to the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act No.10 of 2006 and SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDING amendments thereto. The twenty major shareholders as at 31st March 2014 are given on pages 110 to 111 of the Annual Report. The method of computation of taxes of the Company and the Group has been shown in the Note 08 to the Financial Statements. DIRECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING The Directors are responsible for the preparation of Financial CORPORATE DONATIONS Statements of the Company and the Group to reflect a true and fair During the year under review, charitable donations amounting to Rs. view of the state of its affairs. The Directors are of view that these 2.35 million were made by the Company. Financial Statements appearing on pages 64 to 105 have been 60 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company prepared in conformity with the requirements of the Sri Lanka also do not have any interest in the Company or its subsidiaries as Accounting Standards, Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, Sri Lanka required by Section 168 (1) (j) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Accounting and Auditing Standards Act No.15 of 1995 and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. The Statement of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Directors’ Responsibility for Financial Reporting is given on pages The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the 61 of this Annual Report which forms an integral part of this Report Durdans Auditorium (11th floor) of Ceylon Hospitals PLC, No. 03, and also confirm that the Company has complied with prudential Alfred Place, Colombo 03 on 27th June 2014 at 9.00 a.m. The Notice requirements, regulations, laws and internal controls. of the Annual General Meeting appears on page 112. DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of Rs. 2/per share for the period under review was paid to Voting and Non-Voting Shareholders of the Company in For and on behalf of the Board the month of May 2014. The Directors do not recommended further dividends for the financial year under review. A E Tudawe Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene STATUTORY PAYMENTS Chairman Director The Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief are satisfied that all statutory payments due in relation to employees and the Government, have been made promptly upto date, or adequately provided for in the Financial Statements. EVENTS OCCURING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE No circumstances have arisen since the Balance Sheet date which would require adjustments to or disclosure in the accounts except those disclosed in Note 28 to the Financial Statements. GOING CONCERN The Board of Directors is satisfied that the Company will have adequate resources to continue its operations without any disruption in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the Directors consider that it is appropriate to prepare Financial Statements as an ongoing concern basis. APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS The Financial Statements of the Company for the year have been audited by Messrs B R De Silva and Company, Chartered Accountants, who are recommend for re-appointment. A sum of Rs. 852,942/was paid to them as audit fee during the year under review. A resolution will be passed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for reappointment of Messrs B R De Silva and Company as Auditors and authorising the Directors to fix their remuneration. As far as the Directors are aware, the Auditors do not have any relationship (Other than that of an auditor) with the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than those disclosed above. The Auditors ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 61 Statement of Directors' Responsibility in Relation to Financial Statements The following statement which should be read in conjunction The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge all taxes, with the Auditor’s Statement of their responsibilities, as set out duties and levies payable by the Company and all contributions, in their report, is made with a view to distinguish the respective levies and taxes payable on behalf of and in respect of the employees responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors, in relation to the of the Company and all other known statutory dues as were due and financial statements. payable by the Company as at the Balance Sheet date have been paid, or where relevant provided for. The Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 requires that the Directors prepare the financial statements and circulate it among shareholders. These By order of the Board, financial statements comprise a Statement of Comprehensive Income, which presents a true and fair view of the profit or loss of the Company for the financial year and a Statement of Financial Position, which presents a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the (Sgd.) Company as at the end of the financial year. Nexia Corporate Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. Secretaries to the Company Since the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future, the financial statements continue to be prepared on 'going concern' basis. The Directors consider that in preparing the financial statements disclosed on pages 64 to 105 the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgment and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed. The Directors have the responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy of the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the provisions of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. The Directors have general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and in this regard to give proper consideration to the establishment of appropriate internal control systems, with a view to preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities. 62 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Audit Committee Report Purpose of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee also had a meeting on 06 thMay 2014 to discuss i. Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and the the Annual Audited Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31st disclosure of its financial information to ensure that the Financial March 2014 and the External Auditors Management Letter. Statement is correct, sufficient and credible. ii. Reviewing, with the management, the Annual Financial The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in detail, the monthly Statements before submission to the Board for approval. Internal Audit Reports submitted by the Internal Auditors for the iii. Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly Financial months relevant to the financial year 01st April 2013 to 31st March Statements before submission to the Board for approval. 2014. The Internal Audit reports for these months covered all the areas iv. Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and of operations of the Company and were extensively documented. The Internal Auditors and the adequacy of the internal control systems. observations detailed in the Internal Audit Reports together with their v. Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, including the recommendations were discussed at the meetings with the Internal structure of the Internal Audit Department, staffing and seniority Auditors. They also reported to the Audit Committee the status of the of the official heading the department, reporting structure implementation of their recommendations and consequently action coverage and frequency. was taken by the management to ensure that they are effectively carried vi. Recommending to the Board, the appointment, out by the respective departmental heads of the Company. The Audit re-appointment and, if required the replacement or removal of Committee is of the view that adequate internal controls and procedures the statutory Auditor and the fixing of audit fees. have been established by the management to ensure the effectiveness vii. Reviewing the independence and performance of the External of the operations of the Company and to safeguard its assets. The Internal Auditors. Auditors submitted the Internal Audit Plan for the financial year 1st April viii. Approval of payment to statutory Auditors for any other services 2013 to 31st March 2014, to the Audit Committee and after a detailed rendered by the statutory Auditors. review and discussion; the Internal Audit Plan was approved by the Audit Committee. Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises of three Non-Executive/Independent The Audit Committee reviewed the quarterly financial statements Directors. The Finance Manager, Director Medical Services, Manager submitted to the Colombo Stock Exchange for the financial year 01st Medical Services, Marketing Manager, Business communication and April 2013 to 31st March 2014, prior these statements being submitted to Supply Chain Manager and the Human Resources Manager, attend the Board of Directors for their approval. the Audit Committee meetings by invitation. In addition, the Internal Auditors of the Company, Messers Ernst & Young Advisory Services (Pvt) The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in detail with the External Ltd., represented by a Director of that Company, attend the meeting by Auditors and the Management, the Annual Audited Accounts of the invitation. Company and the External Auditors Management Letter at its meeting on 06th May 2014. The Audit Committee is of the view that the Accounts The members of the Audit Meeting of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Committee are: Attended Financial Reporting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) and the Accounting Policies have been properly disclosed in the Annual Audited Accounts. The Audit Mr A S Abeyewardene Chairman Committee also ensured that there is effective interaction between the (Non-Executive/Independent Director) 5/5 Internal Auditors and the External Auditors. The Committee requested the Mr Y N R Piyasena Member External Auditors to independently examine the Internal Audit Reports (Non-Executive/Independent Director) 5/5 and to report in their Management Letter for the ensuing year, their Mr N Y Wijemanne – Member observations as to the implementation of the recommendations made (Non-Executive/Independent Director) 4/5 by the Internal Auditors. On Invitation, Mr Ajith Tudawe (Executive Director) External Auditors Mr Upul Tudawe (Executive Director) The Audit Committee met with Messers B R De Silva & Company, Chartered Accountants, prior to commencement of the annual audit The profile of each member is set out on pages XX to XX of this Annual to discuss the audit scope, approach and methodology to be adopted. Report. A special Audit Committee meeting was convened to discuss the Management Letter issued by the External Auditors and management’s The Audit Committee is empowered to examine the financial reporting responses thereto. process and to review the adequacy of the internal controls established by the management, disclosure of Accounting policies, compliance with The Audit Committee having evaluated the independence and Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, compliance with statutory laws and performance of the External Auditors has recommended to the Board corporate governance, the Internal Auditors reports, External Auditors that Messers B R De Silva & Company, Chartered Accountants, be re Management reports and the respective internal and external audit appointed as the auditors of the company for the financial year ending programme. 31st March 2015. Report of the committee Sgd. The Audit Committee had five meetings: all meetings were held on A S Abeyewardene during the year. During these meetings the Audit Committee reviewed Chairman the Monthly Internal Audit Reports for the period 01st April 2013 to Audit Committee 31st March 2014. 25th May 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 63 Independent Auditors Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We have obtained all the information and explanations which, To the Share Holders of Ceylon Hospitals PLC to the best of our knowledge and belief, were necessary for the purposes of our audit. 1. Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying Financial Statements of We, therefore, believe that our audit provides a reasonable Ceylon Hospitals PLC, the Consolidated Financial Statements basis for our opinion. of the Company and its subsidiaries as at that date, which comprise the Statement of Financial Position as at 31st 4. Opinion March, 2014 and the Statement of Comprehensive Income, In our opinion, so far as it appears from our examination of Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash the Financial Statements, the Company maintained proper Flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting records for the year ended 31st March, 2014 Accounting Policies and other explanatory notes. and the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Company’s state of affairs as at 31st March, 2014 and its Profit 2. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial and Cash Flows for the year then ended, in accordance with Sri Statements Lanka Accounting Standards. Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. This responsibility includes a true and fair view of the state of affairs as at 31st March, designing, implementing and maintaining internal control 2014 and the Profit and Cash Flows for the year then ended, relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards of the statements that are free from material misstatements, whether Company and its subsidiaries dealt with thereby, so far as it due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate concerns the members of the Company. accounting policies and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. 5. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 3. Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion These Financial Statements also comply with the requirements Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial of Sections 151(2) and 153(2) to 153 (7) of the Companies Act statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit No.07 of 2007. in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatements. B. R. DE SILVA & CO. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence Chartered Accountants supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting 8th May 2014 principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. 64 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March, 2014 NOTES 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Revenue (3) 3,961,267,670 3,830,369,150 2,647,083,795 2,470,162,902 Cost of Sales (1,698,744,243) (1,651,414,663) (1,060,261,122) (990,271,816) Gross Profit 2,262,523,427 2,178,954,487 1,586,822,673 1,479,891,086 Other Operating Income (4) 34,006,051 14,410,393 32,972,288 15,035,699 Overheads Administrative Expenses (1,530,076,772) (1,410,831,833) (1,093,146,875) (1,012,266,062) Other Operating Expenses (310,820,812) (290,038,709) (242,379,805) (217,646,477) Finance Cost (5) (186,727,812) (182,428,489) (127,019,440) (113,931,645) Finance Income (5.1) 19,485,773 19,924,650 41,516,492 67,748,220 (2,008,139,623) (1,863,374,380) (1,421,029,628) (1,276,095,964) Share of profit of an associate (6) 1,210,061 647,380 Profit before Taxation (7) 289,599,916 330,637,879 198,765,333 218,830,821 Taxation (8) (32,093,202) (30,334,352) (12,861,768) (7,917,869) Net Profit after Taxation 257,506,714 300,303,527 185,903,565 210,912,952 Other Comprehensive Income Net (loss)/gain on available for sale financial assets 1,674,425 (819,785) 724,000 40,000 Income Tax effect Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 1,674,425 (819,785) 724,000 40,000 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 259,181,139 299,483,742 186,627,565 210,952,952 Profit attributable to: Equity Holders of the Parent 236,355,347 264,412,999 185,903,565 210,912,952 Non Controlling Interest 21,151,367 35,890,528 257,506,714 300,303,527 185,903,565 210,912,952 Total Comprehensive Income attributable to: Equity Holders of the Parent 238,029,772 263,593,214 186,627,565 210,952,952 Non Controlling Interest 21,151,367 35,890,528 259,181,139 299,483,742 186,627,565 210,952,952 Earnings per Share Basic (9) 6.98 7.81 5.49 6.23 The Significant Accounting Policies and the notes from pages 68 to 105 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 65 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position GROUP COMPANY As at 31st March, 2014 NOTES As at As at As at As at 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. ASSETS Non-Current Assets Property, Plant & Equipment (10) 4,158,467,815 4,239,622,087 1,952,110,989 1,955,704,463 Investments in Subsidiaries (11) 1,426,229,924 1,171,229,922 Investment in an Associate (6) 2,087,402 877,340 229,960 229,960 Other Financial Assets (20) 30,934,109 21,662,198 16,802,581 8,809,979 Prepaid Rent 660,000 760,000 4,192,149,326 4,262,921,625 3,395,373,454 3,135,974,324 Current Assets Inventories (12) 290,834,716 237,296,605 215,388,912 156,821,121 Trade and Other Receivables (13) 123,005,489 106,082,963 84,734,807 74,469,237 Prepayments (13) 66,872,833 78,880,128 56,023,164 59,870,191 Amounts Due from Related Parties (14) 3,817,251 517,609 281,803,957 204,980,716 Other Financial Assets (20) 210,633,694 148,222,486 95,414,667 88,519,061 Cash and Cash Equivalents (15) 48,455,914 96,958,764 37,554,415 74,970,871 743,619,897 667,958,555 770,919,922 659,631,197 Total Assets 4,935,769,223 4,930,880,180 4,166,293,376 3,795,605,521 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Attributable to Equity holders of the parent Stated Capital (16) 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 Revaluation Reserve (17) 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 Available for Sale Reserve 6,021,423 4,346,999 900,000 176,000 Revenue Reserves (18) 1,252,376,459 1,103,286,544 1,158,584,212 972,680,647 2,707,102,876 2,556,338,537 2,608,189,206 2,421,561,641 Non Controlling Interests (19) 332,041,942 494,335,061 Total Equity 3,039,144,818 3,050,673,598 2,608,189,206 2,421,561,641 Non-Current Liabilities Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings (20.3) 589,690,760 668,719,780 430,251,448 383,046,040 Other Non Current Financial Liabilities (20.2) 77,369,863 105,187,450 77,369,863 105,187,450 Deferred Revenue (21) 28,684,600 30,024,600 Provisions and Other Liabilities (22) 98,168,128 99,991,266 84,523,979 89,671,628 Deferred Tax Liabilities (23) 97,547,307 98,982,194 72,635,114 82,162,746 862,776,058 972,880,690 693,465,004 690,092,464 Current Liabilities Bank Overdrafts 334,810,633 249,759,045 226,765,286 160,445,190 Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings (20.3) 391,549,772 312,531,794 233,091,275 172,403,410 Other Non Current Financial Liabilities (20.2) 13,750,000 13,750,000 Trade and Other Payables (24) 283,027,095 300,099,066 178,968,057 201,614,533 Taxation Payable (25) 10,710,847 8,303,932 9,974,077 4,296,673 Amounts Due to Related Parties (14) 1,905,710 202,090,471 110,465,265 Dividends Payable 34,726,346 34,726,346 1,033,848,347 907,325,893 864,639,166 683,951,417 Total Equity and Liabilities 4,935,769,223 4,930,880,180 4,166,293,376 3,795,605,521 These Financial Statements are in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Sirimal Senaratne Finance Manager The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Signed for and on behalf of the Board by, A E Tudawe A D P A Wijegoonewardene Chairman Director 8th May 2014 66 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Statement of Changes In Equity For the year ended 31st March 2014 Available Non Stated Revaluation General for Sale Accumulated Controlling Capital Reserve Reserve Reserve Profits Total Interest Total Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. GROUP Balance as at 01st April 2012 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 5,166,784 970,314,466 2,429,008,407 488,029,455 2,917,037,862 Net Profit for the Year 264,412,999 264,412,999 35,890,528 300,303,527 Other Comprehensive Income (819,785) (819,785) (819,785) Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (135,490,904) (135,490,904) (16,924,600) (152,415,504) Acquisition of non controlling Interests (772,178) (772,178) (12,660,322) (13,432,500) Balance as at 31st March 2013 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 4,346,999 1,098,464,383 2,556,338,539 494,335,061 3,050,673,600 Net Profit for the Year 236,355,348 236,355,348 21,151,367 257,506,715 Other Comprehensive Income 1,674,425 1,674,425 1,674,425 Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (15,709,917) (15,709,917) Acquisition of non controlling Interests (87,265,433) (87,265,433) (167,734,569) (255,000,002) Balance as at 31st March 2014 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 6,021,423 1,247,554,297 2,707,102,879 332,041,942 3,039,144,818 Available Stated Revaluation General for Sale Accumulated Capital Reserve Reserve Reserve Profits Total Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. COMPANY Balance as at 01st April 2012 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 136,000 892,436,436 2,346,099,593 Net Profit for the year 210,912,952 210,912,952 Other Comprehensive Income 40,000 40,000 Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (135,490,904) (135,490,904) Balance as at 31st March 2013 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 176,000 967,858,484 2,421,561,641 Net Profit for the year 185,903,565 185,903,565 Other Comprehensive Income 724,000 724,000 Balance as at 31st March 2014 916,366,104 532,338,890 4,822,163 900,000 1,153,762,049 2,608,189,206 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 67 Statement of Cash Flows GROUP COMPANY For the year ended 31st March, 2014 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Cash Flows from/(Used in) Operating Activities Net Profit before Income Tax Expenses 289,599,917 330,637,879 198,765,333 218,830,820 Adjustments for Inventory Write off / (Write -in) (2,732,186) 2,597,313 806,708 1,179,834 Bad Debts write off 813,287 4,762,285 10,854 1,833,500 Depreciation Charge for the year 269,924,603 254,333,182 135,801,752 126,976,487 Finance Income (19,485,773) (19,924,650) (41,516,492) (67,748,220) Finance Costs 186,727,812 182,428,489 127,019,440 113,931,645 Amortisation of Deferred Rent 100,000 100,000 (1,340,000) (1,340,000) Profit on Disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment (3,087,605) (3,349,312) (3,087,605) (1,809,312) Bad debts written back (334,114) 156,573 (334,114) Increase/(Decrease) in Financial Instruments 1,674,425 (797,003) 724,000 40,000 Share of Profit of an Associates (1,210,061) (647,380) Provision for Defined Benefit Plans 9,600,302 28,317,741 5,842,990 22,537,892 Operating Profit/(Loss) before Working Capital Changes 731,924,720 778,124,430 423,183,553 414,098,533 (Increase)/ Decrease in Inventories (56,270,296) (23,929,404) (59,374,498) (20,483,941) (Increase)/Decrease in Trade and Other (5,728,519) (5,709,484) (14,578,572) 58,605,616 Receivables and Prepayments Increase/(Decrease) in Trade and Other Payables (17,071,971) 13,528,722 (22,646,476) 13,100,970 Increase/(Decrease) Related Party Dues (5,205,352) 1,864,834 14,801,965 40,023,245 Cash Generated from Operations 647,648,582 763,879,098 341,385,972 505,344,424 Finance Costs Paid (181,857,949) (178,037,298) (127,019,440) (111,011,677) Defined Benefit Plan Costs Paid (11,423,438) (9,893,038) (10,990,639) (8,501,309) Income Tax Paid (29,686,287) (48,089,793) (16,711,996) (43,338,531) Net Cash From/(Used in) Operating Activities 424,680,908 527,858,969 186,663,896 342,492,907 Cash Flows from/(Used in) Investing Activities Acquisition of Property, Plant & Equipment (191,694,493) (185,151,578) (138,111,614) (101,768,605) Proceeds from Sale of Property, Plant & Equipment 8,990,942 11,577,194 8,990,942 7,762,193 (Acquisition) / Disposal of other Investments (71,683,119) 9,083,984 (6,895,606) (33,483,013) Investment in Associates (229,960) (229,960) Finance Income 19,485,773 19,694,905 41,516,492 67,748,220 Net Cash Flows from/(Used in) Investing Activities (234,900,897) (145,025,455) (94,499,786) (59,971,165) Cash Flows from/(Used in) Financing Activities Receipts from Interest bearing Loans & Borrowings 310,000,000 54,000,000 280,000,000 19,000,000 Re-payments to Interest bearing Loans & Borrowings (343,608,101) (322,601,872) (186,174,314) (177,934,610) Investment in Subsidiary (255,000,002) (255,000,002) (13,432,500) Dividends Paid (34,726,346) (141,449,158) (34,726,346) (100,764,558) Net Cash Flows from/(Used in) Financing Activities (323,334,449) (410,051,030) (195,900,662) (273,131,668) Net Increase/(Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents (133,554,438) (27,217,517) (103,736,552) 9,390,073 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the beginning of the year (152,800,281) (125,582,764) (85,474,319) (94,864,392) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the year (286,354,719) (152,800,281) (189,210,871) (85,474,319) Analysis of Cash & Cash Equivalents Cash at Bank Overdrawn (334,810,633) (249,759,045) (226,765,286) (160,445,190) Cash in Hand and at Bank 48,455,914 96,958,764 37,554,415 74,970,871 (286,354,719) (152,800,281) (189,210,871) (85,474,319) 68 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 1.1 General POLICIES Ceylon Hospitals PLC is a Limited Liability Company incorporated and 2.1 General Accounting Policies domiciled in Sri Lanka and listed in the Colombo Stock Exchange. The 2.1.1 Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements registered office and the principal place of business are situated at The consolidated financial statements of the group have been No.3, Alfred Place, Colombo 3. prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards comprising (SLFRS/LKAS) as issued by the Institute of Chartered 1.2 Parent Enterprise and Ultimate Parent Enterprise Accountants in Sri Lanka (ICASL). The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31st March 2014, comprise the Company and its subsidiaries. These financial statements presented in Sri Lanka Rupees have (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The ultimate holding company is been prepared on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation Durdans Management Services Limited. of certain property, plant and equipment, derivative financial instruments and available-for-sale financial assets that have been 1.3 Principal Activities and Nature of Operations measured at fair value. During the year the principal business activities of the group are as follows: 2.1.2 Statement of Compliance The Consolidated Financial Statement of Ceylon Hospitals PLC and its Name of the Company Nature of the Business subsidiary companies have been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) as laid down by the Institute of Ceylon Hospitals PLC Providing Healthcare Services Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (ICASL) and the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Durdans Heart Surgical Providing Cardiac Surgical Center (Pvt) Ltd. Operations 2.1.3 Going Concern The Directors have made an assessment on the Company’s ability Durdans Medical and Surgical Providing Healthcare Services to continue as a going concern and they certified that the company Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. has adequate resources to continue its operations in the foreseeable future. Therefore, these financial statements are prepared on going 1.4 Date of Authorisation for Issue concern basis. The financial of statements for the year ended 31st March 2014 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of 2.1.4 Materiality and Aggregation Directors on 08th May 2014. Each material class of similar items is presented separately in the Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar nature or function are 1.5 Companies in the Group presented separately unless they are immaterial. Subsidiaries The Group Financial statements include the results of the Durdans 2.1.5 Consolidation Policy Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Limited and Durdans Medical and Surgical (a) Basis of Consolidation Hospital (Pvt) Ltd which are subsidiaries of the Company. The details Subsidiaries of subsidiaries are as follows: Subsidiaries are those enterprises controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or Company Name Year of Percentage of indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an Incorporation Ownership enterprise so as to obtain benefits from its activities. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial Durdans Heart Surgical statements from the date that control commences until the date that Centre (Pvt) Limited 1999/2000 78.02% control ceases. Durdans Medical and Surgical The interest of the outside shareholders of the group is disclosed Hospital (Pvt) Limited 2007/2008 81.40% separately under the heading of “Non Controling Interest”. Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. A listing of the Group’s significant subsidiaries is set out in Note (1.5) to the financial statements. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 69 (b) Financial Year The share of profit of an associate is shown on the face of the income All Companies in the Group have a common financial year, which statement. This is the profit attributable to equity holders of the ends on 31st March. associate and therefore is profit after tax and non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries of the associate. (c) Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the The financial statements of the associate are prepared for the same aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount reporting period as the Group. Where necessary, adjustments are recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable made to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Following the initial Group. recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or After application of the equity method, the Group determines more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss the carrying value may be impaired. on the Group’s investment in its associate. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a investment in the associate is impaired. If this is the case, the Group business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the recoverable amount of the associate and its carrying value and the synergies of the combination. recognises the amount in the ‘share of profit of an associate’ in the income statement. Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of measures and recognises any retaining investment at its fair value. the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the Any difference between the carrying amount of the associate operation. upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the retaining investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. (d) Intra-Group Balances and Transactions Intra-group balances and transactions, any unrealized gains/losses 2.1.6 Foreign Currency Transactions from the intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Consolidated Financial Statements. Sri Lanka Rupees (“Rupees”), which is also the parent company’s functional currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated (e) Investment in an associate into Sri Lanka Rupees (“Rupees”) at the foreign exchange rate The Group’s investment in its associate is accounted for using the prevailing at the date of the transaction. equity method. An associate is an entity in which the Group has a significant influence. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are translated in to rupees at the foreign Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences in the statement of financial position at cost plus post acquisition arising on translations are recognized in the Statement of changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate. Goodwill Comprehensive Income. relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in impairment. a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair The Statement of Comprehensive Income reflects the share of value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates the results of operations of the associate. Where there has been at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the on translation of non-monetary items is recognised in line with the Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when gain or loss of the item that gave rise to the translation difference applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. Unrealised gains (translation differences on items whose gain or loss is recognised in and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and the other comprehensive income or profit or loss is also recognised in associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate. other comprehensive income or profit or loss respectively). 70 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. 2.1.7 Comparative Information the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost of completion Comparative Information has been reclassified, wherever necessary, and the estimated cost necessary to make the sale. to conform to the current year’s presentation and classification. The cost incurred in bringing inventories to their present location and 2.1.8 Taxation conditions are accounted for as follows: 2.1.8.1 Current Taxes The provision for income tax is based on the elements of income and Drugs & Dressings At actual cost on weighted expenditure as reported in the financial statements and computed in average basis accordance with the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act. X-Ray Films & Chemicals At actual cost on weighted average basis The profits of Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospitals (Pvt) Limited Pantry Provisions At actual cost on weighted are exempt from Income Tax for a period of 6 years from the date on average basis which the Company first commenced to make profit under the BOI General Issues & Reagents At actual cost on weighted Agreement No.2618 of 20th September 2007. average basis 2.1.8.2 Deferred Taxation Net realisable value is the estimated price at which inventories can Deferred Tax is provided in full, using the liability method on be sold in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or 2.2.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents substantially enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deposits and short term highly liquid investments readily convertible deferred income tax liability is settled. to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Deferred Tax is provided in full, using the liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and For the purpose of cash flow statement, cash & cash equivalent liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. consists of cash in hand and deposits in banks net of outstanding Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral substantially enacted by the Balance Sheet date and are expected to part of the Group’s cash management. apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Investment with short term maturities i.e. three months or less from the date of acquisitions is also treated as cash equivalents. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer The Cash Flow Statements probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or The cash flow statements are prepared using ‘ Indirect Method’’ of part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred preparing cash flows in accordance with the LKAS 7 Statement of tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are recognised to Cash Flows, on cash flow statements whereby gross cash receipts the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will and gross cash payments on Operating Activities, Investing Activities allow the deferred tax assets to be recovered. and Financial Activities are recognised. 2.1.9 Events after the Balance Sheet date 2.2.3 Property, Plant & Equipment All the material events after the Balance Sheet date have been (a) Cost and Valuation considered and appropriate adjustments/ disclosures have been Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of accumulated made, where necessary. depreciation and/or accumulated impairment losses, if any. Such cost includes the cost of replacing component parts of the 2.2 Valuation of Assets and their Measurement Bases property, plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term 2.2.1 Inventories construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value, significant parts of property, plant and equipment are required to after making due allowances for obsolete and slow moving items. be replaced at intervals, the group derecognises the replaced part, Net realisable value is the price at which inventories can be sold in and recognises the new part with its own associated useful life ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 71 and depreciation. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and Cardiac Catheterisation Laboratory @ 10% equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. Theatre & SICU Equipment @ 10% All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the income Furniture & Fittings @ 20% statement as incurred. The present value of the expected cost for the Computer Equipment @ 25% decommissioning of the asset after its use is included in the cost of Electrical & Other Equipment @ 20% the respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met. Motor Vehicles @ 20% Land and buildings are measured at fair value less accumulated Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd depreciation on buildings and impairment losses recognised after Buildings @ 2.5% the date of the revaluation. Valuations are performed with sufficient Computer Equipment @ 10% frequency to ensure that the fair value of a revalued asset does not Medical Equipment @ 10% differ materially from its carrying amount. Furniture & Fittings @ 5% Curtaining & Linen @ 50% Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive Other Equipment @ 10% income and accumulated in equity in the asset revaluation reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use and ceases same asset previously recognised in the income statement, in at the earlier of the date that the asset is classified as held for sale and which case the increase is recognised in the income statement. A the date that the asset is derecognised. revaluation deficit is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the same asset (c) Restoration Cost recognised in the asset revaluation reserve. Any balance remaining in Expenditure incurred on repairs and maintenance of Property, Plant the revaluation surplus in respect of an asset is transferred directly to & Equipment in order to restore or maintain the future economic accumulated Profits on retirement or disposal of the assets. benefits expected from originally assessed standard of performance, is recognised as an expense when incurred. The Company Policy is to revalue the company Land and Building between 3-5 years. (d) Derecognition An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon (b) Depreciation disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its The provision for depreciation is calculated by using Straight line use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset basis on the cost or valuation of all Property, Plant and Equipment calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and other than freehold land, in order to write off such amounts over the the carrying amount. Gains or losses on derecognition are recognised following estimated useful lives. The principal annual rates used are: in profit or loss and gains are not classified as revenue. Buildings @ 2.5% 2.2.4 Leases Plant & Machinery @ 10% Finance Leases Electrical Equipment @ 10% Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the Furniture & Fittings @ 10% risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are Sundry Equipment @ 10% capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair value of Telephones @ 20% the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum Electrical Power Plant & Transformer @ 10% lease payments. Air Conditioners @ 10% Motor Vehicles @ 10% A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. Linen @ 50% However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain Computer Equipment @ 10% ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term. The corresponding principal amount payable to the lessor is shown as a liability, lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant 72 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. The interest All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case payable over the period of the lease is transferred to an interest in of assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable suspense account. The interest element of the rental obligations transaction costs. applicable to each financial year is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the period of the lease. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating expense in marketplace (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, the Statement of Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. the lease term. The Group’s financial assets include cash and short-term deposits, 2.2.5 Capital Work-In-Progress trade and other receivables, loans and other receivables, quoted and The cost of Capital Work-In-Progress is the cost of purchase or unquoted financial instruments and derivative financial instruments. construction together with any related expenses thereon. Subsequent Measurement Expenditure Incurred on Capital Work-In-Progress for permanent The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their nature or for the purpose of increasing the earning capacity of the classification as follows: business has been treated as capital expenditure. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Capital Work-In-Progress is transferred to the respective asset Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial accounts at the time of the first utilisation or at the time the asset is assets held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial commissioned. recognition at fair value through profit or loss. Financial assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose 2.2.6 Intangible Assets of selling or repurchasing in the near term. This category includes An intangible asset is initially recognised at cost, if it is probable derivative financial instruments entered into by the group that are that future economic benefit will flow to the enterprise, and the not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships cost of the asset can be measured reliably. Following the initial as defined by IAS 39. Derivatives, including separated embedded recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. designated as effective hedging instruments. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are carried in the statement of financial Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful position at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in finance economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is income or finance costs in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible The Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading, other than asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at each financial derivatives, to determine whether the intention to sell them in the year-end. near term is still appropriate. When the Group is unable to trade these financial assets due to inactive markets and management’s intention Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment to sell them in the foreseeable future significantly changes, the Group annually either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. may elect to reclassify these financial assets in rare circumstances. The reclassification to loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held to 2.2.7 Financial instruments — initial recognition and subsequent maturity depends on the nature of the asset. This evaluation does not measurement affect any financial assets designated at fair value through profit or i) Financial assets loss using the fair value option at designation. Initial recognition and measurement Financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 are classified as financial Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets, or as characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial designated at fair value through profit or loss. These embedded assets at initial recognition. derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the reassessment only occurs if there is a change in the ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 73 terms of the contract that significantly modifies the cash flows that Available-for-sale financial investments would otherwise be required. The Group evaluates its available-for-sale financial assets to determine whether the ability and intention to sell them in the near Loans and receivables term is still appropriate. When the Group is unable to trade these Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed financial assets due to inactive markets and management’s intention or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. to do so significantly changes in the foreseeable future, the Group After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently may elect to reclassify these financial assets in rare circumstances. measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method Reclassification to loans and receivables is permitted when the (EIR), less impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into financial assets meet the definition of loans and receivables and account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs the Group has the intent and ability to hold these assets for the that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included foreseeable future or until maturity. Reclassification to the held-toin finance income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. maturity category is permitted only when the entity has the ability The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income and intention to hold the financial asset accordingly. statement in finance costs. For a financial asset reclassified out of the available-for-sale category, Held-to-maturity investments any previous gain or loss on that asset that has been recognised in Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments equity is amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the and fixed maturities are classified as held-to-maturity when the investment using the EIR. Any difference between the new amortised Group has the positive intention and ability to hold them to cost and the expected cash flows is also amortised over the maturity. After initial measurement, held-to-maturity investments remaining life of the asset using the EIR. If the asset is subsequently are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, determined to be impaired, then the amount recorded in equity is less impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account reclassified to the income statement. any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in Derecognition finance income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. The A financial asset (or, where applicable a part of a financial asset or part losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of of a group of similar financial assets) is derecognised when: Comprehensive Income in finance costs. The Group did not have any held-to-maturity investments during the year ended 31 March 2014. The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired. Available-for-sale financial investments The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from Available-for-sale financial investments include equity and debt the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received securities. Equity investments classified as available-for-sale are those, cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under which are neither classified as held for trading nor designated at fair a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Group has value through profit or loss. Debt securities in this category are those transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or which are intended to be held for an indefinite period of time and (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or in response to all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred changes in the market conditions. control of the asset. After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the availableand has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the risks for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised, at which time and rewards of the asset nor transferred control of it, the asset is the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating income, recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in it. or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative loss is reclassified to the income statement in finance costs and removed In that case, the Group also recognises an associated liability. The from the available-for-sale reserve. Interest income on available-fortransferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis sale debt securities is calculated using the effective interest method that reflects the rights and obligations that the Group has retained. and is recognised in profit or loss. 74 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying the impairment loss. The interest income is recorded as part of amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration that finance income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. Loans the Group could be required to repay. together with the associated allowance are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has been ii) Impairment of financial assets realised or has been transferred to the Group. If, in a subsequent year, The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is any the amount of the estimated impairment loss increases or decreases objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial because of an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is the previously recognised impairment loss is increased or reduced deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence by adjusting the allowance account. If a future write-off is later of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred recovered, the recovery is credited to finance costs in the Statement after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and of Comprehensive Income. that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that can be Available-for-sale financial investments reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications For available-for-sale financial investments, the Group assesses at that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal investment or a group of investments is impaired. payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation and where observable data indicate that In the case of equity investments classified as available-for-sale, there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with in the fair value of the investment below its cost. ‘Significant’ is defaults. evaluated against the original cost of the investment and ‘prolonged’ against the period in which the fair value has been below its original Financial assets carried at amortised cost cost. Where there is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the Group first assesses measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and whether objective evidence of impairment exists individually for the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that investment financial assets that are individually significant, or collectively for previously recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. financial assets that are not individually significant. If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for an Future interest income continues to be accrued based on the individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it reduced carrying amount of the asset, using the rate of interest used includes the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. impairment loss. The interest income is recorded as part of finance Assets that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an income. If, in a subsequent year, the fair value of a debt instrument impairment loss is, or continues to be, recognised are not included in increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event a collective assessment of impairment. occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed through the income If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been statement. incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of iii) Financial liabilities estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit losses Initial recognition and measurement that have not yet been incurred). The present value of the estimated Financial liabilities within the scope of LKAS 39 are classified as future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s original financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and effective interest rate. If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective in an effective hedge, as appropriate. The Group determines the interest rate. classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the case of loans and borrowings, carried at amortised cost. This includes income statement. Interest income continues to be accrued on the directly attributable transaction costs. reduced carrying amount and is accrued using the rate of interest ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 75 The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, bank When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the overdrafts, loans and borrowings, financial guarantee contracts, and same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an derivative financial instruments. existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and Subsequent measurement the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their carrying amounts is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive classification as follows: Income. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Offsetting of financial instruments Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if, initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are acquired or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. for the purpose of selling in the near term. This category includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that Fair value of financial instruments are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active as defined by LKAS 39. Separated embedded derivatives are also markets at each reporting date is determined by reference to classified as held for trading unless they are designated as effective quoted market prices or dealer price quotations (bid price for long hedging instruments. Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are positions and ask price for short positions), without any deduction for recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. transaction costs. Loans and borrowings For financial instruments not traded in an active market, the fair After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques. subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest Such techniques may include using recent arm’s length market rate method. Gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of transactions; reference to the current fair value of another instrument Comprehensive Income when the liabilities are derecognised as that is substantially the same; a discounted cash flow analysis or other well as through the effective interest rate method (EIR) amortisation valuation models. process. An analysis of fair values of financial instruments and further details as Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or to how they are measured are provided in Note 20. premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs in the Impairment of non-financial assets Statement of Comprehensive Income. The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, or Financial guarantee contracts when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to make fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is the liability is measured at the higher of the best estimate of the written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value date and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation. using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In Derecognition determining fair value less costs to sell, recent market transactions A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the are taken into account, if available. If no such transactions can be liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations 76 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators. are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Where discounting is The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is and forecast calculations which are prepared separately for each recognised as a finance cost. of the Group’s cash-generating units to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations are generally All known liabilities have been accounted for in preparing the covering a period of five years. For longer periods, a long term growth financial statement. rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year. Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment SLFRS requires management to make judgments, estimates and on inventories, are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and Income in those expense categories consistent with the function the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the impaired asset, except for a property previously revalued judgments and estimates are based on historical experience where the revaluation was taken to Statement of Comprehensive and other factors, including expectations that are believed to be Income. In this case, the impairment is also recognised in Statement reasonable under the circumstances. Hence, actual results may differ of Comprehensive Income up to the amount of any previous from those estimates and judgmental decisions. revaluation. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously in which the estimates are revised and in any future period affected. recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or Information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and cash-generating unit’s recoverable amount. A previously recognised critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since statements is included in the following notes: the last impairment loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable Note 27 Deferred Tax Asset/Liability amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been Note 29 Measurement of Employee Benefits determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been Note 32 Provisions recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in Note 37 Contingencies the Statement of Comprehensive Income unless the asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a 2.3.1 Deferred Revenue revaluation increase. Rental income received upfront for the rent of space to Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Limited is treated as deferred revenue. 2.3 Liabilities and Provisions Liabilities classified as current liabilities on the balance sheet are Revenue is recognized over the lease life of 35 years. those, which fall due for payment on demand or within one year from the balance sheet date. Non-current liabilities are those 2.3.2 Retirement Benefit Obligations balances that fall due for payment after one year from the balance (a) Defined Benefit Plan Gratuity sheet date. Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present Employees are eligible to receive a gratuity payment of half month’s obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is salary per year of service at the end of service provided the employee probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits has provided 5 years of service. Defined benefit plan is a post will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. made of the amount of the obligation. The expense relating to any The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated provision is presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income annually by independent actuaries using Projected Unit Credit net of any reimbursement. Method (PUC) as recommended by LKAS 19 Employees benefits. The defined benefit liability is recognized in the Reporting Date. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 77 The actuarial gains and losses are charged or credited to Statement (e) Deferred Revenue of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they arise. The The revenue to be recognized over 35 years, which is the assumptions based on which the results of the actuarial valuation agreed lease period. was determined as at 31st March 2014, are given below. However, according to the Payment of Gratuities Act No.12 of 1983, the (f) Others liability for the gratuity payment to an employee arises only on the Other Income is recognized on an Accrual Basis. completion of 5 years of continued service with the Company. (g) Gains or Losses on the disposal of Property, Plant and Equipment a. Average Rate of Interest 11% (Per annum) Net gains and losses of a revenue nature on the disposal of Property, Plant & Equipment and other non current assets b. Average Retirement Age – 55 years including investments have been accounted for in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, having deducted from c. The company will continue in business as a going concern proceeds on disposal, the carrying amount of the assets and related selling expenses. The liability is not externally funded. Expenditure Recognition (b) Defined Contribution Plans Employees’ Provident Fund & (a) Expenses are recognized in the Statement of Comprehensive Employees’ Trust Fund Income on the basis of a direct association between the Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund Contributions cost incurred and the earning of specific items of income. and Employees’Trust Fund Contributions in accordance with the All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and respective Statutes and Regulations. in maintaining the Property, Plant & Equipment in a state of efficiency has been charged to income in arriving at the profit 2.4 Income Statements for the year. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that the (b) For the purpose of presentation of the Statement of economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue and Comprehensive Income, the Directors are of the opinion that associated costs incurred or to be incurred can be reliably measured. the function of expenses method, presents fairly the elements Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received of the Company’s performance and hence, such presentation or receivable net of trade discounts and sales taxes. The following method is adopted. specific criteria are used for the purpose of recognition of revenue. 2.4.1 Borrowing Costs (a) Rendering of Services Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction Revenue from rendering of services is recognized in the or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period accounting period in which the services are rendered or of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as performed. part of the cost of the respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of (b) Interest interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the Interest Income is recognized on an accrual basis. borrowing of funds. (c) Dividends 2.4.2 Dividend on Ordinary Shares Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right to Dividend on ordinary shares are recognized as a liability and receive the payment is established. deducted from equity when they are approved by the company’s shareholders. Interim dividends are deducted from equity when they (d) Rental Income are declared and are no longer the discretion of the company. Rental income is recognized on an accrual basis. 78 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. 2.4.3 Effect of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued but not yet The Group will adopt these standards when they become effective. effective Pending the completion of detailed review, the financial impact The following SLFRS have been issued by the Institute of Chartered is not reasonably estimable as at the date of publication of these Accountants of Sri Lanka that have an effective date in the future financial statements. and have not been applied in preparing these Financial Statements. Those SLFRS will have an effect on the accounting policies currently adopted by the Group and may have an impact on the future financial statements. (a) SLFRS 9-Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement SLFRS 9, as issued reflects the first phase of work on replacement of LKAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. The Group will quantify the effect in due course. This standard was originally effective for annual periods commencing on or after 01 January 2015. However effective date has been deferred subsequently. (b) SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement SLFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under SLFRS for all fair value measurements and provides guidance on all fair value measurements under SLFRS. This standard will be effective for the annual period beginning on or after 01st January 2014. However use of fair value measurement principles contained in this standards are currently recommended. In addition to the above, following standards will also be effective for the annual periods commencing on or after 01st January 2014. SLFRS 10 -Consolidated Financial Statements SLFRS 11 – Joint Arrangements SLFRS 12 -Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The above parcel of three standards will impact the recognition, measurement and disclosures aspects currently contained in LKAS 27-Consolidated and separate financial statements, LKAS 28Investments in associates ,LKAS 31-Interest in joint ventures and SIC12 and SIC 13 which are on consolidation of special purpose entities(SPEs) and jointly controlled entities respectively. Establishing a single control model that applies to all entities including SPEs and removal of option to proportionate consolidation of jointly controlled entities are the significant changes introduced under SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 respectively. SLFRS 12, establishes a single standard on disclosures related to interests in other entities. This incorporates new disclosures as well as the ones previously captured in earlier versions of LKAS 27, LKAS 28 and LKAS 31. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 79 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 3 REVENUE Sales 3,961,267,670 3,830,369,150 2,647,083,795 2,470,162,902 4 OTHER OPERATING INCOME Reversal of Bad Debt Provision 334,114 334,114 Deferred Income of Residential Fees 1,340,000 1,340,000 Sundry Income 30,918,446 10,726,967 28,544,683 11,552,273 Profit on Disposal of Property Plant & Equipment 3,087,605 3,349,312 3,087,605 1,809,312 34,006,051 14,410,393 32,972,288 15,035,699 5 FINANCE COST Loan Interest 147,698,242 147,918,251 95,676,022 87,090,279 Debenture Interest 10,762,500 12,000,000 10,762,500 12,000,000 Interest Expenses on Overdrafts 22,636,481 17,027,180 15,155,523 11,004,664 Other Interest 688,446 1,091,867 483,252 662,238 Amortisation of Rent Deposits 72,280 268,644 72,280 254,496 Impairment provision on investments 1,202,579 Net Loss on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 4,869,863 2,919,968 4,869,863 2,919,968 186,727,812 182,428,489 127,019,440 113,931,645 5.1 FINANCE INCOME Interest Income 17,939,896 19,430,343 7,951,235 7,450,546 Amortisation of deferred rent 106,384 229,745 106,384 218,808 Dividend Income 1,439,493 251,199 33,458,873 60,073,720 Dividend Income from Unit Trust 13,363 5,146 19,485,773 19,924,650 41,516,492 67,748,220 80 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 6 INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE The company has a 46% interest in Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd, which is involved in the production and supply of Molecular Biology, Biochemical and Biotechnology reagents for Molecular Diagnostic and research purposes. Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd is a private limited liability company. The following table illustrates summarised financial information of the Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd : Share of the associate’s statement of financial position: Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Current assets 6,593,350 1,886,908 Non-current assets 561,288 624,290 Current liabilities (2,616,811) (603,938) Non-current liabilities Equity 4,537,827 1,907,260 Share of the associate’s profit: 1,210,062 647,380 Carrying amount of the investment (6.1) 2,087,402 877,340 6.1 Balance as at 01st April 2013 877,340 Add: Share of the associate's profit 1,210,062 877,340 Balance as at 31st March 2014 2,087,402 877,340 7 PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION Profit / (Loss) from ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging all expenses including the following. Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Director's Emoluments 15,298,588 20,394,405 12,638,868 18,769,405 Auditors Remuneration Internal 2,740,628 1,370,603 1,643,969 775,770 External 1,503,162 1,315,396 852,942 847,796 Depreciation 269,924,603 254,333,182 135,801,752 126,976,487 Defined Benefit Plan Costs Gratuity 9,600,302 28,317,741 5,842,990 22,537,892 Legal Fees 3,671,796 2,966,500 Salaries 718,386,126 639,959,911 509,927,440 461,288,464 Employee Provident Fund 56,157,163 48,751,161 43,660,305 37,637,904 Employee Trust Fund 14,536,639 12,687,201 10,923,124 9,384,292 Donations 2,451,925 1,963,108 2,346,675 1,560,033 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 81 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 8 INCOME TAX EXPENSES Income Tax (Note 8.1) 33,528,089 31,488,809 22,389,400 20,826,531 Deferred Tax (1,434,887) (1,154,457) (9,527,632) (12,908,662) 32,093,202 30,334,352 12,861,768 7,917,869 8.1 Reconciliation between Current Tax expense and the Accounting profit Accounting Profit before Taxation 332,793,968 330,637,879 198,765,333 218,830,821 Aggregated Disallowed Items 304,225,548 519,646,080 166,462,618 181,064,509 Aggregated Allowed Items (314,571,942) (454,689,670) (151,394,576) (177,325,137) Income not Subject to Taxation (63,666,236) (81,852,662) (37,857,004) (67,529,412) Taxable Profit 258,781,338 313,741,627 175,976,371 155,040,781 Statutory Tax Rate 12% 27,098,078 25,414,593 20,163,054 18,652,894 Statutory Tax Rate 28% 6,430,011 6,074,216 2,226,346 2,173,637 Income Tax Provision 33,528,089 31,488,809 22,389,400 20,826,531 Parent Company Ceylon Hospitals PLC The Company is liable for Income Tax for the year of assesment 2013/2014 at the rate of 12%. Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. The Company is liable for Income Tax for the year of assesment 2013/2014 at the rate of 12%. Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospitals (Pvt) Ltd The profit of the company is exempted from Income Tax for a period of 6 years from the year in which the company commences to make profits or any year of assessments not later than two years recognised from the date of commencement of commerical operations, whichever is earlier. 9 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders over the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares outstanding during the year. Group Company 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Net Profit attributable to Ordinary Shares (Rs.) 236,355,348 264,412,999 185,903,565 210,912,952 Weighted Average Number of Shares outstanding during the year 33,872,726 33,872,726 33,872,726 33,872,726 Earnings per Share (Rs.) 6.98 7.81 5.49 6.23 82 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 10 PROPERTY , PLANT & EQUIPMENT Group Freehold Medical & Motor Vehicles Land Other Furniture Computer Motor on Finance Total & Buildings Equipment & Fittings Equipment Vehicles Lease Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Cost / Valuation Balance as at 01.04.2012 2,888,917,151 1,865,111,451 166,293,764 83,903,428 60,213,637 10,505,357 5,074,944,788 Additions 52,963,140 112,082,968 8,163,765 5,356,300 13,128,320 191,694,493 Disposals (15,450,494) (15,450,494) Balance as at 31.03.2013 2,941,880,291 1,977,194,419 174,457,529 89,259,728 57,891,463 10,505,357 5,251,188,787 Additions 29,837,493 111,256,791 12,334,516 15,114,943 22,429,924 3,700,000 194,673,667 Disposals (5,546,800) (3,650,000) (9,196,800) Balance as at 31.03.2014 2,971,717,784 2,088,451,210 186,792,045 104,374,671 74,774,587 10,555,357 5,436,665,654 Accumulated Depreciation Balance as at 01.04.2012 41,042,615 631,596,569 40,821,466 35,612,260 14,209,575 1,173,645 764,456,130 Depreciation Charge for the year 41,267,450 180,815,113 14,115,762 9,213,588 7,480,732 1,440,536 254,333,181 Disposals (7,222,612) (7,222,612) Balance as at 31.03.2013 82,310,065 812,411,682 54,937,228 44,825,848 14,467,695 2,614,181 1,011,566,699 Depreciation Charge for the year 42,429,091 190,274,039 15,055,895 9,965,219 8,430,380 3,769,979 269,924,603 Disposals (3,110,963) (182,500) (3,293,463) Balance as at 31.03.2014 124,739,156 1,002,685,721 69,993,123 54,791,067 19,787,112 6,201,660 1,278,197,839 Net Book Value At 31st March 2014 2,846,978,628 1,085,765,489 116,798,922 49,583,604 54,987,475 4,353,697 4,158,467,815 At 31st March 2013 2,859,570,226 1,164,782,737 119,520,301 44,433,880 43,423,768 7,891,175 4,239,622,087 Company Freehold Medical & Motor Vehicles Land Other Furniture Computer Motor on Finance Total & Buildings Equipment & Fittings Equipment Vehicles Lease Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Cost / Valuation Balance as at 01.04.2012 1,256,967,000 917,327,465 99,409,469 77,940,527 38,677,372 6,605,357 2,396,927,190 Additions 29,269,695 53,932,907 6,727,798 5,252,800 13,128,320 108,311,520 Disposals (11,550,494) (11,550,494) Balance as at 31.03.2013 1,286,236,695 971,260,372 106,137,267 83,193,327 40,255,198 6,605,357 2,493,688,216 Additions 28,311,828 74,455,807 10,937,067 14,556,912 6,150,000 3,700,000 138,111,614 Disposals (5,546,800) (3,650,000) (9,196,800) Balance as at 31.03.2014 1,314,548,523 1,045,716,179 117,074,334 97,750,239 40,858,398 6,655,357 2,622,603,030 Accumulated Depreciation Balance as at 01.04.2012 349,346,830 30,133,712 29,476,119 7,124,572 523,645 416,604,878 Depreciation Charge for the year 8,944,432 94,816,507 10,329,726 8,043,928 4,181,358 660,536 126,976,486 Disposals (5,597,612) (5,597,612) Balance as at 31.03.2013 8,944,432 444,163,337 40,463,438 37,520,047 5,708,318 1,184,181 537,983,753 Depreciation Charge for the year 9,724,875 101,992,901 11,202,088 8,856,269 3,718,416 307,202 135,801,751 Disposals (3,110,963) (182,500) (3,293,463) Balance as at 31.03.2014 18,669,307 546,156,238 51,665,526 46,376,316 6,315,771 1,308,883 670,492,041 Net Book Value At 31st March 2014 1,295,879,216 499,559,941 65,408,808 51,373,923 34,542,627 5,346,474 1,952,110,989 At 31st March 2013 1,277,292,264 527,097,035 65,673,829 45,673,280 34,546,880 5,421,176 1,955,704,463 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 83 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Revaluation of Land and Buildings The Company uses the revaluation model of measurement of land and buildings. The Company engaged with Mr. P M B Edmund, an accredited independent valuer, to determine the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by reference to market-based evidence. Valuations are based on active market prices, adjusted for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific property. The date of the most recent revaluation was 31st March 2012. Property, Plant and Equipment includes fully depreciated assets having a gross carrying amounts of Rs.48,529,982/(2013 Rs. 39,173,935/-). During the financial year, the Group acquired Property, Plant and Equipment to the aggregate value of Rs.194,673,667/(2013 Rs.191,694,493/-). Acquisitions through Cash payments amounting to Rs. 191,694,493/(2013 Rs. 185,151,578/-). The carrying value of Motor Vehicles held under finance leases at 31 March 2014 was Rs.5,346,474/(2013 -Rs.5,421,176/-). The company acquired Rs. 3,700,000/of finance lease assets during the year. Lease Assets are pledged as securities for the related Finance Lease. The Carrying Values of the Assets if Revaluation has not been carried out. Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Description Address Extent Rs. Rs. Land 01 No 03, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 0A-3R-30.24P 494,400,237 494,400,237 Land 02 No 05, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 0A-0R-32.68P 118,750,000 118,750,000 Building No 03, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 (01 Building) 97,340 Sq.ft 439,280,479 455,604,034 Total 1,052,430,716 1,068,754,271 11 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Company As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 Number of Holding Carrying Directors Number of Holding Carrying Directors Shares Value Valuation Shares Value Valuation % Rs. Rs. % Rs. Rs. Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd 8,581,960 78.02 98,729,910 98,729,910 8,581,960 78.02 98,729,910 98,729,910 Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 120,896,033 81.40 1,327,500,014 1,327,500,014 106,607,144 71.78 1,072,500,012 1,072,500,012 129,477,993 1,426,229,924 1,426,229,924 115,189,104 1,171,229,922 1,171,229,922 84 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 GROUP COMPANY 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 12 INVENTORIES Drugs & Dressings 128,513,126 133,542,483 53,067,323 56,275,563 Lab Reagents & Consumables 131,858,225 78,855,538 131,858,225 78,855,538 Pantry Stocks 1,397,647 1,024,579 1,397,647 1,024,579 General Stocks 29,065,718 20,665,441 29,065,717 20,665,441 Goods-In-TransitEquipment 3,208,564 290,834,716 237,296,605 215,388,912 156,821,121 13 TRADE & OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade Debtors 114,251,906 96,899,926 81,353,050 68,470,232 Other Receivables 11,445,294 11,923,190 6,073,467 8,534,143 Less : Impairment Allowance for Bad Debts (2,691,711) (2,740,153) (2,691,711) (2,535,138) 123,005,489 106,082,963 84,734,807 74,469,237 13.1 Advances and Prepayments Advances 33,199,127 42,186,932 29,475,974 40,662,932 Prepayments 33,673,706 36,693,196 26,547,190 19,207,259 66,872,833 78,880,128 56,023,164 59,870,191 14 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 14.1 Amounts Due From Related Parties Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd 26,194,917 18,065,920 Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 251,791,789 186,397,187 Durdans Management Services Ltd 1,680,902 1,680,902 Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd 2,136,349 517,609 2,136,349 517,609 3,817,251 517,609 281,803,957 204,980,716 14.2 Amounts due to Related Parties Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd 3,187,166 1,456,126 Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 198,903,305 107,103,429 Durdans Management Services Ltd 1,905,710 1,905,710 1,905,710 202,090,471 110,465,265 15 CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS Favourable Cash & Cash Equvalant Balance 48,455,914 96,958,764 37,554,415 74,970,871 16 STATED CAPITAL 33,872,726 Shares ( 2012/13 33,872,726) 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 916,366,104 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 85 For the year ended 31st March 2014 GROUP COMPANY 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 17 REVALUATION RESERVE Balance as at 31st March 2014 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 532,338,890 18 REVENUE RESERVES General Reserves Balance as at 31st March 2014 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 4,822,163 Accumulated Profits Balance as at 1st April 2013 1,098,464,381 970,314,464 967,858,484 892,436,436 Profit for the year 236,355,348 264,412,999 185,903,565 210,912,952 Increase in the Share of Minority Interest (87,265,433) (772,178) Dividend Paid Ordinary Shares (135,490,904) (135,490,904) Balance as at 31st March 2014 1,247,554,297 1,098,464,381 1,153,762,049 967,858,484 Total 1,252,376,459 1,103,286,544 1,158,584,212 972,680,647 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. 19 NON CONTROLLING INTEREST Balance as at 1st April 2013 494,335,061 488,029,455 Profit for the year 21,151,367 35,890,528 Increase/(Decrease) in the Share of Minority Interest (167,734,569) (12,660,322) Dividend Paid (15,709,917) (16,924,600) Balance as at 31st March 2014 332,041,942 494,335,061 86 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 20.1 Other Financial Assets GROUP COMPANY 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Loans and Receivables Refundable Deposits 22,924,416 14,904,446 15,262,581 7,993,979 Fixed Deposits in financial institutions 210,633,694 148,222,486 95,414,667 88,519,061 Total Loans and Receivables 233,558,110 163,126,932 110,677,248 96,513,040 Available for Sale Investments Equity Shares in listed companies 8,009,693 6,757,752 1,540,000 816,000 Total Available for Sale Investments 8,009,693 6,757,752 1,540,000 816,000 Total other Financial Assets 241,567,803 169,884,684 112,217,248 97,329,040 Total current 210,633,694 148,222,486 95,414,667 88,519,061 Total non current 30,934,109 21,662,198 16,802,581 8,809,979 Loans and Receivables Refundable Deposits and Fixed Deposits in Financial Institutions Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method (EIR), less impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the income statement. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income statement in finance costs. Available-for-Sale Investment Quoted Equity Shares The Group has investments in listed equity securities. The fair value of the quoted equity shares is determined by reference to published price quotations in an active market. Impairment on Available-for-Sale Financial Investments For Available-for-Sale Financial Investments, the Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments is impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as Available-for-Sale, objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost. The determination of what is ‘significant’ or ‘prolonged’ requires judgment. In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, among other factors, historical share price movements and the duration or extent to which the fair value of an investment is less than its cost. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 87 For the year ended 31st March 2014 20.2 Other Financial Liabilities Financial Liabilities at fair value through Profit or Loss GROUP COMPANY 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Embedded Derivatives (Redeemable Debentures) 91,119,863 105,187,450 91,119,863 105,187,450 Total Financial Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 91,119,863 105,187,450 91,119,863 105,187,450 Total current 13,750,000 13,750,000 Total non current 77,369,863 105,187,450 77,369,863 105,187,450 In 2007, the Company issued Rs.100 Mn redeemable debentures to Lanka Venture PLC (LVL) and pays 12% interest on the debentures. Of these debentures, Rs. 68.75 Mn will be settled in 5 equal annual installments from June 2013 to June 2017 with the company having the option to prematurely settle. The remaining Rs.31.50 Mn of the debentures will be exchanged for shares of the company’s subsidiary, Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd (DMSH), before June 2016. The derivative is contingently puttable if DMSH is not listed by June 2016 and in such case, Company will buy back those DMSH shares from LVL in 2 equal annual installments at a price linked to DMSH’s EPS in 2016 and 2017. This contract has embedded derivatives which require bifurcation. The redeemable debentures will be carried at fair value through profit or loss. 20.3 Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings Re-payable Re-payable Total Total within after one as at as at one year year 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Note Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Group Bank Loans 20.3.1 389,212,626 586,617,592 975,830,218 977,001,785 Lease Creditors 20.3.2 2,337,144 3,073,169 5,410,313 4,249,789 391,549,770 589,690,761 981,240,531 981,251,574 Company Bank Loans 20.3.1 231,889,283 427,379,150 659,268,433 553,550,721 Lease Creditors 20.3.2 1,201,992 2,872,298 4,074,290 1,898,729 233,091,275 430,251,448 663,342,723 555,449,450 88 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTD. 20.3.1 Bank Loans Group Lender Within One After Total Date Repayment Security Year One Year Obtained Terms Rs. Rs. Rs. DFCC Bank 500 Million Loan 71,428,571 220,238,094 291,666,665 01.05.2010 (A) (i) An agreement to mortgage over allotments of land marked as Lot 01 depicted in Plan No. 7187 dated 10th June 2008 made by Gamini B.Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor of the land bearing assessment No. 03, Alfred Place situated at Kolpetty within the Municipality Council limits of Colombo containing in extent 0A-3R-30.24P, together with the buildings standing thereon owned by the company. (ii) A tripartite agreement assigning 86,000,001 ordinary shares of the Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd held by the company as equity investment. 100 Million Loan 14,285,712 47,619,056 61,904,768 26.07.2010 (B) Primary Mortgage over proposed movable list of machinery with CT Scanner and a Promissory Note. 150 Million Loan 27,500,000 122,500,000 150,000,000 28.02.2012 (C) Primary mortgage over the proposed movable list of machineries and primary mortgage over 8,333,334 shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd 35 Million Loan 9,989,196 13,318,917 23,308,113 14.08.2012 (D) Primary mortgage over the specified Neurology Equipment purchased and Corporate guarantee from Ceylon Hospitals PLC. 200 Mn Loan 49,850,028 20,770,733 70,620,761 23.06.2009 (E) Land An Allotment of Land marked lot 1 depicted in Plan No.7123 dated 08th April 2008 made by Gamini B. Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor, of a land called Durdans Hospital, presently bearing assessment No. 04, 06th Lane and part of assessment No.03, Alfred Place situated at Kolpitty, within the Municipal Council Limits of Colombo and containing in extent 0A-1R-26.54P according to the said Plan No. 7123 together with the building standing thereon owned by the Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. NDB Bank 100 Million Loan 18,800,000 18,800,000 15.10.2010 (F) Primary Mortgage over the equipment Purchased of Rs.26.1 million and corporate guarantee from Durdans Heart Surgical Center (Pvt) Ltd. 50 Million Loan 1,570,000 1,570,000 18.03.2011 (G) Primary Mortgage over the equipment purchased and Corporate Guarantee from Durdans Heart Surgical Center (Pvt) Ltd. 50 Million Loan 8,250,000 8,250,000 07.07.2011 (H) Primary Mortgage over the equipment purchased and Corporate Guarantee from Ceylon Hospitals PLC. 25 Million Loan 5,841,000 5,841,000 25.10.2011 (I) Primary Mortgage over proposed movable machinery with CT Scanner. 30 Million Loan 30,000,000 30,000,000 18.02.2014 Revolving Loan Facility 30 Million Loan 30,000,000 30,000,000 10.03.2014 Revolving Loan Facility ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 89 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Lender Within One After Total Date Repayment Security Year One Year Obtained Terms Rs. Rs. Rs. Nations Trust Bank 8 Million Loan 1,340,000 1,340,000 21.12.2012 (J) Primary Mortgage over motor vehicle value of Rs. 08 million and duly signed loan agreement. 50 Million Loan 11,124,000 37,022,000 48,146,000 24.12.2012 (K) Primary mortgage over 8,333,334 shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd Hatton National Bank 50 Million Loan 50,000,000 50,000,000 13.03.2014 Company guarantee through board resolution and duly signed loan agreement. Amana Investments Bank 140 Million Loan 26,001,644 57,016,357 83,018,001 11.08.2010 (L) Primary Mortgage over MRI Scanner 175 Million Loan 33,232,476 68,132,435 101,364,911 24.12.2009 (M) Primary mortgage over Medical Equipment purchased Total 389,212,626 586,617,592 975,830,218 20.3.1 Bank Loans Company Lender Within One After Total Date Repayment Security Year One Year Obtained Terms Rs. Rs. Rs. DFCC Bank 500 Million Loan 71,428,571 220,238,094 291,666,665 01.05.2010 (A) (i) An agreement to mortgage over allotments of land marked as Lot 01 depicted in Plan No. 7187 dated 10th June 2008 made by Gamini B.Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor of the land bearing assessment No. 03, Alfred Place situated at Kolpitty within the Municipal Council limits of Colombo containing in extent 0A-3R-30.24P, together with the buildings standing thereon owned by the company. (ii) A tripartite agreement assigning 86,000,001 ordinary shares of the Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd held by the company as equity investment. 100 Million Loan 14,285,712 47,619,056 61,904,768 26.07.2010 (B) Primary Mortgage over proposed movable list of machinery with CT Scanner and a Promissory Note. 150 Million Loan 27,500,000 122,500,000 150,000,000 03.07.2013 (C) Primary mortgage over the proposed movable list of machineries and primary mortgage over 8,333,334 shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd NDB Bank 100 Million Loan 18,800,000 18,800,000 15.10.2010 (F) Primary Mortgage over the equipment Purchased of Rs.26.1 million and corporate guarantee from Durdans Heart Surgical Center (Pvt) Ltd. 50 Million Loan 1,570,000 1,570,000 18.03.2011 (G) Primary Mortgage over the equipment Purchased and Corporate Guarantee from Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. 25 Million Loan 5,841,000 5,841,000 25.10.2011 (I) Primary Mortgage over proposed movable machinery with CT Scanner. 90 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTD. 20.3.1 Bank Loans Company Lender Within One After Total Date Repayment Security Year One Year Obtained Terms Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank Contd. 30 Million Loan 30,000,000 30,000,000 18.02.2014 Revolving Loan Facility Nations Trust Bank 8 Million Loan 1,340,000 1,340,000 21.12.2012 (J) Primary Mortgage over motor vehicle value of Rs. 08 Mn and duly signed loan agreement. 50 Million Loan 11,124,000 37,022,000 48,146,000 05.07.2013 (K) Primary mortgage over 8,333,334 shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd Hatton National Bank 50 Million Loan 50,000,000 50,000,000 13.03.2014 Company guarantee through board resolution and duly signed loan agreement. Total 231,889,283 427,379,150 659,268,433 20.3.2 Lease Creditors Group Gross Liability Name of Lease Creditor and Description of Asset on Finance Lease Balance New Repayments Balance As At Leases As At 01.04.2013 Obtained 31.03.2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank Axio Motor Car 187,349 (187,349) JMC Double Cab 2,079,331 (866,497) 1,212,834 Allion Motor Car 2,643,836 (1,220,232) 1,423,604 Toyota Motor Car 4,347,000 (217,350) 4,129,650 4,910,516 4,347,000 (2,491,428) 6,766,088 Finance Charges Allocated to Future Years NDB Bank Axio Motor Car 3,123 (3,123) JMC Double Cab 364,828 (215,796) 149,032 Allion Motor Car 292,776 (205,194) 87,582 Toyota Motor Car 1,197,000 (77,838) 1,119,162 660,727 1,197,000 (501,951) 1,355,776 Present Value of Lease Creditors 4,249,789 5,410,312 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 91 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Lease Creditors Company Gross Liability Name of Lease Creditor and Description of Assets on Finance Lease Balance New Repayments Balance As At Leases As At 01.04.2013 Obtained 31.03.2014 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. NDB Bank Axio Motor Car 187,349 (187,349) JMC Double Cab 2,079,331 (866,497) 1,212,834 Toyota Motor Car 4,347,000 (217,350) 4,129,650 2,266,680 4,347,000 (1,271,196) 5,342,484 Finance Charges Allocated to Future Years NDB Bank Axio Motor Car 3,123 (3,123) JMC Double Cab 364,828 (215,796) 149,032 Toyota Motor Car 1,197,000 (77,838) 1,119,162 367,951 1,197,000 (296,757) 1,268,194 Present Value of Lease Creditors 1,898,729 4,074,290 (A) In 84 equal monthly installments of Rs. 5,952,380/with a grace period of 12 months. (B) In 84 equal monthly installments of Rs. 1,190,476/with a grace period of 12 months. (C) In 60 equal monthly installments of Rs. 2,500,000/with a grace period of 10 months. (D) In 42 equal Monthly installements of Rs. 833,333/after 6 months grace period. (E) In 48 equal monthly installments of Rs. 4,166,667/commencing after a grace period of 12 months. (F) In 36 equal monthly installments of Rs. 2,777,777/with a grace period of 13 months. (G) In 29 equal monthly installments of Rs. 1,670,000/and final installment of Rs.1,570,000/-. (H) In 29 equal monthly installments of Rs. 1,670,000/and final installment of Rs.1,570,000/-. (I) In 29 equal monthly installments of Rs. 833,000/and final installment of Rs.843,000/-. (J) In 17 equal monthly installments of Rs. 464,000/and final installment of Rs.452,000/-. (K) In 53 equal monthly installments of Rs. 927,000/and one installment of Rs.869,000/-. (L) In 72 monthly installments as per the schedule given by the lender, commencing after a grace period of 12 months. (M) In 84 monthly installments as per the schedule given by the lender, commencing after a grace period of 12 months. 92 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 20 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CONTD. 20.4 Fair Values Group Set out below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the Group’s financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements. Carrying Amount Fair Value 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Financial Assets Trade & Other receivables 123,005,489 106,082,963 123,005,489 106,082,963 Other financial assets Loans and other receivables 235,479,129 165,117,246 233,558,110 163,126,932 Available for sale financial investments 2,234,753 2,234,753 8,009,693 6,757,752 Cash and short-term deposits 48,455,914 96,958,764 48,455,914 96,958,764 Total 409,175,285 370,393,726 413,029,206 372,926,411 Financial liabilities Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings 981,240,532 977,001,785 981,240,532 977,001,785 Obligations under finance leases 5,410,312 4,249,789 5,410,312 4,249,789 Trade and other payables 283,027,095 300,099,066 283,027,095 300,099,066 Bank overdrafts 334,810,633 249,759,045 334,810,633 249,759,045 Derivative financial liabilities at fair value through profit & loss 86,250,000 100,000,000 91,119,863 105,187,450 Total 1,690,738,572 1,631,109,685 1,695,608,435 1,636,297,135 20.4 Fair Values Company Financial Assets Trade & Other receivables 84,734,807 74,469,237 84,734,807 74,469,237 Other financial assets Loans and other receivables 108,353,727 98,408,398 110,677,248 96,513,040 Available for sale financial investments 640,000 640,000 1,540,000 816,000 Cash and short-term deposits 37,554,415 74,970,871 37,554,415 74,970,871 Total 231,282,949 248,488,506 234,506,470 246,769,148 Financial liabilities Interest Bearing Loans & Borrowings 659,268,433 553,550,721 659,268,433 553,550,721 Obligations under finance leases 4,074,290 1,898,729 4,074,290 1,898,729 Trade and other payables 178,968,057 201,614,533 178,968,057 201,614,533 Bank overdrafts 226,765,286 160,445,190 226,765,286 160,445,190 Derivative financial liabilities at fair value through profit & loss 86,250,000 100,000,000 91,119,863 105,187,450 Total 1,155,326,066 1,017,509,173 1,160,195,929 1,022,696,623 The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 93 For the year ended 31st March 2014 a. Cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. b. The fair value of loans from banks and other financial liabilities, obligations under finance leases, as well as other non-current financial liabilities is estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities. c. Fair value of available-for-sale financial assets is derived from quoted market prices in active markets, if available. 20.5 Fair Value Hierarchy As at 31st March 2014, the Group/Company held the following financial instruments carried at fair value on the statement of financial position: The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: techniques which use inputs that have an effect on the recorded fair value are observable,either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques which use inputs that have an effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data Group Company 31.03.2014 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 31.03.2014 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Assets measured at fair value Availale for sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 8,009,693 8,009,693 1,540,000 1,540,000 Loans and Receivables Refundable Depoits & Short term Deposits 233,558,110 22,924,416 210,633,694 110,677,248 15,262,581 95,414,667 Trade & Other Receivables 123,005,489 123,005,489 84,734,806 84,734,806 Liabilities measured at fair value Embedded derivatives 91,119,863 91,119,863 91,119,863 91,119,863 As at 31st March 2013, the Group/Company held the following financial instruments measured at fair value: Group Company 31.03.2013 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 31.03.2013 Level 01 Level 02 Level 03 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Assets measured at fair value Availale for sale financial assets Quoted equity shares 6,757,752 6,757,752 816,000 816,000 Loans and Receivables Refundable Depoits & Short term Deposits 163,126,932 14,904,446 148,222,486 96,513,040 7,993,979 88,519,061 Trade & Other Receivables 106,082,963 106,082,963 74,469,237 74,469,237 Liabilities measured at fair value Embedded derivatives 105,187,450 105,187,450 105,187,450 105,187,450 94 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 21 DEFERRED REVENUE GROUP COMPANY 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Balance as at 01st April 2013 30,024,600 31,364,600 Less: Amotized during the year (1,340,000) (1,340,000) Balance as at 31st March 2014 28,684,600 30,024,600 22 PROVISIONS & OTHER LIABILITIES Gratuity Balance as at 01st April 2013 99,991,266 81,566,563 89,671,628 75,635,045 Provision for the year 9,600,302 28,317,741 5,842,990 22,537,892 109,591,568 109,884,304 95,514,618 98,172,937 Payments made during the year (11,423,439) (9,893,038) (10,990,639) (8,501,309) Balance as at 31st March 2014 98,168,129 99,991,266 84,523,979 89,671,628 Note: As at 31st March 2014 the gratuity liability was actuarially valued under the projected unit credit method by Mr.M.Poopalanathan of Actuarial and Management Consultant (Pvt) Ltd. The liability is not externally funded. Principal actuarial assumptions used % per annum (a) Discount Rate 11% (b) Incidence of Withdrawal 10% (c ) Salary Increased 6% (d) Retirement Age 55 years Expense recognised in the Statement of Income 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Current service cost 12,233,827 14,633,218 9,739,952 12,498,577 Interest cost 11,607,483 8,972,322 9,863,879 8,319,855 Actuarial gain/(loss) (14,241,008) 4,712,201 (13,760,841) 1,719,460 Total included in the staff cost 9,600,302 28,317,741 5,842,990 22,537,892 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 95 For the year ended 31st March 2014 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 23 DEFERRED TAXATION Balance Brought Forward 98,982,194 100,136,651 82,162,746 95,071,408 Provision for the year (1,434,887) (1,154,457) (9,527,632) (12,908,662) Balance Carried Forward 97,547,307 98,982,194 72,635,114 82,162,746 Deferred tax provision as at the end of year is made up as follows; Deferred tax provision from: Temporary difference of property, plant & Equipment 109,327,482 110,981,146 82,777,991 92,923,341 Temporary difference of retirement benefit obligation (11,780,175) (11,998,952) (10,142,877) (10,760,595) 97,547,307 98,982,194 72,635,114 82,162,746 24 TRADE & OTHER PAYABLES Trade Creditors 101,279,537 113,779,470 72,858,543 81,826,722 Accrued Expenses & Sundry Payables 181,747,558 186,319,596 106,109,514 119,787,811 283,027,095 300,099,066 178,968,057 201,614,533 GROUP COMPANY 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. 25 TAXATION PAYABLE Balance as at 01st April 2013 8,303,932 24,904,916 4,296,673 26,808,674 Provisions for the year 32,093,202 31,488,809 22,389,400 20,826,531 Payments made during the year (28,932,092) (45,639,046) (15,957,801) (42,512,233) Tax credits for ESC Paid (870,507) WHT deducted (754,195) (1,580,240) (754,195) (826,299) Balance as at 31st March 2014 10,710,847 8,303,932 9,974,077 4,296,673 26 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS There were no material capital commitments outstanding as at 31st March 2014. 27 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES There were no contingent liabilities as at 31st March 2014 that requires adjustment to or disclosure in the Financial Statements. 28 EVENTS OCCURRING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE There were no material events occurring after the balance sheet date that require adjustments or disclosure in the Financial Statements. 29 DIVIDENDS There were no dividends distributed during the financial period of 2013-2014. 96 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 30 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES 30.1 The Directors of Ceylon Hospitals PLC are also the Directors of the following related Companies Name of the Director Durdans Tudawe Tudawe Durdans Durdans Ceygen Management Brothers (Pvt) Engineering Medical & Heart Biotech Services Ltd. Ltd. Services (Pvt) Surgical Surgical (Pvt) Ltd. Ltd. Hospital (Pvt) Centre (Pvt) Ltd. Ltd. Mr A E Tudawe √ √ √ √ √ Mr S P Tudawe √ √ √ √ √ Mr U D Tudawe √ √ √ √ √ √ Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardena √ √ √ Mr Y N R Piyasena √ √ √ Dr N Y Wijemanne √ Mr A S Abeywardene √ Name of the Company Relationship Ceylon Hospitals PLC Company Durdans Management Services Ltd Immediate/Ultimate Parent Company Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd Subsidiary Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd Subsidiary Ceygen Biotech (Pvt) Ltd Associate Tudawe Brothers (Pvt) Ltd Other Affiliates Tudawe Engineering Services (Pvt) Ltd Other Affiliates 30.2 Substantial Shareholding, Immediate and Ultimate Parent Company The company’s immediate parent company is Durdans Management Services Ltd., which holds 64.67% of the issued Ordinary Shares of the company as at reporting date. 30.3 Key Management Personnel Information According to Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 24 (LKAS) “ Related Party Disclosures”, Key management personnel are those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling activities of the entity. Accordingly, the Board of Directors (including Executive and Non executive Directors) have been classified as Key Management Personnel of the Company. 30.4 Related Party Transactions The Company carries out transactions in the ordinary course of its business with parties who are defined as related parties in Sri Lanka Accounting Standard 24 (LKAS), “Related Party Disclosures”, the details of which are reported below. 30.4.1 Transactions held with Companies in which Directors of the Company hold Other Directorships The Company has carried out transactions with entities where the Chairman or a Director of the Company is the Chairman or a Director of such entities as detailed below. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 97 For the year ended 31st March 2014 30.4.1.1 Transactions held with Immediate Parent Company Name of immediate Parent Company Description of Transaction Durdans Management Services Ltd. (DMSL) DMSL provides the Management and Consultation Services to Ceylon Hospitas PLC. During the year the company has paid Rs. 18,413,486/(Previous Year Rs. 20,395,379/-) as Management Fee to DMSL. 30.4.2 Transactions with Other Related Companies a) Company Name of Related company Description of Transaction Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. (DHSC) The company has received the services of Rs.93,565,058/(Previous Year Rs.58,388,928/-) from DHSC for the medical related activities of the hospital. The company has paid amount of Rs.14,078,413/(Previous Year Rs.56,882,802/-) to DHSC for the services rendered in relation with medical activities. Company provides the Management and Consultation Services to DHSC. During the year the company has received Rs. 3 million (Previous Year Rs.3 million) as Management Fee from DHSC. Company has received Rs.3 million as operating lease rentals from DHSC during the period based on operating lease agreement engaged with two companies for the usage of Cardio Vascular Angiography System. Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. (DMSH) The company has invested the amount of Rs. 179,813,088/(Previous Year Rs. Nil) in ordinary shares of DMSH during the year. The company has received the amount of Rs.262,386,337/(Previous Year Rs.314,466,273/-) from DMSH for the services rendered to the company. 98 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 30 RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES CONTD. b) Group Transactions held between Related Companies (i) Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd with other Related Parties Name of Related company Description of Transaction Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. (DHSC) The company has paid the amount of Rs. 8,706,361/(Previous Year Rs.7,228,094/-) to DHSC for the services rendered to the company. Tudawe Engineering Services Limited The Company has invested the amount of Rs. 30,272,988/(Previous Year Rs. Nil) for the period. Durdans Management Services Ltd. (DMSL) The company has invested the amount of Rs. Nil (Previous Year Rs. Nil) in ordinary shares of DMSH during the year. (ii) Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. Name of Related company Description of Transaction Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. (DMSH) The company has received the amount of Rs. 8,706,361/(Previous Year Rs.7,228,094/-) from DMSH for the services rendered to the company. 30.5 Transactions held with Key Management Personnel ( KMP ) of the Company or Parent Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the company as well as its related parties, directly or indirectly, including any director (whether executive or otherwise) of the company. Group Company 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Short-term employee benefits 23,926,894 20,394,405 17,823,411 18,769,405 Post employment benefits Other long-term benefits Terminal benefits Share based payments 23,926,894 20,394,405 17,823,411 18,769,405 30.5.1 Loans to Directors a) Group/Company No loans have been given to directors of the company and its parent company. b) Compensations to Key Management Personnel of the Company and its parent company. i. Company Emoluments to the directors of the Company are disclosed in Note (7) to the Financisal Statements. ii Group Emoluments to the directors of the Group are disclosed in Note (7) to the Financisal Statements. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 99 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Other than those disclosed above, there are no material transactions held with the Key Management Personnel of the company and its parent company. 30.6 Amounts receivable from and payable to related parties are set out in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. These receivables and payables are unsecured and have no fixed repayment terms. 31 ASSETS PLEDGED AS COLLATERALS 31.1 ASSETS PLEDGED AS COLLATERALS BY THE GROUP OF COMPANIES The following assets of the Group have been pledged as collaterals for overdraft facilities and loans obtained by the Group to the respective financial institutions concerned. 31.1.1 Assets Pledged by Ceylon Hospitals PLC Balance outstanding Name of financial Nature of Facility as at 31.03.2014 Securities institution facility granted (Rs.) Pledged DFCC Bank Term Loan 500 Million 291,666,665 (i) An agreement to mortgage over allotments of land marked as Lot 01 depicted in Plan No. 7187 dated 10th June 2008 made by Gamini B Dodanwela, Licensed Surveyor of the land bearing assessment No. 03, Alfred Place situated at Kolpitty within the Municipality Council Limits of Colombo containing in extent of 0A-3R-30.24P, together with the buildings standing thereon owned by the company. (ii) A tripartite agreement assigning 86,000,001 ordinary shares of the Durdans Medical and Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd held by the company as an equity investment. Term Loan 100 Million 61,904,768 Primary mortgage over proposed movable list of machinery with CT Scanner. Term Loan 150 Million 150,000,000 Primary mortgage over the proposed movable list of machineries and primary mortgage over 8,333,334 shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. NDB Bank Bank Overdrafts 20 Million 18,932,631 Primary mortgage of Promissory Note Rs. 50 Million. Term Loan 100 Million 18,800,000 Primary mortgage over the equipment Purchased of Rs.26.1 Million and Corporate Guarantee from Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. Term Loan 50 Million 1,570,000 Primary mortgage over the equipment Purchased and Corporate Guarantee from Dudans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd. Term Loan 25 Million 5,841,000 Primary mortgage over proposed movable machinery with CT Scanner. Revolving Loan 30 Million 30,000,000 Revolving Loan Facility. 100 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 31 ASSETS PLEDGED AS COLLATERALS CONTD. 31.1.1 Assets Pledged by Ceylon Hospitals PLC Balance outstanding Name of financial Nature of Facility as at 31.03.2014 Securities institution facility granted (Rs.) Pledged NTB Bank Vehicle Loan 8 Million 1,340,000 Primary Mortgage over motor vehicle for value of Rs. 8 Million and duly signed loan agreement. Term Loan 50 Million 48,146,000 Primary mortgage over 8,333,334 shares of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. Bank Overdrafts 45 Million 41,922,997 Company guarantee through board resolution and duly signed overdraft agreement. Sampath Bank Bank Overdrafts 10 Million 7,983,276 Primary mortgage of Promissory Note Rs. 10 Million. Union Bank Bank Overdrafts 25 Million 22,415,280 Primary mortgage of Promissory Note of Rs. 25 Million. Commercial Bank Bank Overdrafts 48.1 Million 27,562,932 Mortgage of fixed deposits amount of Rs.48,746,979/in the name of the company together with duly executed letter of authority and letter of set off. HNB Bank Revolving Loan 50 Million 50,000,000 Company guarantee through board resolution and duly signed loan agreement. Bank Overdraft 50 Million 46,799,200 Company guarantee through board resolution and duly signed overdraft agreement. 31.1.2 Assets Pledged by Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd Balance outstanding Name of financial Nature of Facility as at 31.03.2014 Securities institution facility granted (Rs.) Pledged DFCC Bank Project Loan 200 Million 70,620,761 Mortgage of land marked lot 01 depicted in Plan No. 7123 dated on 08th April 2008 made by Gamini B Dodanwela licensed surveyor, of a land called Durdans Hospital, presently bearing assessment No. 04, 6th Lane and part of assessment No 03, Alfred Place situated at Kolpitty, within the Municipal Council Limits of Colombo and containing in extent of 0A-1R-26.54P according to the said plan No.7123 together with the buildings standing thereon belonging to Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. Import Loan 35 Million 23,308,113 Primary mortgage over the specified neurology equipment purchased and Corporate Guarantee issued from Ceylon Hospitals PLC. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 101 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Balance outstanding Name of financial Nature of Facility as at 31.03.2014 Securities institution facility granted (Rs.) Pledged Amana Investment Import Loan 175 Million 101,364,911 Primary mortgage of medical equipment imported & locally Bank purchased which were financed through this loan facility and the Corporate Guarantee for Rs.296 Million from Ceylon Hospitals PLC. Import Loan 140 Million 83,018,001 Primary mortgage of medical equipment imported & locally purchased which were finance through this loan facility and the Corporate Guarantee for Rs.517 Million from Ceylon Hospitals PLC. Negative pledge over immovable assets of Durdans Medical & Surgical Hospital (Pvt) Ltd. NDB Bank Working Capital 50 Million 8,250,000 Primary mortgage over the Furniture & Fittings and company Loan ambulance with Corporate Guarantee from Ceylon Hospitals PLC for the entire amount of loan facility. Revolving Loan 30 Million 30,000,000 Over the company inventories. Commercial Bank Bank Overdrafts 50 Million 42,204,793 Corporate Guarantee of Rs. 50 Million issued by Ceylon Hospitals PLC. NDB Bank Bank Overdrafts 50 Million 41,376,848 Company Guarantee through board resolution and duly signed overdraft agreement. 31.1.3 Assets Pledged by Durdans Heart Surgical Centre (Pvt) Ltd Balance outstanding Name of financial Nature of Facility as at 31.03.2014 Securities institution facility Granted (Rs.) Pledged Commercial Bank Bank Overdrafts 10 Million 2,620,947 Over the company inventories and trade debtors balance. (Favourable) 102 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 32 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings and trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. The Group has trade receivables, other receivables and cash and short-term deposits that arrive directly from its operations. The Group also holds available-for-sale investments. The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s senior management oversees the management of these risks. The Group’s senior management is supported by a financial acumen team that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group. The finance team provides assurance to the Group’s senior management that the Group’s financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with group policies and group risk appetite. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below. Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will which fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market prices comprise two types of risk: interest rate risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits, available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments. The sensitivity analysis in the following sections relate to the position as at 31st March in 2014 and 2013. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument which will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings, after the impact of interest rate changes. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings as follows. (There is only an immaterial impact on the Group’s equity): Increase/ effect on decrease profit in basis points before tax Rs. 2014 Loans & Borrowings +1% 12,970,281 -1% (12,970,281) 2013 Loans & Borrowings +1% 11,401,164 -1% (11,401,164) ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 103 For the year ended 31st March 2014 Equity Price Risk The Group’s listed equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on a regular basis. The Group’s Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. At the reporting date, the exposure to listed equity securities at fair value was Rs.4,211,286/-. A decrease of 10% on the CSE market index could have an impact of approximately Rs.421,128/on the equity attributable to the Group, depending on whether or not the decline is significant or prolonged. An increase of 10% in the value of the listed securities would only impact equity but would not have an effect on profit or loss. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is being exposed to the credit risk from its operating activities (primarily for trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions and other financial instruments. Trade Receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policies, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit evaluation format and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and obtaining the Letter of Guarantees from patients who are admitted to the hospital through corporate customers. The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The calculation is based on the actual incurred historical data. The Group does not hold collateral as security. The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions and industries and operate in largely independent markets. Liquidity Risk The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, debentures, finance leases and hire purchase contracts. The Group assesses the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to below. Access to sources of funding is sufficiently available and debt maturing within 12 months can be rolled over with existing lenders. 104 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes to the Financial Statements Contd. For the year ended 31st March 2014 32 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES CONTD. Liquidity Risk Contd. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. On Less than 03 to 12 01 to 05 > 05 Total Demand 03 Months Months Years Years Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Year ended 31st March 2014 Interest Bearing Borrowings 97,887,442 293,662,328 589,690,761 981,240,531 Embedded Derivatives 13,750,000 77,369,863 91,119,863 Trade & other Payables 192,153,316 90,873,779 283,027,095 Amounts Due to Related Parties Bank Overdrafts 334,810,633 334,810,633 334,810,633 290,040,758 398,286,107 667,060,624 1,690,198,122 Year ended 31st March 2013 Interest Bearing Borrowings 78,697,907 228,793,510 673,760,157 981,251,574 Embedded Derivatives 105,187,450 105,187,450 Trade & other Payables 206,939,268 93,159,799 300,099,067 Amounts Due to Related Parties 571,713 1,333,997 1,905,710 Bank Overdrafts 249,759,045 249,759,045 249,759,045 286,208,888 323,287,306 778,947,607 1,638,202,846 33 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Capital includes ordinary shares and other equities attributable to the equity holders of the parent. The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payments to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended 31st March 2014 and 31st March 2013. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Group’s policy is to keep the gearing ratio between 25% and 40%. The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, bank overdrafts redeemable debentures, trade and other payables, less cash and cash equivalents. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 105 For the year ended 31st March 2014 31.03.2014 31.03.2013 Rs. Rs. Interest Bearing Loans and Borrowings (Note 20.3) 981,240,531 981,251,574 Embedded Derivatives (Note 20.2) 91,119,863 105,187,450 Trade and other payables 283,027,095 300,099,066 Bank overdrafts 334,810,633 249,759,045 Less : Cash and cash equivalents (48,455,914) (96,958,764) 1,641,742,208 1,539,338,371 Equity 3,039,144,818 3,050,673,598 Capital and Net Debt 4,680,887,026 4,590,011,969 Gearing ratio 35% 34% 106 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Value Added Statement Group Company Value Added 2013/2014 2012/2013 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Turnover 3,961,267,670 3,830,369,150 2,647,083,795 2,470,162,902 Cost of Materials and Services Obtained (2,248,438,774) (2,186,973,827) (1,512,638,385) (1,415,955,010) Other Income 53,491,824 34,335,043 74,488,780 82,783,918 1,766,320,720 1,677,730,366 1,208,934,190 1,136,991,811 % % % % Distribution of Value Added To Employees Salaries and Others 58.0% 1,025,010,532 54.8% 918,720,698 62.2% 752,289,808 59.4% 675,519,033 To Government Income Tax 1.8% 32,093,202 1.8% 30,334,352 1.1% 12,861,768 0.7% 7,917,869 To Capital Providers Interest on Loans 10.3% 181,785,669 10.9% 182,428,489 10.1% 122,077,297 10.0% 113,931,645 Shareholders 0.9% 15,709,917 9.1% 152,415,504 11.9% 135,490,904 To Expansion and Growth Depreciation 15.3% 269,924,603 14.7% 246,590,680 11.2% 135,801,752 11.3% 128,710,312 Retained Profit 13.7% 241,796,797 8.8% 147,240,644 15.4% 185,903,565 6.6% 75,422,049 100% 1,766,320,720 100% 1,677,730,366 100% 1,208,934,190 100% 1,136,991,811 Group Company % % D D A To Employees 58.03% 62.2% B To Government 1.8% 1.1% Group A Company A C To Capital Providers 11.2% 10.1% C D To Expansion and Growth 29.0% 26.6% C B B ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 107 Ten Year Summary Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 2008/09 2007/08 2006/07 2005/06 2004/05 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Operating Results Total Income 3,961,268 3,830,369 3,546,523 3,054,399 2,451,031 2,171,229 1,879,645 1,638,594 1,401,325 1,009,108 Other Income 53,492 34,335 22,155 23,728 21,354 28,462 27,282 16,087 14,917 6,684 Finance Cost 186,728 182,428 164,558 151,094 121,781 85,678 44,262 28,320 23,408 13,616 Profit Before Tax 289,600 330,638 347,462 240,042 164,894 198,125 169,555 229,857 212,274 132,417 Income Tax 32,093 30,334 61,210 81,659 54,893 29,595 38,382 34,847 41,987 29,088 Profit After Tax 257,507 300,304 288,231 158,383 110,001 168,529 131,173 195,010 170,287 103,329 Dividend(Company) 135,491 50,809 42,341 38,812 38,812 38,812 38,812 38,812 36,225 Balance Sheet Assets Property Plant & Equipment 4,158,468 4,239,622 4,310,489 4,000,023 2,331,038 1,938,135 1,887,441 1,778,784 1,060,912 836,765 WIP Building in Construction 6,543 8,498 1,170,783 824,703 228,087 6,451 66,805 Other Financial Assets 241,568 169,884 193,682 95,102 102,541 158,357 70,585 101,737 131,508 117,504 Investment in an Associate 2,087 877 Inventories 290,835 237,297 215,965 166,722 146,229 116,901 108,360 88,636 82,671 62,319 Receivables 193,695 185,481 185,481 178,959 169,632 135,122 130,846 105,476 90,583 57,804 Deffered Revenue 660 760 860 2,400 2,500 2,600 1,260 5,953 9,205 12,457 Goodwill 1,341 1,341 1,341 1,341 2,022 2,704 Cash & Cash Equivalents 48,456 96,959 21,279 71,062 66,370 22,520 29,443 62,587 23,270 19,057 4,935,769 4,930,880 4,934,298 4,522,766 3,990,434 3,199,679 2,457,363 2,144,514 1,406,622 1,175,415 Equity & Liabilities Stated Capital 916,366 916,366 916,366 916,366 513,821 395,389 395,389 395,389 395,389 395,389 Reserves 1,790,736 1,639,972 1,512,620 1,125,265 1,447,696 1,387,373 1,202,786 1,131,389 493,919 387,692 Non Controlling Interest 332,042 494,335 488,029 400,145 393,603 401,711 44,623 42,668 36,563 39,714 Interest-bearing Borrowings 1,072,361 1,086,439 1,352,120 1,359,039 1,051,634 621,299 390,887 210,519 209,075 154,529 Provisions and Other Liabilities 489,453 544,009 518,301 504,601 361,051 289,760 314,819 282,738 200,616 152,356 Overdrafts 334,811 249,759 146,862 217,350 222,629 104,147 108,859 81,811 71,060 45,735 4,935,769 4,930,880 4,934,298 4,522,766 3,990,434 3,199,679 2,457,363 2,144,514 1,406,622 1,175,415 108 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Durdans’ Island-wide Reach 91 Hettipola 165 Madampe 239 Pethiyagoda 92 Hiripitiya 166 Madawala 240 Pilimathalawa 93 Hikkaduwa 167 Madurankuliya 241 Piliyandala 94 Hindagama 168 Mahabage 242 Pitigala 95 Hingurakgoda 169 Mahagirilla 243 Poddala 96 Homaqama 170 Maharagama 244 Pointpedro 97 Horana 171 Mahawewa 245 Pokurassa 98 Horowpathana 172 Maho 246 Polgahawela 99 Hunupitiya 173 Mahara 247 Polgolla 100 Ibbagamuwa 174 Mahiyanganaya 248 Pokunuvita 101 Imaduwa 175 Makola 249 Polonnaruwa 102 Invil 176 Makuluduwa 250 Polpitigama 103 Ingiriya 177 Malabe 251 Polmatai 104 Ja-Ela 178 Maligawatta 252 Punchi Borella 105 Jaffna 179 Malwana 253 Puwakpitiya 106 Jayawardenepura 180 Mahipa 254 Pussallawa 107 Kadawatha 181 Mannar 255 Puttalam 108 Kadugannawa 182 Maradana 256 Raddolugama 109 Kaduwela 183 Maradankadawala 257 Rathanapura 110 Kaduruwella 184 Marawila 258 Ragama 111 Kahatagasdigiriya 185 Maspotha 259 Rajagiriya 112 Kahawatta 186 Matale 260 Rajawella 113 Kekirawa 187 Matara 261 Rambukkana 114 Kalmunei 188 Mattegoda 262 Ratmalana 115 Kalubowila 189 Mathugama 263 Rawathawatta 116 Kalutara 190 Matikumbura 264 Rideegama 117 Kaluwanchikudi 191 Mattakkuliya 265 Rikillagaskada 118 Kamburupitiya 192 Mawanella 266 Ruwanwella 119 Kandana 193 Medawachchiya 267 Samanthurai 120 Kaluaggala 194 Meegahathanna 268 Sarikkamulla 121 Kandy 195 Meerigama 269 Seeduwa 122 Kanthale 196 Meegoda 270 Seeppukulama 123 Kapuwatta 197 Mihintale 271 Siyambalape 124 Karapitiya 198 Minuwangoda 272 Slave Island 125 Karaveddy 199 Molagoda 273 Sooriyawewa 126 Karandeniya 200 Monaragala 274 Thabuthegama 127 Karawanella 201 Moraduwa 275 Thalangama 128 Katana 202 Moratuwa 276 Thalawathugoda 129 Kathankudi 203 Moragollagama 277 Tangalle 130 Katugasthota 204 Morawaka 278 Thavalama 131 Kotugoda 205 Nadimala 279 Thammannawa 132 Katikithula 206 Nagoda 280 Thihariya 133 Katukurunda 207 Narahenpita 281 Thirappane 134 Katunayake 208 Narammala 282 Tissa 1 Addalaichenai 31 Beruwala 61 Elayapaththuwa 135 Katuneriya 209 Naththandiya 283 Thirunelveli 2 Ahangama 32 Bibile 62 Elpitiya 136 Kayts 210 Nawagamuwa 284 Trincomalee 3 Akkaraipattuwa 33 Bingiriya 63 Egaloya 137 Kebithigollewa 211 Nawala 285 Udugampola 4 Akurana 34 Bokundara 64 Embilipitiya 138 Kegalle 212 Nawalapitiya 286 Unawatuna 5 Akuressa 35 Bombuwala 65 Eppawala 139 Kelaniya 213 Nawinna 287 Velanai 6 Alawwa 36 Borakanda 66 Erawur 140 Kilinochchi 214 Negombo 288 Vauniya 7 Aluthgama 37 Borella 67 Galagedara 141 Kinniya 215 Nelliyadi 289 Veyangoda 8 Agalawatte 38 Chavakachcheri 68 Galawela 142 Kiribathgoda 216 Nelubewa 290 Wadduwa 9 Ambalangoda 39 Chilaw 69 Galnewa 143 Kirillawala 217 Nikadalupotha 291 Walasmulla 10 Ambalanthota 40 Colombo 08 70 Galenbindunuwewa 144 Kirinda 218 Nikaweratiya 292 Wathupitiwala 11 Ambanpola 41 Colombo 10 71 Galewala 145 Kobeigane 219 Nikawewa 293 Walpola 12 Ampara 42 Daluwatta 72 Galpatha 146 Kochchikade 220 Nittambuwa 294 Wanduramba 13 Ampegama 43 Dambulla 73 Galgamuwa 147 Kolonnawa 221 Nochchiyagama 295 Warakapola 14 Anuradhapura 44 Dankotuwa 74 Galle 148 Kosgama 222 Nugegoda 296 Wariyapola 15 Arawwala 45 Dalupitiya 75 Gampaha 149 Kotahena 223 Nuwara Eliya 297 Wattala 16 Athurugiriya 46 Danturei 76 Gampola 150 Kolugoda 224 Oddamavadi 298 Weeraketiya 17 Awissawella 47 Debarawewa 77 Ganemulla 151 Kollawa 225 Orugodawatta 299 Weligama 18 Baddegama 48 Deheregoda 78 Gelioya 152 Kotapola 226 Padaviya 300 Welimada 19 Badulla 49 Dehiwala 79 Gintupitiya 153 Kothmale 227 Padeniya 301 Welipannagahamulla 20 Balangoda 50 Dehiowita 80 Girialla 154 Kotikawatta 228 Padukka 302 Weliweriya 21 Balapitiya 51 Delgoda 81 Gorakana 155 Kottawa 229 Pallepola 303 Wellampitiya 22 Balummahara 52 Demanhandiya 82 Gonapola 156 Kotte 230 Panadura 304 Waligampitiya 23 Bambalapitiya 53 Dematagoda 83 Habarana 157 Kuliyapitiya 231 Pannala 305 Wellawatta 24 Bandaragama 54 Deniyaya 84 Habarakada 158 Kundasale 232 Pannipitiya 306 Wellawaya 25 Bandarawela 55 Deraniyagala 85 Hambanthota 159 Kurana 233 Papiliyana 307 Wennappuwa 26 Batapola 56 Dharga Town 86 Hanguranketha 160 Kurunegala 234 Palawatta 308 Yakkalamulla 27 Battaramulla 57 Dodangaslanda 87 Hanwella 161 Kurundugahahetekma 235 Palmadulla 309 Yatawatta 28 Batticaloa 58 Eheliyagoda 88 Hasalaka 162 Lenaduwa 236 Payagala 310 Yatiyanthota 29 Beliatta 59 Ekala 89 Hatharaliyadda 163 Lunawa 237 Peradeniya 30 Bentota 60 Elakanda 90 Hatton 164 Madampitiya 238 Peralanda ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 109 Share Information Distribution of Shareholders Voting Shares Resident Non Resident Shareholdings Number of No of Percentage Number of No of Percentage Shareholders Shares ( % ) Shareholders Shares (%) 1 1,000 2,042 512,439 2.01% 17 5,936 0.02% 1,001 10,000 307 880,167 3.45% 16 53,946 0.21% 10,001 100,000 58 1,626,352 6.37% 2 157,243 0.62% 100,001 1,000,000 16 4,752,736 18.62% Over 1,000,000 2 17,538,453 68.70% Total 2,425 25,310,147 99.15% 35 217,125 0.85% Catogaries of Shareholders No of Share No of Shares Holders Individual 2,367 4,753,442 Institutional 93 20,773,830 2,460 25,527,272 Non-Voting Shares Resident Non Resident Shareholdings Number of No of Percentage Number of No of Percentage Shareholders Shares ( % ) Shareholders Shares (%) 1 1,000 957 257,079 3.1% 7 2,968 0.04% 1,001 10,000 427 1,267,471 15.2% 9 33,080 0.40% 10,001 100,000 83 2,360,867 28.3% 4 141,723 1.70% 100,001 1,000,000 10 3,127,895 37.5% Over 1,000,000 1 1154371 13.8% Total 1,478 8,167,683 97.87% 20 177,771 2.13% Catogaries of Shareholders No of Share No of Shares Holders Individual 1,429 3,377,193 Institutional 69 4,968,261 1,498 8,345,454 Per Share Ratios 2013/2014 2012/2013 Rs. Rs. Earning per Share 5.49 6.23 Dividend per Share 2.00 Net Asset Value per Share 76.99 71.49 110 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Share Information Contd. Market Activities Market Value per Share 2013/2014 2012/2013 Highest Traded Lowest Traded Last Traded Highest Traded Lowest Traded Last Traded Price Price Price Price Price Price Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Voting 120.00 97.00 115.00 106.20 62.00 100.00 24-Jan-2014 19-Apr-2014 25-Mar-2014 18-Feb-2013 25-May-2012 28-Mar-2013 Non-Voting 87.60 68.60 77.00 88.90 50.10 75.10 16-Aug-2013 07-Jan-2014 31-Mar-2014 19-Mar-2013 05-Jun-2012 28-Mar-2013 Share Trading Information 2013/2014 2012/2013 Shares Traded Turnover Shares Traded Turnover No’s Rs No’s Rs Voting 587,626 62,858,740 1,017,607 93,333,066 Non-Voting 291,016 22,294,774 434,497 30,682,650 TOP 20 SHAREHOLDERS LISTED AS AT 31ST MARCH 2014 Voting Shareholders As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 Name of the Share Holder Country of Number of Holding Number of Holding Residence Shares % Shares % Durdans Management Services Ltd Sri Lanka 16,509,553 64.67 16,509,553 64.67 Deutsche Bank AG-National Equity Fund do 1,028,900 4.03 968,900 3.8 Ceylon Investments PLC A/C 01 do 756,915 2.97 756,915 2.97 Lawrance Tudawe Management Services (Pvt) Ltd do 598,982 2.35 598,982 2.35 Mr Y N R Piyasena do 553,134 2.17 553,134 2.17 The Ceylon Guardian Investment Trust PLC A/C No 02 do 518,371 2.03 494,131 1.94 Mr S P Tudawe do 307,936 1.21 307,936 1.21 Cargo Boat Development Company PLC do 305,485 1.20 305,485 1.20 M J F Holdings Ltd do 270,981 1.06 270,981 1.06 Mr A E Tudawe do 205,052 0.8 205,052 0.8 Mr A D P A Wijegoonewardena do 175,418 0.69 175,418 0.69 Deutsche Bank AG As Trustee to Candor Growth Fund do 173,111 0.68 Deutsche Bank AG As Trustee to Candor Sharia Fund do 171,635 0.67 Mr U D Tudawe do 170,616 0.67 170,616 0.67 Mr W N Tudawe do 164,091 0.64 159,091 0.62 Mr A D Tudawe do 161,984 0.63 161,984 0.63 Mr R R Tudawe do 118,262 0.46 118,262 0.46 Deutsche Bank AG Namal Growth Fund do 100,763 0.39 100,763 0.39 DFCC Bank A/C 01 do 100,000 0.39 100,000 0.39 The Sri Lanka Fund do 90,000 0.35 90,000 0.35 22,481,189 88.06 22,047,203 86.37 ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 111 Non-Voting Shareholders As at 31.03.2014 As at 31.03.2013 Name of the Share Holder Country of Number of Holding Number of Holding Residence Shares % Shares % Employees Provident Fund Sri Lanka 1,154,371 13.83 1,154,371 13.83 Deutsche Bank AG as Trustee for Namal Acuity Value Fund do 800,000 9.59 800,000 9.59 M J F Holdings Ltd do 598,646 7.17 598,646 7.17 Deutsche Bank AG-National Equity Fund do 481,000 5.76 481,000 5.76 E W Balasuriya & Co.(Pvt) Ltd do 330,619 3.96 330,619 3.96 DFCC Bank A/C 1 do 300,000 3.59 300,000 3.59 Mr D Ratnayake do 146,866 1.76 146,866 1.76 A Z Holdings (Pvt) Ltd do 139,024 1.67 139,024 1.67 Mr A H Munasinghe do 127,214 1.52 127,214 1.52 Waldoki Mackenzie Ltd / Mr K Omprasadham do 104,446 1.25 104,446 1.25 Distillers Company of Sri Lanka PLC A/C No.02 do 100,080 1.20 100,080 1.20 Tudawe Engineering Services (Pvt) Ltd do 91,986 1.10 91,986 1.10 Mr D A Cabraal do 80,000 0.96 72,000 0.86 Durdans Management Services Ltd do 79,114 0.95 Waldoki Mackenzie Ltd / Mr.P.S.De Mel do 70,702 0.85 70,702 0.85 Mr S S Sithambaranathan do 66,000 0.79 66,000 0.79 Mr P A I S Perera do 65,454 0.78 65,454 0.78 Fergasam Garment Industries (Pvt) Ltd do 65,454 0.78 65,454 0.78 Mr A I Maniku do 63,600 0.76 63,600 0.76 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC do 61,100 0.73 61,100 0.73 4,925,676 59.01 4,838,562 57.96 112 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the 6. Declaration of dividends Shareholders of Ceylon Hospitals PLC, will be held on 27th June 2014 The Company paid on interim dividend of Rs. 2/per share at the Durdans Auditorium (11th floor) at 9.00 a.m. to all its shareholders in the month of May 2014. No further dividends have been recommended by the Board. The business to be brought forward before the meeting will be: 7. To re-appoint M/s B R de Silva & Company, Chartered 1. To receive and consider the Annual Report of the Directors Accountants, the retiring Auditors who have expressed their and the Statement of Accounts for the year ended 31st March willingness to continue in office as Company’s Auditors for 2014 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. (Resolution 1) the Financial Year ending 31st March 2014 and to authorise the Board of Directors to determine their remuneration. 2. To elect Mr Ahamed Su – Ayid Mohommed Ismail, Director (Resolution 6) appointed since the last Annual General Meeting in terms of Article No. 65 of the Articles of Association. (Resolution 2) 8. To authorise the Directors to determine donations for the year 2014/2015. (Resolutions 7) 3. To re-elect Mr S P Tudawe who retires by rotation in terms of Article No. 58 of the Articles of Association and being eligible BY ORDER OF THE BOARD offers himself for re-election. (Resolution 3) NEXIA CORPORATE CONSULTANTS (PVT) LTD SECRETARIES 4. To re-appoint Dr N Y Wijemanne, Director who vacates office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 05th June 2014 and for this purpose to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution. 1. A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote instead of him/her. “Resolved that the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of 2. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to Dr N Y 3. A Form of Proxy accompanies this notice. Wijemmane who attained the age of 70 years in the month March 2010, and that he be appointed a Director of the Board in terms of Section 211 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007.” (Resolution 4) 5. To re-appoint Mr A S Abeyewardena, Director who vacates office in terms of Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and for this purpose to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution. “Resolved that the age limit stipulated in Section 210 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr A S Abeyewardene who attained the age of 70 years in the month March 2014, and that he be appointed a Director of the Board in terms of Section 211 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007.” (Resolution 5) ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 113 Notes 114 DURDANS HOSPITAL l The difference is quality Notes Contd. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 Form of Attendance I hereby record my presence at the Annual General Meeting of Ceylon Hospitals PLC, held on 27th June 2014 at the Durdans Auditorium (11th Floor) of Ceylon Hospitals PLC No.03, Alfred Place, Colombo 03 at 9.00 a.m. Full Name of Shareholder :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... National Identity Cards No. of Shareholder :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Address of Shareholder :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Name of Proxy holder (If applicable) :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... National Identity Cards No.of Proxy holder :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Address of Proxy holder :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No of Shares held :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Share Certificate No. :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Signature of Shareholder :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Date :..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Note Shareholders are requested to: 1. Bring the Form of Attendance when attending the Meeting and hand it over at the entrance to the meeting hall. Bring the National Identity Card or Passport. 2. Shareholders appointing persons (other than Directors of the Company ) to attend the Meeting are requested to indicate the number of the National Identity Card of the Proxy holder on the Form of Proxy and request the proxy holder to bring with them their National Identity Card or Passport. ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 Form of Proxy Voting Shareholders I/We ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................of ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................being a shareholder/shareholders of Ceylon Hospitals PLC. hereby appoint Mr A E Tudawe or failing him Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene or failing him Mr S P Tudawe or failing him Mr U D Tudawe or failing him Mr Y N R Piyasena or failing him Mr A S Abeywardene or failing him Dr N Y Wijemanne or failing him Mr A Su-Ayid M Ismail or failing him Mr/Mrs/Miss ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................of ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. as my/our proxy to attend (and vote for me/us) on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 27th June 2014 and at any adjournment thereof. Note If the Proxy Form is signed by an Attorney, the relative power of Attorney should also accompany the completed Form of Proxy, if it has not already been registered with the Company. Resolutions For Against 1. To adopt the Statement Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2014. 2. To elect Mr A Su-Ayid M Ismail 3. To re-elect Mr S P Tudawe 4. To re-appoint Dr N Y Wijemanne 5. To re-appoint Mr A S Abeyewardene 6. To re-appoint auditors 7. To authorise the Directors to determine the donations. Mark your preference with “X” Signed on this ............................................................................................. day of ............................................................................................. 2014 ............................................................................................ Signature ANNUAL REPORT 2013/2014 Form of Proxy Non-Voting Shareholders I/We ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................of ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................being a shareholder/shareholders of Ceylon Hospitals PLC. hereby appoint Mr A E Tudawe or failing him Dr A D P A Wijegoonewardene or failing him Mr S P Tudawe or failing him Mr U D Tudawe or failing him Mr Y N R Piyasena or failing him Mr A S Abeywardena or failing him Dr N Y Wijemanne or failing him Mr A Su-Ayid M Ismail or failing him Mr/Mrs ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................of ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. as my/our proxy to attend on my/our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 27th June 2014 and at any adjournment thereof. Note If the Proxy Form is signed by an Attorney, the relative power of Attorney should also accompany the completed Form of Proxy, if it has not already been registered with the Company. Signed on this ............................................................................................. day of ............................................................................................. 2014 ............................................................................................ Signature The difference is quality www.durdans.com
