CSR Report 2013/2014 the urge to explore space A new era for egetæpper’s CSR reporting It is our pleasure to present egetæpper’s new Corporate Social ness activities on a responsible basis and to preserve our world Responsibility (CSR) Report. This year’s CSR Report is strucfor future generations. tured according to a new template, in line with our recent certification under the DS 49001 CSR standard. This certification has The report is primarily based on our two factories in Herning led to major changes in how egetæpper works with CSR, which and Gram in Denmark.2 Data for CO2 emissions concerns the is also reflected in the report’s far broader focus than previous entire Group, however, including our subsidiaries, Litspin in Lithreports. We are also implementing the latest edition of the Globuania and Bentzon Carpets ApS, in which we hold a 51% interest. al Reporting Initiative (G4) Reporting Guidelines, which among In the longer term, the intention is to include all subsidiaries in other things set higher requirements of a CSR report’s content the report on a full basis. and data collection. The full CSR Report has not been verified by a third party. NevThis new reporting structure ensures the reader a wider overertheless, the report is the result of comprehensive efforts to view of our CSR activities during the financial year from 1 May collect and internally verify the information presented. All en2013 to 30 April 2014.1 vironmental data related to EMAS verification in Herning and Gram have been verified by Bureau Veritas Certification. For an overview of the content of this extensive CSR Report, we refer the reader to the Table of Contents on page 3 and to Even though the report is presented in accordance with the G4 the Index of G4 Content on page 50. For readers with a particuguidelines, there are deviations from these guidelines3, since in lar interest in environmental data in accordance with EMAS, an some respects they require a very high level of detail. overview of this data is presented in the Index of EMAS Content on page 53. If you have any questions concerning the content of this report, please contact: For egetæpper, CSR concerns how we as a company take reCSR Manager Jan Ladefoged, sponsibility for our impact on the world around us. CSR is about E-mail: jlj@ege.dk, Tel.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 finding the right balance between high quality and design, on CSR Project Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup, the one hand, and respect for the world we live and work in, on E-mail: dak@ege.dk, Tel.: (+45) 97 11 88 11 the other. Through our CSR work, we seek to conduct our busi1 The previous CSR Report was published on 19 August 2013. The next report will be published and submitted to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in August 2015. 2 These factories are registered in accordance with the EU’s environmental regulation, EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme), under registration number DK000012. The EMAS verification is undertaken by Bureau Veritas. 3 This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Table of contents 4 History and renewal 6 Profile 9 Interaction with stakeholders 10 CSR policy 12 Process description 13 Results Management excellence Human rights Working conditions Environmental conditions Best practice Consumer conditions Developing and involving the local community 26 G4 indicators 40 Total input/output for the Group’s carpet production in Herning and Gram 42 Objectives and targets Objectives and targets for 2013/2014 New targets for 2014/2015 48 CSR in the future Appendices Appendix 1: Index of G4 Content Appendix 2: Index of EMAS Content Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts Appendix 4: Calculation basis and data sources History and renewal Two major events in particular affected egetæpper during the the CSR department, which works with the development and past year. In October 2013, we celebrated our 75th anniversary. implementation of the day-to-day activities. Much has taken place since 1938, when egetæpper’s founder, Mads Eg Damgaard, purchased two tufting machines and Communication, both internal and external, is a key aspect of moved into the 30-m2 premises where he started the company CSR. We have therefore developed a clear communication that has grown into one of Europe’s largest carpet manufacturstrategy towards our stakeholders. The ”Pure Respect” commuers. The anniversary was celebrated in style, followed a month nication strategy helps us to present complex messages on a later by another important event for egetæpper: CSR certificaclear and straightforward basis, reaching a wider audience. tion in accordance with DS 49001. We have also expanded our internal communication activities. We are proud to be the first carpet manufacturer in the world In autumn 2013, the CSR department held over 20 briefing sesto achieve the extensive DS 49001 certification. As a consesions at which all employees in Herning were updated on all of quence of this certification, egetæpper’s ambition is to be the our CSR activities and their significance for employees. Our world’s leading carpet manufacturer in terms of Corporate Sopolicy and guidelines were also published on our intranet, so cial Responsibility. Our CSR strategy to achieve this ambitious that employees always have access to them. objective is to demonstrate a high level of responsibility in the development and operation of the company, in order to contribAs part of our wish to ensure sustainability throughout the value ute to sustainability throughout the value chain, while maintainchain, during the past year we have reviewed egetæpper’s prining a high level of respect for our company and our activities. cipal suppliers and asked them to accept and sign egetæpper’s We work with CSR in accordance with the UN Global Compact Code of Conduct. and the trade association Danish Fashion & Textile’s Code of Conduct, which we endorsed in 2010. After our DS 49001 cerWe have also launched a very exciting process to implement tification, we are now focused on seven focus areas that affect the Cradle to Cradle philosophy throughout our company. We egetæpper’s CSR performance. are involved in a project under the Danish Business Authority/ Grøn Omstillingsfond (green conversion fund) to ensure that, in Key new initiatives the longer term, we are able to reuse all components from our DS 49001 has systematised and expanded how we work with used carpets in the production of new carpets. We are ready to CSR at egetæpper. Previously, our primary focus was on the entake back our own carpet tiles after use and reuse them, either vironment, employees and health & safety, but now we take a by cleaning and selling them again, or by recovering the comstructured approach to all of the standard’s seven focus areas. ponents and using them in new products. Yet there is still a lot to be done before we can reuse the components in our own • Management excellence products. • Human rights • Working conditions Systems and labelling schemes • Environmental conditions In environmental terms, we are continuing our work to constant• Best practice ly reduce our environmental impacts. In 1996, we commenced • Consumer conditions the implementation of ISO 14001 and EMAS at our factories in • Developing and involving the local community Herning and Gram. We have now expanded this certification to also include our factory in Lithuania, and we are working to In this respect, we have expanded many different CSR activities. implement ISO 14001 at Bentzon Carpets. The strict environFor example, we have set up a CSR steering group to follow up mental management system requirements help us to ensure on action plans, ensuring that decisions are implemented and the lowest possible environmental impacts from our production considering new CSR challenges. This is a good supplement to and products. 4 egetæpper gives high priority to labelling schemes for our prodFocus on sustainability ucts. In 2013, we achieved Cradle to Cradle CM Silver certification In 2014, sustainability has become a key concept for our emof the Barcode Ecoline carpet collection. We are now fully enployees. Many initiatives are under way that, overall, will ensure gaged in applying for Cradle to Cradle certification of a number that egetæpper’s products, production processes and activities of other products. Most of our products have already achieved are generally more and more focused on the circular economy approval according to a large number of different building cerand sustainability. We are known for setting the bar high at tification schemes, including LEED and BREAM. egetæpper and with our new objective to be the world’s best carpet manufacturer in CSR terms, we have taken on a major We also give high priority to the working environment. In 2006, new challenge. We are ready to tackle this challenge and look we therefore implemented DS/OHSAS 18001, to ensure that forward to presenting the results. we are constantly inspecting and minimising health and safety risks. We also offer our employees a number of services and benefits that help to make egetæpper an attractive workplace. Herning, Denmark, 3 July 2014 Svend Aage Færch Nielsen John Vestergaard CEO CFO 5 Profile In 1938, Mads Eg Damgaard founded egetæpper, which since Markets then has grown into one of Europe’s largest manufacturers of In addition to the factories in Denmark and Lithuania, the ege textile flooring. Mads Eg Damgaard was a man of great vision. Group includes subsidiaries in a number of countries that are His philosophy was uncompromising: he used only the latest our primary markets: Our subsidiaries function as sales compaand most advanced technology in carpet production and he nies in: was not afraid to challenge convention. This philosophy still • Denmark prevails at egetæpper. We believe that quality and the ability to • France supply ground-breaking design are the way ahead for egetæp• Germany per. • Norway • Sweden egetæpper’s mission • UK We design quality carpets, with respect for people and the en• Singapore vironment. • China (Shanghai) • United Arab Emirates egetæpper’s vision We wish to be the trendsetting supplier to the most demanding We have the greatest potential in the contract market, where we sectors of the market. sell to five different segments: • Hotels Values • Offices Design – Quality – Respect • Healthcare sector • Institutions Activities • Transport sector egetæpper became listed on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange in 1985 under the egetæpper a/s name. The Group’s primary Within these segments, our typical customers are: activities are the production and sale of tufted carpets for the • Hotels contract and domestic markets. We produce 34 different stand• Restaurants ard carpet products and 18 carpet tile products for the contract • Retail stores market, as well as 22 standard domestic products, which we • Offices – public and private use advanced technology to produce in a multitude of colours • Airports and patterns. This year, we produced 3,542,496 m2 of carpet in • Schools and other institutions Herning and 2,055,097 m2 in Gram. This gives a grand total of • Hospitals and nursing homes 5,597,593 m2 of carpet produced. • Shipyards and train factories Production takes place at two factories in Denmark. In the domestic carpets market, egetæpper concentrates its efHerning: Development, production and sale of tufted and flatforts in Denmark. Our customers are mainly retail chains (Garant woven carpets4 and Tæppeland). Gram: Production of tufted and flat-woven carpets5 egetæpper’s sales organisation handles carpet sales from the We purchase undyed flat-woven ground tissue from Bentzon main office in Herning, and via our nine subsidiary companies Carpets, which we then dye, add backing to and resell. and agents/distributors in 57 countries. Wool yarn is produced at egetæpper’s factory, UAB Litspin, in We also undertake outsourced production for other suppliers Lithuania. We purchase synthetic fibres and polyamide yarns in the industry. from external suppliers. Employees egetæpper also exploits the benefits of outsourcing individual Overall, egetæpper has 480 employees worldwide. Most of our maintenance tasks, such as cleaning and facilities maintenance employees, 261 people, work in Herning. The factory in Gram (outdoor areas and office plants). has 60 employees. 4 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej Nord 25, Birk, DK-7400 Herning, Denmark. The facility is located in an industrial park under District Plan no. 6.14.1 and within the limits set out in Section 15 of the Danish Planning Act. The facility site comprises Title nos. 3e, 4bf and 5a Birk By. The site area is approximately 36 hectares, of which approximately 45,000 m2 have been developed. 5 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej 3, DK-6510 Gram, Denmark. The facility is located in an industrial park under Title nos. 1153 and 1505 Gram Ejerlav. The site area is approximately 7.2 hectares, of which approximately 24,000 m2 have been developed. 6 Suppliers impacts, which is e.g. documented by our DS 49001 and ISO egetæpper is actively engaged in supply chain management 14001 certifications. Since 1996 we have been registered under of the 84 key suppliers of components for our products. Our EMAS, which is a voluntary EU regulation to promote environsuppliers, mostly European, provide the following components: mental initiatives. In 2010, we endorsed the UN Global Com• Latex pact, as our commitment to work to ensure the observance of • Fillers ten principles concerning human rights, the environment, work• Adjuvants ing conditions and anti-corruption. • Dyes • Yarns At the strategic level, we are involved in a number of commit• Backing tees and associations, including: • Packaging • Danish Business Council for Sustainable Development (RBE) • Transport • European Carpet and Rug Association (ECRA) • CEN TC 134 (European technical committee for standardisaAll suppliers are subject to risk assessment in accordance with tion in the floor industry) Corruption P. Index (CPI), Environmental P. Index (EPI), and the • Danish Standards Human Rights Risk Index for ”Human Rights” and ”Working Con• Gulvbranchen (the Floor Industry)/the Danish Construction ditions”, respectively. These indexes rank the world’s countries Association by their overall performance in the relevant area. If the suppli• Carpet Recycling UK er’s country ranks as a medium-risk or high-risk country in just • Danish Fashion & Textile (trade association) one index, we consider the supplier to be a mediumor highrisk supplier. egetæpper has a total of five high-risk suppliers Significant changes and two medium-risk suppliers. All 84 suppliers have received There were no significant changes in egetæpper’s organisation egetæpper’s Supplier Code of Conduct for acceptance and during the financial year. signature. Currently, acceptance from 24 suppliers is outstanding. For information concerning egetæpper’s organisation structure and financial results, reference is made to egetæpper’s Annual External involvement Report for 2013/2014. The Annual Report is available on our egetæpper applies a precautionary approach to environmental website: www.egecarpets.com. challenges and works very actively to minimise environmental 7 CASE Social fairness Material Health Material Reutilization Renewable Energy Water Stewardship Emissions Pure Respect communication strategy When a company works with many different complex ideas and order, which is important, but this is not what we present to the projects, it can be difficult to communicate the positive mesgeneral public in the first instance. Now, we keep to simple messages on a clear and straightforward basis. This is often too sages that are easy to remember, such as ”It’s not just about the technical, too protracted or too detailed. To avoid this, egetæpcarpets. It’s about doing what’s right”. per has developed ”Pure Respect” a clear CSR communication strategy. Besides determining which parameters we wish There is further information in our ”Pure Respect” brochure at to communicate in our CSR work, this also concerns getting to egetæpper’s website: www.egecarpets.com. the core of the message. The technical documentation is still in 8 Interaction with stakeholders A stakeholder is a party that affects or is affected by the comSince 2012, we have held personal interviews with representapany’s decisions and actions. Stakeholders are groups of peotives of all these stakeholders. During the interviews they were ple, e.g. customers, employees and the local community, who asked about the relevance of egetæpper’s work for a large are directly affected by the company’s business activities. Stakenumber of different CSR topics. The responses were then used holders may also be parties that make requirements on behalf to analyse the topics to which egetæpper should give highest of other groups, including the environment, that are not able to priority. defend themselves. These topics are working conditions, consumer conditions, enTo a great extent, egetæpper’s CSR work is organised in colvironmental issues and best practice, with lower priority given laboration with our stakeholders, among other things because to management excellence, human rights, and developing and it is important to listen to our stakeholders, in order to maintain involving the local community. We then drew up action plans for our leading market position. these topics, based on the analysis. In the future, we will undertake similar analyses on an annual basis, in collaboration with In 2012, we undertook a comprehensive survey of egetæpper’s our stakeholders. stakeholders. Each stakeholder group was assessed according to a series of concrete criteria showing the importance of the stakeholder in relation to egetæpper. The conclusion was that we have the following principal stakeholders: • Shareholders/owners • Employees • Customers • Suppliers • Architects/designers • Municipalities 9 CSR policy egetæpper wishes to demonstrate active and long-term reWe will ensure a healthy and positive working environment for sponsibility for our impact on the world around us. In our CSR our employees and we will constantly seek to improve working work, we aim to ensure that our business model, production environment conditions. We will work for inclusion and healthprocesses and carpet products help to create a sustainable sopromoting activities. Our working environment management ciety both now and in the future. system is certified in accordance with DS/OHSAS 18001. For egetæpper, CSR is a means to attract and retain employees, We will ensure that our employees have opportunities to develcustomers and end-users, stakeholders and suppliers, as well op in their work, e.g. via further education and training. as a framework for the development of cooperation throughout the entire value chain. CSR also expresses a wish to develop new 1.3 Environment and climate and even more sustainable products and production methods, Via focused activities and by setting environmental objectives, as well as new methods for the use and disposal of our carpets. egetæpper will seek to prevent and reduce the environmental impacts of our production activities and the use and disposal The fundamental basis for our CSR policy is that we comply of our products, and continue to improve our efforts in the enwith all of the legislative requirements, regulations and standvironmental area. ards to which we are subject, and also with the relevant best practices and customs within our industry. We will also respect This applies to the external environment, the working environand promote the ten principles for social responsibility in the ment at our factories, and the indoor climate in the environUN Global Compact, as well as Danish Fashion & Textile’s Code ments in which our carpets are used. Our environmental manof Conduct. agement system is certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Our CSR policy comprises the seven DS 49001 focus areas, as We will reduce our company’s CO2 emissions and thereby rewell as quality management. duce our carbon footprint. We will support the Renewable Energy Certificate System (RECS) via our climate partnership with 1. Focus areas DONG Energy. 1.1 Human rights 1.4 Best practice We will operate a policy of non-discrimination and equal opporegetæpper aims to run every aspect of our business on an hontunities. This applies within the company to our employees and est and ethical basis. We will prevent and combat corruption externally in our value chain. and bribery, and are committed to a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribery. We respect and support human rights: civil and political rights, as well as financial, social and cultural rights. In countries where We will suppress illegal conduct and irregularities within and there is a risk of human rights violations, we will seek to take in relation to our activities, including non-compliance with steps to avoid any violations of human rights that affect the peothis CSR policy. We therefore give employees and other stakeple with whom we work in a business relationship. holders the opportunity to submit anonymous reports via our whistleblower scheme. 1.2 Employees and working conditions We will provide good working conditions for our employees and We will promote social responsibility throughout our value we will observe the current collective agreements in our areas. chain. We will promote diversity in the workplace and work to increase 1.5 Consumer conditions Health and safety of our endthe number of women in managerial positions. We will ensure users that our employees can use their competences in the best We will promote a safe and healthy indoor climate in the buildpossible way, regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, political ings in which our carpets are fitted, thereby protecting the views, age, disability, sexual orientation, etc. health and safety of our end-users. We will defend our employees’ right of association and right to We will promote the sustainable use of our products via labelling collective bargaining. If independent trade unions are discourand certification schemes, as well as product information and aged or prohibited in an area in which we work, we will seek declarations describing our products’ environmental impacts to promote alternative opportunities for the employees to meet in conjunction with their fitting, use, maintenance and disposal. freely to discuss labour market issues. We will also promote the sustainable use of our products via the 10 development of cradle-to-cradle products which, rather than 4. Monitoring and reporting becoming waste, can be transformed into nutrients or reused. We seek to document all important conditions applying to our social, environmental and financial impact on our surroundings. 1.6 Local community involvement and development We present relevant CSR data in our annual CSR Report and a We will become involved in the local communities where our CSR summary is included in egetæpper’s Annual Report. All reproducts are manufactured. We will seek to work with relevant ports and briefings are publicly available via our website. organisations, educational institutions and public authorities on local business development, job creation and skills developTo ensure transparency and comparability, our reports follow ment, as well as the development of modern technologies. the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard. We have decided not to have our CSR Report verified by a third 1.7 Organisation management party. An open dialogue with the company’s stakeholders is one of the cornerstones of egetæpper’s management philosophy. We will 5. Revising the CSR policy therefore engage actively in dialogue with employees, customThe CSR policy is revised annually by the CSR department. Our ers and end-users, public authorities, NGOs, suppliers and our intention is to constantly assess and safeguard that our CSR owners on topics and activities that fall within and are of signifipolicy is appropriate in egetæpper’s current circumstances and cance to CSR. We will also ensure that our CSR work is made for the foreseeable future. The revised CSR policy is adopted by available to the general public and to everyone who works for or the strategy group. on behalf of egetæpper. 6. Labelling and certification egetæpper’s executive management holds the overall responsiAll egetæpper products carry the CE mark and selected prodbility for egetæpper’s CSR policy and strategy. The CSR departucts are certified/qualified within a number of different proment develops and implements egetæpper’s CSR targets and grammes, including LEED, BRE and the Danish Indoor Climate activities. The work of the CSR department is regularly reported Labelling scheme. Our certification spans a very wide range of to the egetæpper strategy group, which consists of members issues, including safety, health, indoor climate and the environof the executive management body and management group, ment, life cycle analyses, sustainable construction and building as well as key employees. declarations, cleaning quality and maritime safety. 2. Quality 7. Internal guidelines egetæpper’s quality management system is certified in accordegetæpper has established a series of internal guidelines that ance with ISO 9001 and will be an integral element of egetæpapply to employees and other parties acting on egetæpper’s per’s forthcoming CSR management system (DS 49001), rebehalf. flecting egetæpper’s values, which are Quality, Respect and Design. The purpose of these guidelines is to ensure the implementation of the CSR policy in egetæpper’s day-to-day activities. We Quality is the keyword for all of our products and services. We currently have guidelines for the following areas: define quality as the security that is created when we have • Anti-corruption and bribery achieved balance between the customer’s expectations of our • Whistleblowing products and services, and how they are actually experienced. • More women in managerial positions • Environment A certified quality management system supports us in achiev• Climate ing our quality objectives and ensuring that we persistently de• Quality velop and deliver products and services at a uniform high qual• Working environment ity level. • IT • Travel 3. Communication • Pooled vehicles We wish to maintain a high level of information to our employees and external stakeholders concerning egetæpper’s development and activities. We will therefore ensure that the CSR policy is available to all of our stakeholders. In particular, we will work to ensure sustained ownership of the CSR policy among egetæpper’s employees. 11 Process description Flow for tufting production Stock of raw materials The following types of raw material are used for the production of tufted carpets: Pile Yarn, pre-dyed or natural white, together with auxiliary chemicals for anti-soil impregnation of the pile. Dyestuffs for dyeing of natural white yarns, as well as auxiliary chemicals and acid for pH adjustment of the colour blends. Backing Substrate for tufting of yarns. Rubber backing consisting of latex, which is a fluid, water-based rubber, together with filler and auxiliary chemicals. In addition, various types of textile backing are used (felt and woven textile). Tufting department The yarn, which can be natural white or pre-dyed, is tufted (sewn) into a thin carpet base in a width of 4 or 5 metres. This semi-finished product is called ground tissue and is available either pre-dyed or natural white for subsequent dyeing. Tip-shearer The ground tissue (only for cut pile carpets) is tip-sheared in order to finish and even out the surface. Dye plant The natural white ground tissue is either dyed via an advanced computer-controlled dye system called the Millitron, or by continuous dyeing. Glueing The dyed ground tissue is pre-coated with a latex compound, after which the backing is attached. The backing may be: • Rubber backing • Textile backing (glued on with latex compound) ege produces mainly to order, so that most of the finished carpets are distributed directly to the customer after the backing has been attached. Tile system When tiles are manufactured, the backing of the finished carpet material is impregnated using a patented system, after which the machine automatically cuts out the tiles and packs them in boxes. Stock Products in stock are transferred to the warehouse after backing has been added, after which they are distributed to customers. 12 Results Management excellence level of information vis-à-vis stakeholders and employees conOur management philosophy focuses on maintaining an open cerning the Group’s development and activities. We therefore and active dialogue with employees, customers, end users, suppublish quarterly financial statements, as well as interim and pliers, public authorities, etc., so that all of egetæpper’s CSR acannual reports. The 2013/2014 Annual Report provides infortivities are available to the general public. mation on egetæpper’s management organisation, financial results, assets, ownership, net sales and net capital value, etc. We CSR is a visible element of egetæpper’s business strategy and also publish this annual, statutory CSR Report, which presents our mission and values both include the word ”respect” (for comprehensive factual data relating to the Group’s CSR activipeople and the environment). Our CSR strategy also incorpoties. The CSR report is communicated to all individuals working rates our wish to demonstrate a high level of responsibility in the for or on behalf of egetæpper, and naturally also to other sedevelopment and operation of our activities, in order to contriblected stakeholder groups. ute to sustainability in the entire value chain, while maintaining a high level of respect within our company and in all our activities. All reports and briefings are available to the general public via our website: www.egecarpets.com. High information level egetæpper’s general declared intention is to maintain a high 13 Human rights egetæpper wishes to respect human rights, as stated in our Women in management CSR policy. We have therefore endorsed the UN Global ComSince 1 April 2013, egetæpper has been subject to a Danish Act pact, while our Code of Conduct requires suppliers to respect that requires companies to consider how far they have an equal human rights. We have one supplier in a country that is condistribution of men and women within their management. On this sidered to represent a high risk in terms of lack of respect for basis, egetæpper has drawn up a policy to achieve more women human rights, and six suppliers in countries that are considered in management. In 2012, egetæpper had 24% female managers. to present a medium risk. All of these suppliers, apart from two The objective is to achieve 30% female managers by 2017. medium-risk suppliers, have signed our Code of Conduct. We are still working to get the last two suppliers’ signatures. To achieve this objective, we have conducted an internal survey to identify barriers and incentives. 15 women and nine men In Denmark, lack of respect for human rights is not considered were interviewed in order to discover what we can do to achieve to be a problem among our employees and stakeholders. We our objective of more women in management. Since then, a seare nonetheless aware that human rights violations may occur. ries of initiatives has been launched. For example, career wishes Within the next years, we therefore plan to implement the UN have become a fixed element of employee performance apGuiding Principles, which will help us to identify any risks of hupraisals, and via our intranet all employees can now see what man rights violations and draw up a plan for prevention, and for supplementary training is available to them. The executive manremediation to the affected parties, should any violations occur. agement has also stated openly in a newsletter to all employees In the meantime, any person related to egetæpper has the opthat it wishes to see more female managers, emphasising that portunity to report any suspected violations of human rights via it is possible to successfully combine a management role at our whistleblower system. egetæpper with a sound work-life balance. 14 From egetæppers 325 employees, 195 works in the productionsite 15 Working conditions We are aware of our corporate social responsibility to our emwork, as well as good colleagues. All employees interviewed ployees and we wish egetæpper to be an attractive workplace. would recommend a job at egetæpper to a friend. We have therefore implemented DS/OHSAS 18001, an international management system for the working environment and Collective agreements and pension schemes health and safety. DS/OHSAS 18001 helps us to control and egetæpper is a member of the trade association Danish Fashion minimise health and safety risks, and certification requires us & Textile. In Herning and Gram, egetæpper follows the collecto prove that egetæpper’s working environment is safe and tive agreements between the Confederation of Danish Employhealthy. ers (DA) and, respectively, 3F (the United Federation of Danish Workers), Danish Metal (the Danish Metalworkers’ Union), HK We have resolved all obvious significant issues relating to the Privat (the commercial and clerical workers’ union) and Teknisk working environment, and we constantly seek to further imLandsforbund (the Danish Association of Professional Techniprove our efforts by revising our CSR policy and by setting new cians). We adhere to these collective agreements with regard objectives for both the working environment and health and to pay levels, maternity/paternity and parental leave, occupasafety. We have special focus on the challenges presented by tional injury insurance, liability and accident insurance, terms the physical working environment. In Herning, this concerns of notice, etc. We offer all employee groups a 12% labour-marnoise, dust and climate conditions, while in Gram the issues are ket pension scheme, whereby egetæpper pays contributions a lack of space, time pressures, heavy lifts and noise. ”Objecequivalent to 8% of the employee’s salary and the employee tives and targets” presents an overview of our current and new pays 4%. The individual employee can elect to make additional working environment targets. pension contributions. Work is ongoing to reduce the internal noise level. In the event Sick leave and inclusion of changes in production processes, new measurements will be The sick leave frequency at egetæpper is generally reasonably made. In accordance with statutory requirements, hearing tests low. The Group target is a sick leave rate below 4%. This year, the are offered to employees working in areas with noise levels exsick leave rates were 3.5% in Herning and 3.4% in Gram. ceeding 80 dB. egetæpper wishes to support an inclusive labour market in We involve our employees in ensuring a sound working environwhich employees who e.g. suffer illness or become worn out ment. We have set up an interdisciplinary Occupational Health can be retained in a suitable position, or have lighter duties. We and Safety Committee which regularly investigates and assesscurrently have employees in flexible jobs with lighter duties in es the need for activities that can help to safeguard our employboth Herning and Gram, just as several employees are hired ees’ health and well-being. For example, employees are offered under Section 56 of the Danish Sick Leave Benefits Act, which weekly physiotherapy at the workplace, healthy and nutritional enables us to continue to employ chronically ill employees. meals in the canteen and, in Herning, we have acquired a massage chair which employees can use as required. Health and HR department safety work is undertaken by a number of Occupational Health A decision has been taken to strengthen the HR area. In the new and Safety Groups within the respective areas. financial year, a newly hired HR Manager will offer sparring and advice to employees and managers on career opportunities, To enhance employee safety, both Herning and Gram have maternity/paternity leave, employment conditions, further trainestablished internal safety teams which consist of a fire fighting and education, etc. ing team and first aid teams. Safety team members receive the necessary training and refresher courses. There are defibrillaFurther training and education tors at both factories, which are part of the Danish Defibrillator Once again this year, all employees have had the opportunity Network: www.Hjertestarter.dk. to enrol for internal courses in IT, mathematics and Danish. The courses are run during normal working hours and employees Employee satisfaction receive pay. A total of 65 employees attended these voluntary In conjunction with the CSR certification in November 2013, training courses this year. Bureau Veritas interviewed 31 randomly selected employees in Herning. The employees were asked, for instance, how they In recent years we have generally begun to focus more on skills would rank egetæpper as a workplace on a scale from 1-10, with development and career opportunities for our employees. On 10 as the highest rating. On average, egetæpper scored 8.5, our intranet, employees can now all see how much supplemenwhich is exceptionally high, according to Bureau Veritas. All of tary training they are entitled to, while career wishes are now a the employees interviewed named the best aspect of working permanent mandatory element of employee performance apfor egetæpper to be ”freedom with responsibility” in their daily praisal interviews. 16 ege Academy is continuing as an ambitious sales training protaken internal courses. In total, this supplementary training and gramme to ensure that our sales force around the world has the education accounted for 3,338 hours. same focus and is optimally equipped to represent egetæpper towards our customers. The training comprises two modules of Staff benefits up to six days’ duration. To date, 35 sales representatives from We offer our employees a number of staff benefits and opporall over the world have completed the training. tunities of different types. Among the most important benefits at egetæpper is a collective employee bonus scheme, whereby During the past few years, most of egetæpper’s country manthe bonus amount depends on a variety of factors, including agers, and a few other managers, have attended the Pathfinder revenue and production. We also offer all employees supcourse, which is an extensive training programme for managers plementary healthcare insurance via IF. Employees can also and specialists, giving them the skills to practise effective leadchoose to insure their spouse or partner, and children. ership and create strong teams. Other benefits include a canteen scheme, weekly physiotherIn addition, individual courses and supplementary training are apy on the company’s premises, workwear for production emoffered as required. In total, 71 employees from Herning and ployees, a staff club and the opportunity to borrow a summer Gram have attended external courses, while 76 employees have cottage. 17 Environmental conditions Environmental issues were a key factor at egetæpper many requirements include improved environmental activities, emyears before CSR became a buzzword. The factories in Hernployee involvement, and that the environmental policy is coming and Gram hold environmental approval from their respecmunicated to stakeholders. EMAS is a direct response to some tive municipalities6. In Herning, we also hold environmental apof the key principles in the EU’s environmental action plans and proval of a CHP station and a Twistset system for post-treatment the challenges we face in terms of ensuring sustainable develof woollen yarns. The factories in Herning and Gram are both opment. egetæpper achieved EMAS registration in 1996. categorised at the highest level, as Level 1 companies7. Non-conformances egetæpper’s most significant environmental impacts and efThe analysis of wastewater discharges in Gram undertaken by fects are presented in Appendix 3. ”Objectives and targets” the municipality showed that, on average for the year, the level presents an overview of current and new environmental tarof an organic substance exceeds the statutory requirements, gets. and one analysis is higher than the permitted maximum level for the substance in question. This non-conformance has not The scope of egetæpper’s environmental and working environhad any serious environmental consequences. Intensive work ment management systems covers all of the Group’s activities is taking place to develop a solution for the treatment of the in connection with the development, production and sale of wastewater discharges. tufted carpets at the factories in Herning and Gram. Climate strategy The factories were not inspected during the current period, nor Since 2011, we have cooperated with DONG Energy as Climate have there been any environmental cases or environmental Partner on a climate strategy to ensure a reduction of our engrievances. ergy consumption and CO2 emissions, while optimising our energy consumption. The original objective was to reduce our CO2 ISO 14001 emissions by 20% before 2015, measured from the base period Back in 1996, we implemented ISO 14001 in Herning, because of 2006-2008. We have already achieved this goal, with a 28% we believe that our environmental obligations extend beyond reduction of direct emissions and a 27% reduction of indirect the statutory requirements. In 1997, Gram also gained ISO emissions. Including other indirect emissions, the calculated 14001 certification, and this year our factory in Lithuania also figures present a different picture, however. Due to new markets achieved certification. in the Far East and a larger volume of carpets transported overseas by air, these CO2 emissions have, in fact, increased by 54% ISO 14001 is a recognised environmental management standfrom the base year. This means that, in real terms, our overall ard. To achieve certification, the company must fulfil a number CO2 emissions have only been reduced by 11.85% in the finanof different requirements, including drawing up an environmencial year compared to the base year. tal policy, together with planning, implementation and execution, inspection and remedial action, as well as management CO2 emissions are reduced via various energy saving projects, review. The system thus obliges us to closely monitor all areas which include a higher degree of recovery in production, greatin which our activities have an impact on the environment, and er focus on reuse via Cradle to Cradle certification, and greater this helps us to achieve continuous improvement and prevenuse of renewable energy sources. tion, by setting objectives and drawing up action plans. In 2011, an agreement was concluded for the purchase of reEMAS newable energy over a five-year period. The investments are EMAS is an EU regulation adopted for the purpose of promotmade by purchasing RECS certificates for DONG Energy’s wind ing environmental initiatives in all types of companies. EMAS farm, Horns Rev II. In the first half of 2014, RECS certificates for takes the requirements in ISO 14001 a step further, as the EMAS 4,790 MWh were purchased. In the second half-year, the plan is 6 On 11.12.13, Herning Municipality issued a new connection permit for the entire factory. On 24.03.14, a new environmental permit was also issued. In both cases, additional self-monitoring requirements as well as additional reporting requirements have been set by Herning Municipality. These have been incorporated into environmental procedures/instructions. Environmental approval of disposal of wastewater sludge from the textile dyeing process, Herning: 12 December 1996 with supplement of 30 March 2004. Environmental approval, Gram: 29 June 1998 Discharge permit, Haderslev Municipality, permission to discharge surface water: 9 January 2009 Connection permit, Gram Municipality: 6 September 2006 7 Municipalities categorise companies on the basis of the company’s own systems for its environmental work, as well as the company’s observance of statutory requirements. Companies that work to protect the environment are rewarded with less intensive control and fewer environmental inspections. Level 1 companies are companies that have put themselves at the forefront in their environmental work. 18 to purchase RECS certificates for a further 1,962 MWh, so that ing more carpets overseas by air, while our carpets are now genour total renewable energy purchase is equivalent to 85% of our erally transported over longer distances than in the past. electricity consumption during the financial year. The objective is to purchase 100% renewable energy for electricity by 2020. In 2013/2014, egetæpper emitted a total of 16,371 tonnes of CO2. A detailed review of our greenhouse gas accounting is preCarbon Footprint sented in ”G4 Indicators” on page 28-309. Since 2009, egetæpper has prepared greenhouse gas accounts for the ege Group. Greenhouse gas accounting compiles the Cradle to Cradle company’s total CO2 emissions – also called our Carbon Footegetæpper is one of only a handful of carpet manufacturers to print. By accounting for emissions, we can target initiatives to have been awarded a Cradle to CradleCM Silver certificate10. This minimise emissions and thereby consistently reduce our carmeans that we can deliver carpets that are manufactured under bon footprint. Greenhouse gas accounting documents how conditions in which precious materials remain in a regenerative much our activities contribute to global warming and climate cycle. Throughout its life cycle, the product generates minimum change8. pollution, spills and waste. It is important that the greenhouse gas accounts show the onWe wish to incorporate Cradle to Cradle principles into every asgoing development in the company’s greenhouse gas emispect of the design, development and production of our carpets. sions. The annual emissions are therefore always compared with We therefore focus on the five Cradle to Cradle areas: the emissions in a fixed base year. egetæpper’s base year is an average of the years 2006-2008. If there is extraordinary activity • Materials in products in a particular year, e.g. due to the expansion of production, the • Environmentally sound design emissions related to the extraordinary activities are accounted • Energy consumption for separately and added to the base year’s greenhouse gas ac• Water consumption count, so that the greenhouse gas accounts for the current year • Social Responsibility (CSR) still present a reliable picture compared to the base year. We are currently applying for Cradle to Cradle certification of In the base year, we emitted 0.58 kg of CO2 per m2 of carpet Ecotrust, which is egetæpper’s patented felt backing for carpet sold. In 2013/2014, we emitted 1.07 kg of CO2 per m2 of carpet tiles, and we plan to achieve certification of a number of other sold. The increase is primarily due to how we are now transportproducts in the future, including all of our carpet tile products. 8 CO2 emissions are calculated in CEMAsys, which is an electronic database for energy and climate reporting that is used to calculate the company’s CO2 emissions. 9 The greenhouse gas accounts are compiled according to the instructions in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which is the closest equivalent of an international standard for this area. GGP is in line with the basic criteria of the ISO 14064 standard. This method ensures uniform and systematic figures. 10 Cradle to Cradle CertificationCM is a certificate licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. The certificate is held for our carpet tile, Barcode Ecoline Modular (now called Barcode Ecotrust). 19 CASE 1. Material recovery Collect 2. Reuse of product carpet tiles Sale via Clean and 3. Removal by use as alternative fuel webshop sort them 4. Removal by incineration 5. Disposit as landfill Recover by ege – a project for the reuse of used carpet tiles In cooperation with the Danish Business Authority/Grøn Oming the various components in used carpets, so that they can stillingsfond for the last two years egetæpper has worked on be re-used in new products. The goal is to be able to reuse the developing and implementing a system for the return and recomponents in our own products, e.g. as backing filling. This use of used carpets, instead of their incineration. We now have is an exciting process and even though there is still a lot to be a system for the cleaning and resale of used carpet tiles via a done, our clear goal is to have a 100% carpet return system in webshop. We are also working to develop a means of separatEurope by 2020. 20 Best practice egetæpper wishes to be a model for other companies to folfor an illicit favour. egetæpper does not accept bribery or corlow. Our overall approach to our business reflects how CSR is a ruption. Facilitation payments to speed up a process are also key element of how we think, develop, produce and sell carpets. strictly forbidden by egetæpper. Yet we can only be a responsible company if our trading and collaboration partners also conduct themselves responsibly. All egetæpper managers, agents and distributors have conWe therefore take various approaches to ensure that we have a firmed by their signatures that they do not use or accept any positive impact on the world around us. form of bribery or corruption. All employees are also informed of our guidelines in this area. Code of Conduct We have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct. This is a set of Whistleblower scheme ethical rules that our suppliers are required to endorse as part Fairplay is not just a question of playing by the rules. It is also of our commercial agreement. The Code of Conduct ensures a matter of opposing any infringement of the rules. egetæpthat our suppliers and their subsuppliers comply with the same per will combat illegal activities and irregularities in relation to guidelines as we do – and is also a strong incentive for them to our own activities, and we therefore make it possible for both take a more sustainable approach in their business models. The employees and other stakeholders to report any experienced Code of Conduct has been sent to our 84 principal suppliers or suspected illegal activities or irregularities within the Group for acceptance and signature. Interested parties can download anonymously, via a whistleblower scheme. the Code of Conduct from our website: www.egecarpets.com. The whistleblower scheme has been approved by the Danish Anti-corruption Data Protection Agency and the system behind the scheme enWe wish to conduct our business activities on an honest and sures that all data is encrypted, so that sensitive personal data ethical basis, in every way. Our CSR policy states that we will is protected 100%. The whistleblower scheme is a clear signal work to prevent corruption and bribery. We therefore have a zeto employees and the surrounding world that we do not tolerate ro-tolerance policy in this area. This applies to every employee unethical business practices at egetæpper. We have not yet had and anyone else attached to egetæpper. any cases under the whistleblower system. Corruption is the abuse of a professional position of trust, or There is access to egetæpper’s whistleblower scheme via our power, for one’s own personal gain. Bribery occurs when some website: www.egecarpets.com. kind of payment or reward is offered to another party in return 21 Consumer conditions One of egetæpper’s key objectives is to help to promote health range of standards, to ensure that the carpets at all times meet and safety regarding use of our carpets. Our carpets must help the highest quality and environmental requirements. Overall, to promote a safe and healthy indoor climate. We therefore hold our certifications cover a very wide range of issues, including a large number of product certifications to ensure that the carsafety, health, indoor climate and environment, life cycle analypets can in no way compromise consumers’ health and safety ses, sustainable construction, construction product declarawhen they use our carpets. We also have a large number of tions, cleaning quality and maritime safety. product details, as well as product and environmental declarations, with information on correct installation, use, maintenance Improved consumer information and disposal. Dialogue with stakeholders has shown that egetæpper has not always succeeded in communicating the messages clearly to Labelling schemes consumers. During the financial year we therefore developed a We have strong focus on product characteristics and we work new communication strategy, called ”Pure Respect”. Read more continuously to reduce any negative impacts our products about this in the case on page 8. may have. Each of our products is certified according to a wide 22 Jan Ladefoged, Csr Manager 23 Developing and involving the local community At egetæpper, we become involved in the local communities CycleAid. This year, the funds raised by the KidsAid campaign where our products are manufactured. We work with local orwere donated to Danish Hospital Clowns. A total amount of DKK ganisations, educational institutions and public authorities to 57,572 was raised via the employee campaign. In addition, prior create development, development opportunities and sustainto our 75th anniversary in 2013, we requested that any cash able environmental conditions. We are involved in many differgifts to egetæpper be donated to the KidsAid Foundation. This ent projects, from the development of sustainable technology, raised a further DKK 23,500 for the KidsAid Foundation. We also to employee development and charitable activities in the local donated a 240 m2 carpet for Danish Hospital Clowns’ new domicommunity. cile. School traineeships for young people with behavioural Art and culture diagnoses Extraordinary inspiration and experiences have always been egetæpper in Herning cooperates with the local lower secondpart of the pattern behind egetæpper’s philosophy, so that ary school, Gjellerup School, to offer school traineeships for egetæpper has also always supported art and culture. egetæpyoung people with the diagnoses ADHD, Asperger’s and autism. per’s longstanding cooperation with and support for variThese tailored five-week traineeships ensure the young people ous cultural institutions and artists contribute to developing a successful programme that would not be available to them egetæpper’s product range, as well as cultural experiences for under an ordinary school traineeship. Read more about this in society in general. the case on page 25. Every year, the ”Ege Foundation – the Vibeke and Mads Eg KidsAid Damgaard Foundation” donates funds for charitable and social Each year, egetæpper makes a donation to the KidsAid Founwelfare purposes. The funds originate from the profits on sale dation whose main objective is to support sick and underpriviof egetæpper shares. This year, the Ege Foundation made doleged children in Denmark. Physical fitness campaigns for emnations of almost DKK 1.1 million. The funds were donated to, ployees are used to collect money for this worthwhile cause. among others, Den Jyske Sangskole, Heart, Herning Garden, egetæpper donates DKK 1 for each kilometre that employees Møltrup Optagelseshjem, Herning Frivillig Centers lydavis, Raexercise within the following categories: WalkAid, RunAid and seiniu Church in Lithuania and the International School in Ikast. 24 CASE egetæpper helping young people with special needs Pupils in their last years of lower secondary school are normally to them instead,” says Jan Højtoft Christensen, head of Stores offered one week’s workplace training, after which they return to and Dispatch, and egetæpper’s coordinator of the project. Jan their classrooms. However, this model is not suitable for young continues: ”We are very careful not to force things, to give the people with diagnoses such as ADHD, Asperger’s and autism. trainees a chance to get used to the new surroundings. The foIn cooperation with Gjellerup School, a lower secondary school cus is on the experience rather than efficiency.” situated just a few hundred metres from the company’s head office, egetæpper has tailored an alternative workplace training In the spring of 2014, the first 9th grade pupils successfully programme that extends over a period of five weeks. The keycompleted the programme. One of the pupils has subsequently words are inclusiveness, understanding and a good experience. gained employment by egetæpper, while the other has entered into a training agreement that will commence in the new school ”It is a great challenge for the young people to have to adapt to year. A new practical training programme at egetæpper is ala practical training workplace, so the company needs to adapt ready under way for two new pupils. 25 G4-indicators Consumptions of materials Direct energy consumption Herning: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3.05 kg of materials per m² of carpet Herning: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18.20 MJ per m² of carpet Gram: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2.43 kg of materials per m² of carpet Gram: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19.20 MJ per m² of carpet Global Reporting Initiative (G4) is a set of reporting guidelines to sessed to be significant for egetæpper, based on the following ensure that companies that use them report the same types of three questions: data every year, making it possible to draw parallels and com1. Why is the indicator important for egetæpper? pare companies’ performance. 2. How do we handle the indicator at egetæpper (management approach)? This year, we are reporting on 42 indicators. All indicators are as3. How do we evaluate/assess the result?11 Finances G4-EC1: Direct economic value For information concerning egetæpper’s financial results, reference is made to egetæpper’s Annual Report for 2013/2014. The Annual Report is available on our website: www.egecarpets.com. Environment G4-EN1: Consumption of materials in kg The breakdown of renewable and non-renewable materials in depleted of. In our case this is cardboard and wool. Non-renewour overall consumption of materials is presented below. Renewable materials are everything else. Associated process materials able materials are materials that the world is not expected to be are materials for operation and maintenance, primary chemicals. Herning Gram Non-renewable Renewable materials Non-renewable Renewable materials materials materials Associated process 90,827 kg 12,445 kg materials Packaging materials 259,001 kg 215,910 kg 225,249 kg 53 kg Semi-manufactures Raw materials 10,695,194 kg 124,547 kg 4,951,810 kg 34,306 kg G4-EN2: Recycled input materials In Herning, we recycle selected types of yarn, felt and backaccounts for 12% of Herning’s total consumption of materials. ing, and in Gram we recycle felt and backing. In 2013/2014 we In Gram we recycled 108,612 kg of input materials. This correused 1,300,543 kg of recycled input materials in Herning. This sponds to 2% of the total consumption of materials in Gram. 11 We have not published the analysis of the indicators’ significance in this report. Interested parties are welcome to contact egetæpper for further information on how the individual indicators are handled at egetæpper. 26 Indirect energy consumption Vater withdrawal Herning: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5.44 MJ per m² of carpet Herning: . . . . . 18.46 litres of water consumed per m² of carpet Gram: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4.55 MJ per m² of carpet Gram: . . . . . . . 12.50 litres of water consumed per m² of carpet G4-EN3: Internal energy consumption Total energy consumption is the total consumption of electricNatural gas for electricity production is calculated separately. ity, truck gas, hydrogen and natural gas. Natural gas is used priSince 1996, the CHP plant in Herning has generated electricity marily to produce heating and steam for industrial processes, that is sold to the local power station. The CHP plant in Herning and to heat buildings. itself generated 1,608,548 kWh during the financial year. Herning Gram From renewable From nonFor own From renewable From nonFor own sources renewable generation of sources renewable generation of sources electricity sources electricity Electricity 11,612 GJ 7,654 GJ 5,632 GJ 3,713 GJ consumption Consumption of district heating Gas 64,482 GJ 8,701 GJ 39,465 GJ consumption G4-EN5: Energy intensity We produced 5,597,593 m2 of carpet in 2013/2014. This required 6.58 kWh per m2 produced. G4-EN6: Energy savings In Herning, the following energy saving projects were run: In Gram, the following energy saving projects have taken place: • Recovery of wastewater, where the wastewater is used to • Regulation of cooling fans preheat the washing water for the carpet lines and is cooled • Moisture regulation of the exhaust air from the backing mafrom 40°C to 10°C. chine • Insulation of various steam pipes and replacement of old • Reduction of volume flow and operating times for the ventifittings. lation plant in the laboratory. • Moisture regulation of the exhaust air from the backing ma• Recovery of wastewater chine, to reduce the volume of air needed for drying and thereby the heating requirement. Overall, this has yielded energy savings of 7,729 GJ in Gram. • Reduction of water content and less evaporation in the Twistset furnace. Together these projects have resulted in energy savings of 10,228 GJ in Herning. 27 G4-EN8: Water withdrawal We use large quantities of water in our production. In both HernThe total water consumption includes consumption for producing and Gram the water comes from the municipal water treattion and buildings. In Herning, the total water withdrawal was ment plant. There is no shortage of water in either of these areas. 65,399 m3. In Gram, the total water withdrawal was 25,647 m3. G4-EN10: Water reuse and recycling The table below shows the proportion of the water withdrawal we have reused. Water reuse and recycling m3 % of total water withdrawal Herning Approx. 5,000 8% Gram Approx. 12,000 47% Total Approx. 17,000 19% G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Direct emissions of greenhouse gas from sources owned or controlled by egetæpper. This concerns: Ton CO2 Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG • Combustion of natural gas to produce heat Vehicles, diesel and petrol Our total consumption is calculated, including the element 12,000 used for production and electricity that is sold externally. 10,000 • Combustion of fuel oil to produce heat This calculates emissions of greenhouse gases from our 8,000 processes • Combustion of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas by 6,000 vehicles owned by egetæpper. This calculates consumption for the means of transport 4,000 owned and controlled by ege. Internal transport within and 2,000 between the production facilities, as well as the proportion of passenger transport that takes place in egetæpper’s own 0 vehicles, is included. Base year 2013/2014 These calculations also include fuel extraction. Transport in leased vehicles is included in scope 3. The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 1 is 6,966 tonnes. The chart shows an overall decline by 2,758 tonnes of CO2 since the base year, corresponding to a decline of 28%. 28 G4-EN16: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Indirect emissions are defined as the emissions related to purchased electricity. At egetæpper this concerns electricity conTon CO2 Electricity sumption in Denmark (production units, office buildings and District heating sales offices). 6,000 5,000 The scope 2 calculations of electricity consumption also include fuel extraction, since the data source used solely includes 4,000 the overall figure. • Consumption of district heating in Denmark 3,000 • Consumption of electricity by the subsidiaries These calculations also include fuel extraction. 2,000 1,000 The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 2 is 3,806 tonnes. This is a decrease by 1,406 tonnes of CO2 since the 0 base year, corresponding to a decline by 27%. Base year 2013/2014 G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) Other indirect emissions comprise a wide range of activities that can be included. At egetæpper we have decided to include Ton CO2 Air, rail and ferry the following activities: Goods transportation • Transport in leased vehicles Vehicles, diesel and petrol • Travel by air, train and ferry 6,000 • Freight transport 5,000 The total volume of CO2 emissions under scope 3 is 5,598 4,000 tonnes. This is an increase of 54% from the base year. The large increase is due to new markets in the Far East and a larger vol3,000 ume of carpets transported overseas by air. 2,000 1,000 0 Base year 2013/2014 29 G4-EN18: Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions Calculation of the CO2 emission per m2 of carpet shows that our CO2 emission per m2 is lower for direct emissions (scope 1) and indirect emissions (scope 2), but that emissions have increased considerably when it comes to transport (scope 3). CO2 pr. m2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 1.50 1.25 1.00 0.75 0.50 0.25 0 Base year 2013/2014 G4-EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Under G4-EN6, various energy saving projects in Herning and Gram are described. These projects have contributed to reducing CO2-emissions by 1,039 tonnes. G4-EN21: NOx, SOx and other significant emissions In Herning, our emissions totalled 2,601 kg of NOx . In Gram, the figure is 3,585 kg of NOx . We do not currently measure SOx and other significant emissions. G4-EN22: Water discharge All process water from our factories is piped to the local water purification plant, while sanitary water is piped into the sewers. Wastewater is cleaned and neutralised before discharge. • In Herning, 53,342 m3 of water was discharged via the purification plant and sewers. • In Gram, 15,201 m3 of water was discharged via the purification plant and sewers. 30 G4-EN23: Weight of waste and disposal method Waste is sorted and disposed of in the following main groups: • Deposit as land fill: Sludge from the dyeing process, non• Recovery: The groups of waste for which it is possible to reflammable waste and the waste that cannot be handled in cover the waste either for new production, or as a compothe incineration plant. nent in another product. • Destruction: Waste for destruction includes waste oil, • Thermal recycling: All waste that can be incinerated, such chemical and raw material residues, batteries and fluoresas yarn residues, cardboard bobbins, carpet residue, sludge cent tubes. from the glueing works, and packaging that is not recyclable. The volumes of the various waste fractions are registered as a single figure. Disposal method Waste in kg Herning Waste in kg Gram Land fill 8,040 kg. Destruction 16,276 kg. 1,920 kg. Recycling Recovery 155,130 kg. 64,516 kg. Thermal recycling 1,074,183 kg. 579,971 kg. G4-EN25: Weight of transported hazardous waste All of our hazardous waste is transported away for destruction. • In Herning, a total of 16,276 kg of hazardous waste was An approved external carrier is used for this. The term ”hazardtransported for destruction. ous waste” covers solid waste containing oil, waste oil, organic • In Gram, a total of 1,920 kg of hazardous waste was transsolvents, salts (inorganic), dye and paint containers, varnish/ ported for destruction. paint (water-based), light sources containing mercury, coolants, oxidised waste, pesticides and spray cans. G4-EN27: Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts A new product design has been developed so that our products climate labelling schemes. Primarily the products’ emission procan now also be offered in markets with new and stricter indoor file has been improved. G4-EN29: Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental legislation egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with environmental legislation. G4-EN31: Investments in environmental protection Under G4-EN6, various energy savings projects in Herning and • In Herning, the investments total DKK 6,340,000. Gram are described. These projects can all be regarded as invest• In Gram, the investments total DKK 4,052,000. ments in environmental protection, primarily under emissions. G4-EN34: Grievances concerning non-compliance with environmental legislation egetæpper has not received any grievances concerning noncompliance with environmental legislation. 31 Employee conditions G4-LA1: Workforce and staff turnover Below is an overview of the workforce and staff turnover in Herning and Gram Salaried Salaried HourlyHourlyNew New Women Men who employees employees paid paid employees employees who have have left women men women men women men left ege ege Herning < 30 years 10 7 6 10 7 4 4 5 31-40 years 20 9 5 17 1 2 7 41-50 years 20 19 4 29 3 2 51-60 years 12 11 9 47 3 5 1 61-70 years 1 1 1 17 1 7 >70 years 5 1 Total 63 52 25 121 14 11 15 12 Gram < 30 years 2 1 31-40 years 1 1 8 1 41-50 years 1 3 2 14 51-60 years 1 1 3 16 61-70 years 2 1 4 1 >70 years Total 5 5 6 44 0 2 0 1 Employees’ terms of employment are as follows. Number Herning Gram Permanent employees 259 60 Fixed-term employees 2 Full-time employees 245 56 Part-time employees 16 4 G4-LA2: Staff benefits All employees are offered the following staff benefits: • Employee club (after three months’ probationary period) • Health insurance • Opportunity to borrow a summer cottage • Canteen scheme (only in Herning) • Employee discount schemes for e.g. gym and consumer • Bonus (after three months’ probationary period) goods • Physiotherapy scheme/Massage chair 32 G4-LA5: Employee involvement in the Occupational Health and Safety Committees At egetæpper we have both Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Committees and Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) groups. Some employees are members of both. Occupational Health and Safety Committees Decision-makers that set out guidelines for the working environrepresentatives. In Gram, the Committee comprises four manment and occupational health and safety. In Herning, the Comagers and three working environment representatives. mittee comprises four managers and two working environment Occupational Health and Safety groups Are engaged in the day-to-day health and safety and working In Herning, 4.6% of the total workforce are involved in the formal environment activities in the area they represent. In Herning, OHS groups and OHS committee. In Gram, this is 13.3% of the there are five OHS groups, comprising a total of five managers total workforce. All employees are represented via both union and seven working environment representatives. In Gram, there representatives and working environment representatives, deare three OHS groups, comprising a total of five managers and pending on the area. three working environment representatives. G4LA6: Occupational injuries, accidents and absence, and the physical and psychosocial working environment The table below shows the number of occupational injuries in Herning and Gram by gender. Herning Gram Women Men Women Men Number of cutting injuries 2 5 0 0 Number of joint injuries 0 2 0 0 Number of eye injuries 0 1 0 0 Number of fall injuries 2 0 0 0 Number of other injuries 0 3 0 2 Number of occupational injuries 2 3 1 0 resulting in absence Lost working hours due to occupational 81 hours 133 hours 36 hours 0 hours injuries Number of deaths 0 0 0 0 Near misses 2 15 0 3 33 Mandatory order from the Danish Working Environment Authority in Herning We have received a mandatory order from the Danish Working sued in five different languages for how drivers should conduct Environment Authority in Herning after a foreign lorry driver was themselves while at egetæpper, and the access conditions in hit by a truck. The driver was in the loading area while the lorry the loading hall have been changed so that drivers go directly to was being emptied. When the truck driver reversed away from the secure area when they arrive. Drivers have been instructed the lorry, he hit the driver, who sustained a gash in his forehead not to check the loads on the vehicles until loading has been that required two stitches. Since the accident, egetæpper has completed, and that if they leave the closed area at egetæpper established a closed-off area in which drivers must stay while they must be accompanied by an egetæpper employee. lorries are being loaded. Guidelines to carriers have been isThe following initiatives have been taken to improve the physical and psychosocial working environment: In Herning, LED light has been established at six tufting mato ensure that employees are not in contact with moving carpet chines in order to improve the working conditions during repairs rolls. and maintenance. In Gram, a work process has been adjusted Sick leave egetæpper’s overall objective is maximum 4% sick leave for the Group. The table below presents sick leave rates in Herning and Gram by gender. Sick leave rate Women Men Total Herning 5.3% 2.8% 3.5% Gram 4.3% 3.3% 3.4% G4-LA10: Employee development egetæpper attaches great importance to employee developemployees. Each year we therefore devote a lot of resources ment. Skilled employees are vital to achieving a successful comto the training and supplementary education of our employees. pany, and also contribute to attracting and retaining competent Herning Gram External training paid Internal training External training paid Internal training for by egetæpper for by egetæpper Number of employees 64 employees 65 employees 7 employees 11 employees Number of hours 984.20 hours 2,194 hours 79 hours 81 hours Other 12 of the employees have taken diploma programmes for which the number of hours is not stated. 34 G4-LA11: Employee appraisal interviews The table shows, by gender, how many employees in Herning and Gram have attended employee appraisal interviews. Herning Gram Women Men Women Men Salaried employees 63 51 5 5 Hourly-paid employees 19 116 6 43 G4-LA12: Breakdown of employees by gender, function and age The table below shows employees’ work functions, first by gender and then by age. Herning Gram Total Women Men Women Men Managers 4 27 5 36 Salaried 60 24 5 5 94 employees Hourly-paid 24 121 6 44 195 employees Herning Gram Salaried Management Hourly-paid Salaried Management Hourly-paid employees employees employees employees < 30 years 17 16 2 31-40 years 23 6 22 1 9 41-50 years 25 14 32 1 3 16 51-60 years 16 8 55 1 1 19 61-70 years 3 18 2 1 4 >70 years 5 1 35 Human rights G4-HR3: Cases of discrimination egetæpper is not aware of any cases of discrimination. G4-HR4: Risk of lack of respect for the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining There is no potential risk of a lack of respect for any individual rights. This review is based on international indexes, ranking to exercise their right of freedom of association and collective all countries by their performance in the area. The supplier is bargaining at egetæpper. It is up to employees themselves to assessed by the country in which the company is located. We decide whether they wish to join a trade union. egetæpper adhave suppliers in individual countries where a lack of respect heres to the collective agreements between the Confederation for human rights and labour rights may present challenges. This of Danish Employers (DA) and, respectively, 3F (the United Fedconcerns five suppliers. eration of Danish Workers), Danish Metal (Danish Metalworkers’ Union), HK Privat (commercial and clerical workers’ union) and We are not aware of any infringements in these areas that actuTeknisk Landsforbund (the Danish Association of Professional ally affect our suppliers. The suppliers in question have signed Technicians). our Supplier Code of Conduct, which states that they acknowledge employees’ right to exercise freedom of association and We have reviewed all key suppliers of our products in order to collective bargaining. One supplier’s signature is still outstandassess the risk of infringement of e.g. human rights and labour ing, but is expected to be received soon. G4-HR5: Risk of child labour There is no risk of child labour at egetæpper. We have a total of under 18 do not undertake work in hazardous conditions or at eight young people employed, but none of them works in haznight. One supplier’s signature is still outstanding, but is expectardous conditions or at night. ed to be received soon. As described under G4-HR4, we have suppliers in individual If we become aware of child labour or young people required countries where a lack of respect for human rights and labour to work in hazardous conditions, egetæpper has clear continrights may present challenges. This concerns five suppliers. The gency measures to interrupt cooperation with the supplier imsuppliers in question have signed our Supplier Code of Conmediately, until the situation has been resolved. egetæpper is duct, which states that egetæpper’s suppliers may not employ also subject to an obligation to avoid negative consequences child labour (under 15 years of age) and that young people aged for the children/young people concerned. G4-HR6: Risk of forced or compulsory labour There is no risk of forced or compulsory labour at egetæpper. forced or compulsory labour. Furthermore, the suppliers are expected not to withhold identification papers, travel documents As described under G4-HR4, we have suppliers in individual or other types of personal documents from their employees. countries where a lack of respect for human rights and labour rights may present challenges. This concerns five suppliers. If we become aware of forced or compulsory labour, egetæpper has clear contingency measures to interrupt cooperation The suppliers in question have signed our Supplier Code of with the supplier immediately, until the situation has been reConduct, which states that egetæpper makes the requirement solved. egetæpper is also subject to an obligation to avoid negthat its suppliers do not engage in or benefit from any type of ative consequences for the persons concerned. G4-HR12: Grievances about human rights impacts egetæpper has not received any grievances about human rights impacts. 36 Society G4-SO3: Risk of corruption and bribery egetæpper does not assess that there is any risk of corruption tures that they will comply with our anti-corruption guidelines at our Danish factories or in Lithuania. At all sites, all employees and ensure that their employees have understood the guidehave received written information on our anti-corruption guidelines. lines. In addition, all managers have confirmed by their signaG4-SO4: Implementation of anti-corruption and bribery policies and procedures All managers and employees at egetæpper have received inmation on egetæpper’s guidelines and/or anti-corruption and formation on our anti-corruption and bribery policies and probribery policy: cedures. Verbal information has been given to all employees in • 84 suppliers Herning, and a small leaflet has been issued to everyone world• 65 agents/distributors wide, with a brief and simple review of egetæpper’s guidelines, • 9 subsidiaries including what is permitted and what is prohibited, and what employees should do if they experience anything suspicious or Everyone has been requested to confirm their acceptance by illegal. The guidelines and the leaflet are available to all employsigning either egetæpper’s Code of Conduct or an anti-corrupees on egetæpper’s intranet. tion document in which they accept the guidelines. The following numbers of external parties have received inforG4-SO5: Incidents of corruption and bribery egetæpper has not registered any incidents of corruption or bribery. G4-SO8: Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 37 Product responsibility G4-PR1: Assessment of products All of our carpets for the contract market have been assessed egetæpper’s services include recommendations for the floor for their health improvement qualities in conjunction with Sunadhesive used to fix carpets. The recommendation weighs dahuset’s indoor climate approvals. A backing type has been these adhesives by their impact on the indoor environment. developed that makes it possible to select materials that ensure There are 14 low-emission floor adhesives on the list of 26 floor compliance with Sundahuset’s criteria. All carpet types can be adhesives in total. delivered with this backing. G4-PR2: Sanctions for non-compliance with product health and safety legislation egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with product health and safety legislation. G4-PR3: Product information According to egetæpper’s own internal procedures for product • Procurement (sourcing) of components in products and information concerning products and services, the following inservices formation is required: • Safe use of products and services • Disposal of the product • Content (especially where there is a risk of hazardous enviAll products and services comply with these requirements and ronmental and social impacts) procedures. G4-PR4: Sanctions for non-compliance with legislation on labelling schemes egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for non-compliance with legislation on labelling schemes. G4-PR7: Sanctions for non-compliance with marketing legislation egetæpper has not been subject to any sanctions for noncompliance with marketing legislation or voluntary marketing regulations/codes. 38 Danish Fashion & Textile’s Code of Conduct Principle 11 – Animal welfare In New Zealand, from where we import most of our wool, sheep ensure that they meet the requirements stipulated in Danish breeders operate according to the regulations of ”Best ManFashion & Textile’s Code of Conduct, principle no. 11, which agement Practices Applicable to New Zealand Wool” (abbrevirequires that sheep are fed, reared and put down with dignity ated BMP), which sets out the New Zealand wool industry’s best and respect. All the suppliers have confirmed in writing that practices and standards for wool production. According to BMP, they meet these requirements and will work in accordance with 90% of the sheep breeders are part of a nationwide programme principle no. 11 of the Code of Conduct. We have furthermore to safeguard quality in a large number of areas, including animal incorporated an obligation to protect and respect animals in our welfare, feed and water, stock keeping and the environment. own Supplier Code of Conduct. During 2011 we wrote to our wool suppliers in New Zealand to Principle 12 – Charitable causes Via the ”Ege Foundation the Vibeke and Mads Eg Damgaard privileged children in Denmark. Via fitness campaigns for our Foundation” annual donations to deserving causes are made employees, money for charitable causes is raised. This year, the from the yields on egetæpper a/s shares. The funds are primarfunds raised by the KidsAid campaign were donated to Danish ily donated to non-profit making activities. This year, the Ege Hospital Clowns. A total of DKK 57,572 was raised for the fund, Foundation donated DKK 1,094,813 to various causes. while a donation of DKK 23,500 was made in connection with egetæpper’s 75th anniversary. We also donated a 240 m2 carIn addition, since 2011 egetæpper has worked with the KidsAid pet for Danish Hospital Clowns’ new domicile. Foundation whose main objective is to support sick and underPrinciple 13 – Monitoring ege is not subject to an external audit in connection with the ports to egetæpper’s management concerning any serious monitoring of compliance with Danish Fashion & Textile’s Code matters arising, including any non-compliance with statutory of Conduct. We manage our supply chain via DS 49001. We requirements by suppliers. In future, we plan to develop a syshave sent egetæpper’s Supplier Code of Conduct to the 84 tem for the ongoing evaluation of suppliers’ compliance with key suppliers for their acceptance and signature. egetæpper’s egetæpper’s Code of Conduct. whistleblower system ensures that it is possible to submit re39 Total input/output for carpet production in Herning and Gram In Herning, the calculation of the consumption of electricity, gas invoiced quantities and volumes. In Herning, the consumption and water is based on suppliers’ invoices. In Gram, consumpof oil and chemicals for operation and maintenance is equivation is read from the meters. The quantities of goods purchased lent to the purchased quantities. In Gram, however, this is equivvia purchase orders are registered in the warehouse managealent to purchased goods less stocks. Wastewater discharges in ment system. The remaining figures are compiled manually. Herning and Gram are compiled on the basis of internal registraQuantities and volumes of other goods and waste are based on tion of discharges from production. Input 2013/14 2012/13 2011/12 Energy consumption MWh KWh/m2 MWh KWh/m2 MWh KWh/m2 Energy 36,822 6.58 37,575 6.78 35,335 6.49 Gas used to produce electricity 2,417 2,596 1,658 Renewable energy1 4,790 0.86 4,790 0.86 3,276 0.60 Water consumption m³ Litres/m2 m³ Litres/m2 m³ Litres/m2 91,046 16.27 94,753 17.11 97,038 17.83 Consumption of materials Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Total consumption of materials 16,609 2.97 16,677 3.01 16,141 2.97 For carpet production 15,806 2.82 15,924 2.88 15,407 2.83 Packaging 700 0.13 667 0.12 653 0.12 Operation and maintenance 103 0.02 86 0.02 81 0.01 Waste Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Recovery 220 0.04 155 0.03 163 0.03 Thermal recycling 1,654 0.30 1,587 0.29 1,431 0.26 Land fill 8 0.00 17 0.00 18 0.00 Destruction, hazardous waste 18 0.00 10 0.00 6 0.00 Discharge m3 Litres/m2 m3 Litres/m2 m3 Litres/m2 Wastewater 68,543 12.25 72,056 13.01 77,176 14.18 Emissions Tons Kg/m2 Tons Kg/m2 Tons Kg/m2 Greenhouse gases2: CO2-e emissions 6,250 1.12 6,545 1.18 6,067 1.12 Air emissions3: NOX 6 5 4 SO2, PM Biodiversity m2 m2/prod.m2 m2 m2/prod.m2 m2 m2/prod.m2 Developed area 69,500 0.01 69,500 0.01 69,500 0.01 Output m2 m2 m2 Carpet products 5,597,593 5,538,786 5,442,414 All input/output data applies to Herning and Gram together, although energy used to produce electricity and land fill deposits apply solely to Herning. The consumption of materials for carpet production includes materials for pile, dyeing, backing and Twistset. The consumption of materials for operation and maintenance includes oil and various chemicals. The wastewater volume in Herning and Gram is measured directly. In 2013/2014, the CHP plant’s consumption totalled 219,712 m3 of natural gas, resulting in electricity generation of 1,608,548 kWh. Water consumption: In Herning, the dyeing plant uses 86% of the total water consumption. Water consumption: In Gram, the dyeing plant uses 90% of the total water consumption. Note 1. Purchased renewable energy is a share of the total energy consumption. Note 2. Greenhouse gases, CO2-e : a conversion factor of 2,185 g of CO2/m3 of natural gas is used, cf. the Key2Green web tool. For 2012/2013 and 2013/2014, this includes CO2-e contributions for UHC (including methane), amounting to 39 tonnes and 36 tonnes of CO2-e, respectively. Note 3. Air emissions, NOx: Emissions from motor systems and boilers are based on measurements at the plants. Air emissions, SO2 & PM: Not relevant for egetæpper’s production. 40 Consumption Energy consumption in Herning Electricity Energy consumption in Gram Electricity kWh per m2 Natural gas kWh per m2 Natural gas 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 2011/2012 2012/2013 2013/2014 2011/2012 2012/2013 2013/2014 Water consumption in Herning Water consumption in Gram Litres per m2 Litres per m2 24 24 20 20 16 16 12 12 8 8 4 4 0 0 2011/2012 2012/2013 2013/2014 2011/2012 2012/2013 2013/2014 41 Objectives and targets Each year, we set up a number of targets for our CSR work. Preand the improvement opportunities available to us. Each facviously, these targets solely concerned the environment and tory defines objectives with related targets, after which action working environment, but after achieving DS 49001 certificaplans are prepared to ensure that these targets are achieved. tion we have expanded the targets to include other areas. The targets are based on our aim of continuous improvement, to On the following pages we list last year’s objectives and their make egetæpper an even more sustainable company and atcurrent status. This data is followed by a list of the new targets tractive workplace. The targets set are based on our CSR policy we have set for the coming year. Objectives and targets for 2013/2014 Environment Objective Target(s) Status Reduction of water and chemicals Following on from an earlier pilot project, Commenced. consumption in Herning we will install a purification plant to purify The project for wastewater purification wastewater from the washing section of and reuse of thickening agent was the dye house. This is expected to save established in May 2013. 20% of the total water consumption at Due to running-in problems, it has the dyeing plant in 2012/2013, relative not yet been possible to calculate the to 2010/2011. This installation will also savings. The completion of the action help to save 20% of the consumption plan has therefore been postponed until of thickening agent. The project is April 2015. expected to be completed before the end of the 2013/2014 financial year. Reuse of fibre materials in Herning Before the end of 2013/2014, we will Completed. expand the extent to which fibrous In 2013, a system was established for materials from production are recycled. the collection and sorting of fibres, but the problem arose that the fibre supplier would not take back every returned item, and the price of returned yarn fell drastically. The completion of the action plan was therefore deferred while new opportunities were investigated. A new agreement is now in place, so that as many of the fibre materials as possible are reused. Replacing gas-fuelled trucks with Before the end of 2013, gas-fuelled Completed. hydrogen-fuelled or electrical trucks trucks will be replaced by hydrogenThe three gas-fuelled trucks have been in Herning fuelled or electrical trucks. This will replaced with two hydrogen-fuelled and reduce consumption of bottled gas and one electrical truck. The tank containing thereby also our carbon footprint. truck gas has been emptied and removed. Reduce energy consumption by Before the end of the 2013/2014 Completed. insulating steam pipes in Herning financial year, we will further reduce The insulation of steam pipes has been energy consumption by insulating completed, and the calculated saving steam pipes. This is expected to achieve is deemed to have been achieved. The savings calculated at 404,029 kWh per employees in the affected areas have year. noted a clear temperature change. Reuse of edges trimmed from felt Investigations must take place at Completed. backing in Herning suppliers’ premises in order to find out Unfortunately, it has not proved to be whether they will take back the felt, and financially worthwhile to reuse the edges at what price. trimmed from the felt backing. Instead, changes have been made to the glueing furnace, so that a narrower felt backing can now be used. The change was made as of 01.05.14 and is expected to give savings of approximately 20,000 m2 per year, equivalent to 1.88%. 42 Objective Target(s) Status Substitution to more ecofriendly It must be investigated whether NordicCompleted. hotmelt adhesive for tile boxes in ecolabelled hotmelt adhesive for tile Since extensive production trials have Herning boxes is feasible by testing whether it shown that the consumption of new can be used for tile boxes. hotmelt adhesive was somewhat higher than consumption of the adhesive we have used so far, we have continued to use standard adhesive. Improve wastewater purification in Since 2009/2010 we have worked to Commenced. Gram improve wastewater purification in order The average COD content for 2012/2013 to significantly reduce the wastewater’s was 6,711 mg/l. This is an increase from COD content. 2009/2010. Cleaning with chemicals The target is to reduce the wastewater’s is not possible. Biological purification COD content by more than 50% to 2,000 trials will commence in 2014/2015, with mg/l in 2012/2013, compared to the measurable results in 2015/2016. average COD content of 5,500 mg/l in 2009/2010. The compilation of results and project completion have been deferred until 2014/2015. Reuse of surplus heat in Gram Reuse of surplus heat from furnaces is Commenced. expected to reduce energy consumption The completion of this project has been by 10% in 2012/2013, compared to deferred until 2015/2016 since the 2009/2010. The compilation of results wastewater project must be completed has been deferred until 2014/2015 before heat recovery can be introduced. because the equipment has not yet been Various opportunities are currently being fully developed. investigated. Recovery of dye bath residue for To recover dye bath residue for thermal Commenced. thermal recycling in Gram recycling so that discharged wastewater Trials to recover dye bath residue in a does not contain COD, phosphorus and pilot plant using adjuvants are under nitrogen. way. Recovery using chemicals is not The project is expected to be completed possible. Biological purification is in 2014/2015. therefore being investigated. The target has been deferred until 2015/2016 Reducing wastewater in Gram On commissioning the new wastewater Completed. purification plant, the volume of The wastewater volume in 2010/2011 wastewater is expected to be reduced by was14.6 litres per m2. The wastewater 50% per m² in 2012/13, compared to the volume in 2013/2014 was 7.4 litres per volume in 2010/2011. m2. It has not been possible to perform The volume of wastewater per m2 has a realistic calculation in 2012/2013 been reduced to half. The target was because the wastewater purification achieved in 2013/2014 plant was only in operation for half of the time. Calculation and project completion have been deferred until 2014/2015. Energy reduction and capacity An energy reduction of 10% and a Commenced. increase at the adhesive furnace in capacity increase of 10% in 2012/2013, Refurbishment of the furnace and other Gram compared to 2010/2011. Renovation measures are expected to result in the and commissioning of new equipment calculated savings. Optimisation and will take place in mid-2013. Completion reconstruction work took place in July/ and compilation of results have been August 2013, so that the effects will deferred until 2014/2015. not be measurable until a full year has passed, on the closing of the accounts in 2014/2015. Recycling rainwater in Gram Recycling rainwater. Expected to be Deferred. established before 2014/2015. Lack of sufficient capacity to complete the project. 43 Working environment Objective Target(s) Status Improve lighting at tufting machines in During the 2013/2014 financial year, new Completed. Herning LED lighting will be installed at six tufting LED lighting has been installed under the machines in order to improve working six tufting machines, thereby improving conditions in connection with repairs the working conditions. and maintenance. Minimise quantities of exhaust gas and Before the end of 2013, the indoor Completed. noise in Herning climate in production areas will be All gas-fuelled trucks in production have improved by replacing gas-fuelled trucks been replaced, minimising exhaust gas with hydrogen-fuelled and electrical and reducing the noise level. trucks. These improvements will reduce exhaust gas to a minimum and reduce noise levels. Expansion and improvement of office Expansion and improvement, including Commenced. workspace in the glueing works in a larger height-adjustable desk, noise The project has commenced, and many Gram reduction and regulation of temperature of the potential improvements have been and daylight. Expected to be completed achieved. by 2013/2014 at the latest. Expected to be completed during 2014/2015. Simplify production of colour strip Change production of colour strip Completed. collections in Gram collections, to reduce manual work The label heating section has been and safeguard quality. Expected to be established and is functioning completed by 2013/2014. satisfactorily. The possible introduction of a robot to handle the colour strip collections have been shelved. Automatic pumping of CHT additives Automatic pumping of CHT additives for Completed. in Gram boiling vat and thickener. Expected to be Automatic pumping has been installed completed in mid-2013. and is functioning as intended. Improve office workspace in the Improvements to office workspaces in The project has not yet commenced and maintenance department in Gram the maintenance department will be has been deferred until next year. made in 2013/2014. 44 New targets for 2014/2015 Environment Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Prevention of pollution and promotion The ratio of renewable energy, which will be 70% 2020 of cleaner technology in Herning: in 2013, must be increased to 100% by 2020 at 100% renewable energy the latest. Sustainable use of resources in Establishment of a return system for used 2014/2015 Herning: Recycling and reuse of used carpets and carpet tiles. Suitable carpet tiles are carpets cleaned and sold for reuse, while the rest of the returned products are recycled as alternative fuel in the cement industry, or by other means. Preventing and adapting to climate By 2020 at the latest, energy savings projects 2020 change in Herning: 50% reduction of will reduce CO2 emissions by 50% from the base CO2 emissions year, 2007. Reduction of water and chemicals Following on from an earlier pilot project, we will 2014/2015 consumption in Herning install a purification plant to purify wastewater from the washing section of the dye house. This installation is expected to achieve savings of 20% of the total water consumption in the dyeing plant in 2012/2013, relative to 2010/2011. The installation will also help to save 20% of the consumption of thickening agent. Use of surplus heat in Herning Before the close of the 2014/2015 financial year, 2014/2015 opportunities must be investigated to use the surplus heat and sell it for use as district heating. Calculations from DONG show that approximately 4,900 mWh/year can be used, on maximum utilisation. This will give energy savings for the district heating plant. Improve wastewater purification in Since 2009/2010 we have worked to improve 2015/2016 Gram wastewater purification in order to significantly reduce the COD content. The target is to reduce the wastewater’s COD content by more than 50% to 2,000 mg/l in 2012/2013, from an average COD content of 5,500 mg/l in 2009/2010. The target has not been achieved. Trials are therefore now taking place to establish biological COD purification. This will commence in 2014/2015. Reuse of surplus heat in Gram Reuse of surplus heat from furnaces is expected 2015/2016 to reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2012/2013, compared to 2009/2010. Equipment is expected to be established in 2014/2015, and the project is expected to be completed by 2015/2016. Recovery of dye bath residue for Recovery using flocculation chemicals is not 2015/2016 thermal recycling in Gram possible. Biological purification is therefore being investigated. Trials and the establishment of biological purification will commence in 2014/2015. The project is expected to be completed in 2015/2016. Energy reduction and capacity Energy reduction by 10% and a capacity increase 2014/2015 increase at the adhesive furnace in of 10% in 2012/2013, compared to 2010/2011. Gram This has not yet been achieved. The conversion and implementation of new equipment will take place in 2013/2014. The project is expected to be completed in 2014/2015. 45 Working conditions Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Working conditions Board of Directors 2017/2018 More women in managerial positions. Maintain the Board of Directors’ current composition of 25% women and 75% men during the next four years. On the expiry of the four-year period with the target of 25% female members, we will set a new target for female members of ege’s Board of Directors. Managers 30% of all newly appointed managers will in future be women. By 2017, 30% of all managers must be women. In the longer term, we wish the breakdown between men and women at management level to reflect the general breakdown between men and women in the company. Working conditions and social Based on interviews, the problems with taking 2014/2015 protection in Herning breaks in production are being investigated. Scheduled breaks must be taken Then any action areas to improve conditions will be determined. Social dialogue in Herning Based on interviews, the problems with 2014/2015 Employee representatives must have employee representatives’ time to perform these sufficient time to perform these duties. duties are being investigated. Then any action areas to improve conditions will be determined. Improve ergonomic conditions at Before the end of the 2014/2015 financial year, 2014/2015 Millitron and the adhesive furnace in an auxiliary tool must be installed to minimise Herning lifting and dragging in conjunction with tufting Minimise lifting and dragging in at Millitron and the adhesive furnace. conjunction with tufting. Improve ergonomic conditions at the Before the end of the 2014/2015 financial year, 2014/2015 tip shearer in Herning an auxiliary tool must be installed to minimise Minimise lifting and dragging in lifting and dragging in conjunction with tufting conjunction with tufting. at the tip shearer. Minimise the noise level at the Before the end of 2014 the noise level at the new 2014/2015 Millitron/washing section in Herning wastewater plant must be investigated. Expansion and improvement of office Expansion and improvement, including a 2014/2015 workspace in the glueing works in larger, height-adjustable desk, noise reduction Gram and regulation of temperature and daylight. Expected to be completed during 2014/2015. Improve office workspace in the Improvements to office workspace in the 2014/2015 maintenance department in Gram maintenance department are expected to be made in 2014/2015. Automatic control of chemical Automatic addition of chemicals will be 2015/2016 addition in Gram established in the glueing works. This will significantly improve the working environment and raise the quality level. Investigate opportunities for automatic addition in 2014/2015. The establishment target is expected to be in 2015/2016. 46 Best practice Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Anti-corruption: All employees and people attached to 2014/2015 Documentation of compliance with the egetæpper have been informed of egetæpper’s anti-corruption guidelines. zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribery. In this respect, all countries/agents/ distributors must confirm by their signatures that they will work in accordance with our anticorruption and bribery guidelines. Signatures from a few countries are still outstanding. Anti-corruption: An e-learning tool must be developed to train 2014/2015 Training in anti-corruption guidelines. employees and other people attached to egetæpper in our anti-corruption and bribery guidelines. The e-learning tool must included a test to assess and check that the user has understood the guidelines. Promotion of social responsibility in Send egetæpper’s Supplier Code of Conduct to 2014/2015 the value chain: key product suppliers, as well as our transport Implementation of the Code of Conduct. suppliers, and require their signed confirmation that they will work in accordance with this Code of Conduct, and at the same time collect information on their labelling schemes and management systems. Consumer conditions Objective Target(s) Expected to be completed Responsible marketing, information Development of a communication strategy 2014/2015 and agreements: that will make it easier for our customers to More information to our customers on understand and communicate why egetæpper’s the importance of CSR initiatives to CSR initiatives are important and why they are stakeholders. of benefit to consumers. Sustainable consumption: Develop production processes and product 2020 Implement the Cradle to Cradle design that expand opportunities to recirculate principles throughout the company. all materials in a closed cycle. Engage in cooperation with companies that can reuse carpet waste in new ways. Apply the Cradle to Cradle principles in internal and external communication so that employees can take ownership of the concept and understand the philosophy. Protection of consumers’ health and Cradle to Cradle certification of all Ecoline 2020 safety & sustainable consumption: products and all tile products. Cradle to Cradle certification of Cradle to Cradle certification of all Ecotrust additional products backings. Ecoline for all Epoca flat-woven carpets and Epoca tiles. 47 CSR in the future Sustainability is becoming an increasing element of egetæpthe various projects throughout the organisation. In the future per’s philosophy, and this year we have launched a large numwe will also consider the UN Guiding Principles, which can help ber of new CSR activities to help us to achieve our objective to us to ensure that we respect human rights. We look forward to be a sustainable company. During the coming years, focus will seeing where this journey will take us. be maintained on cementing the measures taken and rolling out 1992 1996 1998 2002 2006 2007 2008 ISO 9001 quality ISO 14001 EN 1307 product INSTA 800 DS/OHSAS BRE Life Cycle LEED sustainable certification environmental classification cleaning quality occupational analysis construction management health and certification safety BASTA harmful certification substances First official requirements workplace CE marking assessment First Environmental Report EMAS Ecomanagement certification 48 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Future goals BVD3 BVB construction Climate EPD EnvironmenCradle to CradReuse of used construction products assesspartnership with tal Declaration leCM Silver certificarpets products ments DONG Energy in ISO 14025 cate awarded to declaration “Barcode Ecoline Cradle to Cradle Endorsed the UN Trans-Q, Achilles Modular” certification First Greenhouse Global Compact approval of additional Gas Account CSR policy products First CSR Report CSR department set up EPD, EnvironUN Guiding mental Product Principles Declaration on 6 products Code of Conduct Supply chain management launched CSR certification according to DS 49001 49 Appendix 1: Index of G4 Content No. Topic Section Page G4-1 Management endorsement History and renewal 4 Organisation profile G4-3 Organisation name Profile/Activities 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Profile/Activities 6 G4-5 The organisation's head office Profile/Markets 6 G4-6 No. of countries in which the organisation Profile/Markets 6 operates G4-7 Ownership structure Reference to the 2013/2014 Annual Report 7 G4-8 Markets Profile/Markets 6 G4-9 Key figures for the organisation Profile/Employees 6 Reference to the 2013/2014 Annual Report 7 G4-10 The workforce G4-indicators/G4-LA1: Workforce and staff 32 breakdown G4-11 Employees covered by a collective agreement Results/Working conditions/Collective 16 agreements and pension G4-12 Supply chain Profile/Suppliers 7 G4-13 Significant changes Profile/Significant changes 7 G4-14 Precautionary approach Profile/External involvement 7 G4-15 External obligations Profile/External involvement 7 G4-16 Committees and associations Profile/External involvement 7 Significance G4-17 Financial results Reference to the 2013/2014 Annual Report 7 G4-18 Significance analysis G4 indicators 26 G4 indicators, note 10 26 Stakeholders G4-24 Stakeholder involvement Interaction with stakeholders 9 G4-25 Selection of stakeholders Interaction with stakeholders 9 G4-26 Dialogue with stakeholders Interaction with stakeholders 9 G4-27 Key topics, according to stakeholders Interaction with stakeholders 9 Report structure G4-28 Reporting period A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting 2 G4-29 Latest report date A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting, note 1 2 G4-30 Reporting frequency Results/Management excellence 13 G4-31 Contact us A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting 2 G4-33 External verification of the report A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting 2 G4-34 Organisation structure Reference to the 2013/2014 Annual Report 7 G4-56 Values Profile/Values 6 CSR policy CSR policy 10 Code of Conduct CSR policy/Code of Conduct 21 Results/Best practice/Code of Conduct 50 No. egetæpper CSR indicators Section Page Finance G4-EC1 Direct financial value Reference to the 2013/2014 Annual Report 7 G4 indicators/G4-EC1 26 Environment G4-EN1 Materials distributed by weight G4 indicators/G4-EN1 26 G4-EN2 Reused materials G4 indicators/G4-EN2 26 G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption G4 indicators/G4-EN3 27 G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4 indicators/G4-EN5 27 G4-EN6 Energy savings G4 indicators/G4-EN6 27 G4-EN8 Water withdrawal G4 indicators/G4-EN8 28 G4-EN10 Water recycling G4 indicators/G4-EN10 28 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN15 28 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN16 29 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN17 29 G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN18 30 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN19 30 G4-EN21 NO X , SOX , and other significant emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN21 30 G4-EN22 Water discharge G4 indicators/G4-EN22 30 G4-EN23 Weight of waste and method of disposal G4 indicators/G4-EN23 31 G4-EN25 Weight of transported hazardous waste G4 indicators/G4-EN25 31 G4-EN27 Initiatives to limit hazardous effects G4 indicators/G4-EN27 31 G4-EN29 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental G4 indicators/G4-EN29 31 legislation G4-EN31 Investments in environmental protection G4 indicators/G4-EN31 31 measures G4-EN34 Grievances due to non-compliance with G4 indicators/G4-EN34 31 environmental legislation No. egetæpper CSR indicators Section Page Employee conditions G4-LA1 Workforce and staff breakdown G4 indicators/G4-LA1 32 G4-LA2 Employee benefits G4 indicators/G4-LA2 32 G4-LA5 Employees serving on working environment G4 indicators/G4-LA5 33 committees G4-LA6 Occupational injuries, accidents, absence, and the G4 indicators/G4-LA6 33 physical and psychosocial working environment G4-LA10 Employee development G4 indicators/G4-LA10 34 G4-LA11 Employee development interviews G4 indicators/G4-LA11 34 G4-LA12 Employee breakdown by gender and function G4 indicators/G4-LA12 35 Human rights G4-HR3 Discrimination cases G4 indicators/G4-HR3 36 G4-HR4 Risk of lack of respect for freedom of association G4 indicators/G4-HR4 36 and collective bargaining G4-HR5 Risk of child labour G4 indicators/G4-HR5 36 G4-HR6 Risk of forced or compulsory labour G4 indicators/G4-HR6 36 51 G4-HR12 Grievances concerning human rights violations G4 indicators/G4-HR12 36 Society G4-SO3 Risk of corruption and bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO3 37 G4-SO4 Implementation of anti-corruption and bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO4 37 guidelines G4-SO5 Incidents of corruption and bribery G4 indicators/G4-SO5 37 G4-SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with legislation in G4 indicators/G4-SO8 37 general Product responsibility G4-PR1 Product assessment G4 indicators/G4-PR1 38 G4-PR2 Sanctions for non-compliance with product health G4 indicators/G4-PR2 38 and safety legislation G4-PR3 Product information G4 indicators/G4-PR3 38 G4-PR4 Sanctions for non-compliance with labelling G4 indicators/G4-PR4 38 scheme legislation G4-PR7 Sanctions for non-compliance with marketing G4 indicators/G4-PR7 38 legislation Danish Fashion & Textile Principle Animal welfare G4 indicators/Animal welfare 39 11 Principle Charitable work G4 indicators/Charitable work 39 12 Principle Monitoring G4 indicators/Monitoring 39 13 52 Appendix 2: Index of EMAS Content Topic Section Page Reporting period A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting 2 EMAS registration A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting, note 2 2 Environmental verifier and validation date A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting 2 Communication Interaction with stakeholders 9 Results/Management excellence 13 Next verification A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting, note 1 2 Declaration A new era for egetæpper's CSR reporting 2 The ege Group/company profile Profile 6 Significant changes Profile 7 Management Statement History and renewal 4 Product description Profile 6 Company location Profile, note 4 and note 5 6 Employee involvement Results/Working conditions 16 Process description Process description 12 The organisation's environmental policy CSR policy 10 The organisation's OHS policy CSR policy 10 Climate policy CSR policy 10 Scope Results/Environmental conditions 18 Environmental approvals Results/Environmental conditions + note 6 18 Reference to applicable statutory environmental CSR policy 10 requirements Current environmental cases Results/Environmental conditions 18 Non-conformances Results/Environmental conditions/Non-conformances 18 Enquiries Results/Environmental conditions 18 Environmental objectives and targets Objectives and targets (environment) 42-47 Description of the environmental management system Results/Environmental conditions/ISO 14001 + EMAS 18 and EMAS Significant environmental impacts and effects Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts and 54 effects Consumption statements/Statement period and form A new era for egetæpper’s CSR reporting 2 Overall input/output table 40 Energy consumption G4 indicators/G4-EN3: Direct energy consumption 27 Overall input/output table 40 Energy production G4 indicators/G4-EN3: Direct energy consumption 27 Overall input/output table 40 Renewable energy Results/Environmental conditions/Climate strategy 18 Overall input/output table 40 Water consumption G4 indicators/G4-EN8: Water withdrawal 28 Overall input/output table 40 Waste G4 indicators/G4-EN23: Weight of waste and disposal 31 method Overall input/output table 40 Wastewater G4 indicators/G4-EN22: Water discharge 30 Overall input/output table 40 Emissions G4 indicators/G4-EN21: NO x, SOx mm 30 Overall input/output table 40 Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts and 53 effects Noise Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts and 53 effects Total input/output Overall input/output table 40 53 Appendix 3: Significant environmental impacts and effects12 Development, raw materials, production and emissions eration plants, where the incineration process is most efficient We evaluate the raw materials used in carpet production not and therefore has the least possible impact on the environment. only when we develop new products, but also in the purchasing phase. Strict requirements are made, which are well in excess of The packaging we use is cardboard or plastic. Plastic packaging the statutory requirements, and we undertake thorough market is made from polyethylene and polypropylene and is therefore investigations in order to select products with low environmenconsidered to have a significant environmental impact, as these tal impacts. As yarns, carpet bases, backing materials and packplastic products are produced from oil, which is a non-renewaaging primarily consist of synthetic materials, they are considble resource. ered to have a significant environmental impact. The dyes and chemicals that are considered to be toxic are likewise viewed as Working environment significant impacts. Based on this assessment, we seek to influThe working environment is subject to continuous evaluation ence the supplier to show greater environmental responsibility. on the basis of workplace assessments (called APVs), safety inspections, accidents, ”near misses” and evaluation of the We are aware that, as a production company, we have a high psychosocial working environment. Noise is considered to be consumption of resources. This makes it all the more important significant if it is covered by statutory provisions or grievances to systematically reduce our consumption of electricity, gas are raised. and water. Our atmosphere is affected by emissions of CO2 and NOX , and our water consumption affects groundwater levels. Transport Transport of products is associated with certain environmental In connection with production we seek to optimise the utilisaimpacts, e.g. CO2 emissions. tion of resources in order to reduce the total consumption of resources and the total volume of waste. Before purchase, new Product information, fitting and applications production equipment is assessed to ensure that, as far as posThe environmental management system ensures that our prodsible, the most environmentally-sound technology is used. ucts are subject to extensive testing and declarations in terms of quality and environmental characteristics. The production processes discharge dust, odours and emissions to the surrounding environment. These impacts primaregetæpper recommends that only floor adhesives with the ily affect neighbours to the factories. Emissions from process lowest possible emissions are used to glue carpets. These are plant where processing temperatures are equivalent to or excalled the EC 1-classified floor adhesives. Other types of floor ceed 75°C, and if such emissions are subject to current statuadhesive are considered to contribute with significantly higher tory provisions, are considered to be significant. Emissions from environmental impacts. dyeing, glueing and fixation plant at egetæpper are considered to be significant. Other environmental impacts In cooperation with the municipalities, it has been assessed that Wastewater and waste are also environmental impacts that are the external noise from egetæpper in Herning does not exceed subject to statutory requirements and which are evaluated anthe requirement in the environmental permit from Herning Munually with a view to improving and/or minimising them. nicipality. In Gram, the external noise from egetæpper does not exceed the requirement from Haderslev Municipality. We therefore optimise waste for recycling on a regular basis. Where thermal recycling is concerned, the external environIn general concerning egetæpper’s emissions, the values for ment is affected by greenhouse gases and acidification, beorganic and inorganic substances comply with all of the limit cause CO2, NOX and SO2 are given off during the incineration values laid down in guideline no. 2/2001 from the Danish Enviprocess. However, we choose to incinerate waste at large incinronmental Protection Agency. 12 Environmental impacts and effects are related to the factories in Herning and Gram. 54 Appendix 4: Calculation basis and data sources for CO2 calculations The Greenhouse Gas Account is based on a number of data With the exception of electricity and district heating, the same sources that make it possible to convert our energy consumpemission factors are used for all the different countries. In some tion to CO2 emissions. areas, however, a distinction is made between international and national transport (applicable to air and train travel). VIA Egencia The CEMAsys calculation method is generally applied. CEsupplies ege with greenhouse gas accounts for CO2 emissions MAsys complies with international standards and meets the from air travel ordered via the head office in Herning. To calrequirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For electricity, culate goods transport, we have applied the Climate Compass, the Energinet.dk declaration and the 125% method are used which is an Internet-based calculation model developed by the to calculate Danish emissions. The district heating plants’ own Confederation of Danish Industry, the Danish Business Authoremissions are used to calculate ege’s district heating emissions. ity and FORCE. 55 the urge to explore space Head Office egetæpper a/s • Industrivej Nord 25 • DK-7400 Herning Tel. +45 97 11 88 11 • Fax: +45 97 11 95 80 E-mail: ege@ege.dk • www.egecarpets.com
