Sustainability Report 2013 MY OUR LIFE GUARD Turning Vision into Value. Contents Foreword by the Chairman of the Executive Board ...................................................... 6 Magazine ..................8 Segment Reporting ...78 Reports on our six focus areas Selected examples and key figures from the HOCHTIEF divisions Sustainable Products and Services ............................10 HOCHTIEF Americas Division .................................... 80 Active Climate Protection ............................................16 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division................................. 88 Resource Protection ...................................................22 HOCHTIEF Europe Division ....................................... 96 Attractive Working Environment ..................................28 Corporate Citizenship ................................................34 Information on this Compliance ............................................................... 40 Report .................. 106 Report on the Independent Audit ...........................108 Sustainability at Information on this Sustainability Report (Reporting Period, Content, and Scope) .................. 110 HOCHTIEF.............. 44 Implementation of International Reporting Strategies, management tools, and key figures Standards .................................................................111 The Company ............................................................ 46 GRI External Assurance ............................................111 Sustainability Strategy ............................................... 50 Index Based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines ....................... 112 CR Program ........................................................ 53 Publication Details and Credits/Contacts ................. 117 Compliance ................................................................57 Risk Management ..................................................... 60 Cover: “HOCHTIEF expands horizons.” That is a quote from IT and Data Protection ...............................................61 our corporate vision. As a global construction group, HOCHTIEF builds large-scale infrastructure projects Employees .................................................................62 around the world, which impact people’s living space and open up new horizons. A case in point is the new, Occupational Safety and Health ............................... 66 expanded stretch of the A4 highway known as the Hörselberge bypass. Planned, financed, and built by Environmental and Climate Protection ...................... 68 HOCHTIEF as part of a consortium, it was opened for traffic in 2010. The consortium will operate it for 30 Research and Development ......................................72 years. Procurement ............................................................. 74 Donations and Sponsorship ......................................76 Wherever you see this symbol in the report, you will find links to institutions whose URLs are indicated on the relevant pages. Our Company at a Glance HO HOCHTIEF Americas Division The HOCHTIEF Americas division coordinates the activities of HOCHTIEF’s companies in the USA and Canada. Through our subsidiary Turner, we are the number one general builder in the USA. Turner has long been the leading player in the key market segments for education and healthcare properties. The same goes for sustainable “green” building, where the tradition-steeped company ranks among the pioneers and drivers in that country. Through our majority stake in the Canadian company Clark Builders, HOCHTIEF has now stepped up activities in the Canadian construction market. The services provided by civil engineering company Flatiron complement our portfolio in North America. Ranking among the top providers in U.S. transportation infrastructure construction, the company has operations in both the USA and Canada. In Flatiron, HOCHTIEF has created a mainstay in the publicprivate partnership growth market for U.S. infrastructure projects. With E.E. Cruz and Company, HOCHTIEF has enhanced its position in the civil engineering infrastructure market in the New York metropolitan area. *For further information on the HOCHTIEF divisions, please see www.hochtief.com. 3 Sustainability Report 2013 in 2013 CHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Corporate Headquarters (strategic management holding company)* HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division HOCHTIEF Europe Division Through its majority share in the Leighton Group, HOCHTIEF The HOCHTIEF Europe division oversees the Group’s business holds the leading position in the Asia-Pacific region’s infrastrucin Europe and selected growth regions around the world. This ture construction market. Its activities are pooled within the division operates under the leadership of HOCHTIEF Solutions HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division. AG, which provides services primarily for infrastructure projects, building construction, and public-private partnerships (PPP), Leighton’s product and service spectrum includes construction, as well as engineering services. Its focus is on the transportation, contract mining, operation and maintenance as well as services energy, and social and urban infrastructure segments. Capabilities in the raw materials segment. In addition, Leighton has a strong include building construction together with civil and structural enpresence in the energy and transportation infrastructure business gineering, real estate development, logistics services as well as segment as well as in construction and development of real property and asset management. estate, and services. For public infrastructure measures, HOCHTIEF Solutions acts The Leighton Group’s main operational units are Leighton Conas a partner in PPP projects to deliver services such as financtractors, Thiess, John Holland, and Leighton Properties in Ausing, design, and operation in addition to construction services. tralia, Leighton Asia, India and Offshore in Hong Kong and Southeast Asia, and the Habtoor Leighton Group in the Arab countries. In many regions, HOCHTIEF Solutions is highly regarded as a market and innovation leader. Its outstanding technical experLeighton Group companies are among the leading players in tise and engineering services count among the company’s top their sectors and enjoy excellent reputations. strengths and have earned it an excellent international reputation. Our company at a glance 4 Sustainability Report 2013 ➩ Creating Sustainable Value—Expanding Horizons HOCHTIEF is one of the leading global construction groups. Our focus is on complex projects in transportation, energy, social and urban infrastructure, and contract mining. In all our projects, we draw on the competencies we have gained from over 140 years’ experience in development, construction, and operation. Thanks to our global network, HOCHTIEF is on the map in all the world’s major markets. We believe in sustainable growth and take on responsibility. Our company’s expert staff create value for clients, shareholders, and HOCHTIEF alike. Innovative, one-of-a-kind solutions set us apart from the competition. HOCHTIEF has a tradition of nurturing the relationship between business, the environment, and social responsibility. This is one of the major factors driving our long-term success. HOCHTIEF’s clear commitment to sustainability presents us with very special challenges. Through our business activities, we contribute toward expanding horizons sustainably—and thus accept great responsibility toward people and the environment, both now and in the future. Sustainability Report 2013 5 Foreword Dear Readers, since 2005 in Sustainability Reports, we keep the public informed of our activities. Our reports are now published annually to make sure our stakeholders are continually kept up to date. The indicators published in the current report provide greater diversity and depth than ever before in order to further enhance transparency. We also maintain an intensive exchange with the individuals responsible at our international subsidiaries and associated companies. This will give us a solid basis to work from should sustainability reporting be made mandatory; the European Commission’s plans for this are taking ever more concrete shape. Our sustainability performance and the openness of our sustainability reporting have been recognized in various ways, including the fact that HOCHTIEF was again listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index in 2013—for the eighth year running. HOCHTIEF has also once again been included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the Germany, Austria, and Switzerland region for its transparency and improved performance in climate proActing sustainably means actively taking responsibility. tection. Our 2012 Sustainability Report received a silver At HOCHTIEF, we accept this responsibility out of conEcon Award for Corporate Communications, distinguishviction. Our corporate strategy and our daily work are ing it as an outstanding example of corporate commushaped by an integrated, future-focused approach to nications in the German-speaking area. We are very doing business. As a global construction group, we pleased that our engagement in sustainability has been create living spaces—and impact the people who use honored in this manner. them and the surrounding natural environment. Our goal is to manage this impact in order to maximize the As in the prior year, we have again structured the current benefits for society and the environment while keeping report according to six sustainability focus areas. This the burdens to a minimum. We aim to help ensure safety gives you a comprehensive picture of our Group’s activ­ and quality of life for this and future generations and to ities in all matters related to sustainability. We naturally preserve our natural habitat. also provide you with information on the progress we have made toward our defined sustainability targets HOCHTIEF has long pursued this goal and was a conand additional objectives. As in the past, our reporting struction industry pioneer in committing to sustainability is closely aligned with the Guidelines of the Global Reearly on. In 2008, we joined the United Nations Global porting Initiative. A large part of the report has again Compact initiative and actively support its principles in been appraised by public auditors. the areas of human rights, labor laws, environmental protection, and anti-corruption. We work to further these 2013 was a year of transition for the HOCHTIEF Group. principles and put them into practice wherever possible. We repositioned ourselves strategically and initiated In our Environmental Report, first issued in 2001, and changes. These included systematically aligning the 6 Sustainability Report 2013 company toward our core construction operations and Sustainable action contributes to the success of our selling activities that are no longer part of these core business. For that reason, all of us at HOCHTIEF are operations, such as the airport business as well as the working together to systematically achieve our goals. service business line which included the company’s And in dialog with our stakeholder groups, we also align facility and energy management activities. Our goal is these goals with their needs and wishes. Should you to develop HOCHTIEF into the most relevant infrastruchave any questions or comments, we will be happy to ture construction group driven by sustainable, profitable take them up. You can reach us at growth. Sustainability issues within the Group are also sustainability@hochtief.com. changing accordingly: We are strengthening our focus on the potential and the opportunities sustainability Recent surveys show that the public places a high deoffers in traditional construction and complex infrastrucgree of trust in HOCHTIEF. Our reputation is a valuable ture projects—for example, in delivering innovative and asset. And a key element in it is our engagement to proresource-conserving solutions for transportation inframote sustainability. Our goal is to live up to the trust structure projects such as roads, bridges, and tunnels. placed in us, now and in the future, by continuing to develop our company sustainably. It is important to us that the strategic goals we have laid down in our vision and guiding principles as well as in the special codes and guidelines are adhered to throughout the HOCHTIEF Group. The operating conditions, requirements, and expectations in terms of sustainability we face in our activities around the globe are, of course, widely different. They vary by culture, country, and project. And the spectrum of our engagement for sustainability is equally diverse. That is why, in pursuing this issue, our subsidiaries and associates act independently and on their own account in their countries and regions. We are fully committed to supporting the initiatives and sustainability projects that are in place. Marcelino Fernández Verdes Chairman of the Executive Board We can only attain our sustainability targets with the HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft dedicated support of our employees. For this reason, it is of vital importance to us to also prioritize this issue internally. We promote a working environment where every individual can deliver the best possible personal performance. It is especially important to us to ensure a safe, healthy working environment for all our employees worldwide. We count the decrease in the accident rate within our Group among our successes in 2013 and have set ourselves the goal of further reducing the accident rate in the current year. Sustainability Report 2013 7 HOCHTIEF expands horizons … MY energY 8 Sustainability Report 2013 Magazine OUR sUPPLY … for instance, by building up a sustainable, forwardthinking energy infrastructure based on renewable sources. By way of example, HOCHTIEF is involved in the construction of offshore wind farms and the development of pumped storage power plants. Sustainability Report 2013 9 Entering new territory: In building construction, sustainability certificates have long been established worldwide. Now, an increasing number of civil engineering projects are also being delivered with an eye toward sustainability. With this in mind, the first certification systems have been developed, for which HOCHTIEF projects have also qualified— among them the Presidio Parkway in San Francisco. Focus Area 1: Sustainable Products and Services Carefully considered, Magazine efficient, and “green” With resources in short supply, there is a growing awareness of sustainability issues in the transportation infrastructure segment. But what makes a road green? The use of recycled materials? A construction site set up to minimize its impact on the natural environment? HOCHTIEF infrastructure projects spotlight what sustainability can look like in this context. Roads are green above all when they are safe for all road City East Alliance, comprised of Leighton Contractors, users, have a long lifespan, and require little mainteMain Roads WA, GHD and NRW, completed the project nance. A good example is the Great Eastern Highway funded by the Western Australian State Government in Perth, the first road project in Australia to be awarded and the Australian Government in February 2013. It a sustainability certificate. It was delivered by a joint was a green project from the outset, something all venture including Leighton Contractors, a subsidiary ­A lliance partners worked to ensure: “With increasing of HOCHTIEF’s Australian Group company Leighton. community awareness of environmental change and The Great Eastern Highway is one of the most highly the depletion of natural resources, it is essential that used transportation arteries in Perth. Many com­ government departments and major organizations demuters from the eastern suburbs take this route into liver projects in a sustainable manner,” says Alliance the city center. As in most Australian cities, the volume ­Director Stephen Nicolay of Leighton Contractors. He of traffic here has grown significantly in recent years; the and his team defined sustainability as a key perform­ance capacity provided by the four lanes was simply no lonindicator and drew up an environmental management ger enough. Much more importantly, the number of plan long before the first ground was broken. The aim: accidents was rising. Reason enough for the state transa rating from the Infrastructure Sustainability Council portation agency, Main Roads WA, to upgrade 4.2 kiloof Australia (ISCA) (see info box on page 15). meters of the highway and extend it by two lanes. The first ground was broken in summer 2011. The project A vast array of “green” measures was funded by the government of the state of Western Certainly, the greatest contribution to environmental Australia and the government of Australia. protection during the construction phase came from the exceptionally high percentage of recycled materials The road is now a safe, state-of-the-art piece of infraused (43 percent), which in the end added up to some structure. This is thanks not only to intelligent traffic con90,000 metric tons. The team achieved this, for examtrol systems and better lighting. Cyclists have their own ple, by using a particular type of recycled concrete, lane on the highway and the pedestrian path has been crushed comingled recycled concrete (CCRC), thus miniextended along its entire length. There are far fewer mizing the use of non-renewable raw materials such as accidents overall. Residents are happy because there limestone. Even the remains of eight properties that had is less noise pollution, commuters because there are no to be torn down along the highway, as well as the previtraffic holdups. Travel times on local public transport are ous road surface, were used to build the new roadalso shorter, making bus travel much more attractive again. way. This also means that significantly less waste than The highway is now an efficient road—and all these facusual was produced. tors also make it sustainable, as cars that drive nonstop produce fewer emissions and consume less fuel than “The extensive use of recycled material was unprecethey would stuck in traffic. dented on an iconic highway in Western Australia,” emphasizes Stephen Nicolay. To improve its environmental footprint still further, the team used a warm mix Sustainability Report 2013 11 asphalt (WMA), among other things, which is manufacthose involved in the project to the table with the aim of tured at lower temperatures than usual. Nicolay explains: jointly seeking solutions to potential problems. Magazine “A large-scale trial was carried out using WMA technology for the manufacture of asphalt for a section of the Taken together, all these seemingly small measures were pavement. This technology also embraces a sustainable extremely valuable. They could not have been impleapproach by reducing energy consumption and the mented without the backing of each and every project ­environmental impacts generated during manufacture.” team member. “Our staff developed a number of good ideas for how to better protect the environment,” emWater was always a relevant issue during the project, too. phasizes Stephen Nicolay. More than a dozen suggesAfter all, the highway runs alongside the Swan River. The tions were submitted, he says. delicate ecosystem was therefore factored into the detailed environmental management plan. This included An excellent outcome improving the existing drainage to prevent the river from The reward for their efforts: In August 2013, the project becoming polluted. Rather than valuable potable water, received the IS rating for the construction work. When ground water was used for construction. The weir that awarding the rating, ISCA CEO Antony Sprigg praised was built for this purpose is now used by the local council the Alliance partners, saying: “Their focus on sustainto irrigate green areas. ability, innovation, and implementing best-practice sustainability solutions no doubt enabled the project to Besides, as few green spaces as necessary were imachieve a ‘Commended’ level of rating.” Other awards An excellent example: pacted. Where greater intrusion was unavoidable, the quickly followed, such as the Civil Contractors Federa­D elivered by a joint venture joint venture revegetated the area after the construction tion National Earth Award. ­including Leighton Contractors, the Great Eastern Highphase—always bearing in mind the original vegetation. way in Perth was the first Users and local residents were promptly informed about The Great Eastern Highway also shows that operating road project in Australia to receive a sustainability certraffic disruption during the construction phase. In addiwith an eye to sustainability can significantly reduce a tificate. tion, working groups were set up to bring residents and project’s construction time. The highway was reopened to traffic nine months ahead of schedule. “From the outset, the rating tool provided a clear framework for maximizing the project’s sustainability performance. It equipped the team to continually test the existing systems and processes for sustainability,” says the Alliance Director. Ultimately, the client, Main Roads WA, was also convinced of the importance of the IS rating. It decided that all future projects worth more than 100 million Australian dollars must aim for such a certificate. In fact, this project is setting standards. At least three other Leighton Group projects will be green. Similarly in Perth, Leighton Contractors is part of a joint venture that is to extend “Gateway WA,” the main road link from the airport to the city center, by 2017. Once again, the client is Main Roads WA. A sustainability manager is responsible for ensuring that all target requirements on the giant project are met. In Stephen Nicolay, the team also has on board a project manager with sustainability experience. One major construction-related factor is that electric vehicles are replacing some of the petrol-driven vehicles on the construction site. Sustainable activities are also under way on the other side of the Australian continent in Sydney—both at the North West Rail Link Tunnel, a rail project being delivered by Leighton subsidiaries Thiess and John Holland, and Focus Area 1: Sustainable Products and Services “Certification is a complex and carefully thought-out process—and that’s the way it should be. Undoubtedly a great deal more effort goes into creatMagazine ing a signature Greenroads project, plus a good helping of innovation and creativity. Roadways carrying Greenroads certification are designed and constructed to higher sustainability standards than is currently common practice—which is why they stand out from the rest. Anyone starting out on their first project will soon learn the ropes, and Greenroads staff are there to provide support along the way. Of course, we also know that the construction industry is already implementing a lot of environmentally friendly meas­ ures that can be credited by a program like Greenroads—measures that may not be recognized anywhere else or, for instance, by trade association award programs. Such activities can easily translate into points earned on a Jeralee Anderson, project, or serve to encourage innovation in other areas as well.” Executive Director, Greenroads Foundation at Wynyard Walk, a pedestrian tunnel in the city’s cenAnne Davis also confirms that sustainability is becomtral business district. ing ever more important: “In the infrastructure space, owners, contractors, consultants, and suppliers all talk These projects are the first in a series of sustainable infraabout sustainability in the business—on their websites, structure projects in Australia that are being delivered in their tenders, and in projects they deliver. What we by Leighton. HOCHTIEF’s Australian Group company is see in this is an ever-increasing market for sustainable also active within the ISCA. Thiess sponsors the webinfrastructure.” She considers it important to see the site, for example, and a Leighton Contractors employee ­infrastructure being developed today as a legacy for sits on the ISCA Board: Anne Davis, Legal Counsel. ­future generations. “The IS rating scheme offers a way to acknowledge and reward projects that show leaderCommitted to sustainability ship and innovation in the implementation of sustain“We are transparent about our sustainability commitability.” ments, standards, and performance requirements, and we report regularly on our progress,” underlines Craig As a member of the ISCA Board, she is further developTucker, Group Environment Manager at Leighton Coning the strategy that the organization promotes in its push tractors. “The safety and health of our people is also for more sustainability in Australian infrastructure, stating: core to every aspect of our business, and how we deliver “Contributing to a positive legacy while meeting clients’ on our social, environmental, ethical, and financial reneeds—sounds good to me.” Russell Cuttler, Executive sponsibilities.” The company’s values overlap with those General Manager/Operational Support of John Holland, of the ISCA. And customers from industry, government, who is also member of the ISCA Board, adds: “Being and local councils are also making ever greater demands involved with the ISCA allows us to participate in the in terms of sustainability, says Tucker. debate and influence the way things are considered and done to get better outcomes on infrastructure projLeighton Contractors has delivered IS Foundation ects. Using the IS rating scheme allows us to improve Training courses that train employees in sustainable ininfrastructure on a number of fronts. It allows us to defrastructure and teach them how the IS certification liver continuous social, economic and environmental system works. By the end of 2013, 33 colleagues from improvements by evaluating and assessing each of the the Perth, Melbourne, and Sydney sites had received design, construction and even operational phases of training. Tucker says: “Tailored in-house training has infrastructure.” facilitated knowledge sharing, provided opportunities for open and frank discussions about performance and Anyone leaving Australia and traveling to the USA will areas for improvement, and helped lower costs.” This encounter an organization similar to the ISCA: the fosters an understanding of sustainability and transfers it Greenroads Foundation, which promotes sustainable into practice, he explains. road construction projects and counts HOCHTIEF and U.S. subsidiary Flatiron among its active members. A Sustainability Report 2013 13 Certification systems for sustainable infrastructure “Green” buildings have been officially commended for more than 20 years. Now the infrastructure sector is Magazine following suit. One of the first certification systems for sustainable infrastructure came into being in the UK in 2003: CEEQUAL has already presented awards to more than 210 projects, including the Glendoe hydroelectric power plant in Scotland, which HOCHTIEF completed in 2009. Established in Australia in 2008, the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia (ISCA) issues sustainability ratings in the civil engineering and infrastructure sector. A distinction is made between the design, construction, and operation phases. Thiess is a founding member and sponsor of the ISCA, and other representatives from the Leighton Group sit on the Board. The Greenroads Foundation was established in the USA in 2010 and awards ratings and certification to sustainable road projects. The certification program is soon to be extended to rail projects as well. Flatiron is a member and HOCHTIEF a sponsor. In addition, HOCHTIEF is currently investigating whether similar certification systems can be put in place in Germany, although the debate is still in its infancy. change of location takes us to San Francisco. Hardly by the project is seismic safety. The area around San any other city has such a striking landmark; the Golden Francisco is one of the most seismically active in the Gate Bridge is known far and wide. At its southern end, world. The Presidio Parkway is intended to serve as an the approach road is currently being upgraded and made emergency route in the event of a heavy earthquake more seismically secure. The name of this road is the Preand must therefore be passable again no more than 72 sidio Parkway and it is being built as part of a publichours later. To make sure of that, the team is improving private partnership (PPP). HOCHTIEF PPP Solutions the stability of tunnels, roads, and causeways. holds a 50 percent stake in the concession company, Golden Link Concessionaire, and the construction conSustainability aspects were important right from the tensortium is led by Flatiron. The HOCHTIEF subsidiary der phase, as the project is endeavoring to earn a Greenbegan construction work in summer 2012 and is makroads Foundation certificate (see box on page 13). Early ing the Presidio Parkway a green project, as it passes on, a sustainability management plan was drawn up through a special area. and an environmental manager appointed, Jason Phillips is examining whether all the organization’s requirements Keeping sight of the surrounding environment are met. “We stand a very good chance of gaining silver Measuring roughly six square kilometers, the Presidio certification, maybe even gold,” he says. national park is a former military base with a unique blend of history, nature, and geology. It offers a natural, On this project, all eleven mandatory “Project Requirealmost liberating contrast to the grid-type road layout in ments” are met. These include an end-to-end environthe city of San Francisco. The Presidio Parkway leads mental approach, quality control, noise mitigation, and through this nearby recreational area popular with tourminimum air pollution. The team also wishes to earn ists and residents alike to the Golden Gate Bridge. additional credits for voluntary measures, such as a construction site recycling plan or a materials procure“The market is primed for sustainment plan. The status quo in December 2013, roughly 83 percent of the building debris and waste is being able roadways to become extremely ­recycled, as is almost 100 percent of the steel and concrete aggregates. relevant.” For Phillips, it is a special project in every respect, as he is also a resident and so one of those affected by Flatiron is responsible for ensuring that the 2.5-kilometer the construction work. The biologist and environmental stretch of road once again meets the very latest requiremanager has lived here for 17 years. At the start of his ments and that the neighboring areas are better concareer, he worked as a volunteer environmental expert nected. Special attention is being devoted to landscapfor the National Park Service. So it was only logical that ing improvements and continuous cycle and pedestrian he make sure sustainability standards are met on this paths. But the most important issue being addressed 14 Sustainability Report 2013 Focus Area 1: Sustainable Products and Services project for Flatiron and that he supervise the documentive Director of the Greenroads Foundation, describing tation for Greenroads. the current situation in the USA. She speaks out against government regulation, however: “Greenroads is an inMagazine “It was initially unclear to us what we should actually do dependent third-party rating system that is actually comin order to earn the credits,” said Jason Phillips. This is pletely voluntary. We think that is actually beneficial since because the system is still relatively new and nobody on regulation tends to take the carrot away and replace it the team had any experience of it. However, the Greenwith a stick in terms of promoting positive behaviors.” roads Foundation requirements largely overlap with the sustainability requirements Flatiron places on all its projThe Foundation trains and supports companies project ects. The fact that certification systems are also being teams during their initial learning curve. It is still uncerset up in this segment demonstrates an ever-growing tain whether the Presidio Parkway will achieve gold cerawareness of sustainable infrastructure. tification in a few years. What is certain, though, is that this road is a sustainable one. Everyone involved is work“The market is primed for sustainable roadways to being to make sure of that. come extremely relevant,” says Jeralee Anderson, Execu­ Stakeholders have their say: Antony Sprigg ISCA is one of the world’s only industry advocacy groups for infrastructure sustainability. We are fundamentally bipartisan and work collaboratively and in a spirit of partnership with both the private and public sectors. We also believe strongly in integrated thinking and activities. Our industry partners are other advocacy groups with whom we share a common purpose and/or stakeholders. These relationships assist in promoting the focus on and a consistent approach to infrastructure sustainability. They generate a louder “voice” regarding key issues. The case studies emerging from projects with an IS rating (e.g. Great Eastern Highway Alliance, in which Leighton Contractors was a partner) are producing quantitative and qualitative examples that demonstrate how applied, outcomes-based sustainability initiatives and processes can deliver cost benefits as well as social and environmental improvements. Antony Sprigg, Chief Executive This type of information helps to articulate and strengthen the business case for infra­O fficer, Infrastructure Sustainability structure sustainability, which in turn motivates the industry to raise the bar further for Council of Australia (ISCA) sustainability performance. In the context of infrastructure sustainability and global trends, it appears that Australia, the U.S., and the UK are the most progressive. However, there may be other leaders we are not yet aware of. Countries like Sweden, Canada, New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, India, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, and Qatar have been exploring this issue for some time now and are using a variety of tools to increase sustainability performance on selected infrastructure projects. ISCA has been approached by industry representatives from many of these countries with queries about IS suitability for use in their respective regions. The IS pilot ratings commencing in New Zealand in early 2014 are a good example of this. I am confident that every infrastructure project or asset can be planned for, designed, built, and operated in a more ­efficient (lean), more productive, and lower impact manner, and thus more sustainably. This may relate to resource efficiency; improved stakeholder engagement and the resultant reduction in construction delays or operational noise complaints; planning and implementing enhanced biodiversity benefits and connectivity rather than depletion; or the projects and assets delivering broader economic benefits beyond the original function of the infrastructure asset. Sustainability Report 2013 15 Excellence recognized: Turner met its own energy conservation goals and has received outside recognition for its achievement, including the 2013 Climate Leadership Award conferred by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Such accomplishments are possible only when employees put environmental awareness and efficiency into practice—something they do very well at the HOCHTIEF subsidiary. Focus Area 2: Active Climate Protection “Turn It Off” Magazine and win HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiary Turner has succeeded in using a clever contest and simple measures to motivate its employees to conserve electricity. The impressive results show that meeting goals is not that difficult after all—if everyone contributes to the effort. It was a cold, sunny November day in 2013 when Turner’s national sustainability managers came together in a ­hotel in downtown Philadelphia. They had come in for “We want to play our part in lowering this summit meeting from all over the United States. The men and women representing the 5,000-plus emenergy usage to minimize the greenployees of HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiary in 50 regional offices had come to exchange ideas and share valuable house effect.” experiences. The was planned to coincide the 2013 Greenbuild International Expo, the world’s largest showAccording to Michael Deane, “At Turner, our aim is to case dedicated to new trends in green and eco-friendly be environmentally responsible citizens—and, in fact, construction, which was taking place at the same time we are. Several years ago we announced our intention just a few hundred meters away in the city’s conference to lower energy usage in our offices to minimize greencenter. house gas emissions. That meant cutting our consumption of energy by five percent from 2006 to 2012.” It At the end of a long day of workshops and discussions, seemed a tough road at first, says Deane: “When we set the group took some time out for an unusual presentation. out, the only tools we had were our electricity bills and Chief Sustainability Officer Michael Deane asked six information from our building management companies. ­attendees to come forward and report on an in-house We first made it a policy to comply with all LEED stand­ contest in which they had participated. Afterward, he ards when renovating our offices.” The positive result? pulled out two handmade awards—two fluorescent These meas­ures alone were sufficient to meet, and in light bulbs on a small wooden base—and congratulated some cases even exceed, the target set. The company the winners. In an ambitious, four-week energy conserreported savings of six percent. vation contest known as the “Turn It Off” competition, Turner’s offices in Montvale, New Jersey, and Columbus, Turner’s commitment got noticed. In February 2013, Ohio, had made the greatest progress. Michael Deane was invited to the Climate Leadership Conference in Washington, D.C. to accept an award on The two representatives of the winning offices were not behalf of Turner’s employees from the Environmental the only ones with something to celebrate. The campaign Protection Agency (EPA), the arm of the U.S. federal as a whole showed once again what a company’s emgovernment advocating a clean environment, efficient ployees can accomplish when they focus their energies stewardship of resources, and renewable energies. on issues such as sustainability, energy efficiency, and concerted energy conservation. Sustainability Report 2013 17 Focus Area 2: Active Climate Protection Simple measures, impressive results Another initiative was a pilot project in which measuring Magazine devices were installed in some electrical outlets to precisely determine energy usage. The data obtained was monitored continually and reported to employees so they could see how much electricity they were using and which devices consumed the most. Additionally, electrical devices were timed to turn off automatically during non-business hours. All of these measures, some of them very simple, paid off: plug load energy consumption was reduced by 33 percent. In another initiative, employees in all offices and at all construction sites were encouraged to complete a “Turner Green Zone” checklist with the aim of raising awareness of environmental and climate impact by gathering information about recycling and waste management, water consumption, and energy conservation. A website on this program with information about how the individual sites ranked was a friendly way to ­inspire the necessary competition among Turner’s o ­ ffices (see also the info box on page 19). “The dashboards,” says Deane, “allowed us to quickly determine the source of our energy consumption and display this in a highly visible and easy-to-grasp way. It’s one thing to get a utility bill once a month and realize that we might have dropped the ball the previous month. But we don’t know when it happened and why. With the energy dashboards, everyone knows ten minutes later if there is an anomaly. You can track it down and fix it before it costs you a lot of money.” The office in Montvale, New Jersey, which houses Turner’s Construction Risk Management office for the entire United States, is situated in a recently renovated buildA complete overview: InterThis also caught the eye of the judges for the EPA Climate ing. Here, the Turner team was able to get separate active energy monitoring Leader award, but their interest focused on another of readings on the electrical usage of the plug load, lightdashboards in Turner’s offices constantly display curTurner’s initiatives: interactive energy monitoring dashing fixtures, and HVAC systems. Employees discovered rent energy usage and savboards installed in several offices that display energy that they could reduce plug load 30 percent simply by ings figures. Employees can see not just their own reusage in real time. This allows employees to identify patshutting off the electrical outlets at 9:00 p.m. and turning sults, but those of the other terns as well as compare their consumption to that of them back on at 6:00 a.m. the next morning. Once the sites participating in the contest as well—along with other participating offices. electronic measuring system was installed, they also a clear picture of where their office currently ranks. learned something much more surprising. “We noticed that the highest energy usage figures were on Sunday,” 18 Sustainability Report 2013 Turner’s Green Zone program Magazine In 2011, Turner launched the Green Zone program to improve the com­ pany’s environmental performance in Turner office ­locations and construction sites. A checklist is used to ask questions about twelve core ­issues and 50 additional factors in five categories, including comfort and environmental quality, recycling and waste disposal, water consumption, energy and indoor air quality, as well as innovation and design. An office or project must meet the twelve core requirements and at least five additional ones to achieve internal certification as a Turner Green Zone. In 2013, a total of 210 sites took part in the survey, and 91 were certified. The participants received certificates along with stickers for their hard hats. The checklist is used to assess the status quo at the locations and provide ideas for future measures. The competitive nature of the program motivates employees to develop and implement efficiency improvements. Green Zone projects and sites are distinguished by the fact that they reduce the influence of business activities on the environment, cut costs by increasing energy efficiency and optimizing water consumption, reduce materials usage, and not least promote a healthy and productive working environment for employees. explains Deane. “But no one was in the office on Sun“we show them that we pay attention to things outside day. The system settings were off, so we corrected that.” their field of vision. And that we can add value if we work together.” Office manager Christina Corvino and her colleagues in Montvale achieved results and a whole series of successes in just four weeks: “Our kilowatt-hour usage 30% dropped by 42 percent,” she reports. A company can accomplish more than just save energy and money with such efforts, underscores Michael Deane: “The Columbus office, for instance, shows the The amount by which electricity usage at the system to clients and architects with whom we work. We say, look, you can do this in your office or on your Montvale office was cut by turning off all elecproject. And if you build it in from the beginning, that will be most cost-effective. Your benefit will be greattrical outlets between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. est.” Clients and engineers appreciate it when a construction company like Turner provides this kind of expertise and shares its ideas. In this way, says Deane, Sustainability Report 2013 19 Magazine Shared success: Turner’s sustainability managers met to exchange news and views as well as toast the success of the “Turn It Off” competition and the winners. The right approach And that, says Christina Corvino, is the good thing about All of this was possible because the people at Turner these competitions. “Plus, we would never have noticed chose a thoroughly American approach to problem these hidden energy vampires. People don’t necessarily solving: kick off a competition to spark participants’ inithink about such things. The contest was highly effectiative. Michael Deane notes that “we Americans don’t tive for us. Our office was constructed to be very efficient particularly like to be told what to do.” Contests, on the and sustainable, so finding added opportunities to save other hand, function as leverage for changing people’s energy and boost efficiency even further is a great behavior without them really noticing it. “When you get thing.” So it comes as no surprise that Turner employees feedback that you’re doing something really well, then continue to save energy even after the competition. you’re ready to see whether you can do it even better And the employees in the offices that did not win have next time.” already asked for a new contest to be run. “I hope everyone sees what can be gained when we set a good example or save money. If the computer dash“If you receive feedback that you boards were installed in all of our offices, that would increase the potential for further savings. After all, what have done something really well, we discovered in this project should not be forgotten. The six participating offices cut electricity costs by the then next time you might try to do equivalent of 3,000 U.S. dollars in four weeks.” If every Turner office saved as much, says Deane, the savings even better.” would amount to 250,000 U.S. dollars a year. An impressive amount—and one that motivates Turner employees to continue their efforts and develop clever new ideas and initiatives. 20 Sustainability Report 2013 Focus Area 2: Active Climate Protection Magazine Stakeholders have their say: Chris Reaster Mr. Reaster, the Turner office in Columbus attained the highest scores in the “Turn It Off” competition. Where did you install the dashboard which was used to display the amount of electricity saved? As you come into the office, you see a touchscreen where we showcase our projects, and that’s where we put the energy dashboard. We chose that location because it means as many people as possible can walk by and access the information. Often, builders and clients also click on the screen and see how much money we’ve saved. That gives our employees an opportunity to bring up green construction and sustainability in discussions with business partners. At the same time, visitors can see that we implement ideas Chris Reaster, Estimating Engineer, like this in client projects—and that we practice what we Turner Construction Company preach at Turner as well. Clients understand the benefits of this type of measuring system? Yes. The perfect example was the call I received from another Turner unit. Our coworkers there had heard that we won the competition. They work with a university that was sub­ sequently also considering implementing a computer dashboard. Primarily, they want to ana­ lyze their dorm rooms, but other areas as well. Imagine it! An entire university organizes a competition to find out more about electricity usage and to save money. The competition raised awareness among Turner employees about energy conservation and fueled their ambitions. What happened after those four weeks had passed? We continue to save. Habits were changed! I think it just takes four or five weeks to permanently change people’s habits. And the competition accomplished that. Sustainability Report 2013 21 Nature and technology in harmonious balance: The third bridge over the Firth of Forth in Scotland is currently being built. While the new crossing is important in terms of mobility, it is also another intrusion into the habitat of people as well as flora and fauna. Thanks to a sophisticated plan, HOCHTIEF and its partners are protecting these resources during construction. Focus Area 3: Resource Protection Bridging nature Magazine and technology Building landmarks, protecting resources: Construction of the new road bridge over the Firth of Forth in Scotland is subject to strict environmental protection standards. HOCHTIEF and its project partners have specifically addressed these demands with a far-reaching action plan. When construction work on the second bridge over 2016 for the bridge whose official name, the QueensScotland’s Firth of Forth began in 1958, the builders ferry Crossing, was chosen by public vote in 2013. were certain of one thing. This bridge would secure the crossing over the 2.7-kilometer-wide estuary between The history of the three bridges which cross over the Lothian and Edinburgh in the south and Fife in the north Firth of Forth between South Queensferry and North for at least 120 years. At last, there would be a direct Queensferry is multifaceted: It is technological history. link for all motorized vehicles, not just a rail bridge. The It is architectural history. It is mobility history. It is the old-fashioned ferries had become obsolete. This sechistory of progress. And it is also the history of enond bridge, the Forth Road Bridge, was not quite decroachment on the habitats of plants and animals. signed to last an eternity, but close. Without a doubt, the builders of the first two bridges However, 40 years later, the Scottish government was had to fight the whirling winds over the Firth of Forth. forced to admit that there was a large rift between the Today, large-scale projects like this usually also feel original builders’ plan and the reality on the ground. blowback from environmental protection groups. A nec­Although it was designed to handle only eleven million essary evil? Not at all. For HOCHTIEF, objections by vehicles per year, by 2006, no fewer than 23 million environmentalists are always a welcome reminder of vehicles were using this important bridge annually. our own mission and vision to expand horizons and ­Almost at the same time, in 2005, initial signs of corroshape living spaces. The fact is, we impact the people Harmonious: Queensferry sion damage came to light on the supporting cables. who use this living space and the natural environment Crossing blends in perfectly The bridge was carrying more traffic, but had a diminthat surrounds it. And HOCHTIEF takes responsibility with the landscape at the Firth of Forth. Building the ished load-bearing capacity—not a promising future. for that. Period. Just as delivery of high-quality conbridge will take five years struction projects is a matter of course for us, it goes and, during this time, protecting resources is not just an And so government officials began to weigh their opwithout saying that we take a responsible and sustainobligation, but an inspiration tions. Should the old bridge be fixed up, accepting the able approach to building for precisely this reason. for HOCHTIEF Solutions. fact that its use would remain limited in the long run? Would an underground tunnel be a viable alternative? Or should a new, third bridge be built? In 2007, after thoroughly weighing up the pros and cons regarding the costs, benefits, and impact, they took the decision to build a third bridge, the Forth Replacement Crossing. After years of planning, the contract was awarded in 2011 to the Forth Crossing Bridge Constructors (FCBC) consortium comprising HOCHTIEF Solutions along with Dragados, American Bridge, and Morrison Construction. Work on the structure began in 2011. Including the necessary connecting structures, almost seven kilometers of road infrastructure will be created here by Sustainability Report 2013 23 Focus Area 3: Resource Protection • How much agricultural land would be lost during construction of the access roads? How much land Magazine would have to be expropriated? • The construction site is home to numerous species of birds—many of these are protected species. How can their natural refuges be preserved? • How can the character of the landscape be maintained despite the significant encroachment by the structure? • The new bridge will be built directly over Beamer Rock, a small rocky island. What will happen to the lighthouse there? • To what extent will the new, longer route result in more automobile emissions and therefore reduce air quality? • How can a safe flow of traffic be ensured not only for cars, but also for pedestrians and cyclists? Consideration takes preceSo the construction of the new Queensferry Crossing dence: The vibrations caused by foundation drilling work will not just go down in technological, architectural, and The questions documented were integrated into the for the bridge caissons dismobility history. It is also a shining example of resource planning process to the greatest possible extent. This turb the native marine mammals in the area. That’s why stewardship and protection as part of large-scale conguaranteed that as little land as possible had to be work only begins when no struction projects. ­expropriated for the bridge route and that alternative schools of fish, whales, or seals are detected within a space was found for the recreation area eliminated. radius of one kilometer of Multitude of challenges the site. What does project-specific resource protection look For HOCHTIEF Solutions as one of the construction like exactly? What is involved? What steps need to companies involved in the FCBC joint venture, certain be taken to accomplish which goals? What is the end resource protection issues directly associated with its result? Who benefits from resource protection? own activities stood out. Specifically: Even before the start of the tender process, the Scot• How can the construction process be orchestrated tish Government's public transport agency, Transport so as to keep the disruption phase to a minimum? Scotland, the client for this project, listed the impacts • How can visual disruptions and noise pollution assoof building the third bridge. Even in summarized form, ciated with the construction site be kept to a minimum? •C  onstruction of the bridge requires one of the largest The summarized environmental underwater concrete pours in the world. How can it be designed to avoid damaging the undersea habitat? ­requirements filled numerous pages •H  ow can the volume of waste be reduced, the waste produced properly disposed of, and dust avoided? of the tender document. •H  ow can air pollution, noise pollution, and vibrations be minimized? •S  ome of the new access roads are being built on virthe special site requirements, effects on land distribugin land. How can they be integrated into the existing tion, groundwater, the appearance of the landscape, ecosystem? air quality, noise levels, flora and fauna, traffic patterns, • How can the safety of workers be guaranteed? neighbors, and the construction activities themselves •H  ow can the construction site be organized so as to filled numerous pages. The following are just some exdisrupt the flow of traffic as little as possible? amples of the issues and questions surrounding the project’s environmental impact: 24 Sustainability Report 2013 Magazine Resource protection in concrete terms by the Ramsar Convention, an intergovernmental treaty And pretty soon, there will be nothing to see: Forests The measures HOCHTIEF Solutions takes to put its refor which Unesco is the depositary organization that and green space have to source protection plan into action are as varied as the aims to protect wetlands and the habitats of waterfowl make way for construction of the access roads to the questions and challenges. Here are just a few examples: and wading birds. The area also features several bird bridge. But after each phase, reserves under European law as well as protected refthe cleared areas are swiftly replanted. Emission monitoring uges for nesting birds and migratory fish. In response to You have to break eggs to make an omelette, as the contractual requirements set out by Transport Scotland, saying goes. Noise, dust, and vibrations are unavoidthe consortium including HOCHTIEF created the imporable side effects of large-scale construction sites. No tant position of Marine Mammal Observer. One emlarge structure can be built noiselessly, invisibly, and ployee is entrusted with ensuring the wellbeing of all without kicking up dust, and HOCHTIEF’s projects are marine mammals. His work is done from a boat. As no exception. However, numerous measuring stations soon as marine mammals are detected within a radius were set up at the Queensferry Crossing construction of one kilometer of the loud and vibration-producing site and volunteers found who were prepared to have the necessary technical equipment installed on their 400,000 properties. To thank them in some small way, FCBC is donating money in their names to projects selected by the volunteers. The measuring stations record how loud the work is and which local residents are affected. Based on this data, the works can be coordinated HOCHTIEF and its project partners are plan­accordingly, and neighbors be informed and prepared. ting 400,000 new trees, plants, and hedges. Marine Mammal Observer Marine species are also affected, especially by vibrations caused in drilling work. The contractual stipulafoundation works, those works are postponed immetions for marine preservation during construction of the diately. Several times already, seals have been given Queensferry Crossing are strict. And for good reason. the opportunity to seek out a place to stay further away. A number of areas in and around the Firth of Forth fall Passive Acoustic Monitoring (PAM) equipment is used under national or international environmental protection to locate the animals. In addition, radar is used to find regulations. For instance, some of the area is protected schools of fish within a 500-meter radius. Sustainability Report 2013 25 Magazine © DB AG Construction in a nature reserve As in other places, large infrastructure projects in Germany also face considerable ­environmental protection challenges. The Saale-Elster Viaduct proves that this is not a problem for HOCHTIEF. The Saale-Elster Viaduct, Germany’s longest bridge at nearly ten kilometers, runs through the heart of sensitive nature reserves in the Saale floodplains. It took six years for HOCHTIEF Solutions to build the link for the high-speed rail connection between Leipzig and Erfurt. From 2017 onward, it will close the gap in the ICE rail network on the Berlin-Munich route. A bridge that runs straight across a nature reserve? Right through a refuge for many rare animals such as beavers and red kites? For the joint venture including HOCHTIEF, completing the project while protecting the area’s natural resources was an absolute must. For instance, some biotopes could not be entered at all. These demands posed a challenge even for our seasoned engineers. The project’s schedule and construction methods were consistently aligned with these requirements. The Saale-Elster Viaduct was built according to an innovative “top-down” construction technique. This means that all work—including the pylon foundations—was carried out from scaffolding on the parts of the bridge that were already completed. There was only one construction road specially built for the purpose, and this too was raised on pylons to protect the flora and fauna. During bird nesting season in the spring, work was regularly halted on certain sections of the bridge. In 2013, the site with the shell construction was handed over on schedule by our team. What remains is the good feeling that neither animals nor plants were disturbed any more than was absolutely necessary. Dedicated environmental team partners will plant a total of 400,000 trees, plants, and Environmental protection is also personified in Liam hedges. In this process, attention is paid to making sure Soden, FCBC Environmental Manager, who manages the mix of plants corresponds to the natural composia team of five people responsible for resource protection tion and the newly renaturated areas fit harmoniously during the bridge building project (see interview on into the existing landscape. page 27). Information center Shaping the landscape A Contact & Education Center was also set up for local Woodlands and green space were cleared for conresidents. Since April 2013, several thousand visitors, struction of the bridge and its access roads. However, a including around 1,200 schoolchildren, have taken the partnership with a tree nursery ensured early on that opportunity to gather information about the progress after each phase of construction, new trees are planted of the construction work, the project itself, and its imquickly, and the right number of plants are available at pacts. A separate FCBC Community Liaison Team the right point in time. HOCHTIEF and its consortium works as a point of contact for citizens, responding to 26 Sustainability Report 2013 Focus Area 3: Resource Protection their questions, suggestions, and concerns about the impinges considerably on their living space. HOCHTIEF large-scale project being built over several years. The is not only aware of this fact but can say with convicbridge over the Firth of Forth is a structure meant to tion: We act accordingly. That’s what sustainability is. Magazine serve the people who live there. And, at the same time, Period. Stakeholders have their say: Liam Soden What is your background? For over eight years, I have worked as an ecological and environmental consultant on various large-scale projects across the UK. I have been Environmental Manager and Ecological Clerk of Works for the Forth Crossing Bridge Constructors (FCBC) consortium since November 2011. What is your main duty and what are the vital aspects and aims of your daily work? I have two roles within the department. As head of section for the environmental department, I manage a team responsible for ensuring the FCBC's commitment to maintaining the integrity of the environment during construction of the bridge. My second role is that of the Ecological Clerk of Works. In this capacity, I monitor the ecology around our projLiam Soden, Environmental Manager ect site and provide technical advice to the construction team where necessary. and Ecological Clerk of Works, Forth Crossing Bridge ­Constructors What do you like most about your job? The challenge! Every day we have to deal with something different. That can range from ecological issues—such as monitoring marine mammals during piling operations—to waste management. We have a number of teams spread across the project and make sure that environmental awareness is a constant consideration for every operative. Is it possible to carry out such a huge project while taking care of nature and resources? Large-scale projects like this bridge construction can have a positive impact on the local environment. They provide data on the indigenous species (through initial assessments made at the planning stage), they can provide management resources to local habitats that wouldn’t necessarily be in place–such as additional woodland/wildflower planting, and they allow for data to be collected throughout the project which can be valuable to local agencies and groups. What are the main challenges at the moment? The biggest challenge we have as a team is the logistics and size of the job—making sure every department is supported with regard to any environmental issues that crop up and that they remain committed to conducting their work in an environmentally responsible manner. That takes a lot of communication, planning, and coordination. What achievements have already been made? Ecologically speaking, the biggest achievement has been minimizing the disturbance to locally protected species: Otters, badgers, bats, and terns have all been recorded on our site since construction began in 2011. This shows that by implementing the right mitigation and managing our works in a considerate manner, we have had little impact on the local ecology. Is there any aspect of your job that you find most important? I don’t consider one particular aspect of my roles any more important than another. Ecology, noise, air quality, waste management, sustainability, cultural heritage, and pollution prevention are all key topics we deal with on a daily basis with numerous departments. Sustainability Report 2013 27 Up close and personal: During internships at HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiary Flatiron, budding engineers are given the opportunity to get to know their future work environment first-hand—enormous construction vehicles and all. The excellently organized and structured internship program is one reason for Flatiron’s regular appearance at the top of employer ranking lists. Focus Area 4: An Attractive Working Environment Great employer— Magazine A visit to Flatiron HOCHTIEF subsidiary Flatiron has been named “Best Place to Work” in Canada several times in various rankings. But what really makes a first-rate employer? And what can a company do to become one? A peek behind the scenes at U.S. civil engineering specialist Flatiron provided some answers. Employees are a company’s most valuable resource, sources data also provides a more realistic picture of and if they are highly qualified, motivated, and involved, actual working conditions than a survey of university this will be reflected in the company’s financial results. students and graduates. In that case, the appeal of This correlation is widely accepted today, not just on the attractive products and strong brands often influences corporate side, but also among the sought-after talent a company’s rank, according to a study by opinion reon the labor market. Consequently, competition is insearch firm Universum Communications: 44 percent of tense for what are known as “high potentials.” These canentry-level workers choose their ideal employer based didates specifically select their employers according on its attractive products, and 36 percent and 32 percent, to their preferences—and prestige and salary are hardly respectively, pay particular attention to its financial strength the only criteria considered. Instead, the decision is and market success. ­increasingly made on factors such as opportunities for personal development, work-life balance, and social High scores from employees and experts responsibility. This means both sides face new challenges. The list of top employers in Canada, which named Employers must be able to attractively showcase their HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiary Flatiron one of the top 50 “internal” values, while the candidates themselves must companies for the second time running in 2013, is also in turn decide which criteria to prioritize in choosing based on an employee survey. Since the 1980s, the their dream employer—after all, each of us has our own Great Place to Work Institute has explored the qualities individual requirements and priorities. that go to make a good employer. The Canadian edition of the Great Place to Work ranking has been published Finding out from those in the know annually in the Globe and Mail newspaper since 2005. Guidance in finding the perfect employment match can In addition to the assessment by the employees surbe found in numerous rankings regularly published by veyed, the ranking also includes a qualitative analysis Out of the university and business and industry media. The methodology and the of corporate culture as well as human resources policy into the engineering world: Flatiron interns inspect a focus differ from survey to survey. In many rankings, and programs. In the 2013 ranking, a total of 57,000 construction site. college graduates are asked which companies they find attractive. Some lists use juries to choose the winners based on data from human resources departments, while others rely on employees to evaluate their employers. The latter are particularly helpful for job seekers. Additionally, the more transparently the strengths of a company as employer are presented, the easier it is to assess whether this company is not just A top employer but THE best employer for a particular applicant’s needs. Surveying employees and analyzing human reSustainability Report 2013 29 Magazine The winning bridge in the intern competition: Jimmy Quach’s popsicle-stick-andglue structure held an impressive 58 pounds (picture left). Flatiron engineer Carlos Gomez (picture right) works closely with the internship program and is on hand to provide help and advice to the bridge builders-to-be. employees from more than 300 nominated companies into project management. At the end, participants apply were surveyed. their newly acquired knowledge to a final project. A significant incentive is provided by prizes awarded by FlatAnother example is the list of “British Columbia’s Top iron totaling 15,000 U.S. dollars: The higher the score a Employers 2013,” which also included Flatiron. Here, participant’s project is given, the more money they rethe publishers of “Canada’s Top 100 Employers” evaluceive. The prizes are mainly intended to help participants ate factors such as the working environment, commufinance their later studies. In addition, Flatiron offers the nication with employees, benefits, and commitment to best of the best a paid summer internship geared to social issues. Flatiron’s various social initiatives were providing an even more in-depth look at careers and among the positive aspects recognized by experts in daily life at the company. both rankings. Above all, however, the HOCHTIEF subsidiary placed highly due to its company pensions and Goal: Recruit and retain young talent training as well as its continuing education programs. An internship at Flatiron means much more than just gaining some initial on-the-job experience. During the For reasons including this type of support, Flatiron also summer internship programs, the transportation inframade the list of top employers of young people in Cana­ structure specialist organizes a series of competitions da, a ranking also chosen by the publishers of “Canato generate added motivation and enthusiasm for the da’s Top 100 Employers.” The special focus of this rankcompany. Carlos Gomez is an experienced Flatiron ening is on initiatives attractive to young talent—such as gineer who works closely with the internship program. the opportunity to attend university while working, or He explains the background to the program’s special mentoring and training programs. mission: “What does an engineer do? These young people have only a very limited idea of the many different Inspiring young engineers career paths they could take with a degree in engineerFlatiron runs a number of employee recruitment initiaing. Flatiron offers them a unique opportunity to experitives and programs to promote employees at various ence the practical side of engineering. They can take the career stages. The Build-A-Bridge program starts early, theory they learned in college and apply it in practice. aiming to inspire high school students to pursue a Working alongside Flatiron engineers, they learn to use “A Day in the Eyes of a Super Intern”: Calvin Joyce’s hucareer in engineering. The program consists of a tentheir skills to meet complex and constantly shifting chalmorous take on his internweek course in which Flatiron employees teach the lenges. These challenges arise when a project has to ship won over his coworkers in the YouTube competition eleven participants basic engineering skills, including be completed in concert with several different parties. for interns. how to read construction plans, and gaining insights Having spent a summer learning about how Flatiron’s engineers deal with complex issues, interns are given a task which they have to complete themselves: Planning and building a bridge on schedule—with nothing but popsicle sticks. The bridges are graded to determine who 30 Sustainability Report 2013 HR Manager Dana Smola on Flatiron’s positioning Magazine as an employer How would you describe the positioning of Flatiron as an ­employer? Which values are most important for Flatiron? Our applicants should embody Flatiron’s five core values: Safety, People, Ingenuity, Results and Success. When screening the applicants, we look for those that possess the talents and skills to ex­ ecute the work required and whether the applicants would fit within our values of strong work ethics and teaming. How does Flatiron attract applicants? Flatiron strives to attract qualified applicants by offering a good work environment focusing on promoting teamwork and camaraderie. We also provide applicants with opportunities to work on challenging and complex projects. Applicants are also looking for an organization that places a high value on professional development. We continually strive to provide our employees with internal and external trainings and support their goals through our career management program. Today’s socially conscious applicants are also looking beyond their personal needs and are looking at whether organizations are good social stewards in the community, both locally and globally. Flatiron provides this to applicants through our efforts on giving back programs such as Bridges to Prosperity , our annual www. bridgestoprosperity.org giving back campaign focusing on non-profit organizations such as Make-A-Wish Foundation, Ronald McDonald House, Our Center and Safe Shelter to name a few, and various outreach programs to educate local high school students about the industry and the field of engineering. These features, along with a strong reputation in our industry, are what attract applicants to Flatiron. In your opinion: What are the future challenges for recruitment, especially for specialists and high potential junior employees? As the U.S. job market improves, our greatest challenge for recruitment will be other competitors seeking to build their benchstrength within their organization. Flatiron will have to look at our strengths and capitalize on those strengths to attract these candidates. We will need to look at what makes us unique and stand out, apart from our competitors seeking similar highly talented recruits. To which characteristics and values does Flatiron pay most attention when you choose or assess employees? Flatiron assesses whether our employees embody our core values. Another key characteristic that we assess our employees on is leadership ability. Leadership competencies are important to ensure the continued growth in our organization and the success of the team. We continue to provide our employees with leadership development programs giving them skills that will assist them in project execution and building relationships both internally and externally. Sustainability Report 2013 31 the bridge-building competition, took second place with Magazine his video. This kind of video competition has multiple positive effects. Firstly, it motivates and rewards the interns while, secondly, voting for the winning video encourages greater interaction between the full-time employees and young talent. As a result, the interns are taken seriously and better integrated into the team. And finally, the personal reports about the internship experience are a very interesting source of information for applicants seeking their ideal employer. This has also been confirmed by Werner Eichhorst of the Institute for the Study of Labor in an interview with German newspaper “Die Zeit”. He states, “First-hand impressions of an internship or a oneto-one conversation with an employee contacted through “Safety first”: In his YouTube had the best design and which structure held the most a friend are the most effective.” video, intern Jimmy Quach explains the purpose of proweight. The program piques the interest of talented tective gear. students who could be future Flatiron managers.” Support at all career levels The programs and initiatives presented here are just In summer 2013, Flatiron also invited interns to narrate two examples of HOCHTIEF subsidiary Flatiron’s retheir day-to-day internship experiences as informatively cruiting and retention measures. The company also and originally as possible in a self-produced video and systematically acts on the principle of motivation and thus to provide a behind-the-scenes look at the company. retention through targeted promotion when it comes to Flatiron employees selected the winner, who received established employees—whether with a job rotation program for young engineers or grants for combining 29% studies and continuing education with work. And Flatiron has another iron in the fire: According to the survey by Universum Communications, attractive of talented young workers report that social products and market strength are criteria highly important to young talent when seeking an employer. Flatiron responsibility is an important factor in their boasts spectacular bridges, gigantic dams, and prestigious road construction projects—all products that search for the ideal employer. undoubtedly warm the hearts of passionate engineers and many others besides. a prize. The title of the video by Calvin Joyce was “A From a sustainability perspective, there is one more reDay in the Eyes of a Super Intern.” It won over viewers sult of the study that stands out: Social responsibility, with its humor, skillful editing, and music as well as a environmental sustainability, and ethical standards rank wealth of physical feats. In addition, it included Flatiron’s above prestige and rapid growth in places five, seven, five key corporate values: Safety, People, Ingenuity, Reand eight, respectively, on the list of what young applisults, and Success. Jimmy Quach, who had already won cants expect of a company. The importance of these issues in evaluating employer attractiveness is under32 Sustainability Report 2013 Focus Area 4: An Attractive Working Environment scored by the experts from “Canada’s Top 100 EmployAll of this makes it clear: These days, only a corporaers,” who especially praised Flatiron’s commitment to tion that thinks and acts with an eye to the big picture society. can really be a top company—and top employer. One Magazine more reason for Flatiron and the entire HOCHTIEF Group to stay deeply committed to sustainability issues. Stakeholders have their say: Jimmy Quach Why do you want to become an engineer? Growing up in the Bay Area, I have been around the Golden Gate Bridge, Carquinez Bridge, and Transamerica Pyramid; these are all products of great engineering. One day, I want to be able to say I was a part of something that is as prestigious as the Golden Gate Bridge. I want to become an engineer because I am fascinated with being able to design and build magnificent structures that fulfill a need of the public. In your opinion: What makes a good employer? In my opinion, a good employer gives their employees a general experience to begin with, and then allows employees to move in the direction of a specific type of job they are passionate about. In summer 2013, Jimmy Quach had his first internship at Flatiron and What were your main activities during your internship at Flatiron? won a bridge building competition with his popsicle sticks construcMy main activities were drafting falsework plans, creating pile handling plans, and tion. In Flatiron’s 2013 Intern Film Festival, his YouTube video achieved calculating load breakdowns for bridges. One of my favorite activities was being able second place. In December, he to assist during the traffic switch of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge Project; started his second internship at the U.S. HOCHTIEF subsidiary. this gave me a taste of what it is like to be a field engineer. What were the most interesting aspects of your internship? The most interesting aspect was going out into the field and seeing the importance of the work I did in the office. During my visit to the Willits Bypass project, I overheard a foreman explain to a new member of his crew the significance of a pile handling plan to the safety of the crew. I always knew the importance of the engineering department at Flatiron, but seeing it first-hand was when it came full circle for me. Could you imagine working for Flatiron after your studies? Yes, I could definitely imagine working for Flatiron after I graduate college. Flatiron is an attractive employer because of the broad experience that young engineers are given in the rotation program. In order to understand the bigger picture, an engineer should be competent in all the different aspects of the job. Another attractive aspect of Flatiron is their heavy involvement in design-build projects such as the Presidio Parkway Project and BART Oakland Airport Connector. Design-build is appealing because I enjoy thinking on my feet to find creative solutions to difficult problems. Flatiron is effective at helping engineers become well-rounded, and I hope to eventually have the opportunity to work here. Sustainability Report 2013 33 Contributions that are making a difference: In Australia, the Leighton Group is taking action on behalf of Indigenous people in many different ways. The chance to complete job training at the company opens up opportunities for young Indigenous Australians to lead a successful, satisfying life. And the HOCHTIEF Group company itself benefits from the diversity of its employees and focuses on actively promoting intercultural exchange. Focus Area 5: Corporate Citizenship Respect is not a Magazine one-way street The Leighton Group and its employees put considerable effort and personal commitment into numerous initiatives and programs aimed at closing the gap in the standard of living between Australia’s Aboriginal people and its non-Indigenous popu­lation. “I was an at-risk youth and didn’t believe that I would ever be able to accomplish anything in my life. When I was invited to join a training program at Thiess, I couldn’t believe I was being given the chance to change my life,” reports Emma Jenkins. She is completing an apprenticeship as a mechanic at construction and mining company Thiess, which is part of the Leighton Group, HOCHTIEF’s Australian Group company. “This opportunity changed everything for me.” Jenkins is of Australian Indigenous descent, making her a representative of the oldest stillsurviving culture in the world (see also box on page 36). She told her story at an event presenting the Reconcilia­ tion Action Plan in March 2013. This initiative is an effort by Thiess to help close the gap between the living standards of Australia’s Indigenous and Torres Strait Islander people and its non-Indigenous inhabitants. The goal is ambitious. In 2014, one out of every four of the company’s apprentices is expected to be from the Indigenous Australian community; in 2015, the share of the The goal is to end this now—at least at Thiess. “Giving Opportunity taken: Jimmy Cloudy and Emma Jenkins workforce accounted for by Indigenous people is antici­ Indigenous Australian and Torres Strait Islander people are among the Indigenous pated to be 2.5 percent—a percentage approximately the opportunity to build a career or helping them work employees completing ­m echanic apprenticeships equal to their representation in Australia’s population with us as a supplier is the core idea behind our vision at Thiess. as a whole. of sustainable social development,” says Bruce Munro, Managing Director of Thiess. The company therefore Assistance required offers five different programs in conjunction with IndigContributions such as those by Thiess are desperately enous Australian Elders, the government, and Salvation needed. Indigenous Australian and Torres Strait Islander* Army Australia to improve the employability of Indigenous *Torres Strait Islanders are the Indigenous people of the Torres peoples are among the poorest, least educated AusAustralian youth. Ultimately, they themselves report that Strait Islands, Queens­land, Aus­ tralians, and have the most difficulty in obtaining access a lack of education and support during the acclimatizatralia. Their culture is Melanesian, and they are not related to to medical care. The unemployment rate among these tion phase in a new job are the two main barriers to emAustralia’s Aboriginal peoples. groups is three times the Australian average. There are ployment. That’s where Thiess comes in with additional many reasons for these differences. The original Indigtutoring in writing and math, job application training and enous Australian social structures were disrupted by the advanced courses as well as tours of the company to arrival of European colonists, and centuries of inequality eliminate any reservations applicants may have. To prefollowed. vent this anxiety from coming to the surface during job Sustainability Report 2013 35 interviews, for example, a Thiess employee of Indig­ the state of Queensland for this employment promotion enous descent is always present. program. There has also been recognition at country Magazine level. “Thiess is really doing something for Indigenous Thiess has invested approximately 35,000 training hours Australian and Torres Strait Islander people. This proin this effort to date. The result? Today, three out of four gram goes well beyond the usual responsibility of an graduates of the “Employability” programs can be proud employer to be a good corporate citizen,” states Judy of holding permanent jobs. Donovan of Australia’s Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations. In addition, cus­ Thiess has been recognized for this achievement. In tomers are also happy with the company’s commitment, 2013, the Leighton company won a prize awarded by as many of them have their own agreements with targets for the employment of Indigenous Australian staff. Promoting understanding The world’s oldest The initiatives launched by Thiess also include intercultural training, and 30 percent of all employees have meanculture while completed such courses. The training, which ­emphasizes commonalities between segments of the The Indigenous peoples of Australia are reppopulation, is incredibly important, according to Richard resentatives of the oldest still-surviving human Young. Young is of Indigenous Australian descent and culture. At the heart of their traditions, which also Manager of Indigenous Affairs at John Holland, can be traced back more than 40,000 years, another Leighton subsidiary. He says that the industry’s are stories—sung, danced, and traveled “songperceptions of Indigenous Australians are frequently lines” from the Dreamtime, the era in which the marked by a lack of knowledge and, all too often, the world was created according to the philosophy abilities of Indigenous people are underestimated. of these peoples. These dream paths function ­“Recently, a trainer asked me whether Indigenous Ausnot only as a history of origin, but also as a texttralian people would have any interest at all in a certain book, code of laws, and religious teachings. job, since it was very technical. I waved an Australian When the first white people arrived—the Brit50-dollar note, which features a portrait of inventor David ish established their first penal colony in AusUnbaipon, in his face. The man is considered Australia’s tralia in 1788, considering it empty land beLeonardo da Vinci!” In Young’s opinion, such preconceplonging to no one—the country’s Indig­enous tions can be eliminated by focusing on communication: peoples were living in an early form of commu“First learn to listen without preconceived ideas!” Hownal society that knew no hierarchies, no owner­ ever, this requires training, positive role models, and ship of property, and no money. Their lifestyle leadership from the highest levels of management. based on preserving rather than conquering the natural world appeared very foreign to the Nev Nichols, Chief Executive Officer of John Holland subEuropeans. A lack of understanding of the sidiary Country Regional Network (CRN), is this kind of ­culture and lifestyle of the Indigenous Australians role model. CRN does not stop at offering various promarred relationships with the European colonists grams for Indigenous Australian youth seeking employand made coexistence more difficult. Even ment after completing their high school or university ­today, Indigenous Australians experience disstudies. The company holds events in which Nichols, advantage. The following three statistics suffice Infrastructure Operations Manager Ged Mohan, and to illustrate the problem: Indigenous Australians’ Manager, HR and Stakeholder Relations Alannan Billinglife expectancy is 17 years lower than that of nonton seek out as many Indigenous Australian and Torres Indigenous Australians, and although Indig­ Strait Islander employees as possible and ask about enous people make up only 2.5 percent of the their situation, always using the following question as a population, they account for 26 percent of all guideline: What could we do to provide even more supprison inmates. port to the Indigenous Australian communities in the areas where we operate? Based on the answers, the company is helping on-site with tutoring, visiting schools, adver36 Sustainability Report 2013 Focus Area 5: Corporate Citizenship tising for careers in the company, and supporting Indigenous school leavers and schools. Magazine Richard Young is convinced of the importance of starting early. He therefore also backs projects not directly associated with the company and its business activ­ ities—for example, a toy-lending library in Wellington operated in conjunction with the local Aboriginal Land Council, the local representative body for Indigenous Australian people. Young mothers from the community with children under the age of five visit the library to borrow toys and meet people. “A large number of our Indigenous Australian employees at CRN and their spouses are not from the area,” Young explains. This initiative provides a good opportunity for young mothers to meet people, and reduce social isolation.” Reaching youth who have already made their way through various schools, training courses, and governmore chance.” There they learn to handle tools, work in Acting locally in the truest sense of the word: Leighton ment programs without success is more difficult. “They teams, and solve problems constructively. employee and human redon’t want to hear another lecture about what they are sources strategist Louise Laws spent three months doing wrong. They want someone to finally ask them Making a difference on-site working on behalf of an Inwhat they want and where they see opportunities,” says That describes Louise Laws’s mission in a nutshell. digenous Australian organization in the Kimberley reYoung. If there is one thing he has learned while helpAlthough her day job at Leighton Contractors involves gion of Western Australia ing Indigenous Australian youth, it is that successes must human resources strategy, Laws has been working in under the auspices of the Jawun program—which inbe celebrated, and self-awareness as well as pride in Kununurra, a remote community with only 3,750 inhabitcluded a lot of playtime and Aboriginal culture must be conveyed. ants in the Kimberley region of northern Western Austrafun, too. lia since September 2013. There she is making a difference along with the local Wunan Foundation through the “Empowered Communities Project”. Twenty Elders “Indigenous youth want from eight different villages, some quite a distance apart, have come together here to seek solutions for the probsomeone to finally ask lems found in nearly all of their communities: high youth suicide rates, high truancy rates, alcohol-related probthem what they want and lems, unemployment, social dislocation. where they see opportu“Empowered Communities” is about collaboration amongst the eight regions and in establishing better nities.” ways of working with each other and with government to accelerate achievement of the closing the gap objectives. Laws’s involvement was to work with the leaders To this end, CRN also participates in BackTrack. The proin the East Kimberley region to identify their strengths gram, which is supported by the Aboriginal Land Council, and successful stories in the reform agenda for sharing assists Indigenous Australian youth who have been rebest practice with the other seven regions as well as jected by other schools and training facilities. The goal the identification of key priority areas for learning from is to motivate them to continue their education, learn a other regions.” trade, and lead a happy, productive life as stable members of society. “This program allows young Indigenous Laws’s involvement is part of the Jawun Secondment youths to be work ready,” reports Young. “We offer them Program, an initiative launched by several major Auswork experience at our company to give them one tralian corporations also supported by Leighton Contractors. The program has been running for several Sustainability Report 2013 37 The Leighton Group’s contribution to Magazine society at a glance: What are the specifics? In the Indigenous Pre-Employment Program for Indigenous Australian and Torres Strait Islander youth, ­participants • are prepared for an apprenticeship; • receive safety equipment and work clothes; • learn from trainers, mentors and the best in their fields, and • can live with Indigenous mentors if necessary. In the Plant Apprenticeship Program, participants • learn on the job; • attend TAFE vocational school, and • receive training as mechanics, auto mechanics, welders, or power system electricians. In the Trades and General Workforce Program, • Indigenous participants receive training to become trades assistants, truck drivers, or machine operators. In the Graduate Development Program, • students commencing in their final year of tertiary study participate in a two-year training program; • mentors, coaches, and job rotations ensure a well-rounded start to their professional lives. The Professional Program • is aimed at experienced employees interested in receiving continuing education to become engineers or production, procurement, finance, occupational safety, environmental, quality assurance, or human resources experts. In the Jawun Secondment Program, • employees are sent to the Indigenous communities for six weeks or three months to work with an Indigenous Australian ­organization on-site. • The demand is mainly for employees who can help with project management, strategic issues, market research, marketing, financial analysis, and human resources management. • The Jawun Emerging Leaders Program supports the next generation of Indigenous leaders. Indigenous Business Australia (IBA) • works with the government and private-sector companies, including Leighton, to help Indigenous Australians to establish and manage companies, finance real estate, make investments, and build wealth. Leighton supports the Clontarf Foundation • which since the first Clontarf Academy opened in 2000 has helped 2,900 young Indigenous Australian men in 54 schools across Australia to not just receive an education, but also gain self-awareness and pursue an active and healthy lifestyle. Leighton participates in the BackTrack Community Program • which supports socially disadvantaged youth in New South Wales to resume their education and prepare for permanent employment. Support is provided to the Wellington Toy Library • where young Indigenous mothers and their young children come to play, borrow toys, and meet people. These activities promote early childhood learning and provide families with access to medical care. 38 Sustainability Report 2013 Focus Area 5: Corporate Citizenship years, with Leighton Contractors joining three years ago. a Leighton company. Sullivan was in Western Australia The initiative allows employees to spend six weeks or with the Jawun program and did not want to pass up three months volunteering in the Australian Outback. the opportunity. “The partnership with Jawun really reMagazine Their employers pay their regular salaries and pick up iterated for me Leighton Contractors’ core values. Rethe travel costs as well. spect for the community and environment, enduring business realtionships, achievement through teamwork Helping people help themselves is what the Jawun projand that people are the foundation of our success. It ect wants to accomplish. Here again, the basic requirewas inspiring for me to be part of a company that truly ment Richard Young emphasizes as the key to success lives their core values.” for cooperation with Indigenous Australians applies: Indigenous people must themselves take an active role. Her feedback indicates that projects are successful when “This approach is groundbreaking,” agrees Laws, “beeveryone benefits—not just the Indigenous people incause the participants are taking responsibility for their volved, but also the participating companies. Kim Farmer own futures instead of just waiting for help from the agrees. She is of Indigenous descent herself and cooroutside world.” dinates the Jawun program at Leighton Contractors. “It’s not just about supporting Indigenous Australian comPersonal responsibility is also a theme of the Jawun munities. We also consider it important to promote emoEmerging Leaders Program, which brings together tional intelligence in our workforce, confront our employyoung leaders to exchange information beyond their reees with out-of-the-ordinary situations and issues, spective communities and regions and work together develop deeper intercultural understanding among staff, on economic development initiatives in Indigenous promote teamwork, and advance the development of Australian and Torres Strait Islander communities. In soft skills in general.” These words could well serve as 2010, Lauren Sullivan was one of the first participants a guideline for everyone committed to diversity and inin the program. At the time, she worked for Visionstream, tercultural exchange at Leighton. Stakeholders have their say: Ed Sparling “The Jawun Emerging Leaders Program in which I have the opportunity to participate has impressed me greatly. The people involved in this program (both as participants and as Jawun facilitators) are what make it great. Everyone is so keen to learn from each other, and open to sharing their stories about a wide range of challenges. From a personal perspective, what I experienced blew me away. I met many young Indig­enous leaders, all of whom have truly amazing inherent qualities including honesty, ­a uthenticity and humility. Things which are so hard to teach, and yet they are some of the most important attributes of a strong leader. I am excited to see the program achieve specifics. Our group has the chance to present to senior Indigenous and corporate leaders from across Australia shortly, which will Ed Sparling, Manager Commercial give us the opportunity to deliver on the aims we have talked about in depth. EveryRisk and ­Governance, Leighton Contractors thing else aside, I am hugely grateful for the opportunity to get to know such a fantastic group of people. The impetus and influence of all the Emerging Leaders together is a really compelling prospect. For that reason, I firmly believe that what this Emerging Leaders group can continue to achieve together will always be far more than the sum of its parts.” Sustainability Report 2013 39 Doing the right thing: That’s what compliance is about. Correct behavior on the part of the company and each individual employee, both in legal and ethical terms, is extremely important to avoid potential damage. In this interview, Essimari Kairisto, a member of the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Solutions, gives an insight into the way HOCHTIEF views and handles the subject of compliance. Focus Area 6: Compliance “It’s about age-old Magazine principles and values” Essimari Kairisto is the member of the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Solutions AG responsible for compliance. The Sustainability Report editorial team put some questions to her—about the challenges facing the compliance system, management ­responsibility, and what makes this essentially simple subject so complex. Ms. Kairisto, what is your definition of Responsibility for compliance does not fall to just a few ­compliance? people. Even a compliance system and compliance Compliance goes well beyond the risk issues like antidepartment or function cannot accomplish this task on corruption defined by HOCHTIEF. At the end of the day, their own. I think this is still widely misunderstood. Comcompliance is nothing more than a return to the oldpliance is not “done” in a department. The department fashioned commercial principle of prudence. The word can provide support—in the form of policies, tools, ad“compliance” may sound modern, but it basically repvice, communications, and training courses. But behavresents age-old principles and values. It is about a pering in the right way is the job of every single person in son doing the right thing in his or her work life—by actthe company. Compliance is a matter for all of us. ing in a way that is honest, legal, and ethical. Creating a common understanding of this is a challenge, not just What strategic contribution does compliance for HOCHTIEF, but for every company. make to a company’s success? As it happens, I experienced both sides of the coin beWhat form do these compliance challenges take fore I joined HOCHTIEF. I know what it’s like when an in a large international company like HOCHTIEF international company has a really effective compliance Solutions? system, the benefits that brings, and the way it makes When a company conducts cross-border business and things easier. But I have also experienced what happens is involved in international projects as HOCHTIEF is, if that is not the case. different laws and regulations come into play. In particu­ lar, there may be differences in business practices, Compliance violations in particular can have all kinds of even though these might not be obvious at first glance. serious consequences for a company. These include It is precisely this diversity that makes compliance such a economic and legal implications and the threat of proscomplex and challenging area. But because we operecution. But compliance incidents can also harm the ate in this diverse, international environment, it is so imcompany’s reputation, and I think many people underportant that absolutely everyone in the company knows estimate this. You have to think about how an incident what is right and what is wrong—and where the gray of this kind is perceived internally, and how it is perceived areas, the danger zones, lie. by the outside world. All our stakeholders are affected, including clients, competitors, and staff. The financial Compliance has to take these factors into account if it world also gets to hear about compliance incidents and is to provide help and direction. Each individual needs these can have an impact on the share price. to understand and accept the key aspects of compliance. The approach has to be an integral part of the business and so well-implemented that it comes as naturally to every employee as turning the light on in the office in the morning if it’s dark. Sustainability Report 2013 41 Focus Area 6: Compliance What, in your view, is the role of the Executive And these checks weren’t carried out before? Board as far as compliance is concerned? Yes, of course they were! A consultancy directive has Magazine As I said, the way I see it, compliance is the job and the been in place since 2008, and the new requirements responsibility of each individual—although the Execucome on top of this. We have reorganized the process tive Board has overall responsibility. It is also important by which we select partners, optimizing it and implethat the Executive Board and management create the menting it within the company. We were especially keen framework for compliance and make resources available to include joint venture partners. And with compliance for compliance tasks. And this needs to happen at issues, it’s the same as in many other fields: You never every level—in the holding company, in the operational really finish. No sooner have you compiled and impleunits, in the branches, and on projects. mented one set of documents and requirements than the market throws up other aspects that have not been What’s more, the Executive Board and management considered or adequately addressed to date. I think we need to set a good example and demonstrate what it are on the right track. The most important thing now is means to be compliant. What is the use of policies if to keep working at implementing the requirements. we don’t live and act by them? In fact, that’s pretty much the most important thing: If compliance is not demonHow will they be implemented? strated from the top, an individual employee will tend to In 2014, there will again be compliance training sessions see it as a burden and not as the useful tool it is supto teach staff how to address the new requirements. In posed to be. view of the reorganization that HOCHTIEF Solutions has just undergone, I think this is very important. There are We also have a responsibility to keep pressing the issue some new managers and staff who have taken on new and not to assume that if we don’t hear anything, it or different roles and responsibilities. The training will means that everything is OK. Managerial staff are exprovide them with information and a platform for discussplicitly included in this. After all, it’s impossible for the ing compliance-related issues. Executive Board to get involved in every business operation, every day, at every level. We have to concenHow do the business partners react? Do you think trate on operations of a certain size and significance— there is a broad understanding of compliance and therefore leave some compliance aspects to our issues and the need for checks? management team. It varies, and depends on who we are dealing with. Many of our partners have similar functions, policies, What compliance issues are particularly and issues in their own companies and are not sur­important to you? prised to be asked about them or asked to provide docu­ One area in which, from a compliance perspective, we mentation on the subject. If someone doesn’t undersaw in 2013 that urgent action was required was the stand the need for our questions, then there is all the selection and monitoring of our contractual partners. We more reason for us to probe further. have now implemented new compliance requirements for HOCHTIEF Solutions in this area through “HOCHTIEF When we were preparing the new requirements, there Business Partner Compliance Due Diligence.” It’s imwere also a lot of discussions internally as to whether portant for us to know our business partners thoroughly, we need them, and whether they need to be so detailed. because HOCHTIEF could potentially be held liable if Representatives of the operational units were involved they do something wrong. The partner has to be checked in drafting the requirements, as well as the HOCHTIEF out before a contract is signed and a business relationcompliance organization. I think discussions of this kind ship entered into. are right and important. After all, we want to introduce something that is going to be used on a day-to-day basis. 42 Sustainability Report 2013 Ms. Kairisto, you already mentioned the restructuring of HOCHTIEF Solutions AG and the associated personnel changes. How do you implement Magazine compliance principles in the company and get the staff on board? The restructuring is an opportunity to address the subject again in a focused, optimized way. It’s a bit like driving a car: There are rightly certain rules that we Profile: usually dutifully obey. Everyone understands that. But to take an example, I have always driven the right way Essimari Kairisto around a roundabout, and I have never met anyone coming the other way. But if I drive the wrong way round, Essimari Kairisto assumed the post of Chief I can’t be sure that I won’t meet someone coming the Financial Officer (CFO) of HOCHTIEF Soluother way. It’s important to stay alert. tions on July 4, 2013. Born in Finland in 1966, she moved abroad at the age of 19, I see face-to-face discussions of compliance issues as initially embarking on a degree course in especially important. Training courses provide a good economics in Bielefeld before graduating opportunity for this. But the compliance managers within in business administration. She subseHOCHTIEF Solutions’ operational units also play a cruquently held various management posicial role. They are on hand to offer advice and answer tions, most recently as General Manager employees’ questions. These local contacts are a Finance/CFO of Sasol O & S Group Interkey element in our compliance system, especially when national, a subsidiary of the international it comes to communicating, resolving uncertainty, and energy and chemicals group Sasol Ltd. seeking assistance. (South Africa) in Hamburg. Prior to that, she served as Managing Director/CFO of Do you have the impression that HOCHTIEF Lahmeyer International (Germany), a substaff are already quite compliance-conscious? sidiary of RWE Group, and worked for Yes, definitely. The large number of specialists and the Schlumberger Group (USA, Norway, and fact that many employees have been at the company a Germany) and the Treuhandanstalt (Trust long time no doubt play a role. And being involved in Agency). Essimari Kairisto had already been project work means that, compared to other industries, a member of the Supervisory Board of HOCHTIEF staff are more used to absorbing new inforHOCHTIEF Solutions AG between August mation in a relatively short space of time, refocusing, and 2011 and January 2013. She speaks Finnworking on various projects with different parameters ish, German, and English as well as two and different partners. other languages. What’s more, I have always felt that our staff are ready and willing to get to grips with compliance issues. Critical caused to the company, our colleagues, or clients. And questions are welcomed. Getting involved in this dialog we expect our business partners to do the same. Poliand explaining to staff what it’s all about is the job of cies and requirements help in this regard. In actual fact, the compliance organization and the management team. compliance is quite an ordinary, simple, and down-toJust drawing up a directive, introducing it, and then earth matter: It is about behaving honestly, legally, and believing that’s the end of the job is naïve. ethically at work. The reason it gets complex is that there are legal aspects to be taken into consideration. To sum up, what would you say if an employee claimed that compliance requirements were Unfortunately there is no good German word for hindering rather than helping him in his work? “compliance” that sums up the subject in all its diver­ We share the same aim of avoiding potential damage sity. Perhaps one day a suitable one will occur to us. to our company and protecting its assets. To achieve this, we have to behave in such a way that no harm is Sustainability Report 2013 43 HOCHTIEF expands horizons … MY EDUCATION 44 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF OUR FACILITIES … for instance, by building state-of-the-art educa­ tional facilities such as the Knight Management Center at Stanford University. HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiary Turner constructed the building complex in line with stringent sustainability criteria. Sustainability Report 2013 45 The Company For further information on HOCHTIEF is one of the world’s leading construction groups. We have been delivering our core competency of the HOCHTIEF Group, please construction for more than 140 years. Our focus is on complex projects in the transportation, energy, and social see www.hochtief.com and the HOCHTIEF Annual Reand urban infrastructure segments as well as in contract mining. Our corporate action is shaped by a sustainable port 2013. approach. We are aware at all times of our responsibility to our clients, shareholders, and employees, as well as to our social and natural environment. Sustainable Group strategy Improved risk management as a driver of profit**For more information, The emphasis of our strategy is on systematically de­ ability** please see page 60. veloping the HOCHTIEF Group to boost its profitability The risk management approach within the HOCHTIEF Sustainability at HOCHTIEF and efficiency as well as on strengthening the balance Group is being adjusted. Stricter criteria have been de­ sheet and reducing net debt. Our objective is to become fined for selecting projects—including the parameters the world’s most relevant infrastructure construction countries, market segments, and project sizes. Addi­ group. In order to achieve this, we pursue the following tionally, optimized standards for project controls and strategic initiatives: methods of execution are currently being implemented Group-wide and new approval and reporting processes Focus on and invest in the core business of are being introduced, especially for large-scale projects. building in infrastructure projects and PPP ***For more information, • Transportation, energy, social and urban infrastruc­ Differentiation through unique solutions*** please see page 72 et seq. ture segments, and contract mining HOCHTIEF stands for technical excellence, innovation, • Divestments and one-of-a-kind solutions. Our complex project busi­ • Restructuring ness creates tailor-made results. To deliver them, we In order to position HOCHTIEF for the future in the best harness our experts’ skills throughout the Group and possible way, we have adjusted our strategic focus. We share best-practice knowledge internationally. have divested the activities that are no longer part of our ****For more information, core business and are creating lean structures and effi­ HOCHTIEF: an attractive place to work**** please see page 62 et seq. cient processes in our divisions. Drawing on our core The excellent work of our employees is a key factor in competencies of development, construction, and opera­ HOCHTIEF’s successful business. Thus it is very im­ tion, we will go on helping to master the challenges portant to us to attract and retain the best employees modern societies face. Our focus is on complex infra­ for our company. Even in times of change, we are aware structure projects in the transportation, energy, and of our responsibility toward the people who work at social and urban infrastructure segments as well as in HOCHTIEF and we make sure that changes are made contract mining. HOCHTIEF is a sought-after partner in in a way that is as socially responsible as possible. these areas and is one of the world’s leading providers. We offer our clients attractive, customized solutions When it comes to implementing our strategy, sustain­ and—especially when we work on the basis of publicability is a key aspect and therefore a guiding principle private partnerships (PPP)—take an integrated approach enshrined in our corporate strategy. It opens up numer­ to projects. ous opportunities for HOCHTIEF to achieve its business goals. The aim is to balance economic, environmental, *For more information, Sustainable optimization of financial strength* and social considerations in our decision-making processes. please see page 46 et seq. of • Focus on cash generation It is also necessary to assess and appraise the effects, the HOCHTIEF Annual Report 2013. • Capital investment risks, and opportunities associated with our business activ­ • Diversification of financing instruments ities. To this end, a vision and guiding principles, codes of • Constructive working relationship with investors conduct as well as management systems and tools have been established within the Group (see also the following sections). 46 Sustainability Report 2013 Integrated approach to projects and project life cycle assessments. Our 360-degree HOCHTIEF views projects from a holistic perspective. perspective enables us to produce top quality from end From long before the construction phase begins, we to end—and offers advantages for the client, HOCHTIEF, work in close partnership and dialog with clients and and the environment alike. In this way, our approach is others involved, and plan well ahead to factor in sus­ sustainable from the outset. tainability considerations such as energy efficiency Key figures Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (restated)* Extract from the Five Year Summary in the HOCHTIEF Annual Report 2013 New orders EUR million 22,473 29,627 25,368 31,488 26,492 Of total: domestic 1,919 2,524 2,286 2,127 1,870 *Restated for IAS 19R. For no­ international 20,554 27,103 23,082 29,361 24,622 tes on the adjustment, please Work done EUR million 20,566 23,234 25,790 29,693 29,049 see pages 155 and 156 of the HOCHTIEF Annual Report 2013. Of total: domestic 2,284 1,804 2,017 2,129 2,130 international 18,282 21,430 23,773 27,564 26,919 Order backlog at year-end EUR million 35,374 47,486 48,668 49,794 39,940 Of total: domestic 2,996 3,726 4,048 3,991 2,507 international 32,378 43,760 44,620 45,803 37,433 Employees (average for year) Total Number 66,178 70,657 75,449 79,987 80,912 Of total: domestic 11,135 10,821 10,331 10,111 7,911 international 55,043 59,836 65,118 69,876 73,001 External sales EUR million 18,166 20,159 23,282 25,528 25,693 Increase/decrease on prior year % -2.9 11.0 15.5 9.6 0.6 Materials EUR million 12,563 13,764 15,572 17,312 17,680 Materials ratio % 69.0 67.8 67.3 67.6 69.0 Personnel costs EUR million 3,501 4,081 4,864 5,536 5,473 Payroll ratio % 19.2 20.1 21.0 21.6 21.4 Depreciation and amortization EUR million 501 679 783 919 735 Profit from operating activities EUR million 525 715 626 595 859 Net income from participating interests EUR million 227 223 (585) 186 211 Net investment and interest income EUR million (155) (181) (168) (240) (270) Profit before taxes EUR million 597 757 (127) 541 800 New orders by region Work done by region Order backlog by region Asia/Pacific/Africa 60.6 % Asia/Pacific/Africa 59.3 % Asia/Pacific/Africa 66.4 % Americas 28.5 % Americas 29.7 % Americas 23.9 % Germany 7.1 % Germany 7.3 % Germany 6.3 % Eastern Europe 1.7 % Eastern Europe 1.5 % Eastern Europe 1.3 % Rest of Europe 2.1 % Rest of Europe 2.2 % Rest of Europe 2.1 % 100% = EUR 29.49 billion 100% = EUR 29.05 billion 100% = EUR 39.94 billion HOCHTIEF weltweit: HOCHTIEF Americas HOCHTIEF Eine Auswahl der zahlreichen Beteiligungsgesellschaften unserer Divisions zeigt die globale Turner (USA, Kanada) HOCHTIEF Präsenz von HOCHTIEF nach der UnternehFlatiron (USA, Kanada) HOCHTIEF mensstruktur 2013. E.E. Cruz (USA) HOCHTIEF I Konzernlagebericht Clark Builders (Kanada) HOCHTIEF Griechenlan Niederlande Unternehmenssituation HOCHTIEF E HOCHTIEF around the world HOCHTIEF V HOCHTIEF Österreich, P Tschechien, HOCHTIEF around the world: formart (Deu A selection of the many aurelis (Deut Group companies and proj­ HOCHTIEF ects shows HOCHTIEF’s Streif Baulog Polen, Russl global presence. For further information, please see www.hochtief.com Die hier beisp verdeutlichen Ausrichtung tigkeiten wer Sustainability at HOCHTIEF gen und rech ten ausgeübt finden Sie au wie in der Se Seiten 102 bi zernabschlus gesellschaft 4 und 262 Ges Die organisat die rechtliche Beteiligungsg und 221 ergä Alle Adressen Tochterund deren Nieder unter www.h 30 Geschäftsbericht 2013 Corporate Headquarters (strategic management holding company) HOCHTIEF Americas HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific HOCHTIEF Europe Turner (Canada, USA) Leighton Holdings (Australia) HOCHTIEF Solutions (Germany) Flatiron (Canada, USA) Leighton Contractors (Australia, HOCHTIEF Building (Germany) E.E. Cruz (USA) Botswana, New Zealand, Papua HOCHTIEF Infrastructure (Austria, Bulgaria, Chile, New Guinea) Czech Republic, Germany, Greece, Latvia, Nether­ Clark Builders (Canada) Thiess (Australia, India, Indonesia) lands, Norway, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania, ­Russia, John Holland Group (Australia, Hong Serbia, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UK) Kong, New Zealand, Singapore) HOCHTIEF Engineering (Germany, India, ­Qatar) Leighton Properties (Australia) HOCHTIEF PPP Solutions (Canada, Chile, ­Germany, Leighton Asia, India and Offshore Greece, Ireland, ­Netherlands, UK, USA) (Cambodia, China, Hong Kong, India, HOCHTIEF ViCon (Germany, Qatar) Indonesia, Laos, Macau, Malaysia, HOCHTIEF Projektentwicklung (Austria, Czech ­Mongolia, Philippines, ­Singapore, ­Republic, Germany, Poland, Switzerland, Turkey) ­T hailand, Vietnam) formart (Austria, Germany, Luxembourg) Habtoor Leighton Group (Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, ­Qatar, Saudi Arabia, aurelis (Germany) United Arab Emirates) HOCHTIEF Property Management (Germany) Streif Baulogistik (Austria, Germany, Poland, Qatar, Russia, Ukraine) 48 Sustainability Report 2013 The Company Ownership structure (as of December 31, 2013) Free float 29.66% Treasury stock 9.99% Qatar Holding 10.00% ACS* 50.35% *ACS ACTIVIDADES DE CONSTRUCCIÓN Y SERVICIOS, S.A., Madrid Distribution of value added 2011 2012 (restated) 2013 EUR million % EUR million % EUR million % Employees 4,860.3 97.5 5,542.2 86.9 5,482.7 83.5 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Lenders 249.2 5.0 297.6 4.7 312.6 4.8 Minority shareholders (7.6) -0.2 227.5 3.6 374.2 5.7 HOCHTIEF shareholders 0.0 0.0 73.6 1.2 104.0 1.6 Public authorities 40.9 0.8 158.7 2.5 254.5 3.9 HOCHTIEF (160.3) -3.2 81.6 1.3 35.1 0.5 Net value added 4,982.5 100.0 6,381.2 100.0 6,563.1 100.0 Value added analysis shows how HOCHTIEF generates added value for the economy and how it is distributed to the various skakeholder groups. Under ILO and UN conventions, HOCHTIEF predominantly operates in countries where human rights are www.ilo.org www.ohchr.org ­respected. The charts below are based on HOCHTIEF’s 486 fully consolidated companies in 43 countries as of December 31, 2013. ILO Worst Forms of Child ILO Abolition of Forced Labour Labour Convention Convention 6 112 Convention not in place Convention not in place Convention in place Convention in place 480 374 ILO Right to Organise and UN human rights conventions Collective Bargaining Convention 15 148 133 Number of ratified UN human 92 rights tools Convention not in place 0–4 Convention in place 5–9 10–14 15–18 246 338 Sustainability Report 2013 49 Sustainability strategy As a global construction group, HOCHTIEF acts on its responsibility toward society and the environment (Corporate Responsibility, CR). We want to nurture the relationship between business, the environment, and social responsibility in our everyday work. To this end, we have made sustainability one of the guiding principles of HOCHTIEF’s Group strategy. Sustainability guides our work in many areas of operation and presents new opportunities for HOCHTIEF to reach its business goals. Our commitment to sustainability has a long tradition at • Sustainable products and services HOCHTIEF and is part of our corporate vision: • Active climate protection • Resource protection Sustainability at HOCHTIEF “HOCHTIEF is building the future.—Along with our part­ • Attractive working environment ners, we expand horizons, link people and organiza­ • Corporate citizenship tions, create new ways to think and act, and continually • Compliance enhance the values entrusted to our care.” These are the six areas around which sustainability at *For further information, Based on the HOCHTIEF vision, guiding principles* HOCHTIEF revolves. They are relevant to all of our seg­ please see www.hochtief.com/ sustainability. were formulated. They act as parameters for the con­ ments and help us in delivering on our social respon­ victions and values that underlie everything we do at sibility. As part of the CR directive introduced in 2011, HOCHTIEF. Based on four main areas, they fully cover these areas are applicable to all HOCHTIEF Group divi­ the Global Reporting Initiative criteria: sions. In our CR program (see description starting on • Client-oriented service spectrum page 53 ) we have formulated targets and measures for • Successful employees achieving them. • Sustainability • Value-oriented strategy Materiality analysis We consider it important to regularly review the validity Taking economic, ecological, and social concerns into of our sustainability areas, along with how they are pri­ balanced consideration in decision-making processes oritized and how significant they are for our stakehold­ is a business challenge that we are faced with on a daily ers. To this end, we conducted another survey in the basis. We firmly believe in the benefits and the efficien­ reporting year, following the one in 2012. A total of cy of sustainable business and development. In many 1,498 individuals took part in the online stakeholder areas, we are registering growing demand for respon­ survey as well as an additional representative survey of sibly implemented projects—for example, in the execu­ the general population. The results were compiled to tion of energy and resource-efficient real estate and in­ form a materiality matrix (see chart on page 51) com­ frastructure projects. Furthermore, our clients and partners paring the different areas and their significance for our are also increasingly championing sustainability and stakeholders and for HOCHTIEF, and they confirm that expect HOCHTIEF to demonstrate commitment and our sustainability strategy is headed in the right direc­ take action accordingly. It is now often necessary to tion: Respondents continued to rank all of our focus provide extensive documentation of our CR commit­ areas as highly significant or significant for HOCHTIEF. ment and sustainable concepts in order to prequalify We will take the details into account as we continue to for projects. fine-tune our CR program. Sustainability strategy and issues CR Organization Our sustainability strategy is based on asking ourselves Management of sustainability issues is the responsibil­ity how HOCHTIEF can contribute with its competencies of the CR function within HOCHTIEF Corporate Devel­ to meeting the present and future challenges modern opment. In this way, we also ensure that our organiza­ societies face. This led to the six focus areas for sus­ tion incorporates sustainability into strategic develop­ tainability we defined back in 2008: 50 Sustainability Report 2013 Materiality analysis 2013 mittee reports directly to the Execu­tive Board, providing Very high relevance advice and making recommendations. In 2008, the sustainability excellence team was also founded. Comprised primarily of representatives from the operational units, the sustainability excellence team Significance for our stakeholders translates strategic ideas into sustainable products and services and brings those products and services to market. Due to the restructuring carried out in 2013, notably within the HOCHTIEF Europe division, we will reform the sustainability excellence team during the course of 2014 and bring its composition into line with our new strategic and organizational focus. Sharing news and views with stakeholders Significance for HOCHTIEF Sustainability at HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF attaches great importance to a transparent high relevance very high relevance approach in all our dealings with stakeholder groups.  ustainable products and S Attactive working environment Sustainability topics are often complex and require the services Corporate citizenship Active climate protection Compliance cooperation of various representatives of industry, gov­ Resource protection ernment, and society. To give our stakeholders an under­ standing of our company, we supply them with informa­ ment and the shaping of innovation processes at tion openly and promptly, tailoring content specifically HOCHTIEF. to each target audience. In return, this active dialog with stakeholders lets HOCHTIEF pinpoint the groups’ re­ Established back in 2007, the CR Committee is in charge quirements, wishes, and expectations, address them of ongoing development of our sustainability strategy. It discerningly, incorporate them into its business activ­ also translates that strategy into targets and measures, ities, and selectively develop solutions on a case-by-case and then initiates and monitors their implementation. In basis. Within the Group, there are various different ap­ its work, the Committee draws on the Group’s man­ proaches to and tools for stakeholder dialog. HOCHTIEF agement systems and the compliance organization, which presents its capabilities to clients at numerous trade will be introduced in the following pages. The CR Com­ shows, conferences, and other events and actively Sustainability issues at HOCHTIEF CR management/ • Attractive employer • Corporate citizenship • Risk management organization • Occupational safety and health • Research and development • Donations and sponsorship • Procurement/supplier management • Climate protection/climate change • Environmental and resource protection • Compliance • Sustainable products and services • And many others besides Stakeholders CR Committee • Employees • HOCHTIEF Executive Board • Shareholders • HOCHTIEF divisions • Clients • Works council • Subcontractors and suppliers • Corporate departments • Government and public authorities – Corporate Development • Investors and analysts –C orporate Communica­ • Journalists tions CR function • Associations and organizations, NGOs – Investor Relations • Neighbors and local residents – Corporate Controlling • Universities, colleges, and scientific – Corporate Compliance institutions – Corporate Governance • High school and college/university – Human Resources students, recent graduates – OSHEP Center Sustainability strategy Sustainability reporting • CR program (targets and measures) • HOCHTIEF sustainability report • Development of sustainable products and services • Ratings, rankings, and indexes • Prequalification for project bid invitations • External and internal communications Sustainability Report 2013 51 Memberships and external rankings To underline its public commitment to sustainability, HOCHTIEF is a member of various organizations and complies with their guidelines and standards. In 2013, our company was once again included in established sustainability rankings and indexes, which meant that our com­ mitment was recognized by external experts. HOCHTIEF is listed in the Climate Disclosure Leadership Index 2013 and Climate As early as 2000, HOCHTIEF became the first construction company in the world Performance Leadership Index 2013 of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for to sign on to the standards of the International Labor Organization (ILO) Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. Companies only qualify for a place in the Cli­ aimed at enabling women and men the world over to work in conditions of free­ mate Performance Leadership Index if they are among the top scorers in climate dom, equity, security, and human dignity. data disclosure and have significantly cut total emissions year on year. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF has been listed in the Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence Eu­ rope since 2007. The index, published by an independent consulting company for Since 2008, HOCHTIEF has been an official member of the UN Global Compact, a socially responsible investment, ranks listed companies according to their United Nations initiative that aims to promote ten overall principles on human rights, perform­ance on a range of issues such as the environment, treatment of employ­ labor, the environment, and anti-corruption around the world. ees, corporate governance, and social responsibility. HOCHTIEF’s sustainability reporting adheres to the Guidelines of the Global HOCHTIEF is the sole German construction group represented in the MSCI ­Reporting Initiative (GRI). We want to promote the transparency, completeness, World ESG Index, which lists companies that are highly committed to environ­ and comparability of reporting. mental, ­social, and governance (ESG) issues. In May 2013, we submitted a declaration of compliance with the German Sustain­ HOCHTIEF is also listed in the Advanced Sustainable Performance Index (ASPI) ability Code. The GSC aims to make sustainability achievements by companies Eurozone, making us one of 120 top companies in the euro zone that are valued and organizations more binding through transparency and comparability as well as using a best-in-class method. to include them in a publicly accessible database. In 2013, HOCHTIEF again qualified for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe— HOCHTIEF’s membership in the STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indices was con­ still as the sole German construction group. The DJSI lists companies that imple­ firmed for the third year running in 2013. The index rates the performance of ment and track ecological and social as well as financial criteria. We achieved a companies in terms of environmental, social, and governance criteria. significant improvement in our ranking in the reporting year compared with 2012, with HOCHTIEF being named as a “runner up.” 52 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainability Strategy participates in industry discussions. As and when the CR data compilation and quality need arises, our companies and units carry out cus­ In the year under review, we worked systematically to tomer satisfaction analyses and surveys. improve the quality and completeness of our CR data­ base. The key tool used here was the IT-based CRedit We have identified our stakeholders as those groups reporting system, developed by us in 2010, in which that significantly impact HOCHTIEF’s economic, eco­ quantitative and qualitative indicators on our focus areas logical, and social welfare capability both today and in are collected. We have achieved high-quality data through the future, as well as those groups that are significantly standardized definitions, systems, and processes. CRedit affected by our Group’s economic, ecological, and so­ supplies the lion’s share of information published in this cial welfare capability and that could continue to be report and provides a basis for further improving inter­ ­affected in the future. In identifying our stakeholders, nal sustainability monitoring and control. We aim to make we drew on experience gained from our longstanding success in the area of sustainability measurable using customer relationships, our project activities, our com­ meaningful performance indicators. munications work as well as regular market surveys. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF CR Program Corporate responsibility Focal area Goal by 2020 Status December 31, 2013 Ongoing participation in national Included again in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Europe with and international sustainability a score of 81 (prior year: 76); RobecoSAM Runners-up award; rankings and ratings CDP: Climate Performance Leader 2013 of the DACH region (Germany, Austria, and Switzerland) with a score of 92 A (prior year: 83 C); Econ Awards for Corporate Communication: Silver in the category Transparency and of Sustainability/CSR reports; data quality Declaration of compliance with the German Sustainability Code submitted Increase coverage for relevant Greenhouse gas emissions: scope 1: 97%; scope 2: 93%; environmental data to 100% scope 3: 93%; water consumption: 67%, waste: 94% Fully IT-based data collection Use of the audited IT system CRedit together with manual queries Implement Group-wide innovation Initiative launched: First joint innovation projects; management intensive exchange with divisions at least once a month via telepresence Uphold investment volume in R&D Central innovation budget: approximately EUR 5 million Innovation projects Ideas Management at HOCHTIEF 2013: suggestion rate*: 2.5; absolute number of ideas in 2013: 125 Europe: Increase suggestion rate (excluding HOCHTIEF Solutions AG’s service business line which to 5.0 and the absolute number of was sold in the reporting year) ideas to 250 *Suggestion rate = Ideas per 100 employees Avoid loss-making projects and In 2013, the new Group directive on risk management was Risk management make a sustainable positive published contribution to returns Increase the number of ISO 9001 Corporate units certified: HOCHTIEF Americas: 0%; HOCHTIEF Customer satisfaction certifications Asia Pacific: 100%; HOCHTIEF Europe: 100% Develop and implement an Group of respondents was increased for the 2013 materiality extended concept for conducting a analysis; participants: 1,498 (prior year: 215) Stakeholder dialog materiality analysis in accordance with GRI G4 Sustainability Report 2013 53 Sustainable products and services Focal area Goal by 2020 Status December 31, 2013 Realignment of the sustainability 17th meeting in April 2013; new concept at planning stage Sustainability excellence team excellence team Continuously increase the number Cumulative values as of Dec. 31, 2013: of certified buildings LEED-certified projects: 356; LEED-registered projects: 341; DGNB-certified projects: 18; DGNB-registered projects: 20; Green Star-certified projects: 33; Green Star-registered projects: 18; BREEAM-certified projects: 3; BREEAM-registered projects: 1; Green building Other certificates: 3; other precertificates: 2; Accredited auditors (as of Dec. 31, 2013): LEED: 1,452; DGNB: 2; Green Star: 37; BREEAM: 1; other: 12 Group-wide sales in the green building market segment in 2013: Sustainability at HOCHTIEF EUR 2.7 billion Set-up and expansion of certified ISCA-certified projects: 1; ISCA-registered projects: 8; ISCA infrastructure projects auditors: 45; Sustainable infrastructure CEEQUAL-certified projects: 2; CEEQUAL-registered projects: 2 Greenroads-certified projects: 1 (see page 10 et seq.) Active climate protection Focal area Goal by 2020 Status December 31, 2013 Define Group-wide climate Step up contact with managers in the divisions protection targets Climate protection: strategy Ensure transparency and Transparent presentation of and public access to climate statistics and organization continuously improve performance in the CDP as well as improvement in performance to 92 A (prior year: 83 C); Leighton achieved an improvement to 92 B (prior year: 90 B) Measurement of scope 1, 2, and 3 Reporting according to scope 1, 2, and 3 achieved (prior year: greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 and 2) (see page 71) Increase coverage of the recording Scope 1: 97% coverage of greenhouse gas emissions to Scope 2: 93% coverage 100% Scope 3: 93% coverage Greenhouse gas emissions Based on current usage of the Approximately 1,100 metric tons of CO2 saved (assuming each telepresence system, a saving of telepresence conference replaces one personal meeting between two around 8,000 metric tons of CO2 by individuals, with air travel) 2020 is forecast Take CO2 compensatory measures Europe 110 metric tons of CO2 compensated in relation to print products Initiate 40 R&D projects devoted to Europe: projects to date 2011-2013: 12 renewable energies Climate protection through innovation Expand services in the energy Jack-up vessels: “Innovation”: successful deployment in Global infrastructure segment Tech I project; “Vidar”: launched Dec. 2013; Onshore wind power: development of concept for hybrid towers Sustainability Strategy Resource protection Focal area Goal by 2020 Status December 31, 2013 Increase percentage of Group-wide certification rate: 77.7% employees working according to an internationally recognized Environmental protection and certified environmental management system Increase recycling rate to 85% Group-wide recycling rate: approximately 81% (2012: 75%) Take protection and diversity of Research alternative drilling technologies for low-noise installation of species into account in project the towers for offshore wind power plants (protection of fish stocks Biodiversity development and the condition of the seabed) Sale of 200 biogas plants by 2020 Develop resource-conserving biogas plants through the incineration of waste; three biogas plants in the sales pipeline Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Attractive working environment Focal area Goal by 2020 Status December 31, 2013 Increase percentage of employees Group-wide certification rate: 76.8% working according to an inter­natio­n­ ally recognized and certified occu­ pational safety and health manage­ ment system to 88% Occupational safety and Reduce Severity Rate* (SR) to 33 SR in the HOCHTIEF Group in 2013: 37.1 health Reduce Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIFR in the HOCHTIEF Group in 2013: 1.53 Rate (LTIFR) to 1.35 Revise Group-wide crisis reporting Achieved in September 2013 through revision of the Group directive system on occupational safety, health, and environmental protection Maintain regular employee surveys: Most recent survey: Americas: 2012; Asia Pacific: 2013; Europe: Europe and Americas divisions every 2012 two years; Asia Pacific division every year Employee satisfaction Unified employee surveys in the Asia Pacific: first employee survey carried out for the entire Leighton divisions Group Stabilize satisfaction index in the Americas: 78-86%; Asia Pacific: 85%; Europe: 80% divisions at a level of over 80% Maintain average number of con­ 2013: 12.8 continuing education hours per employee** in Germany tinuing education hours per em­ Train employees ployee in Germany at current level Selectively foster young specialist 613 participants in talent pools*** (Germany: 89; international: 524) and managerial talent Group-wide *Severity Rate (SR) = number of working days lost x 1,000,000/number of man-hours worked **includes both in-person seminars and e-learning units ***Talent pool = group of selected high-potential employees who are given targeted support in preparation for taking up a position as expert or middle-management executive Sustainability Report 2013 55 Corporate citizenship Focal area Goal by 2020 Status December 31, 2013 Continuously improve framework 2013: new Group directive on donations and sponsorship for involvement introduced Promote projects in line with main Examples of this can be found in the Segment Report (pages 85 et donation and sponsorship activities seq., 94 et seq., 104 et seq.) Support populations in disaster Fortunately, no disasters occurred in the reporting period that Corporate citizenship areas required action in the context of HOCHTIEF’s main activities defined. Continue involvement in Bridges to 2013: one project carried out in Rwanda, three in Nicaragua Prosperity Develop and implement a Social Goal incorporated into the Group directive on donations and Impact Evaluation sponsorship revised in 2013 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Compliance Focal area Goal by 2020 Status December 31, 2013 Expand training offering In 2013, more than 7,300 employees throughout the Group received Anti-corruption and economic compliance training crime Expand Group-wide standards on Compliance requirements expanded through “HOCHTIEF Business dealing with business partners Partner Compliance Due Diligence” for joint venture partners Continuously increase proportion Procurement volume prequalified and validated: HOCHTIEF Supply chain management of prequalified and validated Americas (Turner): 99%; HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific: 63%; HOCHTIEF procurement volume Europe: 24%; number of prequalified suppliers: 65,756 Implement a social compliance Model currently being developed for evaluation of country-specific program to monitor compliance social standards risk profiles; work completed on specific guidelines Social compliance with s­ ocial standards and human with special focus on compliance with human rights and working rights at HOCHTIEF Group conditions for audits by HOCHTIEF Corporate Auditing companies, subcontractors, and suppliers. 56 Sustainability Report 2013 Compliance HOCHTIEF aims to steer the company in line with a value-driven strategy, and has anchored this commitment in its guiding principles. Our business ethics and our integrity contribute significantly to our credibility. The compliance system introduced helps us to achieve this goal—particularly because HOCHTIEF as an international corporation operates in many different political and legal systems. Compliance organization at HOCHTIEF Clear commitment Established in 2008, the compliance organization is HOCHTIEF established sustainable action and valueheaded by the Chairman of the Executive Board of oriented strategies as part of the company’s guiding Sustainability at HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft. The Chief Compliance principles. Back in 2002, HOCHTIEF published a be­ Officer of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft reports regu­ havioral code that today is anchored in our corporate larly to the Chairman or, in urgent cases, immediately. culture in the form of the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct. He also reports annually to the Supervisory Board­ We attach utmost importance to fairness, honesty, ob­ ­Audit Committee. The Chief Compliance Officer is sup­ jectivity, and transparency, whether we are competing ported in his duties by compliance and criminal law in the market, awarding contracts, or conducting regu­ specialists at the holding company. In the HOCHTIEF lar business activities. In order to avoid the risk of crimi­ divisions, compliance officers have assumed respon­ nal or civil liability along with the damage to our reputa­ sibility in this regard and liaise with the compliance tion and competitive disadvantages that would ensue ­organizations of the individual divisions. They report from non-compliance, we are continuously working to ­directly to the Chief Compliance Officer of HOCHTIEF. refine and improve the compliance system within the company. For instance, the HOCHTIEF Europe division has its own Compliance Office and general compliance man­ In 1999, we joined Transparency International as a www. transparency.org agers as well as compliance managers (operational corporate member, and in 2000, we made a binding level) are the local contacts: They are responsible for pledge to uphold the standards of the International compliance in day-to-day operations and take care of ­L abor Organization (ILO) —in both cases as the www.ilo.org the necessary exchange of information among units. world’s first construction industry company to do so. The The system is similar at Turner and Flatiron, our U.S. ILO is an agency of the United Nations with the objec­ subsidiaries in the HOCHTIEF Americas division, and tive of promoting decent and productive work in condi­ the Leighton company in the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific tions of freedom, equity, security, and human dignity. division has also established a compliance program. In 2007, HOCHTIEF was a founding member of Netzwerk An Ethics and Compliance Committee acts as the ex­ Compliance, a German compliance network undertak­ change platform between the companies of the Leigh­ ing to combat dishonest business practices. HOCHTIEF ton Group. is also a member of the international Partnering Against Corruption Initiative of the World Economic Forum and, The aforementioned organization is directly respon­ since 2008, has adhered to and promoted the ten rules sible for all compliance matters relating to fighting cor­ of the UN Global Compact , an international initiative www. unglobalcompact.org ruption and economic crime. Areas such as occupa­ brought by representatives of the private economy, the tional safety, health, and environmental protection are United Nations, civil society, and workers. allocated to a separate competence center (the OSHEP Center) (see p. 66). A data protection officer is in charge of data protection (see p. 61). Sustainability Report 2013 57 Code of Conduct and directives HOCHTIEF Solutions AG. New compliance standards We have a tradition of combining corporate action with for selecting business partners were adopted and inte­ ethical principles. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct grated into the HOCHTIEF Business Partner Compliance ­reflects these corporate principles, consolidates our Due Diligence process (see also the interview starting corporate responsibility rules, and sets forth binding on page 40). regulations for internal dealings within the company as well as for external relations with business partners, Whistleblower system subcontractors, and public authorities. If employees or business partners do not comply with existing rules, HOCHTIEF’s credibility and reputation are Sustainability at HOCHTIEF The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct is now available in put at risk. We are therefore very interested in hearing ten languages. Its contents can be divided into the about such incidents: All employees are encouraged ­following five areas: to notify HOCHTIEF of any irregularities. In situations in which employees suspect that rules have been violated, • dealing with antitrust issues, business partners, and reports should be made first and foremost to the em­ conflicts of interest such as bribery and corruption, ployee’s direct superior. If the employee cannot turn to donations, and sponsorship this person, he or she can contact the compliance or­ • dealing with information, insider knowledge, confi­ ganization. dentiality, and data protection • health, safety, and the environment Employees can use internal and external whistleblower • company assets, including documenting transactions, hotlines for reporting violations. The internal hotline puts dealing with company-owned property and company the reporting individual in contact with a Group compli­ assets as well as insider rules ance officer, and calls to the external hotline are taken • principles of social responsibility such as respecting by an independent law firm specializing in criminal law. human dignity, rejecting child labor and forced labor, Alternatively, employees may report to Corporate Com­ equal opportunity and bans on discrimination, the pliance via e-mail. It is important to us to protect the re­ right to organize, and the right to collective bargain­ porting individual. All information provided is therefore ing treated as confidential, and reports may also be made anonymously. HOCHTIEF’s divisions have similar whis­ We expect all clients, business partners, and suppliers tleblower hotlines, and they exchange information with to likewise adhere to our compliance standards. The Corporate Compliance on a regular ­basis. About one HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct for Business Partners was third each of cases relate to labor law, requests for ad­ created in 2011 on the basis of the Code of Conduct vice, and compliance. for Subcontractors. It, too, is available in ten languages. Responses to violations Internally, various Group directives, such as those con­ We handle all reports of violations with great care and cerning donations, further clarify the contents of the use all means at our disposal to clarify the situation. HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct. They aim to help our While acknowledging the danger of anonymous whis­ employees differentiate between legal customer care tleblowing resulting in individuals being falsely accused, and corruption that is punishable under criminal law we respond with full rigor to infringements. In-house and to conduct themselves within the bounds of the investigations of compliance cases are carried out by law in their daily business activities. The directives are Corporate Auditing, if necessary with the support of reviewed regularly and aligned as necessary with cur­ external consultants. Where issues of criminal law are rent conditions. In the year under review, we substan­ involved, Compliance provides guidance. Finally, sug­ tially revised and optimized the process for carefully gestions for action in cases of compliance infringe­ selecting and monitoring business partners at ments are put forward by the Steering Committee, 58 Sustainability Report 2013 Compliance Percentage and number of business units reviewed for corruption risk 300 250 K 2010 K 2011 Measured on Transparency No. of International’s Corruption 200 K 2012 companies K 2013 Perceptions Index (CPI) 150 HOCHTIEF’s Group fully consolidated com­panies 100 mostly operate in countries with low or very low corrup50 tion risk. 0 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 0–24 25–49 50–74 75–100 CPI www.transparency.de which comprises members from the Auditing, Com­ The Corporate Compliance unit provided training on munications, Legal, Human Resources, and Corporate basic and current issues to all of the corporate depart­ Compliance units. Responsibility for taking the action ments at the HOCHTIEF holding company in 2013. As lies with the relevant superior or the management of in 2012, a HOCHTIEF Europe international compliance the corporate unit in question. The consequences can meeting was held to which all the division’s compliance go as far as dismissal. managers were invited. The focus was on exchanging information and discussing experiences, particularly Training and communication concerning country-specific issues. For us, it is very important to make employees aware of compliance issues and inform them of the regulations that apply. A key tool in this regard is the intranet. A separate area has been set up containing all internal ­directives and information on the compliance program as well as contact persons. In addition, classroom training and e-learning programs are conducted on the basis of a detailed concept. Online training courses, such as on combating corruption, under-the-table work, and illegal employment, take practical examples from everyday life and familiarize participants with the existing legal situa­ tion besides offering suggestions on how to act in com­ pliance with the regulations. All managerial staff are ­required to complete the learning programs. In addition to the online course offerings, on-site classes are pro­ vided in the departments and branches. We also regu­ larly publish articles on this topic in the various internal and external corporate publications. Compliance training programs and communications on this topic are structured similarly in HOCHTIEF’s Americas and Asia Pacific divisions. Turner, one of our subsidiaries, offers video recordings on compliance topics that are available on the intranet, for example, in addition to on-site training courses. Sustainability Report 2013 59 Risk Management A risk is defined as any contingency with a potential negative impact on the attainment of HOCHTIEF’s qualitative or quantitative business goals. Risk management is a key tool in implementing corporate and sustainability strategy. Its aim is early identification and control of the risks naturally linked to HOCHTIEF’s global business. In this way, the potential impact of identified risk can be minimized and future threats to the company averted. *For further information, Risk management* at HOCHTIEF encompasses all HOCHTIEF adopts various measures for better control please see www.hochtief.com/ riskmanagement. ­organizational processes for the early identification of of operating risks in particular: Prequalifications and quo­ risks and for the development and implementation of tations must be approved by a Contract Review Com­ countermeasures against them. To this end, HOCHTIEF mittee that then goes on to give successive approval Sustainability at HOCHTIEF has adopted planning, management, and control sys­ for bid preparation, bid submission, and ultimately con­ tems certified as part of ISO 9001 IMS. Consistent tract signing. These decisions are based on a thorough ­recording and management of risks Group-wide is cov­ analysis of project data, relevant performance indica­ ered in the Corporate directive on risk management, tors, opportunities, and risks. Bid preparation and proj­ which was revised in 2013. The directive also includes ect execution are additionally supported by project audits. clear organizational procedures describing the manda­ These are carried out according to the project’s risk tory risk management control loop. In a standardized category at the instigation of the project team, the Con­ process involving all levels of the organization and manage­ tract Review Committee, or the Executive Board. The ment hierarchy, risk inventories and forecasts are com­ objective is to identify risks to project execution at an piled three times annually and the resulting information early stage as well as to decide and implement appro­ collated at Group level. The central decision-making priate control and management measures to avoid these. body in this process is the Risk Management Steering Committee, which subjects categorized risks to com­ Risk assessment prehensive appraisal, discusses them, and initiates Risks are analyzed and assessed to determine their sever­ countermeasures as needed. The risk report contains ity and whether they even pose a threat to HOCHTIEF information on the potential impacts of each risk, its as a going concern. The focus here is on profit and liquid­ probability, risk category, possible timescale, and all ity impacts. Risk assessment supplies quantitative data measures already taken to prevent occurrence. The for risk identification and is a prerequisite for ongoing risks compiled in this way are reported to the Executive risk management. The potential impact and probability Board as part of forecasting and planning. are quantified for each risk. Risk identification Spotlight: Water and climate risks Six risk categories were defined to enable a systematic Water and climate risks are handled at HOCHTIEF as approach and to support risk identification in all cor­ part of project risk, as they arise during project execution porate units. Such risks are relevant to the entire Group and through the ecological impact of a project on the and feature both strategic and operating components. environment. Such risks are managed by project teams HOCHTIEF’s primary risks are financial, market, and in collaboration with in-house occupational health, personnel risks, share ownership and M&A risks, inter­ safety, and environmental protection experts as well as nal risks, contractual and project risks as well as risks with outside specialists as needed. For HOCHTIEF in connection with the immediate surroundings of proj­ ­Solutions in Europe, for example, water pollution, falling ects and with associated clients, banks, subcontractors, groundwater levels, and water availability are typical and consortium partners. project-related water risks in tunneling projects. 60 Sustainability Report 2013 IT and Data Protection Data protection is an issue of utmost importance to our Group. It is an integral part of our Code of Conduct. We have made a commitment to employees, business partners, and clients to safeguard their privacy and protect their personal data. The measures needed to ensure this are set out in our Group-wide IT Directive. In coopera­ tion with service providers, data security officers ensure that personal data is processed solely in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations and that individuals’ right to determine how their personal data is used is respected. IT security at HOCHTIEF The Directive’s requirements are communicated to staff HOCHTIEF relies on cutting-edge information technology via OSIRIS, a software tool that has been implemented Sustainability at HOCHTIEF both within the Group and in its communications with throughout the Group. In a systematic process, employ­ clients, partners, and suppliers. Given their widespread ees are each assigned to a security category accord­ use in operations, IT systems must meet top security ing to their tasks and responsibilities and learn about standards. To satisfy this requirement, we adopt meas­ the rules applicable to them. ures in an ongoing process to consolidate and further enhance our already high levels of IT security. A stand­ The IT Directive is subject to ongoing development under ardized system and coordinated process landscape with expert supervision. a uniform shopping cart serve to simplify operations and reduce the risk of downtime. HOCHTIEF addresses Sustainable IT projects risks from the Internet by having its firewall systems A web conferencing service adopted in 2012 has enabled regularly checked by external specialists. The deploy­ us to further reduce travel within the HOCHTIEF Group. ment of state-of-the-art hardware and software com­ The service allows employees to link up with each other bined with digital and physical access controls ensure on the web from wherever they are. This also promotes data availability and protect data from unauthorized teamwork across time zones and regions. 162 online access. This involves placing the data in physically sepa­ meetings using the tool were held in 2013. The tech­ rate data centers that are certified in accordance with nology was taken a step further during the reporting pe­ ISO 27001. Encryption is additionally used to guarantee riod with the installation of advanced telepresence sys­ the confidentiality and accuracy of digital information. tems at the HOCHTIEF headquarters in Essen, New York, Denver, and Sydney. These systems use sound and Data protection at HOCHTIEF ­video to create a highly realistic meeting atmosphere. The Data protection is closely related to the topic of IT secu­ new communication medium cuts out business travel rity, which is the subject of a Group-wide IT Directive. and thus reduces carbon emissions. This addresses issues such as the exchange of confi­ dential data—payroll lists, bids, etc.—and contact data Summer 2013 saw the launch of the CORE IT project as well as the use of mobile PDAs. Corresponding rules to identify desktop and laptop computers that are sur­ are also included for external IT service providers, who plus to requirements at HOCHTIEF units throughout must comply with country-specific data protection law. Germany. A total of 575 devices were reconditioned A further stipulation is that prior written consent is and sold on through a reseller or professionally dis­ ­required from the HOCHTIEF IT department before posed of. As well as saving operating costs, this gives ­relocating data to a state outside of the European Union devices that are still serviceable a new lease on life. or the European Economic Area. Sustainability Report 2013 61 Employees The success of HOCHTIEF depends in no small part on the outstanding performance of the almost 81,000 people who work for us around the world. The main aims of our human resources management are to make the working conditions of our employees as ideal as possible, to offer them development opportunities, to promote diversity, and in this way to also become an even more attractive employer. The concept of “successful employees” has been firmly Human resources management topics embedded in HOCHTIEF’s corporate guiding principles Under the strategy, employee rights, recruiting, employee for many years. Identification with the company, the loyalty policies, personnel development, diversity, and associated commitment of specialist and management occupational safety and health are the main areas of Sustainability at HOCHTIEF staff, as well as an efficient workforce structure are human resources management at HOCHTIEF. the factors that create this success. It is also very im­ portant to train employees in a targeted way, to pro­ Employee rights mote their development and thus to foster their loyalty to Human and employee rights and the principles of the HOCHTIEF. At HOCHTIEF, structured, effective human Corporate Governance Code are the immovable corner­ ­resources management processes and the intensive ex­ stones of human resources management at HOCHTIEF. *For further information, please change on all levels within and between the divisions The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct* requires our employ­ see page 58. go hand in hand with dynamic and sustainable human ees to treat colleagues and external stakeholders law­ resources management. fully and with respect beyond these provisions. How human resources management at HOCHTIEF A constructive working relationship with the employee is organized representatives is also very important to HOCHTIEF. The strategic focus of human resources management The company’s management expressly approves of at HOCHTIEF is derived from the corporate strategy employees’ right to unionize. Employees everywhere and lies in the accountability of the Human Resources are entitled to elect their own representatives to safe­ corporate department. In cooperation with the Execu­ guard their interests. In Europe, the works council rep­ tive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft, it is in resents 96.9 percent of employees (this figure always charge of defining long-term goals and measures. excludes managerial staff); in the HOCHTIEF Americas and Asia Pacific divisions, it is 28.8 percent and 52 per­ Strategic human resources management entails: cent, respectively. Works Council members are repre­ • Development of managerial staff sented on the Supervisory Board and regularly partici­ • Optimizing our workforce structures pate in Occupational Safety and Health Committee • Employer branding meetings. If, in the course of restructuring, personnel • Deriving and analyzing key figures cutbacks are found to be unavoidable, HOCHTIEF first • Steering human resources management processes checks the possibility of moving employees to other • Supporting key M&A restructuring projects ­divisions and tries to agree mutually acceptable arrange­ ments. If redundancies are necessary, we advise the The Human Resources corporate department works affected employees and offer support to help them in out how to implement the human resources strategy in the search for new employment. cooperation with the divisions. The HOCHTIEF Ameri­ cas, Asia Pacific, and Europe divisions all structure Recruitment operational human resources management on their own It is of utmost importance to HOCHTIEF to find wellresponsibility and on a regional basis. trained employees, facilitate their smooth entry into the company, and cultivate their lasting loyalty to HOCHTIEF, not only in view of the current labor market, which is 62 Sustainability Report 2013 characterized by international reach and a shortage of are fair pay, an atmosphere of open communication, specialist staff. We use a range of measures to under­ and opportunities to shape decisions. Internal online pin the HOCHTIEF employer brand and make it more platforms are increasingly used to organize coopera­ attractive: tion and knowledge-sharing. Examples include internal • Establishing contact with school and university stu­ ideas management, whereby employees submit sug­ dents through cooperation with chairs at college and gestions for improvement and discuss innovations. university faculties as well as schools (via presenta­ tions, discussions, excursions, scholarships, and We conduct the majority of our training activities in the awards for students) HOCHTIEF Europe and Americas divisions in-house, Sustainability at HOCHTIEF • Offering wide-ranging career training options, intern­ for example, in programs such as the HOCHTIEF Acad­ ships, and work-study placements emy, Turner University, and Flatiron Construction Uni­ • “Employees Recruit Employees” programs versity. Both classroom and online seminars are offered, • Entry, mentoring, job rotation, and trainee programs some of them on specialist subjects, some for soft skills • Alumni and intern retention programs training. The HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division has firm partnerships with external institutions for training and As fast, cost-effective, and interactive instruments, on­ further education. line tools are especially important for the application process. When recruiting new employees, however, HOCHTIEF invests in the advancement of our talent by personal contact continues to play an important role: means of a number of talent pools and programs in “Employees Recruit Employees” programs and intern­ each division. A skills assessment for specialists and ships, for example, enable entry into HOCHTIEF. managerial staff is the basis for national and interna­ tional succession planning. In the year under review, HOCHTIEF was recognized as an attractive employer in many areas. Among other Open dialog things, our American subsidiary Flatiron was again We continuously evaluate and initiate opportunities for chosen as one of the “Best Workplaces in Canada;” personal development in annual, structured employee Turner has been one of the best employers in the Uni­ interviews and through feedback from managerial staff. versum rankings in the USA for years, and in Europe, In Europe and the USA, these interviews are held with the jury of the “forum Nachhaltig Wirtschaften” maga­ all employees; in Australia, a quota of 100 percent is ex­ zine voted HOCHTIEF one of the top 20 German com­ pected to be reached by 2015. We encourage ongoing panies. and open dialog. Relevant issues are reported on and discussed in our internal media, such as the employee Employee loyalty policies and personnel develmagazine “One Roof.” opment For its sustainable success, HOCHTIEF attaches great Compensation and retirement plans importance to ensuring that the company retains quali­ Economic efficiency, competitiveness, attractiveness, fied employees long-term. First and foremost, potential and fairness characterize HOCHTIEF’s compensation for development is important for engendering strong policy. Annual analyses and external benchmarks en­ loyalty and a high level of employee satisfaction. Accord­ sure compliance with these principles and with the ingly, HOCHTIEF works continuously to ensure employ­ German Corporate Governance Code. HOCHTIEF does ees can realize and develop their personal potential. In not carry out any gender-specific analyses as the diffe­ addition to a large number of training courses, it offers rently pronounced attributes of individual employees talent pools, for example. Other factors influencing iden­ make reliable comparisons impossible. The focus is on tification with the company and employee satisfaction employees’ training, experience, and responsibility. Sustainability Report 2013 63 Each company has established standards for fixed relevant culture, the focus in this area varies from divi­ and variable compensation components, which are sion to division. The Leighton group, for example, par­ reviewed regularly. Attractive retirement plans are of­ ticularly promotes Indigenous Australians, whereas the fered worldwide, adapted to the conditions in each U.S. companies place their emphasis on ethnic diversity. country. Options include, for e ­ xample, insurance or de­ In the HOCHTIEF Europe division, human resources ferred compensation. management analyzed age structure, length of service, and fluctuation notably in Germany, and used its find­ Work-life balance ings to pinpoint the challenges faced by HOCHTIEF as Both the choice of workplace and employee satisfac­ a result of demographic change. tion are significantly influenced by the consideration of a work-life balance. HOCHTIEF promotes this through Occupational safety and health a range of programs and measures including, for ex­ For the HOCHTIEF Group, occupational safety and Sustainability at HOCHTIEF ample, flextime models such as teleworking and parthealth are a top priority. The competence center for time employment. The offer also includes advice and occupational safety, health, and environmental protec­ services. tion (OSHEP) has organizational responsibility for this *For further information, please issue.* see page 66 et seq. Diversity HOCHTIEF considers diversity to be a success factor and promotes it in a targeted manner. Depending on the Key Figures Key figures on employees in the HOCHTIEF Group Workforce structure (As of Dec. 31, 2013) 55,000 K Women K Men Waged/industrial 50,000 employees 38,865 45,000 40,000 35,000 30,000 Salaried/office employees 25,000 36,568 20,000 Employees by ethnic group in North America 15,000 (As of Dec. 31, 2013) 10,000 Afro-American 431 Native American 64 5,000 Other 239 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Latin American 998 Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Asia Pacific Europe Europe Europe Europe Americas Americas Americas Americas Asian 386 not classifiable 339 White 5 675 The proportion of women in the Group workforce as a whole was 14.7 percent in 2013 (2012: 15.5 percent). 64 Sustainability Report 2013 Employees Age structure in the HOCHTIEF Group in 2013 Tenure of employment in the HOCHTIEF Group (in years) (in years) 60 % 12 53.4 55.2 K Europe 10.6 K Europe K Americas 10.0 K Americas 50 % 48.5 10 K Asia Pacific K Asia Pacific 40 % 8 6.8 6.7 30 % 30.2 6 26.7 26.0 24.8 20 % 18.8 4 3.7 4.0 16.4 10 % 2 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 0% 0 < 30 30–50 > 50 2012 2013 As of Dec. 31, 2013 As of Dec. 31, 2013 Women in management positions in the HOCHTIEF The proportion of HOCHTIEF employees in Germany Group in 2013 (in percent) who work part-time increased in the reporting period, from 8.6 percent in 2012 to 9.1 percent in fiscal year 14 % 2013. 12.2 12 % The number of trainees at HOCHTIEF in Germany 11.1 K Europe 10.3 10 % K Americas decreased from 351 in 2012 to 215 in 2013 (as of K Asia Pacific ­December 31 each year). The training quota therefore 8% stood at 3.8 percent. The decrease mostly relates to the restructuring at HOCHTIEF Solutions AG and the 6% associated sale of the service business line. 4% In the year under review, staff turnover in Germany 2% stood at 10.0 percent.* *Due to the many project-­ related contracts in the USA 0% and Australia, the figures for the As of Dec. 31, 2013 The percentage of contracts with indefinite terms HOCHTIEF Americas and Asia Pacific divisions are not mean­ in Germany is 89.8 percent, 10.2 percent of employees ingful. have a fixed-term contract.* HOCHTIEF in Germany People with severe disabilities comprised 4.2 per­ HOCHTIEF Europe Division cent of the HOCHTIEF workforce in Germany as of De­ There were a total of 2,286 terminations in the cember 31, 2013. As this is below the statutory 5 per­ HOCHTIEF Europe division in 2013. This figure was cent quota, HOCHTIEF pays a compensatory levy. 2,626 in 2012. The proportion of employees in Germany who return to work after parental leave fell slightly from 79.8 percent in 2012 to 77.9 percent in 2013. Sustainability Report 2013 65 Occupational Safety and Health The occupational safety and health of our employees are much more to HOCHTIEF than merely a legal obligation. This issue is a top priority throughout the Group. Our goal is to share responsibility with all stakeholders in creating a working environment in which our employees stay healthy and job-related illnesses and accidents are eliminated as far as possible. It is also important to us that our business partners and subcontractors implement such work­ ing conditions. The aim of providing the conditions for optimum work­ perordinate link, maintains contact with the boards and place health and safety is among our company’s guid­ executives and ensures that reporting is carried out. ing principles and is laid down in the HOCHTIEF Code Sustainability at HOCHTIEF of Conduct as the duty of all employees. The minimum In addition, the divisions use management systems based requirements we have defined in this area are described on international standards (BS 18001 OHSAS and Safety in a corresponding Group directive that is the founda­ Certificate Contractors [SCC]) to integrate occupational tion for the occupational safety, health, and environmen­ safety and health into the project process from end to tal protection organization in the HOCHTIEF Group. end. In the reporting year 76.8 percent of employees Moreover, our employees are expected to adhere to all (2012: 66.3%) worked for companies that have been statutory and regulatory requirements regarding occu­ certified accordingly. pational safety and health as well as to implement the risk minimization measures identified in the hazard HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Executive Board assessments. Structure of occupational safety and health at HOCHTIEF Corporate Divisions OSHEP Center Executive Board/ HOCHTIEF Management Board Each of us is equally responsible for occupational safety and health. Individuals receive support for these efforts from the occupational safety, health, and environmental Officers protection organization within the HOCHTIEF Group. The central competence center for these issues is the OSHEP Center, whose manager reports directly to the HOCHTIEF Experts Executive Board’s Labor Director. The OSHEP Center develops overarching workplace safety requirements, supports managerial staff in putting these into practice, Identifying risk early on and monitors compliance with requirements. The cen­ The basic requirement for effective safety management ter’s staff is involved in all phases of projects in Germany is identifying and assessing risks early on to ensure and abroad, thus optimizing occupational safety and that preventive measures are implemented and dangers health on site with all participants. eliminated. HOCHTIEF safety experts thus lend their expertise to projects as early as the bid phase. Safety In terms of their organizational systems and procedures, plans are subsequently devised, continually updated HOCHTIEF’s divisions have set up structures and pro­ and revised during the course of projects. The goal is cesses that correspond with the relevant standards. to keep any residual risk to the health of our employees Management representatives and experts within the as low as possible. ­divisions advise and support the management boards and project executives. The OSHEP Center, as the su­ 66 Sustainability Report 2013 It is important to us that all of our business partners share education on these topics in all HOCHTIEF divisions. HOCHTIEF’s occupational safety and health vision. They Our employees receive regular training both internally must therefore accept our Code of Conduct. When and externally. Occupational safety and health are estab­ selecting partner companies and subcontractors, we lished components of the course offerings at HOCHTIEF’s additionally take into account their track record in envi­ internal continuing education facilities. We regularly re­ ronmental and occupational safety and review whether port on these topics in company media. In addition, many they meet and comply with the relevant statutory require­ special event days and initiatives raise awareness of this ments. If a company fails to meet our high stand­ards, issue among employees in the units and on projects. we reserve the right to exclude it from future contracts. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Managerial staff play a key role in this regard. They must Number of fatal accidents in the HOCHTIEF Group be aware of their responsibilities as well as enable and Region 2010 2011 2012 2013* promote such a culture of occupational safety and health Americas 0 0 0 0 within their areas of competence. Managerial staff are Asia/Pacific 2 5 3** 1 prepared for this task by attending special programs. Europe 1 0 0 0 We also attach great importance to providing training HOCHTIEF Group total 3 5 3 1 and continuing education for our safety experts. They *Subcontractors are not included in the table. However, they must comply with the safety standards that apply to HOCHTIEF. are constantly up to speed in their areas of specializa­ ** One fatal incident reported subsequently due to overlap with editorial dead­ tion. This means they can effectively advise and support line for Sustainability Report 2012. the project executives in their occupational safety and Tribute health activities. The experts take advantage of internal We deeply regret that employees have died during their work. and external working groups to share their experiences We extend our condolences to their families. at regional level. Even given the above-average preventive measures we Accident rate within the HOCHTIEF Group (accidents per million man-hours) put in place, it is unfortunately not possible to entirely (Lost time injury frequency rates LTIFR) rule out accidents, some of which may have serious or 45 41.59 40.05 37.16 40 K 2010 fatal consequences. HOCHTIEF uses a graduated re­ K 2011 35 porting system to record and analyze these accidents 30 K 2012 in order to understand the cause, develop new preven­ 25 K 2013 tive measures, and optimize our processes. These activ­ 20 15 ities are based on a uniform classification of workplace 9.06 8.50 7.50 6.20 10 accidents throughout the Group. Various management 5 0.86 1.67 0.92 0.78 0.83 0.66 1.14 1.20 hierarchies will be involved in investigating accidents 0 Europe Americas Asia Pacific Construction industry depending on the seriousness of the accident in ques­ overall in Germany* tion. *Source: Annual accounts of German institutions for statutory insurance and prevention; figures for 2013 were not yet available as of the editorial deadline. Promoting a culture of occupational safety through continuing education The work safety cultures at the HOCHTIEF units and companies have developed to differing degrees due to the varying social welfare systems in the countries con­ cerned. Ensuring that we have a uniform culture in which all staff members feel responsible for occupational safety and health requires that we highly prioritize continuing Sustainability Report 2013 67 Environmental and Climate protection HOCHTIEF’s business affects the natural environment—the soil, water, air, climate, and biological diversity. We are aware of this. So together with partners, our experts are working on numerous developments to find solutions for keeping the impact of our activities to a minimum as well as to avoid environmental damage. There is a firm commit­ ment throughout the HOCHTIEF Group to conserve resources, optimize their use, and systematically reduce emis­ sions harmful to the environment and our climate. For HOCHTIEF, environmental and climate protection is Identifying risk early on a top priority. We aim to continuously improve our per­ The key factor for a successful, accident-free project from formance in this area so as to not only minimize the risk an environmental protection perspective is to identify Sustainability at HOCHTIEF for our company but also because we have a respon­ and assess the relevant environmental and climate risks sibility to the environment and society. early on. Only then can preventive measures be planned and effectively incorporated in the course of the project. Organizational structure of environmental and This is why environmental protection experts at HOCHTIEF climate protection in the HOCHTIEF Group are involved in projects as early as the bid phase to All environmental and climate protection-relevant issues coordinate the necessary measures on a cross-disci­ are coordinated centrally in the Center for Occupational plinary basis and implement them in the construction Safety and Health and Environmental Protection (OSHEP phase. The relevant issues are then tracked continually Center). This center reports directly to HOCHTIEF’s during project operations, and the activities adjusted Labor Director, which underlines the great importance where necessary. Environmental and climate protection attached to the issue. The Group-wide environmental aspects are also a fixed component in investment de­ protection policy forms the basis of all activities. It is set cisions. down in a corresponding directive and defines the ­minimum requirements. In addition to compliance with fundamental legal and normative requirements, it is also very important from The OSHEP Center brings together environmental and an environmental protection perspective to analyze how occupational safety experts. They ensure the legally com­ and why accidents have occurred to date in order to pliant organization of general environmental requirements achieve accident-free project operations. Evaluating nearand also support the management and project teams accidents can also provide valuable insights when it on site with their expertise. The HOCHTIEF divisions comes to preventing future environmental damage. Both have themselves taken responsibility for enshrining envi­ environmental damage and near-accidents are recorded ronmental and climate protection in their organizational and assessed using a graduated reporting system. Our structures and take the appropriate steps to ensure that aim is to develop a uniform understanding and report­ the applicable legal provisions and HOCHTIEF standards ing system regarding the type and scope of environmen­ are complied with and implemented. tal incidents throughout the Group. Environmental and climate protection is integrated into Fostering employee awareness and training the entire project process within the HOCHTIEF divi­ HOCHTIEF considers it important that employees de­ sions. These maintain management systems based on velop an in-depth understanding of ecology. The only international standards (ISO 14001, ISO 50001). In the way to guarantee sustainable occupational safety, health year under review, the proportion of projects with envi­ and environmental protection is by keeping employees ronmental management certification (ISO 14001; EMAS, well-informed across the board. To this end, organiza­ SCC) thus stood at 77.7% in the HOCHTIEF Group. tional structures must be tailored to employees’ needs and employees should regard them as supportive in 68 Sustainability Report 2013 their everyday work. In order to achieve this kind of ac­ For this reason, HOCHTIEF takes the risk of pollutants ceptance, we are fostering employee awareness of the in building products very seriously and ensures that issue and providing our workforce with thorough train­ contractors and managers systematically take this ing. This is part of an ongoing process which entails ­issue into consideration throughout all of the construc­ training measures in the form of regular in-project in­ tion processes affected. struction and classroom seminars. Hazardous substances management HOCHTIEF attaches particular importance to providing Comprehensive hazardous substances management training and continuing education for our environmental forges a link between environmental and occupational Sustainability at HOCHTIEF experts. They are always up to date in their areas of spe­ safety. The handling of products containing hazardous cialization and advise the project executives in their en­ substances affects not only occupational safety, but also vironmental protection activities. These experts share raises questions of proper storage, transportation, and their experiences on a regional basis via internal and ex­ disposal. To this end, there are country-specific indexes, ternal working groups. regulations, and guidelines. For example, HOCHTIEF Solutions in Europe has developed and introduced a Environmental and climate protection topics at concept that puts into practice the requirements of the HOCHTIEF Hazardous Materials Ordinance (Gefahrstoffverordnung): Energy efficiency and emissions An Internet-based program allows hazardous substances We aim to use energy efficiently, save electricity and re­ indexes to be drawn up, right down to object level. At duce emissions throughout the Group. To this end, we the same time, it helps to generate additional information record and measure our emissions and consumption on individual materials—such as toxicological evalua­ on an ongoing basis (see charts on page 71), and derive tions of building materials used—and workplace-specific further reduction measures from those findings. Our operating instructions. focus is both within the Group and at our customers. This makes HOCHTIEF one of the world’s leading pro­ Waste management viders of “green” building: Our companies construct HOCHTIEF draws up detailed materials usage plans for buildings noted for their power and heat conservation. projects at an early stage in order to avoid and minimize At HOCHTIEF, we employ a wide range of measures waste. These include methods of waste disposal. For and regulations to reduce carbon emissions (see feature large-scale infrastructure projects, for example, plans starting on page 16)—for instance, by way of equipment are also developed early on to keep quantities of exca­ specifications for the company fleet. We continue to vation materials to a minimum, to reuse them and, where work on defining Group-wide climate protection targets. possible, to deploy a large percentage of recycled materials. Pollutants in building fabric The construction industry uses materials and products Water management manufactured industrially and chemically. Once installed, In many building projects, water is an important consid­ it is often no longer possible to clearly identify materials eration, for which HOCHTIEF develops tailored con­ individually, such that there is a risk of unintentional release cepts. Water management deals with such aspects as due to construction activity. In certain circumstances, the use of groundwater and drinking water in the course this can have an environmental impact—for example, in of the project, the disposal of recycled and waste water, the form of contamination—or cause damage to health. infiltration, water pollution, and water treatment. Sustainability Report 2013 69 Biodiversity ing all requirements and measures to be carried out in HOCHTIEF’s aim is to conserve biological diversity in terms of nature conservation and environmental pro­ its project environments. Where necessary, we work— tection. Their implementation is monitored during con­ often in close collaboration with the authorities respon­ struction and the measures are adjusted if necessary. sible—to develop specific environmental concepts cover­ Key figures Work done (EUR billion) Water consumption (in m3) 29.69 29.05 Water consumption Group coverage** Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 25.79 2013 19,679,874 67% 23.23 20.56 2012 5,074,045* 68% 2011 735,000 35% 2010 671,000 45% **Based on HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division figures for six months only. The data is estimated from material-specific cost types assuming average prices. In the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division, 12.6% of water is drawn from 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 fresh-water sources and 46.3% from recycled water. In the HOCHTIEF Europe division, water is drawn from fresh-water The environmental indicators below and Group cover­ sources. Extraction from other sources is not open to influence due *Coverage: Proportion of data age* are to be viewed in relation to the Group work to the Group’s project structure. recorded in relation to Group carried out for each year. They are also directly depen­ work done. dent on the type and scope of each project Waste requiring disposal (t) Environmental damage Incidents resulting in material chemical or biological Waste requiring Group coverage** disposal ­environmental damage must be reported to HOCHTIEF. 2013 3,011,091 94% Such incidents are divided into three levels: Level 1: Transregional, high severity and/or irreversible 2012 1,061,669* 75% damage and/or estimated impact of over 2011 499,384 40% EUR 5 million 2010 510,464 45% Level 2: Medium severity, estimated impact exceed­ **Based on HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division figures for six months only. ing general deductible but below the general coverage amount of EUR 5 million. Level 3: Low severity, impact below the general The Group-wide waste recycling rate was approxi­ ­deductible mately 81% in 2013 (2012: 75%). No instances of Level 1 and Level 2 environmental damage were reported in the three HOCHTIEF ­divisions in 2013. Fines In the period under review, no fines were levied against HOCHTIEF for violations of environmental regulations. 70 Sustainability Report 2013 Environmental and Climate Protection The key figures shown relate to the energy consumption and Energy consumption levels and the greenhouse gas emis­ carbon emissions of the main corporate units in Europe, sions inferred from them directly depend on the nature the USA, and Australia. The majority of the data is estimated and scale of the projects in progress. A tunneling project from material-specific cost types assuming average prices. with a tunnel boring machine, for example, generates far The ratio of material to service costs in the HOCHTIEF greater indirect carbon emissions than a building construc­ Europe division is also assumed for the HOCHTIEF tion site. The figures specified here relate solely to materials Americas and the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific divisions. purchased by the HOCHTIEF Group. The trend in the key figures therefore indicates very little as regards actual Greenhouse gas emissions*: climate protection activity. *Metric tons of carbon equiva­ lent. Source for ­carbon conver­ HOCHTIEF Americas Division (t/CO2) sion factors: GHG Protocol, (partly extrapolated figures) DEFRA and German Federal The major office locations in Germany have been using Environment Agency 16,000 K Scope 2 green power fully since 2010. The Leighton Group, too, 14,000 K Scope 1 uses green power at selected locations. 12,000 10,000 Greenhouse gas emissions*: 8,000 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF Europe Division (t/CO2) 6,000 165,000 4,000 K Scope 2 150,000 K Scope 1 2,000 135,000 0 120,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 105,000 90,000 Greenhouse gas emissions*: 75,000 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division (t/CO2) 60,000 3,600,000 45,000 3,500,000 30,000 3,400,000 K Scope 2 15,000 K Scope 1 0 1,400,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1,300,000 1,200,000 1,100,000 1,000,000 Greenhouse gas emissions*: Scope 3 composition 900,000 Scope 3 (t/CO2) (percent) 800,000 2,200,000 1.3 4.4 700,000 0.2 2,000,000 33.4 600,000 1,800,000 500,000 1,600,000 400,000 1,400,000 300,000 1,200,000 200,000 1,000,000 100,000 60.7 800,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 600,000 Percentage of total CO2 400,000 Timber Concrete Energy consumption Waste 200,000 Business travel (coverage: 71%) Group 0 Steel 2013 Coverage Americas Asia Pacific Europe Electricity** 297,400 MWh 1,073.6 TJ 93% Heat­ing oil 958,429 liters 36.4 TJ 59% Group Coverage Diesel 1,274,933,967 liters 4,050.6 TJ 71% Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Gasoline 6,456,681 liters 211.7 TJ 71% 2013 97% 93% 93% Gas 2,991 MWh 10.8 TJ 71% 2012 85% 88% – LPG 12,062 MWh 43.5 TJ 71% 2011 85% 85% – **Electricity figures in the HOCHTIEF Americas division partly extrapolated Sustainability Report 2013 71 Research and Development Research and development is a major factor in HOCHTIEF’s sustainability activities. Both centrally and at divisional and project level, our employees develop future-focused ideas for sustainable solutions. Time and again, this enables HOCHTIEF to present clients with innovative, compelling answers. Besides product and project-related innovation, we also improve internal workflows and processes on an ongoing basis. Our innovation management system, which we work continuously to improve, sets us apart from competitors and allows us to generate significant added value for clients. Number of R&D projects Innovation management on three levels Compelling employee ideas 46 50 Innovation at HOCHTIEF is managed on three levels: HOCHTIEF’s R&D accomplishments are to a large extent Sustainability at HOCHTIEF 39 The first level, central innovation management, focuses due to the great innovating skills of the HOCHTIEF work­ 33 on cross-divisional issues. The emphasis here is on in­ force. A key feature of our innovation management sys­ novations that benefit operating activities throughout the tem is therefore Ideas Management, which addresses Group. Innovation management is centrally coordinated suggestions for improvement from the workforce. In Ger­ by HOCHTIEF Corporate Development. This unit picks many, these activities center around the Ideas Room, 2010 2011 2012 2013 out promising innovations and supports their implemen­ a transparent tool that allows employees to put in sug­ tation. The Innovation Committee, which is made up of gestions directly online. As in past years, many employ­ Number of R&D projects members from the operational units and Corporate Head­ ees made use of the tool during the reporting year to ­completed 17 18 quarters, decides whether to go ahead with a research help improve internal workflows and processes. Overall, 16 and development (R&D) project in each case. 461 ideas were published in 2013. The ten best sug­ 11 gestions for 2012 were awarded prizes at the annual HOCHTIEF spent around EUR 4.9 million on Groupconference in April 2013. wide, first-level R&D projects in the year under review. 2010 2011 2012 2013 Some 60 employees worked on 39 such projects. We International cooperation launched six new projects in 2013, and brought 18 to The global cooperation network that HOCHTIEF has built Number of R&D projects started completion. Our current innovation projects are subject up over the years is of major importance: We work closely 29 to EUR 287,000 in German federal grants. with national and international universities, scientists, and associations. As a member of the European Con­ 15 The second level of the HOCHTIEF innovation manage­ struction Technology Platform, HOCHTIEF makes an 8 6 ment system deals with divisional innovation. These active contribution toward maintaining the high techni­ projects are developed, financed, and implemented by cal standards of the European construction industry. We 2010 2011 2012 2013 the corporate units and companies themselves. are also a member of ENCORD, the European forum for industry-led research, development, and innovation Investment volume of R&D The third level targets project-specific innovations. All in the construction sector. Benefits from our member­ ­p rojects (EUR million) necessary R&D work is carried out during contract bid­ ship include best-practice exchange on issues such as 6.2 5.2 ding and execution. As the expenses incurred are ac­ bridge construction and tunneling, lean construction, 4.9 4.9 counted for directly as part of project cost, they are not virtual construction, corporate responsibility, and work registered at Group level. At HOCHTIEF, the lion’s share safety. of development takes place at this level. Sustainability-related R&D projects Many of our innovation projects are closely related to 2010 2011 2012 2013 issues of sustainability or are driven forward by our goal The statistics in the charts of acting sustainably. relate to the first-level innovation projects. 72 Sustainability Report 2013 Modular small-scale biogas plants A standardized measurement system for use in the place­ During 2013, HOCHTIEF took part in an innovation proj­ ment of foundation elements for offshore wind turbines ect in the small-scale biogas plant business: In coopera­ has so far been lacking. Nor has there so far been any tion with the University of Bonn, we are developing means of fully documenting the associated data. As part small-scale biogas plants with a standardized, certified of a HOCHTIEF offshore project, our experts master­ design for rapid assembly and featuring a small space minded a proprietary measurement and positioning sys­ footprint. The energy source is slurry which, unlike crops tem comprising a program and a set of coordinated such as corn, is generally available free of charge. As sensors. The new system makes for faster, easier work­ part of the project, we take account of the differing needs ing. of beef and hog farmers as well as farming operations. As such operations are highly diverse and individual, Turner: Disseminating best practices HOCHTIEF is exploring a choice of business models as Our U.S. subsidiary Turner launched a new collabora­ an entry path into this proven form of alternative energy tion platform during the reporting year. “Learning Tree” generation. is a system to capture, organize, and disseminate best practices. Employees can also use the platform to Sustainability at HOCHTIEF Nuclear power plant decommissioning post questions, which are subsequently answered by HOCHTIEF has acquired considerable expertise in experts from the company-wide network. This new solu­ nuclear power plant decommissioning since the midtion will further improve knowledge management at 1990s. In-house technological innovations deployed Turner as well as employee networking, commitment, in this work include the HOCHTIEF heavy-duty under­ and satisfaction. Plans are to also open up the Learning cut anchor system, which can be used to transport Tree network to other HOCHTIEF divisions, promoting in­ very tall pieces of debris, and the DECON surface re­ tegrated lifelong learning throughout the Group. moval system, a high-powered tool for the removal of contaminated surfaces. In light of the planned greening New sand production method of Germany’s energy supplies, HOCHTIEF set up a John Holland, a subsidiary of HOCHTIEF’s Australian project group with the aim—operating through a dedi­ company Leighton, developed a new sand production cated business segment—of providing clients at an method for the Cotter Dam project. Expansion of the early stage with integrated solutions for planning and Cotter Dam required approximately 400,000 metric tons subsequently carrying out the impending decommis­ of very fine sand, which would normally have been trucked sioning tasks as well as with support in solution devel­ in from a quarry. The crushing system successfully opment. ­developed and implemented by John Holland made it possible to produce the sand from aggregate produced New techniques in offshore wind farm on site. This innovative method required no sand to be ­construction supplied to the site, reducing the number of truck deliv­ In the energy infrastructure sector, HOCHTIEF is an eries. This substantially reduced the emissions. The established player in the construction of offshore wind Cotter Dam project participated in the round 2 pilot trials farms. During the year under review, HOCHTIEF began of the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia’s an innovation project in which it is developing an alter­ rating scheme, with this particular innovation having native design for pile stoppers. A pile stopper is a tem­ the potential to contribute to scores in the categories of porary bearing structure used for the foundation of an Commitment to Sustainable Procurement, Conserva­ offshore wind turbine on top of piles in the sea floor. The tion of On-Site Resources, Waste Management, Com­ new design not only means that foundations can be pro­ munity Health & Wellbeing, and Innovation. duced at lower cost but also makes for easier installa­ tion. Successfully implemented, the idea offers cost sav­ ings of some EUR 5 million per wind farm. It also avoids risky diving work. Sustainability Report 2013 73 Procurement As in other areas, HOCHTIEF’s goal is to conserve resources, protect the climate, and treat people fairly in the procurement of materials, products, and services. For this reason, key sustainability parameters anchored in our Corporate Directive Procurement are considered when selecting, evaluating, and cultivating our subcontractors and suppliers as well as when purchasing materials and products. Organization of procurement at HOCHTIEF Sustainability implemented in procurement HOCHTIEF’s procurement strategy is aligned with our A key cornerstone of our procurement activities is the Group strategy. Key features of the procurement strat­ Corporate Directive Procurement, which was updated egy include developing and fostering entrepreneurial and expanded in 2012. It features ten procurement Sustainability at HOCHTIEF procurement culture, pursuing opportunities to add principles and guidelines: transparency, measurement, value and cut cost, and enhancing competitiveness with continuous improvement, best place to work, collabora­ innovative programs, processes, and tools. The aim of tion, supplier management, governance, sustainability, all procurement processes is to obtain the best terms Code of Conduct for Employees, and Code of Con­ and conditions for HOCHTIEF and our clients at the duct for Business Partners. desired quality. The Directive makes explicit reference to the six focus In the year under review, the restructuring of HOCHTIEF areas of sustainability at HOCHTIEF. This addition re­ Solutions AG also set the course for a realignment of sulted in sustainability being anchored even more firmly our procurement activities in Europe. These are now in our purchasing processes. Divisions are thus required conducted at three levels: Centrally at Group level by a to pay due regard to corporate social responsibility and strategic corporate center unit, at the level of the three sustainability principles at every stage of supplier selec­ divisions by a central procurement manager, and indi­ tion and evaluation as well as when awarding orders to vidually in operational units as well as projects by our subcontractors. An internal control system reviews and *For detailed information on purchasing experts.* This enables HOCHTIEF to more ensures compliance when the Directive is implemented. our procurement organization, actively pursue project-driven procurement in line with please see pages 62 et seq. of the HOCHTIEF Annual Report. demand. The companies benefit from the closer prox­ HOCHTIEF’s procurement efforts aim to continuously imity of procurement teams to operations and regional improve processes and update the international pur­ procurement markets. At the same time, regular exchange chasing network. We therefore prequalify and evaluate of information about existing and future needs between our suppliers. In 2013, the HOCHTIEF-Group registered corporate center units at Group and division levels ensures 65,756 prequalified suppliers. that favorable terms can be negotiated, even beyond com­ pany and country boundaries. Code of Conduct: an integral tool HOCHTIEF’s actions are based on ethical principles (see page 57 et seq.). And that also includes procurement activities. The HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct therefore features among the ten principles and rules in the ­Corporate Directive Procurement. 74 Sustainability Report 2013 For companies that work with HOCHTIEF, we have laid Key figures down rules in our Code of Conduct for Business Part­ ners. HOCHTIEF’s business partners are obligated to comply with these strict rules both in their own opera­ Materials used tions and in dealings with their subcontractors. We ex­ Quantity Group coverage pect our partners and their suppliers not to permit child Cement 6,325,387 m3 93% labor and to pay their workforces a fair wage or salary. Steel 833,604 t 93% Wood 823,566 m3 93% Sustainability issues in procurement Reporting period for Leighton 07/12 – 06/13 Sustainability at HOCHTIEF HOCHTIEF’s projects often center on the delivery of integrated, sustainable solutions— a mission equally The majority of the data is estimated from materialapplicable to procurement activities, which often in­ specific cost types assuming average prices. The ratio volve more than just sourcing materials and services. of material to service costs in the HOCHTIEF Europe This calls for our purchasing experts to have additional division is also assumed for the HOCHTIEF Americas segment-specific expertise and above-average knowl­ and the HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific divisions. edge of the market. Certified cement suppliers For instance, in transportation infrastructure projects, 14% of the volume of cement procured is purchased HOCHTIEF’s activities are not limited to building proj­ from suppliers who have joined the Cement Sustain­ ects like tunnels, bridges, and roads. Our 360-degree ability Initiative (CSI). The CSI is an initiative of the World service portfolio also includes the supply and installation Business Council for Sustainable Development of energy-efficient, energy-saving lighting for such in­ (WBCSD) . www. wbcsdcement.org frastructure. Source countries A case in point: In the green building market segment, In compliance with UN conventions, the HOCHTIEF we develop and build energy-efficient and resourceGroup purchases most goods and services from sup­ saving properties. Our subsidiary Turner is a pioneer in pliers in countries with high human rights standards. this field in the USA, and HOCHTIEF is also extending The chart below includes all key suppliers (Group cov­ its position in sustainable construction in many other erage: 93%). countries. This requires us to procure materials and UN human rights conventions products that meet strict sustainability standards, such 21 536 as FSC-certified wood, for use in those projects. 270 No. of ratified UN human rights ­i nstruments 0–4 Heavy equipment is deployed notably in the contract 5–9 mining business in which our Australian Group company 10–14 15–18 Leighton operates. Energy and fuel efficiency are im­ 809 portant criteria when it comes to procuring the over­ burden excavators and caterpillars required in mining. Sustainability Report 2013 75 Donations and Sponsorship As an international construction group, HOCHTIEF designs living spaces all over the world and therefore interacts closely with the people with whom and for whom we work. We are part of society and, as a corporate citizen, take responsibility for the community wherever we do business and carry out projects. HOCHTIEF and its employees act on this mission through monetary donations and donations in kind, by contributing their expertise, and volunteer­ ing. We focus these activities on two main issues: Educating and promoting young talent, and shaping and main­ taining living spaces. The Group directive on donations and sponsorship was The first involves our commitment to education and completely rewritten in the period under review and, in fostering young talent, through which we are invest­ Sustainability at HOCHTIEF October 2013, replaced the 2007 guidelines applicable ing in one of the most important factors in economic to date. The directive defines the thematic priorities of and community development. As a technologyand en­ these activities, assigns responsibility, and specifies re­ gineering-driven company, HOCHTIEF relies heavily on porting processes and duties. The objective of rework­ well-educated staff and young talent as well as a broad ing the directive was to more clearly define the thematic appreciation of construction and technical issues in so­ priorities, also taking into account the international focus ciety. We engage at an early stage to promote these and current structure of the HOCHTIEF Group. More­ issues, which is why we sponsor educational projects over, the new directive provides better guidelines for for young people in particular. making monetary donations, donations in kind, and contributions of expertise, as well as volunteering for HOCHTIEF shapes living spaces. The company intends social causes. It also improves documentation so that to carry out this mission above and beyond our own proj­ these activities can be consolidated more efficiently and ects with our second, newly defined focal area. HOCHTIEF their effects amplified. aims to sponsor and donate to projects geared to shaping and maintaining our social and natural living The directive applies to the entire HOCHTIEF Group with spaces. Depending on the cultural, social, and region­ the exception of Leighton Holdings Limited and its sub­ al environment in which the HOCHTIEF divisions and sidiaries. As part of its Group Governance System, Leigh­ companies operate, the focus of these activities can be ton has issued and implements its own directive on different—ultimately, HOCHTIEF’s social commitment donations and sponsorship (Corporate Community In­ should be aligned with the needs of the people we wish vestment). The content of this directive in no way con­ to support. tradicts any of the requirements or rules contained in the HOCHTIEF Group directive. HOCHTIEF would especially like to support local com­ munities, so if there is good reason, a focal area different Focal points of sponsorship activities from the two specified can be chosen for projectand HOCHTIEF concentrates its donation and sponsorship site-based initiatives. For instance, a third sponsorship activities on two focal areas, both of which have a spe­ focus was defined for the HOCHTIEF Americas division cial relationship to our company as well as our business due to the special characteristics of the U.S. healthcare activities, and have a sustained effect. At the same time, system and its dependence on financial support from the they are relevant to all Group companies and corporate private sector: health and welfare. units. 76 Sustainability Report 2013 The Group directive additionally stipulates that HOCHTIEF world to give the local population better access to may not make any donations to political organizations, trade, education, and medical treatment. parties, individual politicians, or office holders, whether directly or indirectly.* After the successful debut in 2012, HOCHTIEF employ­ *Leighton, our Australian Group Company, reports on its indirect ees built another bridge in Rwanda in summer 2013. political donations in its annual Organization and reporting Our U.S. subsidiaries completed three projects in Nica­ report and on the Internet at www.leighton.com.au. The Corporate Communications department is respon­ ragua in the reporting period (see also pages 86 and sible for donations and sponsorship in conjunction with 104). the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft. Sustainability at HOCHTIEF It handles strategic policy and overall coordination of Our commitment to B2P extends far beyond cash do­ these issues in addition to reporting. The department nations. For all of the projects we finance, we have a is also responsible for the sponsorship activities of the group of employees on site who play an active part in holding company. building the bridges. By integrating local workers into the bridge building, we pass on our expertise to the local In HOCHTIEF’s divisions, the relevant executive boards population, who are then able to use these methods and management are tasked with setting the donation and the skills they have acquired in other projects. In and sponsorship budgets. Specific employees are re­ addition, Flatiron is particularly committed to its role as sponsible for monitoring selection of suitable projects a strategic B2P partner and harnesses its building ex­ in the appropriate form and level in line with the direc­ pertise to support the design of the bridge models. The tive, documenting the activities, and reporting to Cor­ ongoing objective is to also involve the Leighton Group porate Communications on a fixed schedule. in this charity work in the long run and thus to expand B2P into a Group-wide sponsoring project. Documentation of donation and sponsorship activities stipulated in the Group directive aims to eventually allow HOCHTIEF to measure the benefits of its social com­ Total donations and sponsorship (EUR million) mitment and to develop suitable performance indicators. 0.45 0.37 0.33 In the period under review, an initial attempt was made Europe to apply the German Bertelsmann Stiftung foundation’s Asia Pacific Americas “iooi” method (input, output, outcome, impact) to the 0.36 projects conducted under the auspices of Bridges to Prosperity. 3.26 6.30 5.20 4.77 Focus on Bridges to Prosperity In 2012, HOCHTIEF was involved for the first time from Germany and Europe in projects for the non-profit orga­ 3.43 3.00 4.06 4.19 nization Bridges to Prosperity“ (B2P), which had www. bridgestoprosperity.org ­received support from our U.S. subsidiaries Flatiron, Turner, and E.E. Cruz since 2007. In cooperation with 2010 2011 2012 2013 sponsors, B2P builds pedestrian bridges across rivers and gorges in low-infrastructure regions all over the Sustainability Report 2013 77 HOCHTIEF expands horizons … MY COMMUNITY 78 Sustainability Report 2013 OUR Segment Reporting CONTRIBUTION … for instance, by building footbridges in remote areas of the world such as Rwanda. In a host of different ways, HOCHTIEF assumes social responsibility wherever we carry out projects and help is needed. Sustainability Report 2013 79 Segment Report HOCHTIEF Americas Division For further information about The companies included in the HOCHTIEF Americas division recorded numerous successes during the reporting these companies, please see period in our six sustainability focus areas. Turner, which specializes in building construction, was again recognized www.turnerconstruction. com, www.flatironcorp.com, as the leader in the U.S. green building segment. Our infrastructure construction subsidiary, Flatiron, is involved in and www.eecruz.com. sustainable projects in the transportation and energy sectors. In 2013, we continued to set an example through our successful cooperation with the non-profit organization Bridges to Prosperity, constructing three footbridges in remote regions of Nicaragua. Focus area 1: Sustainable products and services system keep energy usage low. The office complex proTurner: Leader in green building duces 84,000 kilowatt hours of electricity, but requires In its annual ranking, the industry publication Engineeronly 70,000. The surplus, which is equal to the average ing News-Record (ENR) named Turner the number annual consumption of a multi-family home, is fed into one green builder for the fifth consecutive time in 2013. the local grid. *LEED = Leadership in Energy HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiary has 1,384 LEED* Accredit­ and Environmental Design ed Professionals—employees who hold industry certi­ The Sacramento Municipal Utility District (SMUD) East fication in sustainability and work on green building proj­ Campus Operations Center completed in April 2013 is ects as auditors. This team of experts helped Turner take another energy-efficient building complex constructed the top position in a list of the 100 most successful by Turner. At minimum, SMUD produces all the energy green construction companies in the USA. Turner is init requires, having been designed to meet LEED Platinum creasingly offering online continuing education classes certification standards. Industry publication Sacramento in this subject as well. For instance, the LEED Green Business Journal named the complex the year’s best ­Associate Training classes are carried live on the Interreal estate project in the sustainable building category. net. The program is the first qualification professionals The Sacramento Regional Builders association also must acquire to become LEED auditors. Since this crowned the city property the greenest project of the ­approach eliminates the need to travel, e-learning saves year in California. both time and CO2 emissions. Well on its way to a LEED Silver designation is the new Segment Reporting In the year under review, the PNC Bank branch built by Department of Veterans Affairs clinic in Austin, Texas. Turner in Florida was awarded LEED Platinum certificaThe building covering some 25,500 square meters has tion. The property is among the few net-positive buildmany green features, including a highly efficient heating ings in the USA constructed to date. Energy is provided and cooling system and high-performance glazing. by 211 solar panels. At the same time, state-of-the-art ­Locally produced materials were used in its construction. LED lighting equipment and a sophisticated ventilation Additionally, Turner employed a lean construction method Net positive: The PNC Bank branch built by Turner in Florida with its roof-mounted solar panels produces more energy than the building complex as a whole uses. 80 Sustainability Report 2013 Sustainable state of the art: Construction of the Department of Veterans Affairs clinic included the use of ­l ocal building materials ­( picture left). New for old: Turner’s office in Columbus achieved LEED Gold certification for its sustainability. The building was formerly a factory, and original materials were repurposed during its renovation (picture right). to build this property, with detailed preconstruction term—from 42 to some 1,400. Moreover, Deane joined planning and, for the most part, using advance comwith colleagues in devising an online program to collect puter simulation. All processes involved in its construcand document data on waste disposal and recycling tion were therefore well orchestrated, and the materials for several hundred Turner projects. delivered were used quickly and efficiently. Turner also champions sustainability in its own buildings. Other institutions have also recognized Turner’s green In 2013, two of the company’s offices were awarded building expertise. The New York School of Interior Design Green Building certificates. The Columbus office in Ohio, honored the company’s commitment to sustainability once used as a factory, was revitalized by Turner and with the 2013 Green Design Award in the development certified at LEED Gold level. In the process, various maand real estate categories. The prize is given to projterials were recycled to save resources. The office buildects that combine environmental protection and highing in Charlotte, North Carolina, also received LEED quality design. Moreover, the Best Education Degree Gold certification and is therefore Turner’s 16th office to education blog labeled three high school projects that have been awarded a quality seal by the U.S. Green Segment Reporting Turner delivered “impressive.” The digital network is Building Council. Turner employees now use a total of used primarily by teachers and related professionals. more than 31,000 square meters of certified office space. Among other buildings, the award went to Inderkum This is equivalent to around 45 percent of Turner’s total High School in Sacramento, which stands out for its office area. notably sustainable features. The campus meas­uring a good 21,800 square meters was designed around a two-story glass atrium that draws energy from photovoltaic and geothermal sources. In 2013, the U.S. Green Building Council named Michael Deane, Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer of Turner, a LEED Fellow—in other words, a deserving expert in the green building industry. He was honored for his outstanding accomplishments. As a pioneer in the green construction industry, he has played a key role in shaping the company’s sustainability successes. The number of LEED professionals grew sharply during his Sustainability Report 2013 81 © San Francisco Public Utilities Commission Team of experts: Naturally occurring asbestos is released during expansion and conversion work on the ­C alaveras Dam. Flatiron’s team comprises experts including a certified industrial hygienist and an environmental b­ iologist who manage this and other environmental protection aspects of the project. Sustainable transportation infrastructure activities on the environment and cut costs by increasOur U.S. infrastructure construction subsidiary Flatiron ing energy efficiency and optimizing water consumption. www.greenroads.org is a member of the U.S. “Greenroads Foundation,“ They reduce materials usage and, not least, promote a an organization that develops sustainability initiatives healthy and productive working environment for employfor transportation infrastructure projects. The organizaees. The competitive nature of the program encourages tion uses its own certification system to make sustainstaff to develop and implement efficiency measures ability in this construction segment measurable and (see feature starting on page 16). compa­rable. The system can be applied to new construction projects as well as refurbishment and revitali­ The Turner Green Zone program and the electricity saved zation projects and extends to streets and bridges. A projas a result set the stage for an important accomplishect must meet certain fundamental criteria to be given ment celebrated by HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiary in the the designation, including materials and resources used, year under review: In March, Turner received the 2013 construction methods, and road pavement technoloClimate Leadership Award. This was an honor presentgies (see feature starting on page 10). ed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for Segment Reporting Turner’s reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by more Focus area 2: Active climate protection than five percent in five years. Internal climate protection measures In 2013, Turner successfully continued the Green Zone Focus area 3: Resource protection program launched two years previously. The program In northern California, Flatiron is reconstructing and reaims to improve the environmental life cycle assessment inforcing the Calaveras Dam, which is part of a system of the company. An extensive checklist is used to surthat provides drinking water to some 2.5 million people vey its offices and construction sites about issues in five in the greater San Francisco area. The original 1925 categories: comfort and environmental quality, recyconstruction was deemed unsafe due to the danger of cling and waste disposal, water efficiency, energy and earthquakes in the region. As of 2001, it was only being indoor air quality as well as innovation and design. In used to 40 percent of capacity. In a project of this size, the reporting year, a total of 210 sites took part, and 91 the environmental effects and use of resources are as were certified Turner Green Zones for fulfilling the miniconsiderable as they are complex, so the protective mum requirements. The checklist is used to assess the meas­ures taken must be equally sophisticated. The status quo of the sites and provide ideas for future meas­ naturally occurring asbestos dust stirred up when many ures. Green Zone projects and sites are distinguished thousands of metric tons of earth are moved is a parby the fact that they reduce the influence of business ticular challenge. Here, the Flatiron team, including a 82 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Americas Division permanently employed expert industrial hygienist and Focus area 4: Attractive working environment an environmental biologist, is working with the California Award-winning employer Division of Occupational Safety and Health to develop The HOCHTIEF Americas subsidiaries have been standvarious innovative ideas for the protection of employees outs as highly attractive employers for years now, a fact and local residents. These are based on extensive reflected in how successfully they have placed in the cormonitoring: Air samples are taken and analyzed for every responding rankings. Among other awards, Flatiron was work process, and then serve as an ­early-warning sysagain named the top employer in Canada by the Great tem and source of data for developing preventive meas­ Place to Work Institute in the year under review, and ures. Among them are special air showers used by the jury that selected “Canada’s Top 100 Employers” workers at the end of the workday to rid themselves of ranked it as one the best companies for young workany remaining asbestos. Extremely high air pressure ers (see feature starting on page 28). and ultra fine filters in these special showers remove even the tiniest particles from clothing. At the same time, this Building construction specialist Turner was an attractive procedure conserves water and prevents the release and popular employer again in 2013, particularly for of water contaminated with the toxic substance. Flatiron women and minorities. For the fourth year in a row, more got the idea for the air showers from high-tech compathan 1.3 million people surveyed listed the HOCHTIEF nies that use them to prepare employees for work in clean subsidiary as one of the Top 50 Organizations for Multirooms—but this is their first and only use in the concultural Business Opportunities. Turner was also the struction industry to date. only construction company to make the “best” list compiled by Professional Woman’s Magazine. The publicaWater protection is the focus of Flatiron’s experts in a tion honored Turner’s long-term commitment to promotproject to expand an approximately 27-kilometer secing companies headed by women and minorities. tion of Interstate 405 near Seattle. The HOCHTIEF subsidiary is upgrading the road with features such as a Turner also enjoys an excellent reputation as an emsystem to filter pollutants from rainwater, including some ployer among university students: In 2013, the company 4.5 kilometers of compost-amended biofiltration swale. was voted one of the top 100 most popular employers Segment Reporting Flat­iron also took various steps to restore salmon habitat in the USA in the employer ranking published by Univerin Yarrow Creek adjacent to the project. sum Communications. Recruiting and training employees Turner maintains close contact with colleges and universities to facilitate the company’s hiring of young talent. Between 300 and 350 college graduates are recruited by Turner each year. Human resources staff visited around 150 colleges to promote the company in 2013. Turner’s YouthForce 2020 and ACE Mentor Program initiatives even go a step further to address younger students still in school. Sustainability Report 2013 83 Safety first: For the annual Safety Stand Down, Turner’s workers at all sites in the United States interrupt their activities for an hour to talk about occupational safety. Internships continue to be a popular way to start a career Participation in in-house continuing education opportuat Turner and Flatiron. Thanks to their excellent organinities is not the only activity the companies support. For zation in special programs and pairing with additional example, Flatiron employees who choose to pursue a initiatives—such as a video contest in which interns creuniversity degree alongside work can count on financial atively present their jobs within the company—the inhelp from their employer. The requirement is that the ternships offered by both companies are very effective course of study complement their current or future refor recruiting young talent. sponsibilities at Flatiron. Diversity is valued in recruitment, as in human resources Occupational safety and health management in general. The percentage of women Occupational safety is of the utmost importance to and minorities among newly recruited employees is a HOCHTIEF’s companies in the Americas, which are healthy 50 percent at Turner. considered exemplary in their fields in this regard. In addition, HOCHTIEF’s U.S. subsidiaries offer their Turner’s occupational safety program—dubbed “BuildSegment Reporting employees a wide range of development opportunities, ing L.I.F.E. (Living Injury Free Everyday)—lives up to its from a job rotation program for young engineers at name. A Safety Stand Down took place at all of the comFlatiron through various platforms for exchanging and pany’s construction sites in the United States for the managing ideas at Turner to numerous classes at the ninth consecutive year in 2013. In early September, fitin-house training facilities Turner University and Flatiron tingly on the first workday after Labor Day, 40,000 Turner Construction University. The range of seminars offered workers at the various sites interrupted their work for includes professional qualifications of various kinds a short time to collectively focus on safety. This time, the along with communication training and health classes. theme of the day devoted to safety was employee Depending on the topic, classes are presented either health and well-being, both at work and at home. in person, on the job, or via web and video seminars. 84 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Americas Division Class act: Founded in 1969, the Turner School of Construction Management offers women and minorities training courses on con­ struction and business-­ related topics. This support program is now being offered at more than 30 Turner sites in the USA. Numerous projects completed without an accident 347 employees took the company up on this offer. confirmed again in 2013 that Turner’s efforts to mainManagers at Flatiron subsequently used the anonymized tain the highest occupational safety standards are effecscreening results to update the company’s own health tive. In Noida in northern India, Turner is building the programs. DLF Mall of India, one of the country’s largest shopping centers. The company reported in the period under reFocus area 5: Corporate citizenship view that ten million man-hours of work have been comThe companies of the HOCHTIEF Americas division are pleted at this construction site since 2011—with zero also active in the social field wherever they do business. accidents. They support educational projects and champion the rights of minorities and the socially disadvantaged naAt the end of 2012, Flatiron introduced a new database tionwide. for documenting and consolidating occupational safetyrelated continuing education and training completed by For many years now, Turner has been an advocate of employees. This makes it easier to gain an overview of women and minorities in the USA. The company’s aim Segment Reporting the current training levels of staff, identify qualified is to provide support for the educational success of personnel throughout the company, monitor the expirathese groups, particularly in the construction industry. tion dates of certificates, and determine when additional Turner’s own School of Construction Management training sessions should be held. ­offers training to women and minorities on business and construction industry topics such as estimation, In the U.S. health system, it is important that employers procurement, logistics, financing, safety, and marketpromote and support medical care and preventive healthing. The widely acclaimed support program initiated in care for their employees. Flatiron is increasingly focus1969 now operates at more than 30 Turner sites. Since ing on prevention. The U.S. subsidiary of HOCHTIEF its founding, a total of 34,000 people in the USA have offers its employees and their partners a free, annual graduated from the School. biometric health screening that identifies potential risk factors, including weight, high cholesterol, and unhealthy blood sugar levels. In the year under review, Sustainability Report 2013 85 Prestigious award: The nized by Engineering News-Record magazine, which ­r ecipients of the 2013 Henry C. Turner Prize, which has named the El Rodeo Suspension Bridge completed recognized inventiveness, back in 2012 one of the “Global Best Projects 2013.” innovations, and leaders in the construction industry since 2002, included the SoTurner does not just receive prizes, it also awards them. ciety of Women Engineers. For instance, the Henry C. Turner Prize for Innovation in Construction has been conferred in cooperation with the National Building Museum since 2002. The prize honors inventiveness, innovations, and leaders in architecture, engineering, and construction. In November 2013, the award was presented to the Lean Construction Institute, which promotes efficient processes and Turner regularly finances scholarships and partners innovations in the industry. At the beginning of the year, with universities to help young engineers. In 2013, the Society of Women Engineers also received the 150,000 U.S. dollars was donated to the construction Henry C. Turner Prize. The now 22,000 member-strong engineering management program at Clarkson University organization has for more than 60 years worked to safein New York. The money benefits an interdisciplinary enguard the interests of girls and women in the sciences, vironmental research institute at the university focustechnology, construction, and mathematics. ing on public health, the protection and restoration of ecosystems, and quality of life. Employees of the companies regularly join forces to support social and non-profit projects and initiatives by The HOCHTIEF subsidiaries in the Americas—Flatiron, organizing donation drives and volunteering their time. Turner, and E.E. Cruz—together built three more footbridges in Nicaragua in the period under review in coIn Florida, Turner employees helped local organizations operation with the non-profit organization Bridges to to install picnic tables at various locations throughout www. Prosperity (B2P). Since the start of collaboration with the state, maintain green space, and re-paint soiled walls. Segment Reporting bridgestoprosperity.org B2P in 2009, the financial support and personal efforts During a four-day period, more than 50 volunteers from of more than 90 employees from these three compaTurner’s Philadelphia office provided assistance to the nies have contributed to building a total of ten bridges non-profit organization Habitat for Humanity by conCompleted: In 2013, Flatiron, Turner, and E.E. Cruz emover hazardous waterways. The structures substantially structing housing or modernizing several apartments ployees constructed three improve the lives of people in remote regions of South for the needy. In Benicia, California, Flatiron staff renofootbridges in Nicaragua. The partnership with Bridges and Central American countries. The bridges are truly vated a youth facility. to Prosperity began in 2009. an outstanding accomplishment, and one also recogCycling for cancer research: Turner employees taking part in a charity bike race in Charlotte, North Carolina, raised the equivalent of a good 2,300 euros by riding more than 900 kilometers in 24 hours. 86 Sustainability Report 2013 Joint effort: In Florida, Turner employees teamed up with local organizations to complete renovation and landscaping work in various locations throughout the state. Flatiron hosts an Annual Giving Campaign to harness Focus area 6: Compliance the generosity of the employees and give back to the In December 2012, HOCHTIEF’s U.S. company E.E. communities where the company works. Each DecemCruz completely revised its Code of Conduct and reber, employees across the company raise money and named it the E.E. Cruz & Company, Inc. Compliance volunteer for local charities. Each region selects local Policy. In January and February 2013, all employees recauses to support, and Flatiron matches all employee ceived two hours of training on the new and reworked donations to these charities and gives employees paid rules, including in-depth question-and-answer and distime off to volunteer. Just over 30,000 U.S. dollars was cussion sessions as well as practical behavior examraised through employee donations and matches ples. throughout the Flatiron regions during the 2013 Giving Campaign. In addition, numerous toy and food drives were also held for local charities, along with employees New home: Turner employees helped build and upgrade donating time to help serve food and make capital apartments for people in improvements at their local charities. need as part of volunteer Segment Reporting work in Philadelphia. Sustainability Report 2013 87 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division You can find out more about The HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific division comprises the Leighton Group of companies operating in Australia, Asia, and the company on the Internet the Middle East. As a leading provider of complex infrastructure projects, Leighton’s main focus in the field of susat www.leighton.com.au. tainability is on the conservation of resources and energy efficiency. The Leighton companies also excel in the field of occupational safety. Diversity is a cornerstone of the company’s success, which is why Leighton employs a wide variety of measures to promote in particular the progress of women and Indigenous Australians and employ local personnel. Focus area 1: Sustainable products and services Star scheme and 5 star NABERS energy rating schemes. The Leighton Group is developing a number of green The buildings will boast approximately 65,000 square buildings in accordance with various sustainability stand­ meters of state-of-the-art office space and space for ards in Australia and Asia. A number of green buildings shops, restaurants, and boutiques once they are comwere also completed during the course of the reporting pleted in 2015. period. The Leighton Properties project “567 Collins Street” in “177 Pacific Highway” is a 30-story office and commerMelbourne is also targeting a five-star GBCA rating in cial office property that Leighton Properties is develthe Design and As-Built categories as well as a five-star oping in a central location in North Sydney. The develNABERS energy rating. The building’s numerous susopment is aiming for five stars under the “Green Star” tainability features include a combined heat and power approval scheme for sustainable building promoted by system that will reduce the building’s annual CO2 emiswww.gbca.org.au the “Green Building Council of Australia” (GBCA) as sions to 40 kilograms per square meter and cut the www.nabers.com.au well as a five-star rating in the NABERS Energy catpeak energy requirement by 15 percent. Construction egory. Construction work is being managed by Leighwork is being managed by Leighton Contractors. ton Contractors. Right from the construction stage, the building site management places great emphasis on In Tasmania, too, Leighton's subsidiary John Holland resource conservation: A minimum of 80 percent of dehas been putting up eco-friendly buildings: The Institute molition and construction waste is recycled. Sustainable for Marine and Antarctic Studies in Hobart has been Segment Reporting features also include ultra-efficient ventilation and air registered for certification under the “Green Star” rating conditioning systems, rainwater recycling as well as the scheme. Completed in October 2013, the building deuse of low-emission construction materials and fittings. sign allows for intelligent shading and the use of natural Direct monitoring means end users and facilities manlight while the building fabric is used for temperature agement have access to current energy and water conregulation. Thermal solar energy minimizes heating costs. sumption data at all times. Once the building is completed John Holland also completed the three-story building in 2016, the buildig will become the international headfor the University of Tasmania two months ahead of quarters of the Leighton Group. Both Leighton Holdschedule. The Medical Science Precinct is another deings and Leighton Group companies will use around velopment for the University of Tasmania designed and three-quarters of the 40,000 square meters available. constructed to high sustainability stand­ards. Labora­ tories, lecture theatres, and technology centers are In Kings Square in Perth, a large urban development is housed in two buildings, all erected by John Holland. The in progress. The first stage includes four tower blocks GBCA awarded the more recent complex, completed up to 19 stories in height being developed by Leighton in May 2013, a five-star rating under its Green Star Properties. Construction work is being handled by scheme. Outstanding thermal insulation as well as Leighton Group companies. The buildings, which feature the use of sustainable construction materials are among efficient energy systems are also targeting five-star the impressive features. Toilets are flushed and the sustainability certification under the recognized Green outdoor areas watered with captured rainwater. 88 Sustainability Report 2013 Green core: The companies of the Leighton Group are planning and constructing several sustainably designed buildings around Kings Square in Perth (picture left). Ingenious: The Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies in Hobart, Tasmania, is impressive for its design as well as its many green features (picture right). The Zuellig Building in Makati, Philippines, completed were installed on site. This significantly reduced the by LAIO in early 2013 combines world-class design number of vehicle movements, thereby saving nearly with green technology. It is the first project in the Philip20 metric tons of CO2 emissions a month. pines seeking platinum LEED certification for its shell and facade. A glass-fiber facade with double-glazed There is also considerable potential for reducing the high-emissivity panes minimizes the ingress of heat, diesel consumption of the ships used in offshore oil and while 90 percent of the internal area is naturally lit. In gas operations, thus cutting their emissions. Research use, the building also draws on resource-saving techby Leighton Offshore has shown that regularly cleaning nology: Rainwater and condensation are collected and the hull of algae reduces fuel consumption by up to reused, cutting water consumption by 40 percent. three percent as a result of lower frictional resistance. Power consumption has also been reduced by 15.8 Optimizing the ships’ ballast and outriggers means up percent thanks to various high-efficiency systems. to five percent less diesel is needed, while reducing speed by three knots can result in a fuel saving of as Focus area 2: Active climate protection much as 23 percent. Segment Reporting Addressing climate protection from within The objectives of saving resources and reducing CO2 Leighton company John Holland has set up a companyemissions not only shape the projects it undertakes, but wide energy efficiency program covering around 90 perare also the driving force behind the Leighton Group’s cent of the power consumed in the course of business ongoing efforts to develop and implement cleantech operations—mainly in the form of diesel, unleaded gaso­ and sustainability strategies. line, electricity, and natural gas. In addition a number of energy-efficient projects were delivered. For example, in One of the Leighton Group’s areas of focus is optimizing the “Wheatstone Construction Village,” a project the fuel consumption and emissions released by its vehicles company has been working on since 2011. John Holland and equipment fleets, and reducing the amount of travel. asked external specialists to evaluate resource saving The Chenani-Nashri Tunnel Project in India, for example, opportunities. A total of 16 “Best Practice” savings and incorporated several different climate protection meas­ efficiency measures were identified and incorporated ures. Constructed by Leighton India, the tunnel is lointo the village homes. These included the installation cated in a remote region of the Himalayas. The large of state-of-the-art air conditioning, ventilation, and amounts of fresh water required and the waste water lighting systems as well as household appliances. The generated would have had to be transported several reduction in diesel consumption alone will result in lower hundred kilometers to and from the site by road. Instead, greenhouse gas emissions to the tune of more than a water treatment plant and a sewage treatment facility 55,000 metric tons. Sustainability Report 2013 89 Protecting nature and culture: The Hunter Expressway’s bridges run through the Hunter Valley, a site deserving of protection for many reasons. Thiess made every effort to address these concerns with a comprehensive environmental protection program during the planning and construction phases. Thiess requires each of its projects to develop an inteaims to supply 25 percent of its energy requirements grated waste management plan prior to the commencefrom renewable sources by 2020. ment of construction. This level of planning has delivered some significant results, with Thiess projects recycling Focus area 3: Resource protection or reusing in excess of 280,000 metric tons of waste The Leighton Group of companies is among the leadmaterial which would have otherwise been sent to ing providers of large-scale infrastructure projects in landfill. This equates to more than five times the weight the Australian Pacific region. The HOCHTIEF Group of the steel in the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Five of Thiess’ company is also the world’s largest contract miner. construction based projects achieved industry leading Both kinds of operation frequently leave an environperformance by recycling or reusing in excess of 90 permental footprint. Leighton has undertaken to ensure cent of all wastes generated on the project. construction projects are carried out in a way that is as environmentally sound as possible and, wherever posLeighton Contractors, meanwhile, is taking steps to sible, to restore the land to its original state once projraise staff awareness of climate protection and energy ects are completed. Segment Reporting consumption issues in their own offices and on building sites through special communications as well as by Waste management taking part in activities such as EarthHour, World EnviResource protection is relevant not just for projects but ronmental Day, and Green June. The company is also for corporate processes in general. Leighton subsidiary implementing cost-saving measures. John Holland, for example, has set up an integrated waste management scheme. This involves the companyExpanding sustainable energy infrastructure wide analysis of where, when, and why waste is proThe Leighton Group is involved in the expansion of duced, the objective being to identify the earliest pos­ energy infrastructure that will harness renewable forms sible opportunity for waste avoidance and to implement Reduce of energy. In Mongolia, the country’s first wind farm, the necessary measures at that point. The company is about 70 kilometers from the capital Ulaanbaataar, came guided in this by an inverted priority pyramid: Waste Sustainability into operation in June 2013. The subsidiary Leighton avoidance is the largest and most important component, Reuse Asia, India and Offshore (LAIO) had spent the previous then comes extending the useful life of materials, in two years erecting the Salkhit Wind Farm, which comthird place comes recycling, and in fourth position waste Recycle prises a total of 31 wind turbines. With a power output disposal (see figure on the left). Disposal of 50 megawatts, the plant will meet around five percent of Mongolia’s energy needs and reduce the counThe way the pyramid works in practice can be seen The waste management try’s CO2 emissions by 200,000 metric tons annually. from waste management arrangements at the Joondolup ­h ierarchy employed at John Mongolia has ambitious climate protection goals and Health Campus. When the hospital in Perth, Australia, Holland. 90 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division was refurbished, disposable cups were replaced with 10), confirming its credentials as a model of sustainreusable ones, for example, in order to reduce waste. ability. In addition, John Holland asked suppliers to use as little packaging material as possible, and gave precedence The Kempsey bypass built by Leighton Contractors was to prefabricated structural elements. Excavated earth the winner of the UN World Environment Day Award and surplus concrete were reused for on-site filling jobs. 2013, notably in recognition of the Leighton subsidiary’s On the recycling side, the company provided equipment environmental management. Among other things, the for waste separation, identified recyclable waste streams— company used earth excavated during the project to build plasterboard, vinyl, and PVC, for example—and installed noise barriers, and employed a reed-based system to the necessary recycling facilities. At the same time, filter waste water by natural means—not only easing systems were introduced for the proper disposal and the burden on the environment but also securing a savprocessing of mixed waste in communal areas. So ing of 137,000 Australian dollars. much waste was avoided, redeployed, or recycled on the first three levels of the pyramid that only one-tenth Water conservation and land rehabilitation had to be sent to waste disposal sites. In 2013, Thiess completed one of the most complex land rehabilitation projects in Australia, the Orica Botany Environmental measures on infrastructure Car Park Waste Encapsulation (CPWE) Project. The ­projects decontamination experts spent more than two-and-aThe Hunter Expressway in New South Wales was built half years cleaning and disposing of 93,000 metric tons by Thiess. Via numerous bridges, the new highway of contaminated earth and hazardous waste. A special passes through Hunter Valley, a well-known wine-growing mobile protective structure was set up over the site to area, which as well as hosting a diversity of flora and protect workers and the environment while work was in fauna is also home to culturally and historically imporprogress. CPWE is regarded as a model project and tant Aboriginal sites. Thiess has undertaken a whole has scooped two awards: the Australasian Land and range of measures here to protect the valley’s natural Groundwater Association Annual Clean Up Project and cultural riches. For example, the construction plans Excellence Award and the 2013 CARE Award for SusSegment Reporting were changed so as to preserve an important northtainable Technology and Innovation. south wildlife corridor as well as to avoid tree felling and the diversion of a local water source. During the A sustainable approach to mining projects construction process itself, too, Thiess went to great With many mining projects, rehabilitating the affected lengths to avoid encroaching on the environment. For areas is a key part of the service Thiess offers. When instance, cranes were used to fell trees with greater working on the Mount Owen coal mine, for example, precision and prevent destruction around the actual the Leighton subsidiary got involved in the “Ravensworth felling area. The result: The natural impact was five percent less than prescribed by the already very stringent Mobile shield: Thiess experts constructed a relocatable legal requirements. building to protect workers and residents during decontamination work at the CPWE On the City East Alliance Project in Perth, Leighton ConProject. tractors also employed a number of resource and environmental conservation methods, including taking action to save water and fuel as well as using 180,000 tons of recycled demolition waste and pavement materials. The project has been certified by the Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia (see feature starting on page Sustainability Report 2013 91 Welcome home: Thiess is the question items were above industry benchmarks. funding a study at the Mt. Owen coal mine to determine In particular, they had a strong belief in the goals of the whether and how the rare company and reported getting along well together. Also spotted tail quoll is returning to the renaturized mine above benchmark were responses about feeling pride site. in the company and the ability of teams to meet challenges they faced. Promoting diversity and local recruitment Diversity in the way Leighton recruits and employs local personnel, plays an important role in the Leighton Group’s corporate culture and HR work. Leighton companies have a number of special schemes and initiatives in State Forest Vegetation Complex Research Program” place to attract women and members of Indigenous run by the University of Newcastle. The aim of the longgroups (see feature starting on page 34). term study was to identify the optimum conditions for tree planting as part of rehabilitation projects, and the In the field of mining, where women are underreprebest way of looking after the trees in order for them to sented in the workforce, numerous programs have been thrive. Thiess played an active part in supplying data put in place: At the Martabe Gold Mine in Indonesia, for for the study and then integrated the scientific findings instance, as part of the “Women Greenhorn” program into its work processes. A subsequent study has been set up by LAIO, the first group of ten women has been going on at the mine since 2012, monitoring the return trained as drivers of the large dump trucks used on the of the rare spotted tail quoll to the rehabilitated area. mining projects. The training, which lasts 96 days, inBoth studies are seen as model projects extremely cludes theory lessons, numerous hours in the simulator, useful for future rehabilitation ventures. and practical driver training on the project. All the ­trainees come from communities close to the mine, and Disposal of waste and toxins also plays an important some had never driven a vehicle before. Two more Segment Reporting role in any sustainable approach to mining projects. groups have now embarked on the training program. Leighton Contractors, for example, relining a hydrocarbon storage area at the Challenger Underground Gold In all its mining projects, Leighton subsidiary Thiess Mine in South Australia. This was done by removing the has set up working groups for female employees to contaminated earth and taking it to a processing plant. meet and discuss new measures and ways of encourAll seals were also replaced and properly disposed of. aging women to take up jobs in the male-dominated industry. This includes targeted retention activities such Focus area 4: Attractive working environment as providing further training and development opportu2013 was the first time Leighton has undertaken a nities. Group-wide approach to employee engagement surveys, with LAIO, Thiess, John Holland Group and In 2012, Thiess set up its “Closing the Gap” scheme to Leighton Contractors having previously conducted emboost the proportion of Indigenous workers as well as ployee engagement surveys separately. Core content to increase cooperation with Indigenous subcontractors was 26 questions across six topics with five diversity and suppliers. Specific targets were set out in an action based demographic categories (i.e. gender, function, plan. For example, the proportion of Indigenous Ausethnic background, career responsibilities and flexible tralians in the workforce is to be increased to 2.5 perworking arrangements). The response rate of 71 percent cent by 2015. This minimum level was already attained was solid and employee responses across a number of in the year under review. In July 2013, Thiess received 92 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division Mobile simulator training: A program training Indigenous women to become truck drivers includes numerous hours in a truck simulator, pictured here at the Lake Vermont coal mine (picture left). Clever idea: In order to quickly identify job starters who are inexperienced in safety issues, Thiess issued blue helmets to interns working on mining projects (picture right). the “2013 Queensland Reconciliation Award” in recoggrate work safety aspects and measures into their daynition of its exceptional commitment to and its initiatives to-day work and processes. The Safety Essentials for Indigenous Australians. launched in 2010 were reviewed and the Safety Essentials Support Program was developed in mid-2013 to Various training, graduate, and career programs as well enhance the practical implementation of work safety. as close links with local educational institutions and uniFor this program, Leighton Contractors project managversities enable Leighton Group companies to identify, ers worked together intensively on developing new secure, and foster up-and-coming young talent. LAIO, methods and tools to enhance implementation of the for example, takes part in career days and fairs at unicompany’s safety stand­ards and boost their efficiency. versities and colleges in Hong Kong, and provides grants for engineering students in Mongolia and Indonesia. Successful work safety measures need not necessarily be expensive, as Leighton subsidiary Thiess demonWith a view to gaining insight into gender equity strated. They equipped some 120 trainees in their minacross the remunuration structure, a pilot project was ing projects with blue helmets during the reporting Segment Reporting launched in 2013 spanning the entire Leighton Group, period. That makes the trainees easy to distinguish with a more extensive review planned for 2014. from their more experienced colleagues so they can immediately be made aware of dangerous missteps— Occupational safety and health protection that’s efficient on-the-job training. The statistics show Occupational safety and health protection are more than that trainees, with their lack of routine and experience, just standard at Leighton. The Group’s subsidiaries proare at higher than average risk of accidents. vided a wealth of programs during the reporting period designed to create a safe and attractive workplace LAIO set up a training center at its Hong Kong location using selective measures. Key among these are trainin order to provide staff with the best possible teaching measures for employees in their areas of speciali­ ing in safety theory and practice. The center features zation. seminar rooms with advanced equipment as well as a training ground that simulates construction site condiThe Leighton Contractors SH&E Foundations Program tions. There employees practice the proper handling of initiated in July 2013 focuses on providing comprehenturning and moving machinery as well as safety awaresive work safety training primarily for managerial staff in ness when working at heights or on steep slopes. the operational units. Its goal is to enable them to inteSustainability Report 2013 93 Starting early: In the Thiesssponsored mobile nurseries provided by Greening Australia, students experienced environmental protection and animal welfare first-hand and planted thousands of trees, bushes, and shrubs. The work safety measures implemented so far have paid In the period under review, Thiess, in cooperation with w ww.greeningaustralia. off. Best-practice examples include the Davao Power the organization Greening Australia , sponsored org.au Plant project in the Philippines. In the construction of this ­mobile nurseries for over 1,000 students at eight elecoal-fired power plant, the LAIO team clocked a total of mentary schools throughout the country. The stuone million man-hours with no time lost due to accidents dents were given instruction in environmental and in 2013, which called for a celebration. wildlife protection and—partly with Thiess staff lending a hand—planted some 2,100 trees, bushes, and Focus area 5: Corporate citizenship shrubs which will be used in future rehabilitation projThe Leighton Group’s subsidiaries and associated comects. panies engage in many ways with the local people and communities in the areas where they complete projects. The Leighton companies and their workforce place Their engagement includes personal commitment as special emphasis on getting involved and supporting well as donations of money and equipment. They focus local organizations in the areas immediately surroundon education, the environment, health, arts and culing their long-term mining projects. Thiess, for examSegment Reporting tures, and the interests of disadvantaged youth and Inple, has long been active in the Bowen Basin in Queens­ digenous people (see feature starting on page 34). land, Australia, where its collaboration with the Mackay District Special School, a facility for children with physiLeighton Contractors has been supporting the Beacon cal or learning disabilities, was launched in the reportFoundation since 2007. The non-profit organization ing period. With the financial support of Thiess and its creates pathways to meaningful employment, further employees, the school bought the “Tobi-i” computer, education and training for disadvantaged high school whose mouse can be operated solely by eye movement. students. Leighton Contractors not only provides finanThat also lets children with limited physical abilities work cial support but also works with Beacon to raise stuon the computer and use the technology to express dents' motivation and awareness of carrier options, themselves. Another example of this commitment is the and connect them to employment and training pathcontribution to Guide Dogs Queensland, which raises ways within their organization. and trains seeing eye dogs to help the blind. Thiess employees at the Burton Coal Mine intend to work with subcontractors and suppliers to collect the equivalent of 94 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Asia Pacific Division 23,000 euros targeted in their drive. The first partial doCollected: Burton coal mine employees made donations nation was handed over to the non-profit organization to fund the training of a guide in 2013. dog—and were able to visit to see guide dog skills firsthand. As part of their community engagement efforts, the Leighton Asia, India and Offshore company in Puchong, Malaysia, organized a New Year’s event with a magic show, face-painting, and games for over 100 disadvantaged children. The local community center also received donations of money, computers, and books. Following heavy rainfalls and the collapse of a key canal dike, parts of the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, were The Leighton Board and management condemn any form flooded in January 2013. Leighton employees initiated of corrupt or fraudulent behavior. During the past two a donation drive on the spur of the moment. They colyears, the Leighton Group has worked hard to reset its lected food and necessities such as blankets, infant strategic direction. A major cultural and business transaccessories, water, and dried foods to ensure a rapid formation has been undertaken, including refreshing its response and relieve the victims’ most immediate needs. values of discipline, integrity, safety, and success. These strategic and cultural changes are enshrined in Leighton’s Focus area 6: Compliance strategy to “stabilize, rebase, and grow” the business. In October and November 2013, allegations centered They have further strengthened the Leighton Group and around the Leighton Group’s international business brought a new governance rigor for the benefit of all were made in the Australian media. The Leighton Group stakeholders. takes all allegations or suggestions of impropriety seriously. It is deeply concerned about inaccuracies in the reports and the sensational nature of the media reportSegment Reporting ing on the matter. The press articles concentrated on matters that are the subject of either an ongoing confidential investigation by the Australian Federal Police or litigation commenced by Leighton Holdings. Leighton is not aware of any new allegations or instances of any breach of Leighton’s ethics or Code of Business Conduct being raised by the articles. Sustainability Report 2013 95 HOCHTIEF Europe Division For further information on The HOCHTIEF Europe division comprises the operational entities and units of the controlling company HOCHTIEF the company, please go to Solutions AG. Through a wide range of projects, measures, and initiatives, they have helped to implement and further www.hochtief-solutions.com. develop the Group’s six focus areas of sustainability in their daily work. For instance, HOCHTIEF applies its know-how toward the expansion of a viable energy infrastructure, and its projects contribute to climate protection. Many ­examples in Europe and beyond demonstrate how HOCHTIEF assumes responsibility for the people we work for and with—both as an employer as well as in the form of donations and sponsorships. Focus area 1: Sustainable products and services project aims to receive the Gold quality seal from the www.dgnb.de The business portfolio of HOCHTIEF Solutions and its German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB). A subsidiaries in Europe comprises the planning and conHOCHTIEF employee trained as a DGNB auditor is struction of “green buildings” and the refurbishment of supporting the planning and implementation process, existing buildings in line with prevailing environmental providing guidance with regard to sustainability. A standards. ­geothermal power plant supplies most of the energy for heating and cooling. And the underground parking For instance, HOCHTIEF Solutions is constructing an ­g arage is designed to accommodate more than just office and laboratory building with a state-of-the-art motorized vehicles: 60 spaces are provided for bicycles. cooling system for a biotechnology company in Tübingen, Germany, a project scheduled to be completed in the In Leipzig, Germany, HOCHTIEF Solutions is constructing summer of 2014. A special energy concept was develthe TRIAS office and commercial building, scheduled oped for the project that sees consumption at nearly for completion in 2014, in accordance with the DGNB 30 percent below the targets of the Energy Saving silver standard. The project’s special energy concept is ­Ordinance. It employs geothermal power and district impressive: In the winter, the building fabric acts as an heating to ensure an environmentally friendly power energy reservoir that gives off heat. In turn, the cool supply, solar panels to produce energy, and concrete summer nights are used to control the temperature inHOCHTIEF is refurbishing and expanding the former core activation to heat and cool interior spaces. side throughout the day. A heat recovery system and corporate headquarters of a concept for the intelligent use of shade are in place to Segment Reporting “Der Spiegel” and IBM in Hamburg into new, state-ofHOCHTIEF Solutions is building a 15,500-square-meter reduce the primary energy requirement. the-art office sites as part of the “Hamburg Heights” green administration building for Düsseldorf Airport, development. slated for completion by the beginning of 2015. The In downtown Stuttgart, Germany, HOCHTIEF Projekt­ entwicklung is building a cutting-edge office, apartment, and business building called “Caleido.” In 2011, DGNB awarded the project with Silver precertification—a first of its kind for this type of building at the time. DGNB itself will move into the building in 2014. Climate control systems equipped with heat production units will be in place for the offices. Thermally activated concrete ceilings result in a highly efficient heating and cooling economy and ensure a comfortable indoor climate. In the reporting period, HOCHTIEF Solutions completed the refurbishment and expansion works at the Buch­ hügel vocational school center in Offenbach am Main, Germany. A new extension was built to the passive house standard, while the refurbished Theodor Heuss 96 Sustainability Report 2013 At the end of June 2013, HOCHTIEF returned the ArChic energy efficiency: The TRIAS office and commercial chives of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Duisbuilding being constructed burg to the client. The project included upgrading an by HOCHTIEF Solutions in Leipzig, Germany, is not only attic built in the 1930s and integrating a 70-meter-high an impressive sight, its archive tower. The storage space for hundreds of ­e nergy concept and low primary energy requirements ­thousands of documents, which are preserved in a are equally compelling very special indoor climate, are hidden behind both old ­( picture left). and new facades. To guarantee energy efficiency, the construction included multilayered stonework and insulation. The maxCologne office building in Cologne, Germany, School and the new gymnasium meet the low-energy for which HOCHTIEF was responsible for the planning building standard. This allows energy-efficient building and shell construction, received the Immobilienmanoperation and ensures low carbon emissions. ager Award in the “Existing Project Developments” category in February 2013. The jury praised the successSustainable refurbishment of existing buildings ful transformation of a self-contained office complex Another important segment in the industry is refurbishinto two independent office buildings featuring state-ofing and upgrading existing properties. This segment the-art architecture and boasting high sustainability centers around measures geared toward increasing standards. Furthermore, the HOCHTIEF project has reenergy efficiency—for example, improving insulation ceived Gold precertification from DGNB. or installing cutting-edge technical equipment—as well as adapting old structural fabric to meet new requireThe Emporio-Tower in Hamburg, Germany, also received ments and standards. Building materials that are hazan award. The 98-meter-high, listed building—formerly ardous to health are also removed from old buildings Unilever’s corporate headquarters—garnered LEED and replaced by harmless, eco-friendly materials. Platinum certification. HOCHTIEF Solutions was able to Segment Reporting preserve virtually the entire shell construction during One current example is the “Hamburg Heights” district the refurbishment project, which made dismantling undevelopment being built by HOCHTIEF Projektentwicknecessary and reduced both costs and energy conlung. The former headquarters of “Der Spiegel” magasumption. In addition, the team used building products zine and the software group IBM on what is known as and materials with high levels of recycled content as Spiegel-Insel (Spiegel Island) in Hamburg rank among well as low-emission materials. the architectural style icons of the 1960s. These listed office blocks are to be fully refurbished, with new buildThe Gruga Office Park project in Essen, Germany, which ings augmenting the development in the future. The was constructed by HOCHTIEF and is now the compaexisting buildings will be given completely new facade ny’s headquarters, received “BREEAM* DE in use” cer*BREEAM=Building Research Establishment Environmental elements as well as heating and air conditioning techtification in the reporting period—one of the first office Assesment Method nology in order to make them sustainable. Other elebuildings in Germany to do so. This new rating system ments, such as individual floor and wall coverings made for existing buildings is based on the quality seal develof natural stone, will be preserved. Construction got oped in the UK. underway in October 2013 with the gutting works. Sustainability Report 2013 97 “Carbon-neutral construction” tion to the specialized equipment in the HOCHTIEF fleet. HOCHTIEF Solutions has enhanced its portfolio in the This heavy-duty jack-up vessel is used for assembly sustainable construction sector by adding an additional and maintenance work on offshore wind farms, operatservice: For the first time, technical inspection agency ing in depths of up to 50 meters. Spanning around 140 TÜV Nord has awarded HOCHTIEF a certificate for the meters, the vessel is equipped with a 1,200-metric-ton “climate neutral building” of an office building in Berlin. crane and can handle a payload of 6,500 metric tons. The concept behind the quality seal is that the green Vidar’s 24,000-kilowatt propulsion system allows it to building experts at HOCHTIEF Solutions identify carbon travel at speeds of up to twelve knots. One of the most reduction measures for the construction phase, agree powerful and effective jack-up vessels in the offshore on them with the client, and then implement them. The market, it is particularly suited to large-scale, challengremaining residual emissions produced during the coning projects in the North and Baltic Seas. Vidar is curstruction of the building are then offset by the purchase rently in operation at the Global Tech I offshore wind farm, of certificates for recognized climate protection projects. where a total of 80 wind turbines are under developAs a result, the building—known as the “Zukunftshaus” ment. Once erected, these will theoretically be able to office building in Berlin—was officially recognized as a supply 445,000 homes with environment-friendly climate-neutral construction. Thanks to a comprehensive power. energy concept, this pilot project sets itself apart with an annual primary energy requirement of 70 kilowattSouth of Munich in Kirchstockach and Dürrnhaar, Gerhours per square meter, which is far below average. many, HOCHTIEF Solutions continues to operate two In March 2013, the building—designed and built by geothermal power plants as a partner of Süddeutsche HOCHTIEF—received Gold certification from DGNB. Geothermie-Projekte Gesellschaft (SGG). The plants harness energy from high-temperature thermal water Focus area 2: Active climate protection taken from depths of more than 3,600 meters. Each Expansion of a viable energy infrastructure plant can reach an electrical capacity of around 5.5 megaThrough its numerous projects and services, HOCHTIEF watts and supply 18,000 households. Over the long Solutions is participating in the expansion of a sustainterm, the plants are also intended to supply regeneraSegment Reporting Packs a punch: Vidar, HOCHTIEF’s latest jack-up able, renewables-based energy infrastructure. tive heat to the surrounding communities. Together vessel, is used for assembly and maintenance work on with its partner SGG, HOCHTIEF also handled the degiant offshore wind farms HOCHTIEF Solutions has been an established partner velopment of both projects. on the open sea. The crane can lift up to 1,200 metric to the offshore wind energy industry for many years. In tons. 2013, we put “Vidar” into operation, yet another addiLike wind power and geothermal heat, efficient hydroelectric power stations are also sources of “clean” ­e nergy. In the course of 2014, HOCHTIEF Solutions will complete the Cheves power plant in the Peruvian ­Andes. From then on, the facility will cover peak power demand for the Lima region. Work on the Alto Maipo hydroelectric power plant in Chile also began in 2013. As part of a consortium, HOCHTIEF is building a 530-­megawatt plant southeast of the capital, Santiago. The project is scheduled to be completed in 2017. In 2013, HOCHTIEF participated in an innovation project for small-scale biogas facilities. In cooperation with the University of Bonn, small-scale biogas facilities are HOCHTIEF Europe Division Grand scale: HOCHTIEF ­S olutions is building the Cheves power plant in the Peruvian Andes as part of a joint venture. It will primarily be used to meet the growing power needs of the booming capital, Lima, with clean energy. ­being developed using a standardized, certified conThis third HOCHTIEF project has a potential capacity struction method for rapid assembly on a small footprint. of up to 500 megawatts. Initial planning for a fourth The raw material used here is liquid manure, which—as project in the German state of Baden-Württemberg has opposed to corn, for example—is normally available free already begun. of charge. Because of the diversity and individual character of farm operations, HOCHTIEF is analyzing several Internal climate protection measures business models for entering into this tried-and-tested In 2013, the company again succeeded in protecting form of alternative energy generation. the climate and reducing carbon emissions by way of a number of different internal measures. At HOCHTIEF Segment Reporting In addition to alternative sources of energy generation, Corporate headquarters in Essen, various printed maa sustainable, renewables-based infrastructure also reterials are produced, giving rise to CO2 equivalents. quires new storage options in order to close supply gaps, These are offset by investments in compensatory meas­ guarantee network stability, and store the renewablesures—for example, certified climate protection projects— based energy, which cannot always be supplied in step arranged through the emissions trading agency First with demand. Pumped storage power plants present Climate. Among products rendered carbon-neutral in a suitable, proven solution for this. As a developer of this way were the HOCHTIEF annual, quarterly, and complex infrastructure projects, HOCHTIEF Solutions sustainability reports published in 2013, the HOCHTIEF began work on a number of additional projects in the services brochure, and the various editions of the period under review. The company has identified a HOCHTIEF employee and client magazines. In terms of suitable location in the German town of Lügde in the printed matter, the equivalent of some 110 metric tons district of Lippe. Construction could begin in 2016 once of CO2 were offset in the period under review. Business the regional planning process has been completed and trips by rail in Germany are always carbon neutral beofficial planning permission granted. The 320-megacause HOCHTIEF is a large customer of the German watt plant could then potentially start operation in 2020. rail service, Deutsche Bahn. All offsetting payments go Plans for a pumped storage power plant are also underto wind power projects in Turkey and India. way in the Kyffhäuserkreis, a district in the northern part of Thuringia, Germany. Construction could begin near In addition, the company car policy in Germany was Sondershausen in 2017, with operations starting in 2021. modified in the reporting year and now a maximum carSustainability Report 2013 99 Success right down the line: than two million liters of drinking water per week. NatuThe enormous Thames Tunnel infrastructure project in rally, we ascertained and ensured in advance that reLondon is a crowning moving groundwater for tunneling and all associated achievement—also environmentally. The joint venture processes represented no risk to the public water supteam received the Green ply. In a ­ ddition, the water quality and the groundwater Line Award from the client, Crossrail, for its 360-degree table level are being constantly monitored. environmental approach. In the reporting year, the client, Crossrail, honored the joint venture team’s environmental engagement with a Green Line award. HOCHTIEF and its partner were rewarded in part for their holistic approach when it came to allowing for environmental aspects in the project’s bon dioxide parameter is specified for each group and early planning and design phases. The award also recmay not be exceeded when a new order is placed for a ognized individual environmentally friendly solutions— vehicle. such as the installation of diesel particle filters for the construction plant and equipment, the acquisition of In 2013, we began to make changes in the printer landhybrid-drive hoisting platforms, and the recycling proscape at our German HOCHTIEF facilities. Both print gram for construction waste. costs and carbon emissions will be reduced considerably by applying the latest technology and reducing the In the German states of Bavaria and Baden-Württemnumber of devices. berg, HOCHTIEF Solutions and a partner were awarded a contract in 2011 to plan, finance, and extend an Focus area 3: Resource protection approximately 58-kilometer section of the German inMost of HOCHTIEF’s business activities, such as conterstate highway 8 (A8) between Ulm and Augsburg, structing buildings, bridges, tunnels, or roads, involve and to operate and maintain it for 30 years. An enviinterventions in the environment and the consumption ronmental strategy was created for the entire construcSegment Reporting of resources. We attach great importance to keeping tion project that included all of the rules and requisite these to a minimum, and our measures for doing so environmental protection measures defined by the client are just as diverse as our projects. during the official planning permission process. The strategy has been put into practice on site every day. It Since 2011, HOCHTIEF Solutions has been the lead encompasses, for example, special construction time company in a joint venture to build the Thames Tunnel regulations to protect bats and breeding birds as well in London. This large-scale infrastructure project involves as the protection of neighboring biotopes or the buildconstructing two tunnels beneath the Thames River in ing of green bridges to allow animals to cross. There are the southeast of the British capital with a total length of strict rules governing all plants and trees/shrubs to be around six kilometers. Environmentally, the water planted by the joint venture during the project. For inmanagement concept of this project is what sets it apart. stance, the species must be indigenous, regional, and The joint venture partners were able to substantially local. All reusable materials from the existing highway ­reduce the amount of fresh water that needed to be dating from the 1930s, such as concrete, asphalt, or used during the construction work—for example, by gravel, will be processed and reused in the current confeeding in surplus groundwater to other steps in the prostruction work. A qualified environmental construction cess, such as the production of bentonite suspensions consultant has been part of the team since planning and mortar or excavated materials liquefaction. Taken began. His job is to monitor and support implementatogether, these measures resulted in savings of more tion of the stipulated measures. 100 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Europe Division Another example of resource conservation in road conIt pays to think: HOCHTIEF awards the best ideas from struction is highway A1/A6 in the Netherlands, which is our ranks at an annual conto be built under a public-private partnership. The project ference—and the employees receive prize money. requires around four million cubic meters of sand. The HOCHTIEF consortium will be using hydraulic flushing to transport the sand to the construction site rather than trucks—a strategy that will save approximately 225,000 truck transports and therefore a large quantity of fuel. Moreover, this will reduce traffic on the highway and the downstream transport network. Focus area 4: Attractive working environment Employee participation and involvement Restructuring HOCHTIEF Solutions AG HOCHTIEF employees at all locations in Germany and In fiscal 2013, the foundation was laid to reorganize Europe have the right to elect their own representatives HOCHTIEF Solutions AG. With a focus on stronger ento safeguard their interests. Management expressly trepreneurial thinking, well-defined responsibilities, imsupports the right of employees to union membership. proved resource distribution, and leaner structures, the Ninety-six percent of the workforce in Germany is repnew organization also has an impact on human reresented by the Works Council. Employee representasources planning and management. Here, we attach tives also sit on HOCHTIEF’s Supervisory Board. In units utmost importance to preparing our employees for that have an Occupational Health and Safety Commitchange in the best possible way and supporting them tee, employee representatives regularly take part in its when they take on new or different roles. meetings. In order to operate successfully in the European market In 1996 and thus before the legal requirement for this in the future, staff adjustments are inevitable. We are came into force, HOCHTIEF concluded a voluntary committed to avoiding employment termination for comSegment Reporting agreement covering the Group companies within the pelling business reasons wherever possible as well as European Union on the provision of information to and to achieving the necessary reduction in our workforce consultation with employee representatives. The curthrough individual, mutual agreements. The Executive rently eleven out of a possible 16 European Works Board of HOCHTIEF Solutions, the codetermination bodies Councils from ten countries are usually notified twice a of HOCHTIEF, and the trade union IG BAU have agreed on year by Group management on cross-border matters. an action plan so that socially responsible solutions can The European Works Council represents all the employbe found for the employees affected by the upcoming ees of HOCHTIEF and its majority holdings in EU counrestructuring. A collective agreement was signed in Octotries. ber 2013. Among other things, the action plan provides for partial retirement regulations, the creation of an emAnother way in which HOCHTIEF is encouraging its ployment agency, and severance pay regulations. workforce to get involved in the development of the company is Ideas Management, which handles sugPersonnel development and training gestions for improvement made by our employees. In Lifelong learning is considered vitally important at Germany, the central tool for this is the Ideas Room, HOCHTIEF. Continuing education is one of the three where a total of 461 ideas were published by employees pillars of our staff development concept alongside talent in the reporting year. The ten best suggestions are advancement and annual structured employee interawarded prizes at an annual conference. views. In Germany, continuing education activities are consolidated in our HOCHTIEF Academy. The 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 101 Head for heights: This is Occupational safety and health something HOCHTIEF offshore workers involved in HOCHTIEF consistently pursues ways to protect the the assembly of wind farms health of its workforce and continuously expands its at sea definitely need. Our own homegrown training safety management—going beyond statutory obligations program prepares them for and requirements. New standard Europe-wide instrucall other challenges and ­p otential dangers—such as tions regarding the key points of safety management rappelling. applying to HOCHTIEF Solutions are added on the basis of the HOCHTIEF HSE Policy Statement. These include risk identification as well as preventative measures for risk avoidance and mitigation, workplace inspections, incident notification and reporting as well as preparedness for emergencies. The new instructions are scheduled program comprised more than 160 seminars on topics to be introduced in 2014. in the areas of entrepreneurial thinking, interaction, soft skills, and specialist training. In the reporting year, the HOCHTIEF Safe Solutions initiative was launched with the aim of fostering a safety culture To improve on work-life balance, HOCHTIEF expanded within the company and, in particular, raising awareness of its partnership with B.U.K. to include all of Germany in safety among managerial staff. Most of all, this targets the reporting year. The cooperation involves assisting ­managerial staff at HOCHTIEF Solutions, who are encour­ our staff in the search for the appropriate form of childaged to take an active and responsible role in advancing care as well as options to help care for family members. occupational safety and health. Accolades as an attractive employer A multi-day seminar held by Berufsgenossenschaft BAU, In the reporting period, a number of independent, the employers’ mutual indemnity association for the con­ benchmark comparisons confirmed that job seekers struction industry, for instance, is also geared to raising consider HOCHTIEF to be an attractive employer. In awareness of safety among managerial staff. In spring 2013, Segment Reporting Germany, we were once again named one of the top a total of 18 managers from the Engineering department at employers among budding engineers in a ranking by HOCHTIEF Solutions completed the seminar and received consultancy firm “Universum Communications.” The the industry-recognized Safety Certificate Contractors “Preferred Employers 2013” benchmark by the “forum (SCC) certificate. Subjects taught at the seminar included Nachhaltig Wirtschaften” magazine in cooperation with legal requirements, hazard assessment, operational organithe Internet platform “CSR Jobs” shows the increasing zation, the causes and avoidance of accidents, and emerrole that sustainability aspects play in how employers gency measures. are ranked. HOCHTIEF was listed as one of the top 20 German employers. This benchmark assessed the HOCHTIEF Solutions also attaches particular impor­participating companies in terms of values and culture, tance to training its workforce in the safety issues as­diversity, work-life balance, staff development measures, sociated with their specific work environments. This social responsibility and employee engagement as well applies to staff such as HOCHTIEF offshore workers— as resource conservation and the environment. those employees who work on our jack-up vessels 102 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Europe Division Because every minute counts: To ensure that the response to an accident on the open seas can be handled quickly and properly, an exercise took place on the HOCHTIEF jack-up vessel Thor to simulate the emergency rescue of an injured offshore worker, including helicopter transport ­( picture left). 100 million: The number of working hours accumulated on the huge Barwa Commercial Avenue construction site in Qatar—without a single and, for example, install wind turbines. The special In 2013, HOCHTIEF Solutions completed the Barwa Comserious accident. That is training in these cases comprises open water survival mercial Avenue, an 8.6-kilometer business and shopworthy of an award (picture right). training, helicopter emergency training, firefighting and ping mile in Qatar’s capital Doha. This major site is confirst aid courses, work at height as well as rappelling sidered exemplary in terms of occupational safety. training. HOCHTIEF’s internally developed emergency Over the course of well over 100 million man-hours and rescue concept was tested for the first time at the worked at the site, only nine accidents occurred, from Global Tech I offshore wind farm in the North Sea in which all victims quickly recovered. September 2013. The rescue exercise took place under real-life conditions and included administering profesHOCHTIEF promotes a number of initiatives to actively sional first aid to a victim, deploying a team of emerfoster employee health, for example, through the “Bike gency doctors, setting up internal crisis management to Work” campaign in which the company participated teams, and communicating with external responders. once again in 2013. From the beginning of June to the Over 80 people were involved in the elaborately planned end of August, 81 employees hopped on their bikes to and implemented exercise, the result of which substanride a total of some 36,700 kilometers individually or in Segment Reporting tiated the concept. teams. HOCHTIEF Solutions also follows award-winning occuHOCHTIEF continued to offer comprehensive health pational safety practices in its civil engineering projects, check-ups in 2013, which employees were able to of which the C310 rail tunnel project in London is an make use of on a voluntary basis. The examinations foexample. This project is a joint venture that involves concused, for example, on pulmonary function or hearing. structing two tunnels beneath the Thames River with a total length of around six kilometers. In the reporting period, the client, Crossrail, honored our team for occupational safety with the Target Zero Foundation Award. Scoring the highest number of points in the perform­ ance evaluation category, the team came out top of all Crossrail’s contractors. Sustainability Report 2013 103 Building bridges: That’s what HOCHTIEF accomplishes together with Bridges to Prosperity. In 2013, ten HOCHTIEF employees built another footbridge in ­Rwanda, providing the residents in an isolated region with better access to educational, trade, and healthcare facilities. Focus area 5: Corporate citizenship The goal of the “Joblinge” initiative is to give disadvanHOCHTIEF’s corporate citizenship activities in Europe taged young people a chance at better career opportuprimarily center around support and educational projnities through individual tutoring, continuing education, ects for young people. Company employees are also and qualification. HOCHTIEF Solutions is supporting jointly involved in social projects as volunteers. the initiative from 2013 to 2015 by financing three scholarships with an annual EUR 15,000 donation. HOCHTIEF has sponsored the “Forum Young Migrant Talents” in Hamburg, Germany, since 2010. The initiaFrom Europe, HOCHTIEF also supports the non-profit www. tive aims to improve the career opportunities of young organization Bridges to Prosperity (B2P) . After the bridgestoprosperity.org people from migrant backgrounds through education. 2012 pilot project, another footbridge was erected in Our 2013 donation helped the organization expand its Rwanda in the reporting year—a 68-meter hanging activities, which include support for school students, bridge over the Bokakwe River in the Kamonyi region. and gradually add a further 80 students to the program. Thanks to the financial support from HOCHTIEF and the efforts of a ten-strong team of HOCHTIEF employSegment Reporting The partnership between HOCHTIEF and German ees, around 300 people in this isolated area now have a www.jugendcharitable organization JAS , the German youth arsafe way to cross what is an especially raging river in the architektur-stadt.de chitecture and town planning organization, represents rainy season and thus have better access to educational, another long-term commitment that has existed since trade, and healthcare facilities. 2009. The organization works to further the education of children and young people in the built environment, In large-scale infrastructure projects, it is especially imencouraging them to use all their senses to explore the portant to involve neighboring communities in the projenvironment around them as well as help shape it. In ect and keep them informed. In the case of the “Queensthe reporting period, summer academy participants set ferry Crossing” bridge project in Scotland, one of the out as “Garden Pirates” to landscape and beautify longest cable-stayed bridges in the world, local residents public areas in the Ruhr region metropolis of Essen. are approached directly by the joint venture of which 104 Sustainability Report 2013 HOCHTIEF Europe Division Helping hands: HOCHTIEF employees are volunteering—and receiving financial support from their employer. This is how the Villa Kunterbunt daycare center in ­Dins­laken, Germany, received its “Färberhütte” cabin that will be used to bring sustainability to life (picture left). In Essen, HOCHTIEF employees renovated the exterior of the “youth farm” (picture right). HOCHTIEF Solutions is a part. A specially formed Comcluding the woodshed, swing set, and monkey bars. munity Liaison team speaks with private households, Twenty-nine employees from HOCHTIEF Projektent­local businesses, politicians, schools, and kindergartens wicklung traded their computers for paintbrushes to to keep them in the loop with regard to their specific spend a day putting a fresh coat on the rooms of the ­interests as well as to learn more about the community’s Riedhof School in Frankfurt. This was part of “Social Day,” needs and take these into consideration. Other activities staged every year for Frankfurt businesses by the include a drawing contest for children, inviting neighbors ­Malteser Hilfsdienst relief organization. HOCHTIEF welto view the site, and providing an information center that comes its employees’ volunteer work and provides allows people to learn more about the project. (For more ­financial support: When during the reporting period on the Queensferry Crossing project, see the feature employees from the Corporate Development departstarting on page 22.) ment renovated the exterior of the “youth farm” for the ­Jugend­hilfe Essen organization, for instance, HOCHTIEF Time and again, HOCHTIEF employees come together paid for the materials needed to paint the park benchfor a good cause. For example, a team from HOCHTIEF es and add wooden figures to the interactive stations in Segment Reporting Construction Austria volunteered to build a wheelchairthe children’s area. accessible garden path for a home for the disabled in the northeastern Austrian town of Raxendorf. Employees Focus area 6: Compliance from HOCHTIEF Property Management spent their See the interview with Essimari Kairisto, Chief Financial Just the job: HOCHTIEF has sponsored the “Forum Young summer festival renovating and beautifying the playOfficer (CFO) of HOCHTIEF Solutions, starting on page 40. Migrant Talents” in Hamground of a children’s daycare center in the town of burg, Germany, since 2010, helping young people from Bad Freienwalde in Brandenburg, Germany. A storm had migrant backgrounds get a caused heavy damage to some of the installations inhead start in their careers. Sustainability Report 2013 105 HOCHTIEF expands ­horizons … My destination 106 Sustainability Report 2013 Our connection … for instance, through state-of-the-art transportation infrastructure projects that connect people—like the West Kowloon Terminus. HOCHTIEF’s Group company Information on this Report Leighton Asia is building a section of the new main railway station in Hong Kong as part of a joint venture. Sustainability Report 2013 107 Report on the Independent Audit Independent assurance report processes relevant for the preparation of the sustainThe review performed by PwC relates exclusively to the ability report. German print version of the CR Report. The following text is a translation of the original German Report on Practitioner’s Responsibility the Independent Audit. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work performed as to whether anything has come to To HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft, Essen our attention that causes us to believe that the informaWe have been engaged to perform a limited assurance tion in the chapter “Sustainability at HOCHTIEF” in the engagement on the qualitative and quantitative inforsustainability report of the Company for the business mation, which describe facts, assumptions, conclusions year from January 1 to December 31, 2013 has not been or intentions and which have not already been audited prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with in the context of the assurance engagement of the the above mentioned criteria of the Sustainability Reportcompetent auditor, within the chapter “Sustainability ing Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI. The at HOCHTIEF” prepared by HOCHTIEF AktiengesellGroup’s total operating performance as well as the key schaft (hereinafter: the Company) for the sustainability performance indicators displayed on pp. 47 to 49 and report of the business year from January 1 to Decemthe list of subsidiaries and associates in the HOCHTIEF ber 31, 2013. Group on page 48 of the chapter “Sustainability at HOCHTIEF” of the sustainability report for the business Management’s Responsibility year from January 1 to December 31, 2013 are not in The Company’s Executive Board is responsible for the scope of our engagement because this information has proper preparation of the report in accordance with the already been audited in the context of the assurance criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines engagement by the competent auditor. Likewise, referVol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) of the Global Reporting Initiative ences to other chapters and the annual report as well as (GRI): the assurance of data referred to from within the sustainability report are not in scope of our engagement. • Materiality, Beyond that, we have been engaged to make recom• Stakeholder Inclusiveness, mendations for the further development of sustainability • Sustainability Context, management and the sustainability reporting based • Completeness, on the conclusions of our assurance engagement. • Balance, • Clarity, We conducted our work in accordance with the Inter• Accuracy, national Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) • Timeliness, 3000. This Standard requires that we comply with ethi• Comparability and cal requirements and plan and perform the assurance • Reliability. engagement so as to express our conclusion with limited assurance. This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the report and In a limited assurance engagement, the evidence-gathInformation on this Report the use of assumptions and estimates for individual ering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the assurance engagement (for example, an audit of financircumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes cial statements in accordance with § (Article) 317 HGB designing, implementing and maintaining systems and (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”), and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a rea108 Sustainability Report 2013 sonable assurance engagement. The procedures seConclusion lected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe The procedures we followed in the scope of our work that the information in the chapter “Sustainability at included: HOCHTIEF” in the sustainability report of the Company for the business year from January 1 to December 31, • Inquiries of personnel of the department “Corporate 2013 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in Responsibility” and relevant departments who are reaccordance with the above mentioned criteria of the sponsible for the preparation of the sustainability reSustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.1 (pp. 7 to 17) port. The focus of the interviews was on the process of the GRI. of preparing the sustainability report and the underlying internal control system; Supplementary information—Recommendations Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the •R  ecording of the procedures and inspection of the following recommendations for the further development systems and processes for the collection, analysis of the Company’s sustainability management and susand aggregation of sustainability data as well as rantainability reporting: dom testing thereof on a sample basis; • Linking of the CR Program with key performance indi•A  nalytical assessment and interviews of employees cators and communicating them to the stakeholders; regarding selected data within the subsections of the chapter “Sustainability at HOCHTIEF” on the basis of • Continuing a stronger embedding of the CR managedocuments that we have been provided with on Group ment as well as a more detailed documentation of the level as well as selected sites: respective information flows on the level of the Americas and Asia Pacific divisions; • The Company • Sustainability Strategy • Further development and standardization of the pro• Compliance cesses underlying the compilation and controlling of • Risk Management the sustainability data in order to enhance data quality • IT and Data Protection and increase coverage especially in non-European • Employees locations. • Occupational Safety and Health • Environmental and Climate Protection Berlin, February 13, 2014 • Research and Development • Procurement PricewaterhouseCoopers • Donations and Sponsorship Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Information on this Report Michael Werner ppa. Juliane von Clausbruch Sustainability Report 2013 109 Information on this Sustainability Report Reporting period and frequency of reporting Forward-looking statements In this Sustainability Report, we have opted to present a This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking staterelatively brief synopsis of the relevant topics. Supplements ments. These statements reflect the current views, exas well as further information is available on our Internet pectations, and assumptions of the Executive Board of platform at www.hochtief.com/sustainability. The reHOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft regarding future events and port covers the period between January 1 and December developments relating to HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft or 31, 2013 and follows on from the HOCHTIEF Sustainability the HOCHTIEF Group and are based on information curReport published in Feburary 2013. Deviating reporting rently available to the Executive Board of HOCHTIEF Aktien­ periods for key figures are stated separately. The next Susgesellschaft. Such statements involve risks and uncertaintainability Report will be published in February 2015. ties and do not guarantee that future results (such as profit before tax or consolidated net profit) or developments (such Report content and scope as with regard to possible future divestments, general busiThe content of this report has been developed on the basis ness activities, or business strategy) will transpire. Actual of internal processes. The relevant information was either results (such as profit before tax or consolidated net profit), requested from the operational units of the Group or origidividends and other developments (such as with regard to nated from official HOCHTIEF documents. The report conpossible future divestments, general business activities, or tent has been checked by the staff in charge of the individ­ business strategy) relating to HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft ual issues. and the HOCHTIEF Group may therefore differ materially from the expectations and assumptions described explicitly Certain companies in HOCHTIEF’s international business or implicitly in such statements due to, among other things, portfolio have management systems of their own. This changes in the general economic, sectoral, and competitive precludes compiling standardized data for the entire Group. environment, capital market developments, currency exWe indicate any limits of coverage in this report wherever change rate fluctuations, changes in international and na­ they apply. tional laws and regulations, in particular with respect to tax laws and regulations, the conduct of other shareholders as The goals described in this Sustainability Report are based well as other factors. Any information provided on dividends on the assumption that the HOCHTIEF Group will continue is additionally subject to the recognition of a corresponding to operate in its current form. unappropriated net profit in the published separate financial statements of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft for the fiscal Disclaimer year concerned and the adoption by the competent deci­ While the data contained in this report has been collected sion-making bodies of HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft of and processed with the greatest possible care, transcription appropriate resolutions taking into account the prevailing errors cannot be fully excluded. situation of the Company. Aside from statutory publication obligations, HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft does not assume Previous reports any obligation to update the forward-looking statements An archive of previously published reports is available contained in this Sustainability Report. online at www.hochtief.com/sustainability-reports. Information on this Report 110 Sustainability Report 2013 Implementation of GRI External Assurance International Reporting Standards Principles of the UN Global Compact HOCHTIEF joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2008. We are consequently actively committed to supporting the Global Compact’s ten principles and to advancing them within the Group. We are committed to the respect of human rights, labor standards, and environment protection standards and participate in the fight against corruption. This Sustainability Report 2013 also serves as our report on progress in implementing the UN Global Compact. HOCHTIEF publishes its 2013 Sustainability Report as required annual Communication of Progress also on the Global Compact website, www.unglobalcompact.org. Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative The HOCHTIEF Sustainability Report 2013 adheres to the Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the 3.1/CRE final version of the GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRE). Conformity of the information provided with the requirement profiles has been checked by GRI and the report classified as Application Level A+. For the summary GRI index, please see the back flap on pages 112–116. Information on this Report Sustainability Report 2013 111 Index Based on GRI G3.1 Guidelines Profile Page 1 Vision and Strategy 1.1 Foreword by the CEO 6–7 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6–7 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 117 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 3–4, 46, CP 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 48 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 117 2.5 Countries where the organization operates 48 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 49 2.7 Markets served 3–4, 46, 48–49 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 47–49 2.9 Significant changes regarding structure or ownership AR 21–25 2.10 Awards in the reporting period 53, 63, 80–86, 88 et seq., 96 et seqq., 100, 102 3 Report Parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 110 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 110 3.3 Reporting cycle 110 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 117 Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 50–51, 110 3.6 Boundary of the report 110 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report 110 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 110 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 49, 53, 59, 67, 69, 70–71, 77 3.10 Explanation of any re-statement of information provided in earlier reports 53, 59 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 6–7, 110 3.12 GRI content index – Tabular overview with page numbers 112–116 3.13 Assurance – External assurance for the report 108–109, 111 4  overnance, Commitments, and Engagement G Corporate governance 4.1 Corporate governance, including responsibility for sustainability 40–43, 51, 57, AR 91–97, CG 4.2 Independence of Supervisory Board AR 91–97, CG 4.3 Control body or independent members of the highest ­governance body CG 4.4 Shareholder and employee recommendations to the Executive Board 49, 50 et seq., 63, 101 4.5 Linkage between Executive Board compensation and ­sustainability performance AR 91–97 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest 57–59, CoC 4.7 Executive Board members’ expertise on sustainability 51 4.8 Mission statement, codes of conduct, and corporate values 46–47, 50, 57–59, 62–63, 66, 68, 74–77 4.9 Executive Board and Supervisory Board-level processes for overseeing the organization’s risks and opportunities regarding sustainability 51, 60, HT 4.10 Processes for evaluating Executive Board performance 47, 102, AR 91–97 Information on this Report not reported ◗ partially reported ● fully reported CoC: Code of Conduct, AR: Annual Report 2013, CP: www.hochtief.com/clientportal, CG: www.hochtief.com/corporate-governance, HT: www.hochtief.com/riskmanagement, CDP: www.hochtief.com/sustainability – ­S ection: Active climate protection 112 Sustainability Report 2013 Profile Page Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Consideration of the precautionary approach 60, 68–69, 90 et seq., 100 et seq., HT 4.12 Participation in external initiatives 50, 52 et seq., 57, 66, 72, 111 4.13 Memberships 11, 52, 57, 72, 81, 93, 111 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 50–51 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 50 4.16 Stakeholder engagement 12–13, 15, 21, 27, 33, 35, 39, 49, 50–52, 63, 77, 83, 101–103 4.17 Consideration of stakeholders’ interests 47, 50–52 Management Approach and Performance Indicators 5 Economic Indicators Disclosure on management approach 46–49 Aspect: Economic performance EC1 ● Direct economic value generated and distributed 47 et seqq. EC2 ● Financial implications of climate change See CDP questionnaire on HOCHTIEF corporate website. CDP EC3 ● Organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 64, AR 161 EC4 ◗ Financial assistance received from the government We do not report on financial assistance received from government other than subsidies for innovation projects. Not reported on grounds of confidentiality. 72 Aspect: Market presence EC5 ● Ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local miniThe lowest negotiated pay rate for our own mum wage skilled employees in Germany is above the prevailing minimum wage. 63 EC6 ● Policy, practices, and spending on local suppliers 35 et seqq., 92 et seq. EC7 ● Procedures for local hiring 35 et seqq., 85, 92 et seq. Aspect: Indirect economic impacts EC8 ● Infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 22 et seqq., 100 et seq. EC9 ● Type and scope of significant indirect economic impacts 16 et seqq., 80–105 6 Environment Disclosure on management approach 68–71, 72–73, 74–75 Aspect: Materials EN1 ● Weight/volume of the materials used 75 EN2 ● Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 12, 90 et seq. Aspect: Energy EN3 ● Direct energy consumption 70–71 EN4 ● Indirect energy consumption 70–73 CRE1 ● Building energy intensity (buildings in use only) 16 et seqq., 81, 88 EN5 ● Energy saved See CDP questionnaire on HOCHTIEF corporate website. CDP EN6 ● Initiatives to provide products/services with a higher energy efficiency 54, 72 et seq. EN7 ● Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 16 et seqq., 72–73, 82 Aspect: Water EN8 ● Total water withdrawal 70 EN9 ● Sources affected by water withdrawal 70 EN10 ● Percentage of water recycled and reused 70, 83, 100 CRE2 ● Water intensity (buildings in use only) 16 et seqq., 82 Information on this Report Sustainability Report 2013 113 Profile Page Aspect: Biodiversity EN11  Land used in protected and high-biodiversity areas Current HOCHTIEF systems do not measure affected land by location and size. A procedure to start measuring this data will be developed in the future. EN12 ● Significant impacts on biodiversity 55, 70, 83, 92, 100 et seq. EN13 ● Habitats protected or restored 12, 83, 92, 100 et seq. EN14 ● Management of impacts on biodiversity 15, 70, 83, 92, 100 et seq. EN15  Number of affected species on the IUCN Red List and other lists Current HOCHTIEF systems do not measure the precise number of affected species. A procedure to start measuring this data will be developed in the future. Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 ● Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 70–71 EN17 ● Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 70–71 CRE3 ● CO2 intensity from building energy (buildings in use only) 16 et seqq., 71, 81 et seq., 88 CRE4 ● CO2 intensity from new construction and building refurbishment 98 EN18 ● Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 54, 72–73 EN19  Ozone-depleting substances All significant air emissions from HOCHTIEF’s business processes are CO2 emissions reported as scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. EN20  NO, SO, and other significant air emissions All significant air emissions from HOCHTIEF’s business processes are CO2 emissions reported as scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. EN21 ● Water discharge No water bodies significantly affected by water discharges as there have been no Level 1 ­incidents recorded for the period 2013. 70, 83 EN22 ◗ Weight of waste Current HOCHTIEF systems do not measure waste by type. A procedure to start meas­ uring this data will be developed in the future. 70 EN23 ● Significant spills No spills registered 70 EN24  Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Not relevant as HOCHTIEF does not transport waste to a significant extent (for the purposes of the Basel Convention). EN25 ● Water bodies affected by discharges of water and run-off No water bodies significantly affected by ­water discharges as there have been no Level 1 ­incidents recorded for the period 2013. CRE5 ● Contaminated land held that has been remediated Remediation is carried out in accordance with prevailing law. Aspect: Products and services EN26 ● Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services 55, 72–73 EN27  Percentage of products with reused packaging Indicator not relevant as HOCHTIEF is not a producer of packaged goods. Aspect: Compliance EN28 ● Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 70 Aspect: Transport EN29 ◗ Environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, and Environmental impacts of transporting prodemployees ucts are not relevant as HOCHTIEF is not a producer of transportable goods. Environmental impacts of transporting materials and members of workforce are included in scope 1 and scope 3 emissions. Aspect: Overall EN30 ● Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 70 Information on this Report 114 Sustainability Report 2013 Profile Page 7 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach 62–65, 66–67 Aspect: Employment LA1 ● Workforce profile 64–65 LA2 ◗ Employee turnover Current HOCHTIEF systems do not measure 65 rate by age group, gender and region. A procedure to start measuring this data will be developed in the future. LA3 ● Benefits provided to full-time employees 63–64 LA15 ● Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 65 Aspect: Labor/management relations LA4 ● Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 62 LA5 ● Notice periods regarding significant operational changes 101 Aspect: Occupational health and safety LA6 ● Workforce representation in health and safety committees 62 LA7 ● Injury, absenteeism, and fatalities 67 CRE6 ● Percentage of the company operating in accordance with an internationally recognized health and safety management system 55, 66 LA8 ● Training, counseling, and risk-control programs regarding serious diseases 67 LA9 ● Agreements with trade unions on health and safety topics 101 Aspect: Training and education LA10 ● Hours of training 55, 63 LA11 ● Skills management and lifelong learning 55, 63, 72–73 LA12 ● Employees receiving regular performance and career deve63 lopment reviews Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 ● Diversity of senior management and staff structure 64–65 LA14 ● Salaries 63 8 Human Rights Disclosure on management approach 49, 57–59, 74–75 Aspect: Investment and procurement practices HR1 ● Investment agreements that include human rights clauses Compliance with the HOCHTIEF Code of Conduct CoC HR2 ● Percentage of suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening 56, 75 HR3 ● Hours of employee training on human rights aspects 56 Aspect: Non-discrimination HR4 ● Incidents of discrimination and actions taken 58 et seq. Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 ● Operations at risk and actions to support freedom of association 49, 56–58 Aspect: Child labor HR6 ● Operations at risk and measures to eliminate child labor 49, 56–58 Aspect: Forced and compulsory labor HR7 ● Operations at risk and measures to eliminate forced and compulsory labor 49, 56–58 Aspect: Security practices HR8  Security personnel trained in aspects of human rights Current HOCHTIEF systems do not measure number of trained security personal. A procedure to start measuring this data will be developed in the future. Aspect: Indigenous rights HR9 ● Actions taken to protect the rights of indigenous people 34 et seqq., 92 et seqq. Aspect: Assessment HR10 ● Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments 49, 56–58 Aspect: Remediation HR11 ● Grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 56, 58 Sustainability Report 2013 115 Profile Page 9 Society Disclosure on management approach 57–59, 76–77 Aspect: Local community SO1 ● Management of impacts on local communities 34 et seqq., 92 et seqq. SO9 ● Operations with potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 34 et seqq., 92 et seqq. SO10 ● Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 34 et seqq., 92 et seqq. CRE7 ● Number of people displaced, and compensation, broken down No Group-wide policy; case-by-case in by type of project accordance with national law. Aspect: Corruption SO2 ● Percentage/number of business units analyzed 59 SO3 ● Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 56 SO4 ● Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 58 et seq. Aspect: Public policy SO5 ● Public policy positions, participation in public policy development, and lobbying 56, 76 et seq. SO6 ● Contributions to politicians, political parties, and institutions 76 et seqq. Aspect: Anti-competitive behavior SO7  Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior Indicator not reported on grounds of confidentiality. Aspect: Compliance SO8  Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Indicator not reported on grounds of confidentiality. 10 Product Responsibility Disclosure on management approach 10 et seqq., 61, 76–77 Aspect: Customer health and safety PR1 ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products are assessed 15 PR2  Incidents of non-compliance with health and safety regulations Indicator not relevant as HOCHTIEF is not a producer of mass consumer goods. Aspect: Product and service labeling PR3 ● Product labeling/product information 10 et seqq. CRE8 ● Sustainability certification, evaluation, and labeling systems for new construction and building refurbishment 10 et seqq. PR4  Incidents of non-compliance with product labeling regulations Indicator not relevant as HOCHTIEF is not a producer of mass consumer goods. PR5 ● Practices related to customer satisfaction 50, 53 Aspect: Marketing communications PR6 ● Programs for adherence to laws and voluntary codes related to marketing communications 76 et seq. PR7 ● Incidents of non-compliance with marketing communications No incidents known. regulations Aspect: Customer privacy PR8 ● Number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of No complaints under the German Data Procustomer privacy tection Act. Aspect: Compliance PR9  Fines for non-compliance with laws concerning Indicator not relevant as HOCHTIEF is not a the use of products and services producer of mass consumer goods. Sustainability Report 2013 116 Publication Details Contacts and Credits Published by: HOCHTIEF CR Committee HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Barbara Hansen, CR Coordinator Opernplatz 2, 45128 Essen, Germany Tel.: +49 201 824-2162 Tel.: +49 201 824-0, Fax: +49 201 824-2777 nachhaltigkeit@hochtief.de info@hochtief.de, www.hochtief.com HOCHTIEF Human Resources Project management/editor-in-chief: Martina Steffen Lisa Zindler-Roggow, Verena Blaschke Tel.: +49 201 824-2624 martina.steffen@hochtief.de Editing/text: HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications HOCHTIEF Investor Relations Verena Blaschke, Ann-Kristin Brönnecke, Ulrike Kröner Indra Folke, Volker Lahr, Nicole Pfeifer Tel.: +49 201 824-1833 investor-relations@hochtief.de Barbara Bierach, Sydney Jürgen Kalwa, New York HOCHTIEF Corporate Governance/Compliance Dr. Stefan John CR coordination: Tel.: +49 201 824-1555 Barbara Hansen (management), Felix Bois info@hochtief.de Design and layout: HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications HOCHTIEF Corporate Communications Dr. Bernd Pütter Tel.: +49 201 824-2610 English adaption: info@hochtief.de Burton, Münch & Partner, Düsseldorf Photography: Christoph Schroll, HOCHTIEF For further information on our commitment to sustainability, please see www.hochtief.com/ Photo credits: sustainability All pictures not listed below: HOCHTIEF photo archive, Essen; cover top left: istockphoto/shapecharge, right: Oli Keinath; Flatiron (p. 3); Leighton Holdings (p. 4 left); Oscar Durand (p. 4 right); plainpicture/Westend61 (p. 8); Jörg This Sustainability Report is a translation of the Tarrach (p. 9); Flatiron/Duwayne Bahnsen (p. 10); City East Alliance (p. 12); Greenoriginal German version, which remains definiroads Foundation/Jeff Krahenbuhl, Monologue Photography (p. 13); ISCA (p. 15); tive. EPA (p. 16); Turner (p. 18); Jürgen Kalwa (p. 20); Chris Reaster (p. 21); Forth Crossing Bridge Constructors (FCBS) (p. 22 to 25); DB AG (p. 26); Liam Soden (p. 27); Editorial deadline: February 14, 2014 Flatiron (p. 28); Flatiron (p. 29); Jimmy Quach (p. 30 top left); Flatiron (p. 30 top right); Calvin Joyce (p. 30 bottom); Flatiron (p. 31); Jimmy Quach (p. 32 and 33); The next Sustainability Report will be published in Leighton (p. 34 and 35); Leighton/Louise Laws (p. 37); Leighton (p. 39); istockFebruary 2015. photo/mstay (p. 40); Eckehard Viefhaus (p. 43); istockphoto/RichVintage (p. 44); Turner/Timothy Griffith (p. 45); HOCHTIEF Jennifer Siebert (p. 78 and 79); Turner (p. 80 and 81 right); Casey Dunn Photography (p. 81 left); San Francisco Public Utilities Commission (p. 82); Turner (p. 84 to 87); Leighton Properties (p. 89 left); John Holland (p. 89 right); Thiess (p. 90 to 95); HTP (p. 96); HOCHTIEF Solutions (p. 97); Oscar Durand (p. 99); Matthias Ibeler (p. 102); HOCHTIEF Solutions Middle East (p. 103 right); HOCHTIEF Jennifer Siebert (p. 104); Felix Bois (p. 105 right); Udo Thomas (p. 105 bottom); Leighton Asia (p. 107) Imaging work, typesetting and prepress: Creafix GmbH, Solingen Printed by: Druckpartner, Essen This Sustainability Report is printed on eco-friendly Maxi Silk coated paper certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Sustainability Report 2013 117 Council (FSC). HOCHTIEF Sustainability Report 2013 If your cell phone supports QR codes, scan the code to view further information on the HOCHTIEF Sustainability Report 2013 on our website. HOCHTIEF Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 2, 45128 Essen, Germany
