UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013-2014 CONTENTS About this document 2 Contact 3 CEO Statement of Continued Support 4 English Press at a Glance 6 English Press Reporting to United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS 9 LABOUR RIGHTS 17 ENVIROMENT 25 ANTI-CORRUPTION 34 OVERALL OUTLOOK 38 FEEDBACK 40 2 | EPL COP 2014 Period covered by our communication on progress: June 2013 to June 2014 In April 2012 English Press Limited committed itself to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment includes supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. English Press Limited (EPL) will continue supporting the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles. English Press Limited COP 2014 is available in our website at www.englishpress.com. EPL COP 2014 | 3 CONTACT Company Name : English Press Limited Sector : Manufacturing – Printing For quality print work and all forms of colour works Number of employees : 500 UNGC signatory since : 2012/4/4 Contact Person : Mrs. Shreeti Patel/ Veronica Mwanzia Address : P.O. Box 30127–00100 Nairobi, Kenya E-Mail : shreeti@englishpress.com/ qmr@englishpress.com Website : www.englishpress.com Phone : +254 20552266/7 +254 206536914/5 Cell : +254 722509838 +254 735339002 Fax : +2542065537141 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT A s a company, we have always looked to the future and we endeavor to contribute towards sustainable development of the economy, the environment and society. This will not only enables us to realize our corporate social responsibilities but also strengthens our long-term strategic focus and helps secure the future of the company. EPL COP 2014 | 5 It is a great pleasure for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and what areas we have made progress support to the ten principles in since the last report. It of the UN Global Compact. EPL continues to commit the effort of the EPL family and embed the principles to to move our business a step our business strategy and further. operations while developing and growing. This communication progress report covers the period of The protection of human June 2013 to June 2014. rights, fair treatment of employees and commitment to tackling corruption, and the protection of the environment, are all important parts of the way we do business. This second Global Compact Mr. Kalpan Patel Progress Report provides a transparent and detailed account of how we implement English Press Limited ENGLISH PRESS AT A GLANCE EPL COP 2014 | 7 English Press Limited is your excellence. one stop print company, providing customers with English Press Limited high quality products and consists of a team of about services including pre-press, 500 personnel who are committed to delivering the and logistics solutions. highest standards of service. Our work ethic is founded Founded 80 years ago, we on collaborative partnerships have grown to be one of the with publishers, clients and print house in the continent. and effective print solutions. Located in Nairobi, and built on a strong foundation of that by applying our skills, consistent quality and service, expertise and resources to our values have enabled us to different causes, we can not compete in the regional and only make a difference in the international print market. world around us, but also catalyze other businesses to Our vision is to become a follow our lead. It is a goal world class print company that we strive for through our in Africa and play a major business strategy, our values role in print technology and and our every-day activities EPL COP 2014 | 9 3 Human Principle 1: Businesses should support Rights and respect the protecticn of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 10 | EPL COP 2014 Assessment, Policy and Goals EPL actively supports EPL favors an open and the universal declaration of trustful environment between human rights and recognize the top management and our responsibility to uphold employees. It is our belief human rights issues within that personal growth and our business and within our hence growth of our company prospers from an open and trustful environment. Respect for human rights is an integral part of our corporate EPL does not tolerate culture. We are committed harassment or intimidation of to conducting our business our employees on any basis in an ethical and responsible prohibited by law, including manner that supports and race, colour, sex, age, religion, respects the protection of national origin, handicap, human rights. We treat our disability or marital status. employees with dignity, fairness and respect and we Our code of conduct and are guided by our shared core health, safety and environment values. standards that we follow EPL COP 2014 | 11 in our business operation We have carried out ensure the protection of all occupational health checks human rights. The health and analysis of workplace and safety slogan states; conditions. Standardized processes and regular internal to motivate and educate our audits by our health and employees to be accountable safety committee ensure that for their actions in all matters the standards are maintained. regarding occupational health The aim is to maintain and and safety. enhance the health and safety of its employees, prevent Workplace health and safety occupational injuries, are an important priority for eliminate chance of EPL and are fully integrated injury occurrence into the company’s business and ensure overall processes. The EHS welfare of staff. department is responsible for all health and safety measures. EPL organizes a wide range of activities aimed at raising awareness of health and safety issues among our employees. 12 | EPL COP 2014 Implementation We have a range of policies policy statement that all employees have to comply stance on human rights; we to. Safe work instructions encourage our employees to have been implemented and contact our human resource training conducted during induction on safety measures concerns regarding their while working. rights. Conducting of risk The birth of the English assessment audit in our Quarterly newsletter factory to mitigate any by the employees to hazards. communicate and educate one another on various issues Health and safety audit concerning health, money was conducted in 2013 matters and family ties. Regular safety training : A statement of policy o Fire safety training for all expressing our commitment the employees to human rights was drafted o First Aiders training to be approved by our CEO. o Fire Marshalls training o Health and safety We have a health and safety committee training EPL COP 2014 | 13 Measurement of Outcomes In the past year EPL has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. All human resource policies and procedures are periodically reviewed to ensure that they are up to date and are in line with the Global Compact Principles. The number of lost time accidents has remained at a low rate. The periodic medical examinations conducted on 2013 found all examined employee without any occupational diseases and illness. We have 500 employees; for every 20 employees, there is a health and safety representatives. Their role is to promote a health and safety culture and work towards better working environment, health and safety at the workplace. Findings of the H&S was that we have put in place a number of the factory and has complied with the relevant HSE legislation resources to charitable and humanitarian activities. 14 | EPL COP 2014 We do not do business with any organization whereby human rights are in any way compromised. Actions to be implemented in the year 2014-2015 rights EPL COP 2014 | 17 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to colective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsary labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 18 | EPL COP 2014 Assessment, Policy and Goals EPL supports both the forced labour or child labour international and local labour and the company works to standards; we operate in a ensure diversity and non manner that is consistent discrimination in respect to with the core standards employment and occupation. of the international labour organization. EPL has a workforce of about 500 people, our people are the We uphold the principle heart of our growth strategy of freedom of association and we believe that having whereby our employees a good work relationship have the right to choose between the management whether they want to belong and employees is important to a union. EPL recognizes to the company. the role of the unions and their representatives and We strive to maintain a discusses with the openly all working environment that is issues of interest. supportive of our employees – an environment based on EPL doesn’t engage in our core values. We have EPL COP 2014 | 19 put in place policies and enabling our employees to procedures which promote grow in their roles. a culture of respect for our people. This means: environment where employee’s wellbeing is retain the best people and promoted and ensuring that reward them fairly for their we have clear mechanisms contribution. to respond to any grievances. workplace where employees difference, such as gender, age, sex, culture and lifestyle choices are valued and physical and emotional wellbeing of our people is promoted. opportunities to build new careers and 20 | EPL COP 2014 Implementation We have a team of human resource professionals who ensure that the principles of our labour legislations are always upheld. We have developed HR policies in the company to promote best practice in employment. Our grievance policy and procedure allows the employees to raise any dissatisfaction with individual and processes. We have implemented training and development to encourage staff to develop and build their existing skill base. All employees are encouraged to develop their skills by attending appropriate training courses. compatibility of family life and career and strives for a balanced relationship between work and private life. All employees have written employment contracts and job descriptions. This is regulated by HR processes and documented. All new employees are given full induction upon joining the company which includes all policies and procedures relating to health and safety , grievance procedures and appraisal procedures EPL COP 2014 | 21 Measurement of Outcomes In the year 2013, EPL has not been subject to any statutory notice related to labour or health and safety. EPL supports employee organizations and respects collective agreements and completed the successful negotiation of the CBA contract 2014. The shop stewards are allowed to hold meeting with the employees during work hours and attend union seminars without pay deductions. Communication in EPL is characterized by respect and trust and emphasis on our company core values. There is a strong record of good relations with union We do not hire children or young workers below 18 years old and no claims of child labour were reported in 2013. We have gained external quality audits which encompasses our commitment to labour ,quality and staff development ; o ISO 9001 ( quality) o AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) 22 | EPL COP 2014 Actions to be implemented in the year 2014-2015 to all employees. Press. senior management. EPL COP 2014 | 25 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and discusson of environmentally friendly technology. 26 | EPL COP 2014 Assessment, Policy and Goals EPL is committed to We commit to continuous understanding and improvement of our addressing environmental environmental performance impacts resulting from our and contribute to projects operations and to fostering that support positive environmental responsibility environmental programmes. among our stakeholders. EPL has implemented a We exercise uttermost systematic approach to vigilance in protecting the health, safety, environment environment and seek ways and quality that demonstrates to minimize our impact on the a systematic approach to risk environment. We will always management throughout the meet and possible exceed EPL activities. regulatory requirements in our environment performances. Our policy states that “English Press is committed EPL is committed to to conducting its business promoting environmental operation in a manner that responsibility and utilizing protects the environment environmentally friendly health and safety of its process when possible. EPL employees, customers, recognizes the importance suppliers, contractors and of natural resources have members of the general on economic growth and public. sustainable development. EPL COP 2014 | 27 Implementation EPL maintains continuous monitoring and control of our environmental performance. We strive to continuously improve our environmental performance, through initiatives and best practices. Development of best practices in our business by: o Waste separation o Recycling waste paper and sourcing paper from renewable sources o Recycling of our plates o Conserving energy o Recycling of plastics o Recycling paper reel cores o Constantly searching for new ways to limit environmental impact. o Hazardous waste is segregated and labeled in the waste storage containers (oily rags) Communication of the EHS policy through awareness sessions, posters and newsletters. Periodic workplace inspections by our EHS committee. Development and implementation of procedures for waste management. 28 | EPL COP 2014 We treat the water that comes from our factory with the dilution the water discharged doesn’t harm the environment. We conducted our annual noise surveys to ensure that noise emitted doesn’t exceed exposure levels. In our business activity we work for constant reduction of any emission and energy consumption and avoid anyrelease of potentially harmful substance to our environment. We monitor, collate and disseminate information relating to our environmental initiatives. Promoting sustainable development through ongoing initiatives to reduce waste, increase recycling and reduce energy consumption. EPL COP 2014 | 29 Measurement of Outcomes EPL has not experienced any reportable incidents during the past year and has not been subject to any statutory notice or persecution. compared to 2012. Noise level survey results indicated that he noise levels are generally within occupational exposure limits. The environmental audit conclusion by the external independent auditor stated that the environmental performance had not deteriorated for 2013 as water analysis, noise and air quality surveys. 30 | EPL COP 2014 We have actively encouraged environmental best practices throughout our operations. We recycled 100% of our waste paper from our operations through our contracted paper waste collector. All our waste collectors are approved by NEMA and provide us with waste tracking documents. All solid waste that is generated is segregated at the source into different strems : paper wastes put in paper waste cages, oily rags containers. Actions to be implemented in the year 2014-2015 opportunities consumption energy resources EPL COP 2014 | 33 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 34 | EPL COP 2014 Assessment, Policy and Goals EPL has an anti-corruption policy stating that corruption or bribery is not acceptable in any form or under any circumstances. Hence EPL is committed to ethical and responsible business practices. We are totally committed to compliance with international and local anti-bribery corruption standards, laws and legislation. this is a vital way to ensure good governance. All EPL employees of interest and report any suspicious activity. We have put in place clear guidelines and procedures that all employees are required to follow in regards to anticorruption. EPL COP 2014 | 35 Implementation EPL complies with all legislation related to ethics, corporate governance and anti-corruption. As member of various trade and industry bodies, we work with peers, partners and independent organizations to create Our code of conduct is made available to all employees, to foster an ethical culture based on our core values. We do not and will never do business with any organization that is corrupt in its dealings including extortion. Strict rules are in place concerning processing of invoices and making payment where different staff are responsible. This is to ensure transparency and to rule out any kind of misconduct. Compliance with relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by both internal and external auditors. 36 | EPL COP 2014 To make sure that corruption practices are not developed, EPL encourages employees to report any suspicious activities and we have reporting channel EPL COP 2014 | 37 Measurement of Outcomes EPL has not been involved in any legal proceeding, ruling or other events related to corruption or bribery in the year 2013 sure transparency and accuracy of accounting practices Actions to be implemented in the year 2014-2015 Training on healthy business practices Updating the code of conduct Compliance champions 38 | EPL COP 2014 Overall Outlook EPL COP 2014 | 39 English Press will continue to develop the initiatives it has launched and to introduce new measures in the coming reporting period. We care about the impact we make on the environment and this concern is aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity, internally and externally, with hope that the reward will be a better world for today and a greater hope for tomorrow. Let us know what you think As a valued stakeholder and report reader, your thoughts and concerns are important to us. We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our performance overall as a responsible business. If you would like to send us any feedback on these issues, please write to us at qmr@englishpress.com.
