2013 At the heart of our values photo : Sabrina Martin Sustainable development report PROFIL CONTENTS 2013 Arc International, l’ Art de la Table* 1825 GOVERNANCE Arc International employs 10,520 people worldwide, including 5,690 in France. The Group, whose head office is located in Arques, in the French Pas-de-Calais region, achieved gross «It is a beautiful harmony when doing and saying go together» MONTAIGNE 12 sales of €901 million in 2013. Armed with its know-how in glassware, it developed globally and currently markets its complete tableware ranges to more than 160 countries. ENVIRONMENT «It makes no sense for man to reach the stars if he loses the Earth» The Group covers the Consumer Goods and Food Service markets through a portfolio of brands – Luminarc®, Arcoroc®, Cristal d’Arques® Paris and Chef & Sommelier®. For over FRANÇOIS MAURIAC 18 40 years, the Group has also been serving professional customers – industrial groups, wholesalers, manufacturers of semi-finished and finished products, service providers – with SOCIAL «Training people does not mean filling a jar, it means lighting a fire» a wide range of tailor-made solutions to meet their specific needs (industry, advertising, premiums, loyalty). Arc International is present in five continents with its production sites (France, United States, ARISTOPHANE 28 China, United Arab Emirates, and Russia), distribution subsidiaries (United States, Spain, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Japan, South Africa) and sales offices. COMMUNITIES «A person who does nothing for others does nothing for himself» The Group has adopted a strategy of sustainable development in order to balance economic requirements, social responsibility and respect for the GOETHE 38 environment, and joined the U.N.’s Global Compact in 2003. * Tableware 3 KEY FIGURES € 901 million in turnover 2013. 10,520 employees, of whom 5, 690 are in France. More than 60 Research Development engineers. 4,3 millions items produced every day. 3 markets: consumer goods, hotels & restaurants and BtoB. 4 main brands: : Luminarc®, Arcoroc®, Cristal d’Arques® Paris, Chef&Sommelier®. photo : Laura Geng A sales presence in over 160 countries on 5 continents. 5 production sites in France, the United States, China, the United Arab Emirates and Russia. EDITORIAL consumption, atmospheric emissions and water discharges, and the consumption of raw materials. 2014 will inevitably mark a key turning point in the Group’s history;, which we continue to build together on strong values. I know I can count on the experience and expertise of the Group’s staff to rise to the challenges of the future. Patrick Puy, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 2011 PMENT COMMITMENT In 2013, the Group faced serious financial difficulties which needed to be dealt with immediatly SUSTAINABLE DEVELO and strongly. Several measures were taken to limit the impact on our cash position while making , social responsibility and nce economical requirements rnational is watching to bala roach. savings that were essential for the Group’s survival. The introduction of reduced working hours Since its creation, Arc Inte a sust aina ble dev elop men t app registering its activities in in the overall economical environmental respect, by is taking a growing place Gro up's com mitm ents , sustainable development in France was inevitable in order to safeguard many jobs. Over the . liers, customers or partners al Compact of the United Nations, today, our activities like for our supp saw in 2003 to join the Glob r a first step that we ativ es in all entities, to measure its All the staff were actively committed to supporting these necessary changes. Many employees Therefore, afte stru ctur ed. Our goa l is to display adapted initi approach needs to be e with all stakeholders. ial authorities and to shar 4 adapted themselves to a different work rhythm, new methods of working or organization, and efficiency, to report to offic 5 development action. Both element in our sustainable indeed a whole new professional environment.Thanks to their flexibility, along with the support hav e chos en to mak e our products the unifying -to-day life of our cust omers around the world We day c, resi stan t and acce ssib le, there must facilitate the wom en and men and the environment. aestheti of of the public authorities and the confidence of the banks, we managed to get beyond this difficult resp ectf ul of our hist oric values of perpetuity, respect while being dard which is pted the ISO 26 000 stan period and achieve the objectives set for the end of the year. tices and wor ld-re now ned approach, we have ado acti ons. To base us on prac e our help us to shape and guid e social responsibility and today and tomorrow. To ensu re the reference for corporat ntion and affirm our determination to act nts of inte include: We reject simple stateme will be esta blish ed and will of our approach, a steering In this particularly binding context, our attention remains focused on the Group’s values. Our the perpetuity and progress wor k and obje ctive s Axes of t performance measuremen customers are extremely demanding. We see this each day through the increasingly stringent Indicators of progress and ys better Regular reviews ns we will associate alwa of our ann ual repo rt and raising awareness actio audits they organize. Our sustainable development initiatives bring real added value to our With the publication employees and partners. products and business relations, as well as to the skills of the Group’s employees. e will meet: mitments in which everyon register our sust aina ble development policy in com We Once again, we demonstrated our commitment to vocational training, whether with a view to products: acquiring qualifications or profession-specific skills. The company’s investment in this field, lity of life of consumers with Innovate to improve the qua cust oms local Universal and adapted to which goes far beyond the legal requirements, contributes to the success of major projects. This Ever more eco-friendly n Resistant and easy to clea is notably the case for the «A Safe Arc Together» project implemented two years ago in order to Designed and sold for asso ciations improve occupational health and safety in the Group. Preserve the environment umption and resources Product and process innovation is also inherent to the Group’s identity. Arc International has Optimization of energy cons Was te reco very ment always been one step ahead of the trends, providing solutions to the needs of consumers and Environmental risk manage heart of our decisions professionals, through creativity and anticipation. These principles are the cornerstone of the Put men and women at the Investment in training t Group’s culture. Diversity and outplacemen Health and safety Through our eco-design policy, all the departments contribute to offering products that are Socially responsible solution s perpetuity increasingly safe and environmentally friendly, from the design of products and manufacturing our activities to ensure the Review business models of add ed valu e Growth through bran ds and processes to packaging. Technology leader As an industrial company, we are fully aware of our activity’s impact on the environment and Improve the value chain munities Active integration in all com t aga inst corr upti on are working to reduce that impact. We have implemented actions to reduce energy and water Figh Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT LOCATIONS IN THE WORLD Moscow Gus-Khrustalny Brondby Arques Darmstadt Pine Brook Milan New York Millville Saragosse Seoul Sintra Tokyo 6 7 New Delhi Nanjing Shanghai Taipei Ras al Khaimah Dubai Mexico City Singapore Sao Paulo Johannesburg Melbourne PRODUCTION SITES: ARC INTERNATIONAL France (AIF), creation date 1825: Arques, Aire-sur-la-lys (France), 5 642 employees Durand Glass Manufacturing Company (DGMC), creation date 1982: Millville, New Jersey (United States), 778 employees Arc Glassware Nanjing (AGN), creation date 2003: Nankin (China), 1 062 employees Offices Production sites Arc International Middle East (AIME), creation date 2004: Ras-Al-Khaimah (United Arab Emirates), 1 327 employees Sustainable Distribution subsidiaries Opytny Stekolny zavod (osz) part of the Group since 2011: Gus-Khrustalny (Russia), 1 139 employees DEVELOPMENT REPORT GLASS From earth and fire, the glass is mainly composed of 70% sand, 20% soda and 10% lime. It has 100% recyclable material and contains superior quality such as: good insulation, non-flammable, transparent, hard, delicate and pure. FABRICATION Group specialist, Arc International produces white glass, opal, borosilicate, glass ceramic as well as Kwarx®, Zenix®. The bubblers ensure the homogeneity of blending The articles undergo in annealing or a tempering process to improve their properties The glass drop, perfectly calibrated, BURNER falls into the mold via the funnel MERGER The rims are heated in order to have TANK round shape REFINING TANK Silkscreen printing PRESSED PROCESS GOB DELIVERY ANNEALING the SYSTEM The drop of glass is pressed by the core and takes LEHR shape of the mould. It is cooled down by air to solidify thus permits the removal of article from the mould 8 DOG-HOUSE 9 GOB FEEDING FEEDERS MOULD ROTATION OF THE TABLE BLOWING PROCESS The drop of glass is pressed by the core in a blank Flat organic transfer Introduction of the composition in mould and takes its final shape by blowing in the the dog house: vitrifying element finisher mould (sand) + thawing (sodium, silicofluoride, etc.) + stabilizers (limestone, alumina, etc.). The feeders are used to bring the glass to its working level and carry it towards the different forming method until the drop of glass CENTRIFUGED PROCESS The drop of glass falls into the mould which starts and turning. The glass takes the shape of the mould is cooled down by pulsated air FIRE-FINISHING HEAT DECORATION PACKAGING FURNACE FORMING OF THE ARTICLE TREATMENT MACHINE Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT ARC INTERNATIONAL’S A COMPREHENSIVE ACTIVITIES PORTFOLIO OF TABLEWARE CONCEPTS Arc International is able to draw upon its extensive know-how in the tableware field and its mastery of all With almost 20,000 references marketed, Arc international offers a comprehensive portfolio of aspects of the manufacturing cycle for its glass products, from design to distribution including production. concepts for tableware, storage and decoration aimed at both the general public and professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors. The Group also produces tailored products for companies. DESIGN Developing new products is a vital activity for a Group such as Arc International. The R&D, marketing and design teams work together on a new product range, designing new tableware concepts and manufacturing BRAND FOR THE GENERAL PUBLIC the moulds required for mass production. Each year, several hundred new products are designed at Arques and elsewhere to meet the constantly changing demand expressed by the market. Luminarc® Luminarc® is the world’s leading tableware brand. It includes stylish and innovative products for wine production and creative cuisine, intended for daily use. Various ranges are designed according to the habits, 10 11 Arc international develops complete tableware concepts mainly produced from glass. Benefiting from its customs and tastes of local consumers. . major production capacity; the Group can produce up to 5 million glass items per day. Cristal d’Arques® It today has five production sites based in France (Arques), in the United States (Millville), in the United Arab Affordable for all, the Cristal d’Arques® Paris collections of glasses, vases and decorative accessories Emirates (Ras El Khaimah), in China (Nanjing) and in Russia (Gus-Khrutalny). enjoy high levels of brand awareness thanks to their elegant and refined styling. This geographical spread within international consumption zones enable Arc International to supply Europe, the Americas, the Near and Middle East and the Asia Pacific region while at the same time adapting products to the usages and expectations of local consumers and reducing transport costs. PROFESSIONAL BRANDS distribution Arcoroc® Arc international mainly markets its products via its network of distribution subsidiaries, partner Exclusively intended for professionals, the brand Arcoroc offers a range of strong and functional distributors and selective distribution channels. design products meeting the needs of professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors, institutional In order to ever more precisely meet its customers’ requirements, Arc International has and catering. Arcoroc® is today the second-leading tableware brand for the professional sector. It is developed a local distribution strategy. This strategy has involved the creation of joint extremely present in Scandinavia (where it has a 70% glass market share), in France (60%) and in ventures or distribution subsidiaries in addition to the establishment of preferred Spain (50%). partnerships with distributors boasting a major local presence. Chef & Sommelier® Created in 2007, the Chef & Sommelier® brand includes complete and innovative collections of crockery, glassware and cutlery. This brand is aimed at professionals in the hotel and restaurant sectors, but also at retailers and wine enthusiasts. It has successfully developed products with iconic shapes such as Open Up. This brand achieves 65% of its turnover internationally. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT «It is a beautiful harmony when doing and saying go together» MONTAIGNE CONTEXT GOVERNANCE The concept of governance sometimes seems a little abstract, and not always easy to translate into tangible terms. The governance of the company and the sustainable development policy is linked to a management system which establishes the main rules used to make and control decisions that affect the viability and long-term performance of the Group. As such, when applied to sustainable development, governance is the system used to manage the policy and measure its effects. Our actions are part of a long-term entrepreneurial and ethical approach aimed at ensuring effectiveness built on three key pillars: • Economic relevance: to guarantee the long-term viability of the business while ensuring fair compensation for all stakeholders. This involves carefully monitoring consumption habits and cultures and taking essential precautions linked to health. • Social commitment: to develop the skills of the Group’s employees while respecting individual freedom photo : Christophe Castelain of choice and local sensitivities. We ensure their involvement and motivation, which are prerequisites for individual and collective commitment. 12 • Environmental responsibility: to preserve the quality of the environment, ensuring it remains equal or 13 better than before the start of our activity, by continually improving our industrial processes and deploying innovative technologies. Sustainable development can seem difficult to quantify. By incorporating the ISO 26000 standard (the benchmark in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility) into our strategy, we possess an effective in-house tool for evaluating and targeting actions. This standard forms the basis of our sustainable development assessment, which allows us to accurately evaluate the situation of each entity. The assessment grid was established according to this standard which focuses on 7 core issues: governance, human rights, labor practices and working conditions, environment, fair business practices, consumer issues and community involvement and development. Internal audits are progressively being conducted in the Group’s entities, enabling us to establish a local approach according to the specific requirements of each entity. Drawing on these results, we then build an overall action plan that takes into account specific requirements, as well as the priorities of each entity and the improvements observed. Internal communication is an important tool for supporting changes linked to sustainable development. It informs staff and raises awareness about key issues in a light-hearted and effective way. The message delivered through these communication initiatives is firmly planted in the minds of employees. This approach has two advantages. Firstly, it makes employees aware of new issues and challenges. Secondly, it prepares them for potential changes in their jobs, by starting to take sustainable development principles into account. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT A MEMBER OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT CORRESPONDENCE TABLE FOR THE LAST 10 YEARS Arc International was quick to understand the importance of sustainable development and was one of the CATEGORIES PRINCIPLES POLICIES AND BEST PRACTICES REFERENCES first French companies to sign the United Nations Global Compact in 2003. This voluntary initiative was driven by Philippe Durand, then Chairman and CEO of the Group and shareholder. The Group’s values were 1. Businesses should support and respect Internal regulations and HR policy and remain similar to those of the Global Compact’s principles. As such, the company’s employees fully the protection of internationally ID* Human rights proclaimed human rights understood and integrated the Group’s membership. 2. Businesses should make sure that they Internal regulations and HR policy ID In the years that followed, actions for improvement were identified and implemented, and a first sustainable are not complicit in human rights abuses Audits at our high-risk suppliers development report was published in 2005. Since that time, a report has been published each year and 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom Internal regulations and HR policy of association and the effective posted as Communication on Progress (CoP) on the Global Compact website. ID recognition of the right to collective Les 10 principles of the Global Compact are divided into 4 main themes: bargaining Human rights 4. Businesses should contribute to the The Group's A Safe Arc Together p.30 elimination of all forms of forced and project to improve health and safety • Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed compulsory labor throughout the Group human rights Improvement of working conditions: p.31 • Principle 2 : Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ergonomics, noise reduction, field improvement groups, change in Labor conditions working hours • Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition International 5. Businesses should contribute to the Aid for various associations p.40 of the right to collective bargaining labor effective abolition of child labor supporting people with difficulties • Principle 4 : Businesses should contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory standards around the world (Children of the Dawn) labor 6. Businesses should contribute to the Generation contract p.34 14 • Principle 5 : Businesses should contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 15 elimination of discrimination in respect of The Lobel Workshop: a disabilityp.33 • Principle 6 : Businesses should contribute to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation friendly workshop on the Arques site The Briqueterie Workshop: a p.35 employment and occupation workshop for young people on Environment professional integration schemes on • Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges the Arques site p.39 Support for the Ecole de la 2ème • Principle 8 : Businesses should take initiatives to promote greater environmental Chance (School for a second responsibility chance) in Saint Omer • Principle 9 : Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 7. Businesses should support a Optimization and control of energy p.23 precautionary approach to environmental consumption environmentally friendly technologies challenges APS Environment ID Anti-corruption Development of multi-mode p.25 • Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its transport forms, including extortion and bribery 8. Businesses should take initiatives to Sustainable Development Week: p.16 promote greater environmental activities and awareness raising Environment responsibility initiatives in France p.24 The principles are universal and apply to all our activities and sites. The Waste-sorting in offices United Nations Global Compact is recognized around the world and by all Work on a tool that calculates water consumption our customers, for whom it is a guarantee of good social and environmental 9. Businesses should encourage the Integration of eco-design principles p.19/20 practices. development and diffusion of in packaging: eco-design award These ten principles are illustrated through the different initiatives environmentally friendly technologies The Motion Project p.21 photo : Olga Vasneva Modeling p.21 presented in this report. In order to make reading the report simpler, the 10. Businesses should work against Code of Ethics and purchasing table below shows the links between best practices and the principles of the Combating corruption in all its forms, including confidentiality ID corruption Global Compact. extortion and bribery * ID: internal documents Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT Raising awareness through communication Continuation of the sustainable Each year during Sustainable Development Week, activities are organized on various topics by external development project at DGMC partners. In 2013, the program was extremely varied and we welcomed the following partners: The sustainable development project at DGMC in Millville, New Jersey, continues to move forward and the The Community Council of the Conurbation of Saint Omer (CASO) to talk about waste management, actions identified during the ISO 26 000 internal audit are being implemented. composting and public transport. Waste-sorting has been deployed around the site, in both the production workshops and offices. A An energy consultant informed staff about home insulation and renewable energies. communication campaign supported the initiative (posters, films, etc.) to ensure staff fully understood the The «Caps et Marais d’Opale» Regional Nature Reserve and the Regional Nature Board came to talk about system and adhered to the principles. We are continuing to seek ways of saving energy in the production biodiversity and the planting of hedges using local species. An exhibition about regional plants and wildlife processes and in terms of the general facilities, and some tangible actions have been identified. was organized over several weeks in order to raise employee awareness about the wonderful nature on their In order to support the local program, information boards devoted to sustainable development have been doorstep, and biodiversity in general. installed in several places around the company. This system provides news and updates on key issues and At the same time, activities and a quiz were launched to help staff learn more about the subjects and add a ensures everyone has access to information on a regular basis. fun side to the initiatives, which were a real success. In August 2013, DGMC carried out a self-assessment based on the ISO Also with a view to raising awareness, a photo competition was launched in the summer of 2013 on the theme 26000 standard used for the first audit in February2012. The team were of sustainable development and the company. This was the second time the competition able to gauge the progress made in 18 months. g had been organized. It was open to all staff in the Group and was a resounding success. The main improvements noted concerned the governance of the rd-winnin The awa published The employees showed great creativity and proposed some stunning pictures, including program and the company’s involvement in the local community. e photos ar rt and thus is r epo some of our products, with an undeniable sense of esthetics and a touch of humor. Progress was also made in terms of the environment and working in th dly ow a m ore frien all The pictures came from different entities in the Group (Brazil, France, the United Arab conditions, but to a lesser degree. nalized and perso n Emirates, China, Spain) and highlighted the company’s extraordinary diversity. The prizeio This great progress must now be confirmed over the long term! illustrat winning photos are published in this report, adding a warm, personal touch. 16 17 Improved environmental reporting For many years now, the Arc International Group has operated a continuous improvement and industrial « The Energy Information Center of the Saint Omer Area is based in Enerlya performance system named Arc Performance System (APS). It incorporates methods and tools such as (Fauquembergues). It is the only free, independent service that provides the region’s 5S, visual management and principles such as safety and the environment. In 2013, the environmental inhabitants with information about home improvement and renewable energies. component was reviewed and reinforced in order to better assess the strengths and weaknesses of our Consultations are regularly organized at the Urban-Planning Agency in Arques and different sites in this field. At the end of the year, two entities tested the new criteria, OSZ (Russia) and AGN two in-house meetings were scheduled at AIF in 2013. At the request of the Sustainable (China). In 2014, they will be extended to all the Group’s industrial sites. Development Department, I installed a stand in the company cafeteria during two lunch periods in order to inform staff about financial aid, insulation methods and heating systems. Two exhibitions about eco-friendly gestures and renovation were also set up during the TESTIMONY FROM Energy Day in order to raise employees’ awareness. This initial encounter led to personalized SYLVAIN VERRIELE, meetings concerning practical renovation or construction projects. The Energy Information ENERGY CONSULTANT Center of the Saint Omer Area is naturally at AIF’s disposal if they would like to repeat the OF THE PAYS DE experiment. » SAINT OMER AREA Rewards for our efforts Recently, the South New Jersey Chamber of Commerce honored the members of its community for their photo : Richard Dubois contribution to the region’s development. Fred Dohn (Chief Executive Officer, Business to Business & America Arc International) received the «Green Award». This award acknowledges the company’s commitment to sustainable development and particularly its constant endeavor to balance economic requirements, social responsibility and respect for the environment in all its activities and relationships with stakeholders. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT «It makes no sense for man to reach the stars if he loses the Earth» CONTEXT FRANÇOIS MAURIAC Melting and working glass means heating raw materials and products to extremely high temperatures. As such, Arc International is highly aware of its activities’ impact on the environment and is developing an industrial policy based on increasingly environmentally-friendly processes through tangible technical initiatives or innovation, supported by an environmental management system. ENVIRONMENT Innovation is one of the Group’s strategic priorities. Creativity and the ability to anticipate have always been the cornerstone of Arc International’s culture. Our R&D is built around improving the quality of the glass and the manufacturing process. The objective is twofold: to optimize the efficiency of the processes while reducing their environmental impact and safeguarding the health of consumers and employees. One of the focuses in this regard is energy. All employees are actively aware of this issue and involved in ensuring energy is used efficiently in all our sites. Each measure is back up by tracking indicators that enable each employee to assess the impact of their acts. For example, the staff in charge of feeders at AIF had a training course this year on how to operate feeders. This resulted in a 6% decrease in energy consumption. A calculation tool has also been made available to team secretaries at the white-glass factory in order to monitor best practices in terms of reducing energy consumption. It allows them to list the actions to be performed during the shift and to highlight those already completed. In this way the actions are audited and best practices perpetuated. On a more general level, Arc International reduced its overall energy consumption by 22% and its CO2 emissions per metric ton of glass melted by 10% between 2008 and 2013, thanks to the improvement of the thermal performance of its furnaces, optimization of heating and systematic detection of air leaks. The energy criterion is integrated in our equipment purchasing process and therefore involves suppliers in 18 our initiative. 19 All these actions have allowed us to move towards a global consideration of the energy issue. To go further in the integration of this topic and mastery of our consumption, a draft implementation of energy management through ISO 50001 will be launched in 2014 with the objective of certification in 2015 photo : Nicolas Carbonnier Environmental issues concerning air, water and raw materials are also taken into account at every level of the company. As regards water consumption, Arc International continued the deployment of its optimization methodology and has drawn on several recommendations to optimize its water consumption: water consumption audit, detecting and reducing the occurrence of leaks, eliminating unnecessary uses, assessing resources and their origin, increased use of lower quality water and effluent recycling. Water-based or atmospheric discharges are monitored in order to verify their composition and ensure compliance with regulations. et de suivi afin de s’assurer de leur composition et du respect de la réglementation. ECO-DESIGN All of these initiatives, which cover every aspect of the Group’s environmental impact, are an integral part of the eco-design policy. Eco-design is central to the development and manufacturing of products and packaging. The actions deployed concern processes as well as the products themselves. They result in genuine manufacturing improvements and tangible advantages for consumers. For example, changes in the composition of certain products which take into account the health and safety of employees and consumers, reducing the weight of items (which retain the same strength and resistance) making the products easier to handle, and less packaging which saves material and contributes to reducing Sustainable waste. DEVELOPMENT REPORT Reducing our environmental impact involves a wide array of actions, which may affect a small part of our On a more general level, eco-design enables the Group to stay ahead of its activity or indeed the whole of it. competitors, who mainly produce in low-cost countries without environmental Indeed, the Group won an award for its Color Vibrance range by Luminarc®, at a competition launched by constraints. The products proposed to consumers are innovative, stronger, lighter, the [avniR] platform, which rewards the best initiatives in terms of eco-design in the Nord Pas de Calais have less impact on the environment and can be recycled. At the same time, they area. This innovation resulted from a research program conducted by the company over several years in retain all their esthetic and fun properties. Eco-design is also a source of industrial conjunction with external partners such as the MAUD competitiveness cluster. It draws on cutting-edge competitiveness. In addition, our ability to anticipate changes in regulations and expertise in R&D and design, and integrates socio-environmental concerns. This new range is a collection of support our customers in their own environmental initiatives are major assets. glass plates, decorated with organic inks, containing no heavy metals. As such it is environmentally friendly and safeguards consumer well-being and health while offering an innovative design with vibrant colors. The Color Vibrance product range is therefore good for the environment Color Vibrance and an economic success. Today, organic decorations account for almost 40% of AIF’s total The Motion project production. This figure has continued to grow since the fine-tuning An environmental analysis of the molding process identified ways we could reduce our environmental impact of the process. It is now being deployed in other Group sites. in this stage of manufacturing. As such, Arc International has been involved in a large-scale experiment alongside five other partners since May 2013: the Motion project. The company is at the origin of this collaborative project, which has a budget of €3.5 million partly funded by the ADEME (French Environment and Energy Management Agency). The research is focused on improving the performance of molds in manufacturing using new processes, while taking into account eco-design and recycling of waste. The Eco-design awards ceremony project should take 3 years. Eco-design is an integral part of the project and the life-cycle of the molds will be analyzed in order to identify and measure their environmental impacts. Equally, observations made during the project will determine whether this method can be deployed for manufacturing glass items. 20 Cullet in the composition 21 of the base item Modeling In glass manufacturing, the product takes its final shape during the forming stage. Several tests are made using a different mold each time in order to obtain the desired quality for the end-product. In the past, it took 30% several months to do each test before launching a product, as the development and modification phases (design office studies for the item and tooling, modifications to tooling, performance of the next test on the Reduction in CO2 emissions machines) are long and meticulous. Thanks to a cutting-edge computer modeling program, we can now Cardboard packaging 93% 70% from manufacturing and baking of decorations. verify the feasibility of a product according to the specifications file, adjust the product design according to its manufacturing process, and optimize and size the tooling design, while shortening the development time. The deployment and standardization of modeling (modeling is systematically carried out for the design of certain tooling elements according to the complexity and specific features of certain items) has enabled us to reduce the test period to just a few hours for items such as tumblers, plates or washing-machine windows. This improvement reduces energy consumption, since only one production simulation test is required Reduction in weight Recycling of before launching mass production of an item, compared with three tests in the past. This also decreases the of the base item 10% 97% production waste environmental impact of the manufacturing process since fewer molds need to be created. Consequently, energy consumption linked to tests has decreased by 20% for a centrifuged glass production process. Our objective is to achieve a further 25% reduction in 2014, representing a 40% overall decrease in consumption over two years. 90% Raw materials delivered by river transport Modeling Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT Sharing experience Measurements and assessment AIME, our subsidiary in the United Arab Emirates, was an exhibitor at the second international Conference At the request of the EPDA in Ras Al Khaimah, AIME commissioned an external consultancy to carry out an on Global Warming, organized by the Environment Protection and Development Authority (EPDA) of Ras Environmental Impact Assessment Study (EPAS). The aim of the study was to assess the quality of the air, Al Khaimah in May 2013, on the initiative of His Highness Sheikh Saud Bin Saqr Al Qasimi. The conference water and soil, as well as the noise level, inside and outside the production area. The results, released in addressed issues relating to environmental protection and waste management. August 2013, showed that all the parameters audited were below the thresholds set by industrial standards, Its aim was to encourage the sharing of technological, educational and political and confirmed the relevance of the monitoring plan proposed for the coming years. innovations in order to preserve economic growth without creating negative impacts on the environment or the population’s health and safety. On the company’s stand at the conference, Sendhil Kumar, the Quality Manager at AIME, and Abinav Pandit, the Quality System Manager, presented the subsidiary’s initiatives in favor of sustainable development, highlighting that Green Russia glass is an environmentally-friendly product due to its composition and highWithin the framework of the Environment Protection Year created by the Russian government, 8 volunteers AIME exhibited at the Second recycling capacity. It was an excellent opportunity for the company to present its from OSZ in Gus-Khrustalny (Russia) formed a team to clean up a natural area near a school. The area had International Conference on products and underline its commitment to sustainable development, within the become an unauthorized waste site that was dangerous for local children and the environment.The project Global Warming framework of the Global Compact, which the Group joined in 2003. was welcomed by the local media and the volunteers were warmly thanked for their initiative. «To highlight the best eco-design initiatives, the [avniR] Platform, a collaborative Reduced energy consumption resource center devoted to life-cycle management, organizes the only annual Compressed air is widely used for manufacturing on the Arques sites. The network covers a huge area and it French eco-design competition, in conjunction with the Lille Chamber of is not always easy to detect leaks immediately. For this reason, Arc International has invested in an ultrasound 22 Commerce. 23 detection system that can identify the presence of leaks extremely quickly. When air escapes from a leak, the This event led to the creation of a partnership between Arc International and internal pressure immediately drops to the level of atmospheric pressure and this sudden change produces [avniR]. friction on the edges of the leak hole. These two phenomena produce a sound that is detected by the device. For the inaugural competition, the company’s local teams demonstrated great A computer system then compares the information received concerning the sound level and the distance responsiveness for a truly collaborative project: the eco-design of the 2012 TESTIMONY of the leak to estimate the amount of gas lost. This information (location and volume) is then sent to the trophies for the 9 competition winners. The trophies were designed as elegant FROM CHRISTIAN different workshop managers in order to repair the leak. In addition, campaigns are conducted each quarter TRAISNEL, DIRECTOR OF and sophisticated hourglasses filled with sand, the raw material used to to raise awareness of sector managers concerning this problem. Thanks to these initiatives, 80% of leaks CD2E AND THE [avniR] produce glass and cullet (recycled glass). They symbolize the life-cycle of glass. were identified and repaired in 2013, thereby saving 1,850,000m3 in terms of compressed air consumption. PLATFORM (FRANCE) Arc then participated in the second edition of the competition and won the 2013 Other actions are also in place to reduce gas consumption, such as the eco-design trophy for its «Color Vibrance» plate range with organic decorations. deployment of economical air nozzles. These investments enabled Today, the company has launched an eco-design initiative to produce molds us to improve our operations in terms of environmental from waste. The process is based on the platform’s Life-Cycle Analysis (LCA) protection and work conditions (the noise level tool, which is now a key component for assessing an eco-design approach in decreased by 7.6%). The positive results obtained the company. have led to the deployment of the sametools in Throughout the different stages, [avniR] provided Arc with support for other production facilities. implementing the Life-Cycle Thinking program. This is a great example of how a company can use the tools (training, expert support, networks, etc.) provided by [avniR] and take advantage of Life-Cycle photo : Celso Sanchez Thinking to improve its processes. Arc continues to work on a day-to-day basis with [avniR] to ensure that eco-design and the Life-Cycle Analysis tool are adopted by an increasing number of companies. As such, Arc International plays an active role in the ecological transition taking place in the Nord-Pas de Calais region, and many other regions around the world.» Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT Reduced water consumption Development of alternative forms Significant work was carried out on the water treatment plant at AIF in order to separate waste that can be of transport treated by reverse osmosis (gray water) and waste water that could potentially contain hydrocarbons (runFor several years, and increasingly so in 2013, Arc International has invested in multi-mode transport hubs, off water). Waste containing hydrocarbons is treated separately in a decanting basin. The sludge is then to develop alternatives to road transport.These hubs combine rail, road, and short-sea (in the case of Arc removed and treated. Separating the different types of waste water facilitates its treatment and increases International) modes of transport. The merchandise is dispatched for shipment among these different the amount of water that can be re-used by the company. transport modes using standardized containers. A multi-mode hub also allows freight to be grouped together The CD2E association, whose goal is to support the development of eco-businesses and ecological transition and redistributed. Between 2012 and 2013, multi-mode transport accounted for 10% of all the company’s in Northern France, has launched a project to develop a water-usage calculation tool. Arc International is merchandise flows. This reduces costs linked to transport and limits the use of road transport, and therefore part of the Aquapris working group whose objective is to establish the real cost of water in relation to its the associated CO2 emissions. use (by including the cost of electricity needed, treatment, etc.). The program also aims to raise awareness among manufacturers about the value of water, its hidden costs and the potential savings that can be made in this area. Overall, a whole host of small and large-scale initiatives have contributed to reducing unnecessary water Promoting social responsibility consumption. In particular, we have achieved an 80% recycling rate as regards the water consumed in our industrial process. These efforts must be pursued in the coming years, particularly within the framework in the value chain Each product that Arc International supplies to IKEA goes through several stages, from the product design of the Best Available Techniques (BAT) established by Agenda 21 in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. It defines a to the final stacking on the shelves. In terms of the supply chain, wooden pallets have gradually been phased sustainable development policy that encourages the adoption of new «clean» manufacturing processes that out and replaced by cardboard pallets. As such, all the pallets used for transporting products are made from use less raw materials and energy. recycled materials, that can be recycled again. This innovation has many benefits. Cardboard pallets can be made in different sizes and shapes in order to optimize loads, and therefore reduce the number of trucks on the road. In addition, once they arrive at their final destination (the retail store), the cardboard pallets can be placed directly on the shelves. This reduces handling operations for staff and the risk of injury to customers in 24 25 the shops. At the end of their life, they are recycled to minimize their impact on the environment. Finally, the Recycling gluing of the cardboard pallets is carried out in the «Briqueterie» Workshop, by young people on professional integration schemes. For IKEA and Arc International, this initiative not only has an environmental component A waste disposal center was recently created at the MMV plant. In the past, waste was stored near the place but also a social component, since three people are employed full time on the project. it was produced. Today, waste is kept in a secure area in which each type of waste is identified and can be traced back to its origin. The center has a secure area with retention systems to store liquids and access is limited to authorized staff. Shavings from machining are sorted as soon as they come out of the machine, thanks to markings that allow forklift-truck operators to easily identify the composition of the waste. There is a dedicated storage area for this waste, with specific signage to IKEA aims to work with suppliers that share its values and vision in order to build longensure the materials are kept in the proper place. In this way, term partnerships. We expect them to meet our requirement criteria in terms of social and TESTIMONY environmental responsibility, as defined in our IWAY reference system. IKEA the shavings can be efficiently recycled, resulting in clear environmental and economic gains. These shared values have resulted in a tangible project: the use of cardboard pallets to transport merchandise. For this innovative project, IKEA supplied its own designs, while Arc International provided quality cardboard that met IKEA’s requirements. The pallets are photo : Rémy Shake-Nesvadba assembled on the Arques site by young people on professional integration schemes in the Briqueterie Workshop. The partnership resulted in a quality end-product, which reduces the environmental impact of transporting the merchandise. In addition, this year, Arc International achieved the «Well Developed Supplier» level. This photo : Valérie Tourlouse means that the company independently manages environmental and social issues, in line with the IWAY standard, which is used as the benchmark for all our suppliers around the world and ensures compliance with IKEA’s Code of Conduct. Arc International demonstrated its capability to conduct audits using its own internal auditors, even though IKEA staff always keeps a careful eye on the IWAY requirement criteria during their site visits. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT CO2 EMISSIONS 2008 2011 2012 2013 PRODUCTION OF RECYCLED WASTE (METRIC TONS) Metric tons of CO2 emitted per Europe 1,03 0,9 0,94 1,07 metric ton of glass produced International 1,62 1,35 1,27 1,25 Americas 1,11 1,18 1,19 1,19 GROUPE 1,25 1,06 1,06 1,13 PLASTICS 2008 2011 2012 2013 2008/2013 -9,6 % Europe 688 516 638 543 International 186 235 164 155 Americas 0 0 30 51 TOTAL 875 751 832 749 2008/2013 -14,4 % WATER CONSUMPTION 2008 2011 2012 2013 M of water per metric ton 3 Europe 7,50 5,76 6,61 8,03 of glass produced International 4,07 4,34 5,30 6,22 Americas 4,21 5,94 5,68 6,12 METALS 2008 2011 2012 2013 GROUPE 6,29 5,38 6,14 7,28 Europe 2936 2704 1684 1312 2008/2013 15,7 % International 119 144 169 112 Americas 183 117 118 208 TOTAL 3238 2965 1971 1633 26 CO2 emissions as water consumption are dependent on the activity of 2008/2013 -49,6 % 27 furnaces, and if the industrial process is not saturated, consumption relating degrades, which is the case for 2013. As it adds the integration of the OSZ factory in the figures, which has yet to make significant efforts in terms of reduction of water consumption, inducing an increase m3 of water consumed / ton of glass produced for 2013. PAPER 2008 2011 2012 2013 Europe 8662 6883 5233 5056 International 851 1051 784 790 Americas 836 529 350 462 TOTAL 10348 8436 6367 6307 RECYCLED WASTES 2011 2012 2013 2008/2013 -39 % Including production Europe 89,70 % 98,60 % 92,60 % wastes International 96,40 % 95,20 % 97,30 % Americas 98,40 % 98,10 % 99,40 % GROUPE 92,5 % 91,80 % 94,70 % In 2013, the decrease continues to approximately 50% for metals, 39% for paper and 14% for plastics. This significant This represents the amount of waste generated by the activity that have decrease reflects a general awareness on the reprocessing of been recycled. In this figure are included waste production, cullet and waste, upon their generation. other recyclable materials such as cardboard, for example. This part is important and tends to improve with such actions like valuation of cullet. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT «Training people does not mean filling a jar, it means lighting a fire» ARISTOPHANE CONTEXT SOCIAL Social responsibility is a natural process at Arc International, which has always been a pioneer in this field. In the face of competition from low-cost countries, compounded by the difficult economic climate, Arc RESPONSIBILITY International has had to reorganize its structure and operations to ensure its long-term survival. In this particularly difficult environment, our attention remains focused on the Group’s values, reflected in three key areas: the development of the company’s human assets, occupational health and safety, and the integration of disabled workers. Arc International invests heavily in staff training on all its sites, the aim being to help each employee succeed in their professional goals. Training courses, whether organized inside or outside the company, enable employees to advance in their jobs, to update their knowledge and skills in order to keep up with constantly changing processes and technologies, or open up new career opportunities. As a socially-responsible company, Arc International pays careful attention to the health and safety of its employees, particularly in countries where social protection is relatively under-developed. One of the Group’s major projects, «A Safe Arc Together», reflects our corporate commitment to protecting the health and safety of employees, while also striving to constantly improve their working conditions. Thanks to everyone’s 28 29 active contribution, the level of lost-time accidents decreased by 32% in the Group between 2011 and 2013. Arc International is located in many areas of the world, and photo : Ajmal Viruthikkandy employment practices as regards disabled persons can vary depending on the customs and traditions in the different regions. In line with the Group’s values, this issue is a priority. The Group is pursuing its efforts in favor of disabled workers, in accordance with its Global Compact commitments. Everything is done to preserve the jobs of disabled workers and to promote their integration in the working world. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT SAFETY Arc International’s new safety policy was launched in 2012 under the name of Achieving an LTAFR of 3 will mean a radical change of culture within the company. To achieve this, managers «A Safe Arc Together». The project concerns all the Group’s sites. The goal is to must actively adopt the safety culture in order to convince their teams to follow suit. As such, by next year, develop a genuine «safety culture» within the company, measured and monitored through the lost-time it would be beneficial to include the safety criterion in the HR process, i.e. to assess employees in terms accident frequency rate (LTAFR). The initial target was to achieve a LTAFR of 7, and gradually achieve a rate of their safety awareness before appointing them to a post. In the meantime, the safety audit (based on an of 3 by 2016. Today, we have largely exceeded our objectives, since the LTAFR was 5.85 in 2012 and 5 in 2013. assessment grid with 60 criteria drawn from the Bradley Curve) rates the safety culture level within the These encouraging figures are the result of many initiatives deployed to develop the safety culture in the company at 320/500 (more than double the score given by the consulting firm Dupond de Nemours in 2012). company. This highlights the effectiveness of the communication on safety. The next step is to actively involve all teams in this process and encourage them to think about the issue of safety. AGN safety committees These initiatives have enabled the Group to move closer to its long-term objective, underlining the relevance These monthly committee meetings bring together factory directors. The objective is to review all the of the current action plan and highlighting that everyone is responsible for safety. subsidiary’s safety indicators, to analyze highlights during the month for the department concerned, to set up study groups, to analyze the safety plan and to communicate the committee’s results. The «1/4 hour safety» meeting HEALTH At the beginning of 2014, AIF’s production units set up monthly «quarter of an hour for On 25 September, DGMC hosted an event called «Fall into Health». The aim was to raise employees’ he ric Fouac safety» meetings, during which each manager gets all his team together to review their awareness about different health problems and the importance of a healthy lifestyle. The event was photo : E specific safety issues, thereby developing a snowball effect inciting staff to think about organized in partnership with the people in charge of the staff well-being in the subsidiary. The employees et ry helm safety. *Mandato had the opportunity to discuss with the various exhibitors present at the event and learn about keeping in good physical shape, nutrition, smoking, personal finance and different ways of finding solutions to medical Risk analysis to the task problems. The employees could also take advantage of free medical checks, such as mammograms and 30 AIME was the first subsidiary to launch this project in 2014. It involves listing all the tasks 31 hearing tests. More than 300 employees took part in the event. They were particularly happy at being able to performed by a group, rating task-specific risks and establishing prevention measures. If the rating benefit from expert advice on such a sensitive subject. On a general level, all staff are given regular health decreases, the measures proposed are applied to the whole subsidiary. check-ups and monitored by the company medical service. This includes recommendations for additional examinations if necessary. Accident alerts Accident alerts have been in place since January 2013. The aim is to immediately react when a serious accident occurs (or an accident that could have had serious consequences) in the Group. An e-mail alert is sent to all staff concerned, explaining the causes and consequences of the accident, and requesting that the requisite preventive measures be taken. Registration of Stop observation files This management tool incites managers to take at least two 30-minute periods each month to observe the work of their teams in the field (work environment, use of personal protective equipment, changes in behavior, etc.). If they note an anomaly, managers must talk with their staff to understand why the problem occurred and find a solution. The computer tool makes it possible to track the observations made, establish training objectives photo : Nawel Farah for staff and monitor the managers’ direct involvement in safety issues, in terms of quality and quantity. Fall into Health Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT WORKING CONDITIONS ovement projects Continuous impr New space for the Lobel workshop Continuous improvement projects The Lobel Workshop is a disability-friendly enterprise whose goal is to train disabled persons and help them With a view to improving working conditions, Arc International find a job in a normal work environment. The workshop places workers in a professional environment and has been examining workstation ergonomics for several years. also offers training courses to help employees acquire skills for professional and everyday life. The subjects Our continuous improvement projects (formerly known as addressed include learning how to work in teams and healthy nutrition. As regards the latter subject, the LEAN) aim to increase productivity while reducing hardship for association has set up a refectory area that provides fresh soups and employees at their workstations.Last year, twenty projects were fruit salads during breaks. A personalized refresher course also enables launched, the majority involving the cold-end chamber. In 75% employees to consolidate and perfect their literacy and numeracy skills. of cases, significant results were achieved. Working conditions Sixteen people are currently following this training course (2 hours per improved greatly in terms of load carrying particularly, thanks to week during work time). At the end of the course they will obtain the the installation of lifting tables enabling employees to adjust the French «General Training Certificate» (CFG). working height, as well as tables with bearings or rollers, allowing workers to roll rather than lift loads. These improvements are the result of thorough observations of daily tasks carried out by employees and their input about their day-to-day experiences, in terms of overly difficult gestures, fatigue, movements Restaurant area and lost time. Based on this information, a prototype is developed at a workstation, allowing for potential adjustments to meet the individual requirements of operators. Noise reduction Actions to reduce noise were focused on the cold-end chamber, where the sound level is high, although I worked as a lathe and milling operator in the Briqueterie Workshop for two years. I TESTIMONY FROM within acceptable limits for the human ear. Operators do not systematically wear hearing protection and also worked as a forklift-truck operator. TONY THUILLIER therefore efforts needed to be made to reduce the impact of noise. Following a thorough review, working I spent a year in the old Briqueterie workshop space and so I could really appreciate 32 33 groups were formed to find solutions to reduce the main sources of noise. Rubber mats were installed at the the change when we moved in my second year. The working conditions are much bottom of the recovery crates positioned along the production lines. Acoustic foam was also used to absorb more comfortable in the new local. Since they are better insulated, it is warmer in the noise, resulting in an 11-decibel reduction per crate. At the same time, partitions were installed to stop winter and cooler in summer. The workshop is also more spacious, which makes it noise from travelling to other areas of the company. easier for everyone to do their job. So, the new premises are a real improvement for workers in the Briqueterie. Field Improvement Groups The Field Improvement Group scheme follows on from the Performance Improvement Groups launched in 2012 by AIF. The groups are made up of 3 to 8 volunteer staff, including one group leader. They try to pinpoint small changes that will improve working conditions.Their goal is to provide solutions to day-to-day issues based on common sense and creativity. The solutions must be quick to implement and require a limited budget: adjusting operating What did you think about the change of working times in the summer? methods following an accident, optimizing space, ensuring work I thought it was a positive change. It was nice to finish work before it started to get areas are tidy and ordered, moving a task to a less busy area, dark. I appreciated the fact that we finished at the same time as my friends in other optimizing certain maintenance operations, etc. A total of sixty Field companies. Improvement Groups were created as part of the «Ambition Arques What were the benefits for you? 2016» continuous improvement program. Seventeen groups have When we started work at 9.30am, the morning was quite short compared to the already completed their missions. The 2012 program rounded TESTIMONY afternoon, and it is not always easy to remain concentrated for 5 hours in a row. off with a Field Improvement Group Convention, held at Arques FROM Balancing out the time worked in the morning and the afternoon made me more on 2013, 11 July. During the convention, the best initiatives were Masami Omoto efficient through the day as a whole. rewarded. The Industrial Department for France awarded 4 prizes, How did you fill your free time in the evening? including the Jury’s Special Prize. Finishing work at 6pm allowed me to spend more time with friends, to go to the iatives Reward of the best GAT init cinema and to do gym classes. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT TRAINING French «generation contract» The «Generation contract» is French government scheme aimed at combating unemployment and job received diplomas earned during on-going vocational training courses. The qualifications ranged from insecurity. The scheme facilitates the long-term integration of young people within the company as well Professional Aptitude Certificates (CAP) to Master’s degrees. as the recruitment and continuing employment of over-fifties older, ensuring the transfer of expertise and skills to other generations. To meet these objectives, we have established an action plan running until 2016. «Over-fifties» are an asset for the company. In a knowledge-based economy, increasing the proportion of Training plan such workers in employment is a major challenge in terms of social cohesion. Specific support measures Within the framework of the on-going vocational training plan, employees at AIF can take courses leading to must be implemented to ensure company employees in the later stages of their careers remain motivated by qualifications, acknowledging their skills. The 2013 plan covered a range of subjects. AIF employees could their jobs. For this reason, Arc International has reasserted its commitment to improving working conditions do a Master’s degree course in Safety and Environment, train to be a Safety Officer, or take a vocational and keeping older employees within the company. With this in mind, AIF has implemented skills audits to Baccalaureate for electricians or production technicians which represents an hourly volume of 21 000 hours. anticipate career development and manage the issue of age in each professional category. This scheme also enables us to adjust job content when employees reach the end of their careers and facilitate the move from professional life to retirement through end-of-career interviews and the provision of 400 hours of individual Professional integration training. Since the transfer of knowledge and skills is vital for AIF, two-person inter-generational teams are The Briqueterie Workshop aims to help young people on professional integration schemes in the fields set up to enable employees to exchange ideas (knowledge transfer). Equally, particular attention is paid to of sheet-metal making, molding, logistics and metal recycling. The young people are all under 26 years ensuring a mix of ages and experience in operational teams. of age and have left the education system and therefore have problems finding work. Arc International is In addition, the Group is committed to the long-term integration of young people. The company has set the workshop’s main customer. The association recently welcomed 11 new youngsters on French «Emploi objectives in terms of the recruitment of young people on permanent contracts a rate of 1.5%. Equally, we d’avenir» (professional integration scheme for young people) contracts. This type of contract is particularly facilitate their access to training, notably for less qualified employees, thanks to partnerships with training appreciated by our company (the association recruits through the «mission locale» [youth support centers]) organizations. The integration of young people is closely monitored. The company has a specific orientation since it leads to a professional qualification. After two years, the young people on the scheme will obtain a 34 and immersion scheme, with a hand-book for new recruits. To further ensure their integration, young professional qualification in sheet-metal production. 35 people are assigned an advisor, who monitors their development, notably through dedicated interviews. AIF also aims to develop work-study contracts and internships. Indeed, the number of internships and workstudy contracts increased by 7.3% in 2013. By 2016, the objective is to recruit 50 young people on permanent contracts following their work-study period, with at least 30% under 26 years of age. In 2013, there were a total of 129 trainees on work-study contracts, including 76 vocational training contracts. Illiteracy: «Grande Cause Nationale 2013» Since 2008, the company has proposed three levels of basic training in math, French and oral communication. Each year, the majority of participants obtain a «General Training Certificate» (CFG). In 2013, this training took on even greater importance, since illiteracy was declared a «Grande Cause Nationale» by the French government. Six young employees benefited from this training course photo : Luis Rouco during their work time. After passing the exam, they were honored during Ceremony for graduates in 20 a diploma ceremony, acknowledging 13 their commitment and hard work. The ceremony took place in December. A total of 94 employees Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT DISTRIBUTION OF 2012 2013 INCLUSION 2010 2011 2012 2013 THE EMPLOYEES Europe 7898 7108 EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE Rate of employment 7,30 % 8,14 % 9,48 % 10,31 % IN THE GROUPE ON 12/31/2013 International 2714 2449 WITH DISABILITIES (AIF) Americas 1018 963 The rate of people with disabilities is significantly above the TOTAL 13642 10520 French legal rate of 6% due to actions taken by the company to develop adapted workstations to keep people posted either The group’s staff has decreased overall between 2012 and 2013 due to the through the Lobel workshop. decline of the activity in 2013. LOBEL WORKSHOP 2010 2011 2012 2013 Workforce 41 40 37 36 Supervisors 5 6 5 4 Cumulative nb of people 36 38 38 38 ACCIDENTS 2010 2011 2012 2012 succesfully gratuated AT WORKPLACE Europe 10,13 9,88 7,81 6,81 Nb of people who obtained the cases 0 1 1 0 FREQUENCY RATE International 9,57 8,64 2,40 2,63 Americas 4,33 1,91 4,94 1,76 An adjustment was made to the data from 2012, which after GROUPE 9,43 8,79 5,62 4,86 verification proved incorrect. The departures recorded in 2012 and 2013 are those people who did not submit the necessary teamwork skills in a suitable business environment. 36 37 SEVERITY RATE 2010 2011 2012 2013 LA BRIQUETERIE WORKSHOP 2010 2011 2012 2013 Europe 0,40 0,43 0,36 0,53 Workforce 22 23 23 22 International 0,13 0,12 0,10 0,09 Supervisors 4 4 4 4 Amériques 027 0,18 0,12 0,02 % people 50 % 67 % 43 % 40 % GROUPE 0,28 0,28 0,22 0,33 reinstated in a company The project «A Safe Arc Together» has continued its deployment of actions In 2013, six young people over 15 were able to leave the in 2013 and confirmed its effectiveness, reaching a frequency rate of workshop with a permanent employement. Since 1997, the accidents lower than 5 with a target of 3 in 2016. average rate of return to work thanks to the workshop La Briqueterie is 52.6%. EMPLOYMENT 2010 2011 2012 2013 TRAINING 2008 2010 2009 2011 2010 2012 2011 2013 Legal rate OF SENIORS (AIF) Active employee over 15 73 320 501 55 years of age INVESTMENT AIF Formation en % 4,89 3,47 3,71 3,41 in france Rate of employement 0,23 % 1,21 % 5,46 % 8,86 % AIF Training 3,71 % 3,41 % 2,79 % 2,46 % 1,60 % AS A PERCENTAGE Taux légal en France 1,60 % 1,60 % 1,60 % 1,60 % OF PAYROLL (AIF) In the senior agreement signed for 2010 to 2012, AIF pledges In spite of a reduction in the training rate in 2013 this one remains to double the employement rate for workers over 55 years. In nonetheless important. 2.79% against statutory 1.6%. 2013, the employment rate reaches almost 9%. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT «A person who does nothing for others does nothing for himself» GOETHE CONTEXT Arc International is a leading international company but its actions go beyond commercial success. By COMMUNITY investing in solidarity initiatives and playing an active role in local communities, the Group remains true to its values, and underlines what sets it apart from the competition. The continuing partnership with the Ecole de la 2ème Chance (School for a second chance) In 2013, AIF further developed its partnership with the «Ecole de la 2ème Chance» (E2C) in Saint Omer. As such, employees from the Human Resources Department continued to take part in job interview simulations and selection committees. The Group’s staff also took part in lunches or work support meetings with young people from the school, in order to share their experience and help students prepare for professional life. Factory visits were also organized, to give the youngsters a general insight into how a company operates as well as an overview of the glassmaking industry. The young visitors also had the opportunity to discover the professions linked to specific sectors of the company. 38 In addition, the sports complex of the ASCAI (Arc 39 International Cultural and Sports Association) hosted the «One match, one job» event organized by E2C. Blending sports and job search exercises, this event provided young people from the school with an opportunity to take part in Children of the Dawn job interview simulations conducted by HR professionals, including staff from AIF. The morning rounded off with a soccer match between the youngsters from E2C and a team made up of professionals and school staff. e job» «One match, on Empty your cupboards! In 2012, the «Confédération des Arts de la table» and the French Red Cross launched «Empty your cupboards», an original and innovative initiative for collecting used tableware. People received reduction vouchers for the items they provided. This collective initiative was the first of its kind and was a great success. Luminarc® and Cristal d’Arques® Paris were partners from the very start. In 2013, the Arc Déco store renewed this operation in favor of those people most in need. Some 18 metric tons of products were collected in this store alone. They were then redistributed to families in need or to delegations, in order to supply specialized centers or shops. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT Children of the Dawn Local presence The OSZ plant is located in Gus-Khrustalny, a city with 60 000 inhabitants. In 2013, the city’s authorities Arc International (South Africa) established a solid partnership with the «Children of the Dawn» association. asked companies in the area for assistance, in order to renovate the city square (which had been in a very This non-profit association’s mission is to provide for the basic needs (food, education, support) of orphans bad condition for several years) and transform it into a leisure area for local families. Arc International and vulnerable children. The company supplied glass tableware items (plates, bowls, glasses) which were contributed to this project by funding a play area for children. distributed to different canteens in charge of children in need. However, our commitment goes further than making a simple donation; the company will sponsor a child ensuring he or she has access to food, A school specialized in training in the glass manufacturing sector has been developed near the subsidiary. education, health care and essential material goods. The company will also be involved in an internship Arc International has therefore established a partnership with the school to enable students to benefit from program, whose objective is to enable teenagers to learn about the business world. the company’s production facilities for practical internships. The company will also contribute to designing the training program. In return, the school will run a course that is adapted to industrial requirements. This partnership ensures top quality training for the school’s students and promotes the OSZ plant as a future employer. OSZ takes part in events organized by the school (Knowledge Day, youth festival etc.) and invites students to visit the factory. The company has also joined the school’s research program, which has a strong environmental component. In the United States, the philosophy is the same. DGMC has been working closely with local schools and universities to design training programs. In view of the initiative’s success, DGMC has developed a new partnership with a local school. This involves inviting student engineers to visit the plant and developing summer jobs in the company. DGMC is currently looking into developing a joint project with the school’s students. 40 41 Children of th e association C hildren of the Dawn TESTIMONY FROM THE CHILDREN OF THE DAWN ASSOCIATION In South Africa, over 4.5 million children are orphans, with AIDS responsible for 80% of the cases. Children of the Dawn is a South-African humanitarian association created in 2002. It provides financial and technical support for orphans whose parents died of AIDS. Our main action is aimed at providing for the children’s daily needs: provision of lunch boxes, products for personal Recreational area of the city of G us-Khrustalny hygiene, vitamin-rich snacks, etc. Our other actions involve education (school fees, uniforms, materials and so on), health (monitoring weight, preventive measures, etc.), monitoring their social situation (meeting with families, etc.), and psychological monitoring (emotional state, self-confidence, etc.). Our aim is to focus on rural areas (outside the usual areas of interest) and ensure individual monitoring of a maximum number of children. We currently look after 833 orphans and vulnerable children from 8 different rural communities. Our goal is to provide schools with the requisite support to ensure the children obtain a quality education. We were delighted to accept Arc International’s proposal to donate tableware and cutlery, which we redistributed photo : Gireesh Kumar to our different centers. The children were happy to see the products arrive and we sincerely believe that they will contribute to improving the care provided. We would like to thank Arc International for this generous gift. Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT notes 43 Sustainable DEVELOPMENT REPORT AN 293/14 Adaptation et photos © TerCréa un service d’Arc International France Rédaction : M. Duponchelle et C. Barbier CONTACT Caroline BARBIER Corporate Sustainable Development Manager Arc International 104 avenue du Général de Gaulle Arques France Tél : +33 3 21 95 46 67 GSM : + 33 6 50 69 13 42 caroline.barbier@arc-intl.com 100% From wellmanaged forests Printed on 100% recycled paper
