Corporate Social Responsibility Report Meeting Our Patients' Needs 1 Teva CSR > CEO Letter A Letter From Erez Vigodman, Teva's President & CEO The nature of global healthcare has changed dramatically in recent years, and it continues to change at an accelerating pace. Our patients know more and expect more; disease patterns are shifting; chronic disease rates are mounting; and demand for affordable medicines is growing more rapidly in emerging economies than in mature ones. Teva is shifting its focus and reorienting its business model in order to stay ahead of the changes and deliver on our promise to our patients. These are transformative and exciting times for us. As such, they underscore not only what we need to change, but what must remain constant: our unwavering commitment to conducting our business responsibly and ethically. The quality and safety of our products form our license to operate, and we are committed to upholding the highest standards in everything we do. This approach is not new to Teva: for over 113 years, we have been both passionate and professional about providing better health outcomes for our patients. As one of the top 12 global pharmaceutical companies and a world leader in Generics, we are committed to increasing access to high-quality, affordable healthcare. With a global product portfolio of more than 1,000 molecules and a direct presence in over 60 countries, Teva offers the largest medicine cabinet in the world, to an exceptionally broad and diverse audience. In 2013, 1 out of every 7 prescriptions in the U.S. was filled with a Teva product – approximately 1.5 million prescriptions per day. In the U.K., 1 in 6 prescription packs is a Teva medicine. Our broad global reach ensures that we are highly aware of global challenges and concerns. Teva's impact extends beyond the products and solutions we supply, to touch the environment, our employees, and the communities in which we work and live. As the world's largest provider of generic drugs, Teva makes a considerable contribution to the sustainability of healthcare systems worldwide by reducing costs and generating significant economic value. For instance, in the US, Teva is responsible for saving $200 billion over the last decade. During the last two decades we have also developed advanced R&D, regulatory, commercial and go to market capabilities in the innovative drugs and specialty medicines spaces. Going forward, we aim at targeting a unique space in the industry, at the intersection between innovative and off-patent drugs, in a way that will enable us to meet more and more unmet needs of patients along their journey, with affordable and integrated solutions that improve their adherence and compliance and enhance treatment effectiveness. In addition, in 2013 we have donated $119.5 million in funds and products to over 520 community organizations worldwide, and are forming partnerships with leading humanitarian organizations and funds to promote access to healthcare worldwide. This is Teva's second annual Corporate Social Responsibility report. CSR in Teva is a story in the making: we are currently formulating a global CSR program, leading a more structured and transparent approach to Teva's operations in order to ensure we meet – and exceed – our stakeholders' expectations. As this report demonstrates, we have made significant progress this year. As we quest towards the differentiated leadership space we wish to claim and make our own, our strategic decisions and actions are guided by our deep-seated sense of social responsibility. I am proud of what we have achieved so far in this area, and look forward to continuing to deliver on our promise to our patients, communities and employees. Sincerely, Erez Vigodman 2 Teva CSR > About Teva About Teva Teva is in business to make a difference. Our business is driven by our patients’ need to have access to high-quality medicines that improve their quality of life. We bring safe, effective, innovative and pharmaceutical ingredient (API) sites and affordable medications to patients worldwide, more than 20 research and development while delivering results for our customers, centers. shareholders and employees. Established in 1901 in Israel, Teva is today one of the world’s Our corporate culture and our focus leading pharmaceutical companies. on broadening the access to affordable Our company has direct operations in medicines is what drives our success. We nearly 60 countries and employs around ask our employees to follow our guiding core 45,000 people worldwide. We operate 50 values of Integrity, Respect, Collaboration, pharmaceutical manufacturing plants in Excellence and Leadership in everything they North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia do. These values provide the foundation of and Israel, with two additional sites under our commitment to bring the highest quality construction being built at the moment. products to millions of patients around the Other facilities include 21 active world. 3 Teva CSR > About Teva Teva in Numbers → Largest global provider of generic medicines → $20.3 billion net revenue → One of every seven U.S. prescriptions and one in six UK prescriptions is filled with a Teva product → Approximately 45,000 employees worldwide → 64 billion tablets and capsules manufactured in 2013 2013 Net Revenue Generics ROW** Other* 49% 10% 19% by by U.S. segment geography 52% Europe* 29% Specialty 41% * Other activities include our OTC business * All members of the European Union, with P&G, distribution services primarily Switzerland, Norway, Albania and in Israel and Hungary, and sales of medical the countries of former Yugoslavia. devices. ** Primarily Japan, Canada, Latin America, Israel and Russia. 4 Teva CSR > About Teva Core Business and Products We are a fully integrated global pharmaceutical company, with extensive Research and Development (R&D), manufacturing and distribution capabilities. Our business includes two primary segments which is the result of trends such as an aging – generic medicines and specialty medicines – population, increased spending in emerging as well as certain additional activities such as markets, pressure on providers to provide our joint venture with Procter & Gamble for the cost-effective healthcare solutions, legislative marketing of over-the-counter (OTC) products. and regulatory reforms, an increase in patient As the world’s largest generic company with awareness, and the growing importance of OTC an established specialty medicines portfolio, medicines. We are constantly looking for ways we are strategically positioned to benefit to address previously unmet patient needs, from current changes in the global healthcare and we believe that this focus, along with environment. world-leading generics expertise and portfolio, global reach, and integrated R&D capabilities, Our business strategy is to capitalize on puts us in a great position to take advantage of the growing global demand for medicines, market opportunities. 5 Teva CSR > About Teva Corporate Social Responsibility at Teva For Teva, being a responsible global citizen means pursuing business success by developing products and policies that address patients’ needs, expand global access to affordable medicines and benefit the wider society. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) second year of reporting on our CSR activities. program is a natural complement to our core business activities. We conduct business in CSR Management a responsible manner, prioritizing ethics, supporting our employees and communities Teva’s worldwide business operations are and working to minimize the environmental managed regionally, but with global oversight impacts of our operations. of core functions, including corporate social responsibility. A dedicated CSR team is We have participated in the UN Global responsible for global implementation of social Compact since January 2010, and are responsibility policies and practices. This team committed to upholding the Compact’s 10 liaises with each region where we operate, principles across our operations. to ensure that our policies are implemented www.unglobalcompact.org consistently yet with sensitivity to local needs While CSR has been a part of our company and cultures. for decades, in 2012 we adopted a more Our Board of Directors has ultimate oversight comprehensive global approach. Over the last of CSR strategy and activities through its year, we have made progress in setting some Corporate Responsibility Committee, which initial goals and identifying new metrics to met three times in 2013. The Committee track our performance. This Report marks our charter is available on our website. 6 Teva CSR > About Teva CSR Oversight at Teva Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board ↓ CEO ↓ Group Executive Vice President Corporate Marketing Excellence and Communications ↓ CSR Vice President ↓ Global CSR team ↓ Local CSR representatives Stakeholder Engagement Understanding the requirements and provide feedback on our CSR performance perspectives of key stakeholders, especially and reporting. Nine experts from diverse the patients’ needs, is critical to Teva’s organizations participated in the discussion, success. We seek open communication with and further feedback was solicited through our wide range of stakeholders, including phone calls, an online survey and internal patients, customers, suppliers, employees, discussion with representatives from across regulators and others during the normal course Teva business functions. of business. Additionally, we engage with and Our stakeholders described our CSR approach seek feedback from our stakeholders through a as strong, and said they valued our focus on range of channels and events throughout material issues. They also helped us identify the year. ways to further strengthen our approach, such Following the publication of our first global as by disclosing more performance information CSR report in 2012, we invited experts and setting public goals. This feedback served from NGOs, leading companies, healthcare as a guide for this year’s report, and will organizations and social investment firms to continue to help us refine our CSR strategy. a roundtable discussion in New York City to 7 Teva CSR > About Teva How We Listen to Our Stakeholders Key Stakeholders Engagement Customers Questionnaires, meetings Employees Surveys, town hall meetings Government and regulators Roundtables, reports Investors Investor days, group and individual meetings Local communities Partnerships, donations, volunteering Non-governmental Local consultation sessions, organizations environmental reporting Peer companies Industry associations Materiality Top 10 Materiality Issues In November 2012, Teva undertook an Identified by Stakeholders assessment of our most important – or material – CSR issues, using input from both 1. Patient Safety internal and external stakeholders. From this assessment, we identified our top 10 material 2. Affordability of Medicines issues, shown below. 3. Availability of Medicines The results of the assessment underlined our impact on the health and well-being of society, 4. Human Rights and demonstrated the importance of aligning and integrating our CSR strategy with business 5. Bribery and Corruption activities and goals. In 2013, we continued 6. Clinical Trials to analyze these issues and to refine our CSR approach to ensure its compatibility with our 7. Transparency and Disclosure patient-led business model. 8. Strengthening Healthcare Infrastructure 9. Health and Safety 10. Product Labeling 8 Teva CSR > Our Patients Our Patients Healthcare has changed dramatically in the 113 years we have been in business. We have always been committed to our patients. But today, more than ever, cultural trends, customer and patients needs and behaviors are changing. Disease patterns are shifting. The traditional with rising healthcare costs. Our patients healthcare model has shifted from doctors don’t simply want medicines – they want to patients and payers. Chronic disease better health outcomes. At Teva, we know rates are increasing, and the demand for that to achieve these outcomes, we have medicines is growing more rapidly in emerging to change our way of thinking and working, economies than in industrialized nations. so we have identified three trends that are Our patients know more and expect more. reshaping the industry. These trends will guide They are demanding a personalized approach our transformation as we be become a truly to medicine, while at the same time coping patient-centric company. 9 Teva CSR > Our Patients Cultural Trends Patients are at the center of our business, and meet strict regulatory standards through we work to focus our programs and strategies clinical trials. Innovation will also be critical to to meet emerging cultural trends. Today, as our success in meeting customer needs. Amidst the global population ages, disease patterns these changes, we must maintain relationships shift, and demand for medicines continues with healthcare professionals that adhere to to increase – particularly in developing regulations so we can work with stakeholders economies – Teva aims to meet these changes to improve outcomes, costs and experiences. by enhancing our ability to provide access to medicines, and by donating products to those in need. Patient Needs and Behaviors today’s patients are better informed than ever before. They want help navigating the complex Customer Needs world of healthcare and are demanding a As the healthcare policy landscape evolves, personalized approach to medicine. we are seeing a shift in influence from doctors Our patients expect engagement in our to payers and patients, as well as a renewed business and a relationship with it. Teva will focus on prevention rather than treatment. continue to support an increasingly informed This transition, in conjunction with an patient base by focusing on patient safety, increase in chronic disease rates, will product labeling, advocacy, and manufacturing continue to stretch healthcare budgets. quality. Today, policy makers and payers are We continually look for new ways to effectively increasingly mandating what doctors can and appropriately engage with our patients to prescribe, and these demands may be at odds understand their needs and to work together to with patient choice. The rise of electronic meet them. Teva is also striving to combat the medical records offers data to issue of counterfeit drugs, which can pose a track performance. Against this backdrop, significant threat to patients. we will maintain our commitment to developing safe and effective medicines that 10 Teva CSR > Our Patients Access to Medicines Widespread access to healthcare benefits society. It not only improves the lives of patients around the world but also strengthens social and economic infrastructures in both developed and developing countries. Promoting greater accessibility to medicine is We offer a wide range of products, including at the heart of Teva’s patient-led mission. many generic alternatives to innovative We produce more than 1,000 generic pharmaceuticals that provide people around medicines – more than any other company – the world with what is in some cases lifebringing affordable relief to millions of patients saving access to affordable medicines. We also worldwide. work to make our proprietary pharmaceutical products accessible to patients in regions that face economic challenges. Each day, Teva products are used to fill 2.7 million prescriptions in the European Union and 1.5 million more in the United States 11 Teva CSR > Our Patients Promoting Access in Developed Countries As the world’s largest generic drug Generic pharmaceuticals – the chemical and manufacturer, Teva plays a key role in therapeutic equivalents of originator (brand providing patients with access to affordable name) pharmaceuticals – are typically sold medicines. Our broad portfolio of generic at prices substantially lower than those drugs helps us bring the latest advances in of originator products. In recent years, medicine to millions of patients, while keeping governments of many countries have issued costs down throughout national healthcare regulations designed to increase generic systems. Our generic drugs offer affordable market penetration so as to reduce healthcare medicines that address pressing health issues costs. in the developed world. Improving Outcomes for MS Patients Teva has a long history of working to help patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) enjoy a better quality of life. Our innovative drug that offers a safe, efficient treatment for MS was first prescribed in 1996, and ever since we have strived to improve the health outcomes of people living with MS – through improving treatment, advocacy, support and advice. Treatment In 2014, Teva introduced the new dosage for its MS therapy. This new dosage reduces the number of injections required by 60 percent. Advocacy World MS Day has long been an annual focal point for many Teva employees around the world, who bike, run and walk long distances to increase awareness and raise money for MS funds or bodies. For example, in 2013, more than 130 Teva participants biked to the top of Mont Ventoux in the South of France to support the national MS fund in the Netherlands. “It strikes me with amazement each year to see the countless volunteers with MS who are there to support me as I ride for them!” Amal Ward RIM Training and Support Specialist Global Regulatory Operations, Teva USA. 12 Teva CSR > Our Patients Support. To help patients adjust to the daily treatment and maintain it successfully, Teva established a global support team of nurses and other professionals aiming to support patients during their treatment, and to offer professional guidance whenever needed. The nurses serve as an important link between the patients and community medical services that could improve their treatment outcomes. “I am proud to belong to a company that cares about the well-being of their patients and goes beyond supplying a product.” Sonia Ambriz MS Nurse Coordinator, Shared Solutions, Teva Mexico Advice. 2013 saw the second year of Teva Israel's involvement in a project that gives MS patients the tools and training to incorporate physical exercise into their daily routine, according to their individual abilities and limitations. The project also engages medical staff, reinforcing their role in encouraging MS patients to exercise as a way of potentially improving their condition. A website – created by the Israel Society for Neuro-immunology and sponsored by Teva Israel – provides MS patients with extensive information and practical guidance for physical exercise. Looking ahead, we are committed to continuing our efforts to improve the health outcomes for all MS sufferers around the world New Therapeutic Entities One of the ways we are working to provide → Combination with other molecules to better health outcomes and experiences reduce pill burden or side effects is through our work with New Therapeutic → Reformulations to extend dosing schedules Entities (NTE). NTE focuses on identifying or avoid logistical issues such as need for and developing new specialty medicines refrigeration that provide genuine advances on existing therapies by formulating, delivering or using → New delivery systems to improve patient them in a novel way. experience. This innovative program, which was Teva is well placed within the industry to scale introduced in 2012, aims at “industrializing” he up development of these new solutions, thanks development of new medicines that are based to our unique, integrated R&D group (which on existing, known molecules, but have been covers both generic and specialty medicines), “redesigned” to address specific unmet needs. our broad portfolio of molecules and our Examples include: technical and technological capabilities. 13 Teva CSR > Our Patients Improving Access, Choice and Treatment through Innovation We develop New Therapeutic Entities to improve the lives of patients, redesigning the delivery of existing molecules on a huge scale. Developing unique new medicines in this way has many benefits. It allows large patient groups access to more effective treatments. Such medicines also have the potential to reduce the burden on the healthcare sector by improving treatment adherence, reducing side-effects and lowering the number of treatments or pills required per patient. Pain When used appropriately, opioids are an important treatment option for people living with chronic pain. However, prescription drug abuse – intentional use of a medication without a prescription – is a growing concern. In the U.S., for example, more than 12 million people reported using prescription painkillers nonmedically in 2010. In 2011, more than 1.8 million Americans had opioid dependence problems, a figure that has quadrupled since 2009. This problem has a real financial cost; opioid abusers generate, on average, annual direct health care costs 8.7 times higher than nonabusers. Teva is developing a portfolio of abuse deterrent (AD) opioids to help tackle this pressing issue without compromising the needs of our patients. These include OraGuard – a proprietary technology for oral tablets developed to address key routes of opioid abuse – crushed into a powder to snort, dissolved in water to inject, or dissolved in alcohol. When the OraGuard product is exposed to small amounts of fluid, it forms a gel that cannot be injected or orally consumed, and that significantly reduces the percentage of opioid released if snorted. Our AD opioid portfolio includes four oral tablets using OraGuard technology. We conducted qualitative and quantitative market research with more than 300 physicians on our approach to AD opioid, including top pain specialists and primary care physicians. Comments included the following: “[AD] is another layer of protection between me and the patient.” Primary care practitioner, United States “We’ll have the freedom to prescribe and not be so scared.” Pain care specialist, United States Schizophrenia The severely disabling psychiatric disorder schizophrenia requires long-term therapy and often is punctuated by episodes of relapse. The total cost of schizophrenia in the U.S. alone was calculated to be $63 billion in 2005. Risperidone is an antipsychotic drug used to treat schizophrenia. The traditional formulation consists of either a daily oral form or an intramuscular injection every two to four weeks. Nonadherence to treatment is currently 40 percent within one year and 75 percent within two years, and the relapse rate is between two and five times higher in nonadherent patients. The long acting release (LAR) injectable form is better than the oral form for preventing relapses and re-hospitalizations, but still requires frequent visits to the clinic and a painful injection to the buttock. It is also complicated to 14 Teva CSR > Our Patients prepare, with 17 reconstitution steps. Teva is developing a longer-acting, ready-to-use form of Risperidone, requiring a less painful subcutaneous injection (without the need for the patient to undress) once every one to three months. This will reduce the need for lengthy preparation time and the number of visits each patient makes to the clinic. Our patient-focused market research with more than 350 physicians showed a preference for a three-month Risperidone molecule, based on the potential for improved patient adherence and outcomes. “A game changer… I probably will switch all Risperdal Consta patients to this.” Psychiatrist, United States “It would take a lot away from the other 1 month applications… It would be a little revolution.” Psychiatrist, Germany HIV HIV is a chronic disease requiring daily therapy with multiple antiretroviral drug combinations. It affects more than 35 million people worldwide, and the global cost of HIV treatment and prevention could reach $35 billion by 2031. Pill burden is a major factor in poor adherence to the drug regime, contributing to co-infections, hospitalizations and faster onset of AIDS. Current treatment regimes typically involve between 90 and 120 tablets each month. Teva is developing a new portfolio of HIV medication that will enable more cost-effective treatment regimens with a lower pill burden – improving compliance with treatment regimens and reducing the risk of associated complications. Expanding Healthcare Access in Low and Middle Income Countries Demand for medicines is increasing in medicines in these countries. Although such emerging economies, where many people decisions are based on business prioritization, lack access to the medicines they need. they also raise a challenge for Teva in terms Patients face complex healthcare challenges of supporting access to medicine for those and often lack the financial resources to buy unable to afford even low-cost drugs in these the drugs that will improve or sustain their locations. We are looking into opportunities lives. We already use a variety of tools to keep for increasing access around women’s health both our generic and our proprietary products and contraception, as well as options for tiered accessible and affordable in economically drug pricing in Africa and beyond. challenged regions. Teva’s new Global Public Health Program will build on our existing In Latin America, our approach to pricing is efforts to enable affordable healthcare access tailored to each country. For example, Brazil in those regions countries. and Mexico have formal price controls in place, based on the level of product innovation, We have recently expanded our business including ceiling prices and compulsory activities in South Africa, Turkey and Nigeria, discounts for generic medicines. recognizing the strong market for generic 15 Teva CSR > Our Patients Global Public Health Program In 2013, Teva established a Global Public During the year we also deepened or initiated Health Program under our Global Research relationships with various United Nations and Development division. This is our first agencies, funds and programs. We participated initiative created specifically to address global in a joint UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO meeting health challenges focused on: with manufacturers and suppliers of diagnostic products, finished pharmaceutical products → Developing, manufacturing and distributing and active pharmaceutical ingredients. lifesaving pharmaceuticals to reduce the We participated in the WHO/UNAIDS joint burden of disease globally annual consultation with pharmaceutical → Developing new formulations to enable companies and stakeholders on “Global affordable access to critical Forecasts of Antiretroviral Demand 2013– pharmaceuticals for people living in 2016”. In addition, Teva met several times emerging countries with the managers of WHO Prequalification of Medicines Program to better understand → Supporting capacity building of emerging their strategy and working mechanisms for countries’ health sectors by sharing knowidentifying products that can best meet the how and engaging Teva volunteers needs of emerging countries. This program → Formulating effective responses to aims to make quality priority medicines identified health challenges and available for those in need, while working emergencies, in partnership with public closely with national regulatory bodies. health communities. This is achieved through evaluation and inspection activities, and by building a national In its first year, the program underwent capacity for sustainable manufacturing and learning exercises to map, understand and monitoring of quality medicines. prioritize the most pressing current global public health challenges, and to determine the In an effort to further strengthen our most cost effective way for Teva to address institutional knowledge and develop effective them. strategies, we engaged with a variety of global organizations, including: → Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative Partnerships → Global Fund on AIDS, TB and Malaria We recognize that effective partnerships are critical to understanding and meeting the → Grand Challenges Canada needs of patients. In 2013, Teva formed a partnership with the Bill and Melinda Gates → TB Alliance Foundation to develop a new therapeutic → Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and entity in the area of family planning. Child Health In addition, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Clinton Health Access → MDG Health Alliance Initiative as a framework for collaboration in → Médecins Sans Frontières developing solutions for global maternal and child health challenges. 16 Teva CSR > Our Patients Product Donations Our product donations help expand access to billion over 10 years. In the UK, Teva generic medicines in many communities around the medicines are estimated to save the National world by providing pharmaceuticals to people Health System (NHS) more than £2.9 billion with significant medical needs. In 2013, we each year. Affordable generic drugs and donated more than $61.9 million in products, innovative new products are also important equipment and services to community health contributors to patient access and adherence programs in the United States, Canada, to treatment regimes. Generic medicines can Switzerland, several Baltic nations and reduce patient costs, increasing their ability elsewhere. For more on our product donations, to continue treatment, while new formulations see Corporate Giving. can boost adherence by limiting the number of times a medicine is administered. In the Through donations and partnerships with U.S., for example, medication nonadherence nonprofit groups, we also make our medicines causes billions of dollars worth of additional available to communities recovering from doctor visits, hospitalizations, long-term care natural disasters. For more, see Disaster Relief. admissions and prescriptions. Generating Economic Value We contribute directly to the economies of the countries in which we operate. In Israel, Teva plays an important role in generating estimates of our raw added value to the value to the healthcare systems and wider national market have increased from around economies in which we operate. The scale $500 million in 2003 to approximately $3.4 of production and the accessible price of our billion in 2012. products help to limit rising healthcare costs and improve patient health outcomes. We also see an important role for Teva in helping to preserve scientific skills for the next Generic drugs have saved U.S. consumers generation, and we contribute to research and payers an estimated $1.2 trillion over and development structures worldwide. For the past decade. With Teva products filling example, between 2003 and 2012 we directly one in every seven prescriptions, savings in invested around $254 million in start-up the U.S. healthcare system attributable to companies and innovative projects originating Teva generics reach a total of nearly $200 from local research institutions in Israel. 17 Teva CSR > Our Patients Patient Safety Keeping patients safe is a priority of our company. We take every precaution to ensure patient safety when developing products and monitoring their use. The complex chemistry that allows medicines to produce their desired effects in the human body can also create unwanted side effects in some instances. Teva's investments in pharmacovigilance, or drug safety, enable us to identify any unwanted effects of our medicines and take appropriate actions to keep patients safe. 18 Teva CSR > Our Patients Safety Oversight Teva’s Patient Safety & Pharmacovigilance Physician, a PhV Associate and a Clinical Unit (Teva PhV) is responsible for defining Leader, as well as additional experts as and implementing patient safety policies and needed. The Product Safety Group closely systems, as well as ensuring compliance with tracks its product’s journey to market. all relevant global and local regulations. It integrates safety information from clinical We have a worldwide network of highly trials, animal and laboratory studies, and trained Local Safety Officers, most of whom relevant academic literature to ensure that are physicians or pharmacists, covering every all potential safety concerns are properly market where Teva products are sold. addressed. These individuals undergo regular training on all new drug safety regulations and guidelines; Extensive clinical trials help to ensure patient regularly attend conferences organized by safety, and Teva takes great care to conduct professional pharmaceutical organizations; rigorous regimens that meet the highest global and participate in a mandatory, companyregulatory standards (see Clinical Trials). organized annual global training program. After our medicines have undergone extensive All our employees – from research and testing and have been approved to enter development teams to sales and marketing the market, Teva continues to monitor every professionals – are trained to report adverse product. This is crucial to ensure patient safety events to relevant Local Safety Officers. and detect any emerging concerns, as real world use by large numbers of diverse patients Teva employs a three-tiered hierarchy for can sometimes expose new issues that did not medical safety evaluation: emerge in controlled clinical trials. → Product Safety Group – responsible for the Clinical Trials safety profile for a specific product Patient safety is our primary focus throughout → Medical Scientific Group – responsible for the process of pharmaceutical development. drug safety across Teva’s product portfolio Clinical trials play a crucial role in helping to → Safety Board – the senior corporate body ensure that medicines are safe and effective with ultimate oversight of product safety. before they are brought to market. We follow best practices in trial design, and use a variety The Safety Board, established in mid-2013, of oversight procedures to ensure trial quality. meets at least four times a year to review and evaluate important safety issues. Teva strictly follows the most advanced Board members include the most senior global standards for clinical trials, with officials from Global Patient Safety & PhV, emphasis on the health of potential patients Regulatory Affairs, Medical Affairs and Teva’s as well as those taking part in trials. All Chief Medical Office. trials are conducted in accordance with the international Declaration of Helsinki, which Safe Medicine Development and Real lays out ethical principles for medical research World Monitoring involving human subjects. We conduct clinical trials only when trial data is critical to product Teva PhV is closely involved in the medicine development. To maximize patient safety, we development process. Each product under have voluntarily expanded the scope of our clinical development is assigned to a Product trials to include tests and evaluations after Safety Group, which includes a Safety 19 Teva CSR > Our Patients drugs have entered the market. These audits did not reveal any critical findings. All findings requiring follow-up were referred Teva conducts clinical trials all around the to appropriate managing departments for world. In 2013, we had 128 ongoing studies corrective action. in progress in 62 countries, and in 2014 we began screening patients for 18 additional All the clinical trials we conduct are registered trials. A trial can involve dozens or thousands with appropriate government authorities. We of patients, depending on the nature of the report results within the timelines set forth by study. local and regional regulations. Our Clinical Development group coordinates Data Collection and Pharmacovigilance global trial planning, ensuring that all trials around the world meet Teva’s standards for Safety data is collected and analyzed on study design and program strategy. an ongoing basis by the Teva PhV team. The planning procedures for every trial require Safety data is systematically gathered from input from experts in regulatory affairs, a wide variety of sources including (but not global medical affairs, health economics, limited to) patients, healthcare providers, pharmacology, biometrics, pharmacovigilance published literature, regulatory authorities, and and other areas. All planned trials must clinical trials. Teva PhV uses robust processes receive a positive recommendation from to record, track and analyze adverse event Teva’s Clinical Development Committee and be reports from patients and professionals for approved by the Project Approval Committee every single Teva product – from the earliest before implementation. All employees who are clinical trials through the life of the medicine in involved with clinical trials receive mandatory global markets. training related to their role. All safety information is collected into a single In 2012, we moved clinical trials from an inglobal safety database that encompasses all house mode of operation to a fully outsourced our products. The Medical Scientific Group, model using global Contract Research which includes a highly trained team of safety Organizations (CROs). This applies to all physicians and epidemiologists, constantly trials from 2012 onward. We maintain strict analyzes this data and issues regular company policies in selecting and overseeing CROs, safety reports as required by regulatory and each region where trials are conducted authorities. has an office responsible for oversight. Our Pharmacovigilance at Teva goes beyond Clinical Quality Policy also includes oversight data collection and reporting. We strive for of clinical vendors, labs and Contract Research a flawless safety record, relying on both Organizations. knowledge and action to protect patients. 2013 Audits For example, a sophisticated signal detection process within our pharmacovigilance system To ensure the quality of clinical trials, our identifies emerging potential risks to patients Global Clinical Quality Assurance group as early as possible, enabling preventive action conducts random and targeted audits of where necessary. Whenever a Serious Adverse clinical trial sites. Additional monitoring and Event is reported, Teva PhV analyzes each case audits are performed for trials conducted in and reports our findings to the appropriate developing countries. In 2013, we conducted health authorities as soon as possible. In 2013, 98 clinical site audits, and two internal system we established a Global Quality team to ensure audits covering four therapeutic areas. that pharmacovigilance data meets the highest quality standards. 20 Teva CSR > Our Patients Teva's leadership in Pharmacovigilance We advocate and contribute to the development of a higher standard of pharmacovigilance across the pharmaceutical sector. For example, Teva Pharmacovigilance played a significant role in organizing the 2014 European Generic Medicines Association (EGA) Pharmacovigilance forum. Wendy Huisman, our EU pharmacovigilance lead, presented at the forum and led a workshop. We also received positive feedback from the European Medicines Agency’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) on the format of our Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). The Committee requested that all EU marketing authorization holders adopt the format for adverse event overview that Teva uses in its standard PSUR template. Patient Communication We know that patients want and need more quickly. Teva is careful to communicate information. We communicate all pertinent safety concerns as soon as they have been safety information through a variety of verified. Teva regularly looks for new ways to channels including patient leaflets, product effectively and appropriately communicate labels and materials provided to healthcare with our patients to provide them with the professionals. Technology also allows us to most up to date safety information possible. track safety data more easily and to respond Teva's Response to Furosemide Concerns Between June 7 and July 9, 2013, a number of adverse event cases were reported to Teva in France, raising safety concerns with Furosemide – a loop diuretic used to treat congestive heart failure and edema. Teva recalled Furosemide in France, based on reports that Zopiclone, a medicine used for the treatment of insomnia, had been found inside Furosemide blister packs. We confirmed that the relevant batches of these medicines had been packaged on different days. The French National Security Agency of Medicines and Health Products opened an investigation, and we worked closely with them to monitor and publish the number and severity of reported cases. The French investigation concluded that the apparent switch could not be attributed to Teva’s manufacturing process, so the investigation’s focus moved to either possible human error or an intentional switch at the point of sale. In July 2013, the investigators concluded that the safety concerns regarding Furosemide were unfounded, and that there was no verified “safety signal” that would indicate a possible causal relationship between this drug and the adverse events in question. The European Medicines Agency was then informed that there was no actual safety signal involving Furosemide. 21 Teva CSR > Our Patients Product Labeling Counterfeit Drugs Product labels help patients to understand Counterfeit drugs present risks to the important guidance about product usage, pharmaceutical industry, and to the safety side effects, medical risks and other relevant of our patients. Teva recognizes the severity information for our medicines. To ensure our of this issue, and is taking steps to ensure labeling is current and our patients are kept that our patients receive authentic, safe and informed, we provide and regularly update this reliable products. We use a multipronged material on the packaging and leaflets of all approach to combat counterfeit medicines, Teva products. which includes securing the supply chain, detecting and rapidly responding to counterfeit Labeling for Local Markets activity and raising public and stakeholder awareness to the dangers it poses. Teva recognizes that our product labels must provide patients with clear instructions We combine business practices, legislation for the appropriate use of medicines and and regulation, enforcement and technology must fully articulate any safety concerns. to reduce counterfeiting and improve As a global provider of medicines, we face patient safety. Our labels help verify the challenges in meeting regional regulatory and authenticity and safety of our medicines, language requirements for our product labels. and we use individual package serialization We meet this challenge through the use of to enhance supply chain security. We meet country-specific labels for both our branded all anticounterfeiting requirements in the and generic products. This approach ensures markets we serve. In 2012, we implemented language accuracy, patient familiarity and a company-wide anticounterfeit policy to regulatory compliance. minimize and mitigate the risk of such activity penetrating our supply chain. Our commitment to effective product labels is aided by focus groups and market studies that We track new regulations around the world help us understand how patients in various as they are developed, and introduce new regions interact with products, labels and measures as required to ensure compliance. leaflets. The results of this research, along These measures range from bar codes, to with the local regulatory expertise of our local serialization and full track and trace. teams around the world, help inform design In line with emerging U.S. regulations, we and messaging. will provide lot transaction histories for all We conduct a thorough review of the U.S. shipments by the required time frame messaging on our labels each year or whenever of January 2015. Serialization on sales units a relevant change is made in regulatory and case shippers will follow in 2017, with guidelines or product information. full track-and-trace in place by 2023 when regulations become effective in the U.S. We will also implement a global plan to upgrade packaging lines across our sites to comply with new requirements. 22 Teva CSR > Our Patients Promoting Medical and Scientific Excellence Scientific excellence underpins our work to develop innovative medicines that address the unmet needs of patients. As patient needs continue to evolve, we will continue to apply scientific rigor to our commitment to deliver better health outcomes. Our medicines help healthcare professionals sponsor HCPs to attend relevant professional (HCPs) improve outcomes for their patients. or educational meetings and events. Given their role as the providers of frontline These collaborations provide us with valuable care, we work closely with HCPs, and we scientific and medical insight and help us recognize that these relationships must be to better understand patient concerns. managed according to relevant regulations and In all dealings with HCPs, we maintain high with a commitment to patient benefit. ethical standards, ensuring that they are not improperly influenced and that our mutual We collaborate with HCPs on clinical research relationships focus on improving the practice projects and medical consultation in countries of medicine and development of science. where we operate. We also occasionally 23 Teva CSR > Our Patients Ethical Support in Medical Excellence → Revamped our Code of Business Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy We target our work with healthcare professionals on areas that advance our → Developed a Global Policy on Interactions healthcare mission, following our Code of with Members of the Healthcare Community Business Conduct and regulations governing (to be launched in 2014) interaction with HCPs. When applicable we → Developed a Global Policy on Interactions compensate HCPs, taking care to ensure with Government Officials Other Than that such payments are not perceived as Members of the Health Care Community inducements or rewards for prescribing our (to be launched in 2014). products. We are developing local, regional and global policies and standard operating Our Anti-Corruption policy is available at procedures in parallel with existing local and http://www.tevapharm.com/About/Pages/Tevaregional reporting requirements governing Global-Anti-Corruption-Policy.aspx specific interactions with HCPs. In some countries, certain HCPs can qualify as government officials for the purposes of anticorruption laws. To ensure clarity in managing these relationships, we have: 24 Teva CSR > Our Patients Supporting the Next Generation of Nueroscientists Teva initiated and is leading a unique neuroscience research collaboration, focusing on novel therapeutic approaches to tackling some of the most challenging diseases society faces today. We have made a five-year investment of $15 million in the Israeli National Network of Excellence in Neuroscience (NNE). The NNE supports research across 10 leading academic institutions and medical centers by funding research grants, postdoctoral fellowships and PhD scholarships. It also facilitates interactions between researchers and leading drug development experts in the pharmaceutical industry. In 2013, the NNE selected 50 projects out of close to 300 applications. Research themes ranged from basic science to studies of animal models and innovations in therapeutic areas (e.g. Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, Huntington’s and multiple sclerosis) to new targets for drug development. An important focus of the NNE is supporting young scientists. During the 2014 annual Biomed meeting in Tel Aviv, 25 NNE-funded young scientists participated in a “speed talk” session in which they explained their academic work to an audience of biomedical specialists. Teva’s President of Global R&D and its Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Michael Hayden, led an informal group discussion with the NNE young scientists, providing guidance and sharing his own experiences as a young scientist. Later in 2014, the first annual meeting of the NNE, titled “Advancing Neuroscience,” brought together Teva Global R&D leaders and the NNE community for two days of scientific exchanges and discussions aimed at enhancing intranetwork collaborations. The meeting resulted in at least a dozen new such collaborations, primarily among the NNE researchers. Three of the top academic institutions in the world are also members of the NNE Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Technion Israel Institute of Technology and Tel Aviv University. This work is part of a global collaboration effort, in which we partner with leading academic institutions to tackle clinical and scientific challenges. Other key collaborations include partnership with Cancer Research Technology Ltd. on the research and development of first-class cancer treatments, and a global research collaboration to drive insights into neuroprotective therapeutic approaches in Huntington’s disease (HD). 25 Teva CSR > Our Patients Responsible Sales and Marketing We are committed to responsible sales and marketing. These efforts assist patients in understanding how to use our products, by providing information on side effects, dosage and other drug-related issues. Together with healthcare providers, who play and patients. Teva is committed to maintaining an important role in this process, we seek an effective compliance program after the to clearly convey this information and never termination of the CIA and beyond. obscure relevant details. We carefully monitor compliance with the Teva will continue to honor the obligations Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (see Governance of our IVAX Corporate Integrity Agreement and Ethics) We also explicitly separate (CIA) throughout its duration, which will sales and marketing considerations from end in 2014. The CIA requires internal our independent medical education grants, compliance controls and oversight, senior charitable donations and support of external leadership commitment, and monitoring of medical and patient groups. our interactions with healthcare professionals 26 Teva CSR > Our Patients Ethical Marketing Ensuring the ethical promotion of our Information Transparency products is critical to Teva’s integrity. Our high standards are reflected in our Code of Access to current scientific information Business Conduct, which governs our approach about our products is vital to the healthcare to sales and marketing, and in our policies community, and we seek to be as transparent and procedures for interacting with healthcare as possible about product-related medical professionals and patients. While marketing data. We make this information available regulations may differ by region, we adhere to through on-label messaging, company and the ethical marketing guidelines in our Code of product websites, and communications from Business Conduct in all countries, even if this our field-based medical and sales teams as puts us at a competitive disadvantage. well as by providing information materials at major medical gatherings. We create customized marketing materials and supplementary educational information Teva makes a clear distinction between for each of our distinct customer groups, promotional materials and scientific to comply with all appropriate laws and information about our products. Our sales regulations. A rigorous review process representatives can distribute and discuss ensures that all promotional materials, only approved on-label information and messages and presentations comply with promotional materials that meet legal, internal policies and meet legal, medical and medical, and regulatory guidelines as outlined regulatory requirements. Such materials must above. When Teva sales representatives be approved by a Promotion and Advertising receive specific medical information requests Review Committee (PARC), composed of related to scientific or off-label questions, they members from our Legal, Medical, and refer these to specially trained colleagues in Regulatory departments, to ensure that these our Medical Affairs Department. materials: → Are consistent with approved product Patient Privacy labeling Patient privacy is a key concern at Teva, and we adhere to best practices in secure data → Are accurate and not misleading management for all clinical trials, patient → Make claims about a product only when support programs and records. properly substantiated Our security efforts cover the entire lifecycle of data management, from collection through → Reflect the balance between risks and processing and storage. We comply with all benefits data security laws and regulations in the → Comply with all other applicable countries where we operate. regulations. 27 Teva CSR > Our Patients Staff Training All Teva employees receive training on our approve payment to healthcare providers and Code of Business Conduct every other year. anyone in a position to influence a decisionMarketing employees receive supplementary maker in a healthcare system. We also train all training on responsible sales policies, relevant employees on compliance measures including appropriate promotional techniques, related to Corporate Integrity Agreements by region, to ensure compliance with local (government agreements that mandate specific laws and guidelines. They also receive regular oversight and compliance measures). Teva is training on how to appropriately handle committed to ongoing training, particularly for medical questions and information requests all customer-facing employees. by forwarding them to the relevant Medical Affairs representative. In 2014, employees Our leadership enforces high standards of who interact with members of the healthcare conduct for our employees. Teva does not community and government officials will tolerate behavior that is unethical, illegal or receive training on Teva’s new policies relating dishonest. All our employees are required to to such interactions. comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate and with the regulatory rules that As part of our Global Compliance Policies, we affect our business. Failure to do so can result provide training on the U.S. Foreign Corrupt in severe penalties, including termination and Practices Act for employees authorized to potential criminal or civil actions. 28 Teva CSR > Our Patients Patient Advocacy Our commitment to patients, and to expanding access to medicines, goes beyond the drugs that we provide. Teva supports a wide range of external projects and programs, run by independent nonprofit organizations that promote patient health. These partners include patient advocacy groups, professional medical associations, trade associations, organizations with healthcare objectives and other charitable organizations with a 501(c)(3) or similar status. Our partnerships with and support for such organizations help us understand the patients’ perspective, find cures and fight disease. We work to advance the missions of our partner organizations and seek to be the industry’s leading exponent of patient/professional relations through proactive and ethical patient advocacy efforts. 29 Teva CSR > Our Patients Supporting Advocacy Organizations Teva provides direct financial support for We brought multiple pain healthcare innovative and high-quality initiatives professional organizations and patient conducted by nonprofit healthcare groups, advocacy groups together for a Working including patient groups, across a wide Together for People with Chronic Pain range of therapeutic areas. In addition, we advocacy summit in 2013. The summit had sometimes contribute to fundraising events for a dual purpose: these organizations. We only support groups that meet the following criteria: → To determine how the chronic pain advocacy community can work together to benefit → Provide broad public benefit, advance people with pain and the healthcare medical care and/or improve patient professionals who care for them outcomes → To discuss future support and resource → Provide awareness and understanding needs for the chronic pain space. to patients, caregivers and healthcare In 2013, Teva contributed approximately $9.7 providers of the impact of legislation, million in support of patient and professional policy and regulations on diagnosis, advocacy groups. access to treatments and patient care. Teva works with over 50 patient advocacy and professional groups in the US alone, and with dozens others in the rest of the world supporting more than 220 advocacy programs 30 Teva CSR > Our Patients Advocacy Ethics Patient Advocate and Professional We only consider funding requests if they are Relations unsolicited, are developed independently of In seeking to support patients and healthcare Teva and meet a legitimate advocacy objective. providers, our relationships with certain Additionally, programs must be impartial partners go beyond financial support and and balanced. All the support we provide is include appropriate information sharing, completely independent of product promotion networking, monitoring policy development or sales considerations. We have strict review and generating practical solutions. We procedures in place to avoid any real or maintain a broad network of contacts with perceived exceptions to this rule. strategic advocacy organizations and track emerging third-party groups and influencers Regulations on industry engagement with in all therapeutic areas. We pursue projects in advocacy organizations are constantly evolving alliance with such advocacy groups to improve and we monitor changes closely to ensure health outcomes through better healthcareour continued compliance. In the U.S., our related guidelines, governance, disease support of advocacy activities also complies management and access to medicines. with guidelines from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the American Medical Our collaborative work with advocacy Association and the Pharmaceutical Research groups also has had a direct impact on our and Manufacturers of America. business success. These partnerships help us to understand and engage in emerging policy trends and to improve upon on and communicate the social and economic value of Teva’s products. 31 Teva CSR > Our Patients Manufacturing and Supply Chain Quality Our ability to provide an unrestricted supply of safe medicines is essential to our success and to the well-being of our patients. Maintaining a fail-safe network of suppliers and internal manufacturing processes that ensure quality, reliability and responsibility is therefore a priority for our business. Our global manufacturing and supply chain network encompasses 21 Teva-owned manufacturing sites that produce more than half our active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and 50 Teva-owned finished dosage pharmaceutical manufacturing sites, with two additional sites currently under construction. In addition, thousands of third-party suppliers provide us with raw materials (including the rest of our APIs) and packaging, and around 500 suppliers produce final packaged products. This global network supplies Teva and our patients with drugs in more than 60 countries. In 2013, we spent $9 billion, with more than 90,000 suppliers. Of this, approximately 40 percent was spent on direct materials and 60 percent on indirect goods and services. Around 45 percent of our external supplier spend originates from Europe, 27 percent from North America and 15 percent from Israel. 32 Teva CSR > Our Patients Our Approach Teva’s efforts to deliver a safe and secure requirements and the cGMP and GDP medicines pipeline go beyond compliance. standards. These include audits of suppliers We embrace suppliers as partners, of APIs, finished dosage forms and laboratory working closely with them to improve their and packaging services at least once every performance. We share best practices from three years. Suppliers of primary packaging our own operations, provide resources materials and critical excipients (inactive during supplier quality reviews, and ingredients used in medicines) are audited support investments and upgrades that help at least once every five years. Audit findings them comply with cGMP, GDP and local are widely communicated internally to key environmental laws. stakeholders, as well as to the suppliers. Where we uncover issues, suppliers are We require all suppliers and our owned required to respond with a corrective and manufacturing facilities to adhere to a range preventive action plan. We work with sites of robust standards to ensure quality and that do not pass our audits to implement these safety. These include the stringent standards plans and improve their quality systems. outlined in the pharmaceutical industry’s current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) Teva also performs audits of its own and Good Distribution Practices (GDP), facilities, determining compliance with our additional requirements from regulatory own quality standards and systems, as well authorities globally and Teva’s own standards as the governing regulations for the site. of compliance. The latter help to safeguard the Any deficiencies result in both corrective health of our patients as well as to produce and preventive actions. Inspections are good-quality medicines. performed by the local sites as well as our Corporate Quality Auditing group. In 2013, We are working to develop a Supplier Code of Teva received no FDA Enforcement Actions Conduct and expect to roll this out globally by or other regulatory actions relating to quality early 2015. For employees, our internal Code standards. of Business Conduct provides clear guidance on conflicts of interest and gifts that might appear to influence our business decisions. 2013 Audits To ensure quality, we use Quality Technical In 2013, we completed audits of nearly 900 Agreements (QTAs) – legal documents that set suppliers globally, with more than 1,000 out comprehensive quality and compliance audits planned for 2014. This total includes expectations for both Teva operations and but is not limited to contract manufacturers, our suppliers. QTAs include the requirements packagers and labs as well as API, ASM and to follow cGMPs as well as marketing excipients. In 2013, less than 4 percent of the authorization procedures and Teva-specific 900 audits produced unsatisfactory results, quality standards. and we are working with all relevant suppliers to rectify the problems identified. We also perform audits of material suppliers on a global basis, to confirm compliance As regulations become more rigorous globally, with our own quality standards, regulatory we are committed to maintaining our own 33 Teva CSR > Our Patients manufacturing sites to the appropriate the provision of supply agreements, quality standards. Our new facilities are designed agreements and standard terms and conditions to meet not only current but also potential with each order. future regulatory requirements. We monitor new and emerging regulations that affect our Additional security measures to keep our sites around the globe, working proactively supply steady and consistent, meeting the toward compliance by identifying gaps and needs of patients, include: implementing improvements. → Dual sourcing: For key products and Maintaining Secure Supply materials, we make sure we have alternate sources, both within and outside our own Close management of our manufacturing and manufacturing network supply chain network is critical to maintaining a secure supply of medicines to patients who → Collaboration: We work with suppliers to depend on them. We conduct GMP audits on share information that helps both parties direct suppliers, usually prior to submission forecast and manage risks and opportunities of the supplier’s registration file. We carry → Monitoring: Our global purchasing team out audits of our main suppliers, covering continually assesses suppliers to confirm aspects such as their supply chain, capacities the successful production and delivery of and supply risk mitigation activities. products. We further mitigate risks to our supply through 34 Teva CSR > Governance and Ethics Governance and Ethics Each action Teva takes, each action our employees take, shapes the ethical character of our company. That character is at the heart of how we operate and it is what sets us apart in the marketplace. It drives our deep commitment to expanding the availability and affordability of medicines for patients worldwide. From the Board of Directors and CEO to each individual employee in each unit, we are unwavering in our commitment to doing what is right while striving to reach our financial and business goals. Although we face complex challenges as we transform our business, no objective is worth compromising our values or ethical standards. Maintaining the patients’ trust is essential to our business success, and Teva upholds the highest ethical standards for our Board of Directors, executives and employees. At the end of 2013, two of Teva’s 15 Directors were statutory independent directors and two were women. The Board of Directors has appointed six standing committees to oversee specific business activities, each of which is guided by a Charter. Full details are available at www.tevapharm.com/About/Pages/ Committees.aspx. 35 Teva CSR > Governance and Ethics Business Ethics It takes effort to uphold our core values and deliver on our promises of ethical conduct to patients and other stakeholders. To make this happen, we place high importance on communicating our Code of Conduct and other policies to employees and ensuring they understand how to apply these in their day-to-day work. Code of Business Conduct Our Code of Business Conduct provides guidance to all Teva employees, Directors and business partners. In 2013, we revised the Code to make it easier for employees to read, digest and reference. We also added relevant insights on how to apply the code in specific situations (see box). The code’s five key chapters focus on our five core values – integrity, respect, collaboration, excellence and leadership. Through 2013, 95 percent of our employees worldwide completed an in-person or online training course on the new Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is available in 32 languages and the training course is available in 22 languages. All new hires will be required to complete the training, and all employees must be re-trained every two years. 36 Teva CSR > Governance and Ethics Bringing Our Code of Conduct to Life The following extracts demonstrate how we provide our employees with practical guidance on applying our values.. Integrity Q: My group is seeking the advice of a neurologist on a project. Can I suggest we retain of a neurologist who is a family member? A: Since this may present a conflict of interest, you must disclose the relationship with your manager, who will review the situation and determine what steps should be taken to manage the potential conflict. Respect Q: One of my co-workers emailed an inappropriate joke to me and some fellow employees. I found it offensive, but don’t know if I should approach my co-worker with my concern. A: We are committed to maintaining a professional work environment in which all Teva employees are treated with respect and dignity. Therefore, offensive or inappropriate behavior is not acceptable. If you feel uncomfortable speaking to your co-worker directly, please contact your manager and/or the Human Resources department for assistance. Collaboration Q: I maintain a personal blog that covers a number of topics including healthcare-related issues. I express only my personal opinions. Do I need to indicate my affiliation with Teva? A: Ask yourself whether a reader who discovers your position with the Company might think a particular comment of yours was biased or that you might be hiding your affiliation. In this situation, reconsider whether you want to post that particular item or disclose your affiliation. When disclosing your affiliation, make clear that your ideas or opinions are personal and may not represent the position of the Company. Excellence Q: In order to meet year-end sales targets, can I offer my customers a discount if they overstock their supply so I can book the sales this year? A: No. It is inappropriate to manipulate sales orders in order to show better results for a certain financial period. This type of intentional misconduct, whether for your personal benefit or the benefit of others, constitutes fraud, which is strictly prohibited by law and Company policies. Leadership Q: A researcher from a university contacted me and stated that she had an idea for a clinical trial involving the use of one of Teva’s products. What should I do? A: Teva encourages the conduct of research to promote science. Any such research must be conducted in accordance with legal requirements, ethical considerations and while maintaining and safeguarding Teva’s interests. Any such request should be forwarded to the Legal Department and the relevant business representative within the Company. 37 Teva CSR > Governance and Ethics The full Code can be viewed at http://www.tevapharm.com/About/Pages/AboutUs.aspx. Teva’s Code of Conduct is supplemented by policies that cover specific topics in more detail. These include our: Teva’s Code of Conduct is supplemented by all these channels so that our employees can policies that cover specific topics in more choose the method with which they are most detail. These include our: comfortable. In 2013, employees reported 211 concerns. We addressed every report and when → Anti-Corruption Policy, updated in 2014 appropriate conducted further investigations. → Global Policy on Interactions with Members of the HealthCare Community, developed in Human Rights 2013 (to be launched in 2014) Teva supports human rights through our → Global Policy on Interactions with participation in the UN Global Compact, which Government Officials, who are not Members we joined in 2010, focusing our efforts on of the HealthCare Community developed in employees. 2013 (to be launched in 2014). We believe in the right to earn a living wage To provide guidance for engaging with and respect the right of employees to form suppliers, we also launched in 2014 a Global associations freely and to engage in collective Third Party Due Diligence Procedure document bargaining. We maintain positive relations with to support our Global Procurement Policy. employee representative groups across all our During 2013, we trained 95.4 percent of sites. our target population on the updated AntiOur Code of Conduct states that each employee Corruption Policy – over 20,000 employees. should treat his or her colleagues with dignity In 2014, we will train relevant employees on and respect, and that we value diversity and our Anti-Corruption Policy, Interactions with inclusion and are committed to supporting Members of the Healthcare Community Policy, diversity in our workforce. For more on Interactions with Government Officials Policy diversity at Teva, see Employees. and Third Party Due Diligence Procedure. Teva strongly supports the elimination of all forms of forced or child labor. All our Reporting Violations employees around the world are employed We encourage employees to raise questions of their own free will. Due to the nature of on violations of our Code of Conduct, policies our business, which requires highly-trained or other compliance matters. Our Code researchers to work with our products, it is of Conduct provides guidance on how to effectively impossible that we would employ recognize and report potential violations. child labor in our own operations or those of Our Office of Business Integrity is responsible first-tier suppliers. for addressing all reported violations. Employees can report misconduct directly to Animal Research the Office or through the Teva Integrity Hotline. We conduct some animal research in order Other options include talking to their manager to assure the safety of patients we help to or next-level manager, the Human Resources, treat, and as part of our work to discover Compliance or Legal departments, or an new therapeutic drugs. Animal research is Internal Auditor in their country. We provide a controversial issue, and we comply with 38 Teva CSR > Governance and Ethics all local laws and internationally accepted Risk Management principles governing its conduct. Teva is strongly committed to carrying out this Our Enterprise Risk Management program research responsibly and minimizing the use provides a structured, consistent and and discomfort of animals where possible. continuous process for identifying, evaluating, managing and reporting on opportunities and We operate four laboratories that conduct threats across our organization. The program animal research – one in Israel, one in the aims to integrate risk management into United States and two in Hungary – which Teva’s company culture and decision making subscribe to the 3Rs, an industry standard for processes. Our Global Risk Management animal use in research: Unit is responsible for implementing and → Replacement – Use non-animal methods monitoring stringent risk management when possible. Where practical, we use inprocesses throughout the company, and silico predictions to replace animal testing supports activities across our business in assessing the safety of drug units and regions. Each year they conduct intermediates and contaminants. questionnaires, interviews and workshops with business unit leaders and senior corporate → Reduction – Use methods that reduce the executives to identify and rate the severity and number of animals used. probability of a range of risks to the company. → Refinement – Use methods that improve Some of our key risks relate to the animal welfare. In some cases, we provide performance, regulatory approval, patenting animals with pain relief through analgesic and commercialization of our products – medications and anesthetic procedures. including how they perform in the market against competing products. In addition, In order to ensure that use of animal our future success relies on continued research is necessary in each case, an ethical innovation and the development of new committee of external experts and employees products – a process which requires a from different functions reviews applications significant investment of time and money. from our biological research staff. These are Other key risks relate to our potential failure approved only where such use is justified and to carry out aspects of our business strategy, the number of animals is not excessive. such as finding appropriate acquisition and At present, we track only the number and type collaboration opportunities. For full details, of animals in our Israeli laboratory, but our please see http://www.tevapharm.com goal is to expand this monitoring program To guard against risks, we assign a ‘risk and our animal research policies globally. We owner’ to each one, who prepares mitigation currently do not track research conducted on plans and tracking indicators. In addition, behalf of Teva by contractors. However, we aim senior executive Risk Champions monitor and to work only with vendors who comply with manage risk within their region or business local laws and in countries and regions where unit. Risk owners has ultimate responsibility modern regulations for use of animals for risk management processes. To support in research are strictly enforced. oversight, a risk dashboard methodology was introduced in 2013, which is circulated to the Risk champions each Quarter, and makes it easy to track high-level risks. 39 Teva CSR > Governance and Ethics Public Policy Public policies on health around the world can have a direct impact on our business. Our advocacy efforts on issues that affect the healthcare industry focus on how to best serve our patients through first-class care and improving health outcomes and access to affordable medicines. In 2013, Teva established a Global Policy Affairs teams around the world. In 2013, the Committee (GPC) comprised of senior committee released position papers on the managers across key functions, and a Policy following policy issues: Working Group (PWG) made up of regional government affairs and policy experts, in → Clinical trial transparency order to co-ordinate positions across the → Combating counterfeit medicines business. The PWG identifies and prioritizes global issues, gathering input from company→ Timely access to Gx medicines wide stakeholders to provide the GPC with → Incentives for continued innovation recommendations that balance competing internal interests and benefit the whole We lobby government agencies and provide company. The GPC then articulates policy advice to legislators and policymakers on positions that enhance and protect Teva and issues that impact our business, patients, our patients’ interests worldwide and guide customers and the wider healthcare industry. the advocacy strategies of local Government These activities are guided by our Global Policy on Interactions with Government 40 Teva CSR > Governance and Ethics Officials. To make the most of these efforts, we Political Contributions collaborate with other healthcare companies, pharmacies and related organizations, as well In the United States, we have a Political Action as patient, consumer and other advocacy Committee, the Teva PAC, to which employees groups on issues where we have shared may choose to make personal contributions. concerns. The following organizations are The Teva PAC makes donations to candidates among those we belong to or work with on seeking elected office at the State and Federal public policy issues: level that we believe will benefit our company and our patients. All contributions are → World Health Organization (WHO) voluntary and made in accordance with the Federal Election Campaign Act. In 2013, the → World Intellectual Property Organization Teva PAC contributed $104,700 to candidates (WIPO) at both the State and Federal levels of → International Federation of Pharmaceutical government. Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) → Generic Pharmaceutical Association (GPhA) → European Generic Association (EGA) 41 Teva CSR > Our Employees Our Employees Teva is a people-centered company. Millions of patients around the world benefit from access to our medicines every day, and we work hard to nurture the talented employees who develop and deliver these products. Attracting, motivating and retaining values-driven, talented and high-performing individuals is a business priority at Teva. To help our people flourish we provide a safe working environment, offer fair and competitive compensation and benefits, foster an inclusive and diverse culture and provide ample opportunity for learning and development. Teva respects the rights of employees to freely form associations and engage in collective bargaining. We maintain fair-minded and collaborative relations with employee representative bodies wherever we operate. 42 Teva CSR > Our Employees Our Workforce: By the Numbers Total workforce by Job Type and Gender Total Workforce by Employment Contract (full time employees only) Category 2013 Category Male Female Total Full-Time Employees 42,281 Senior 4% 3% 3% Management Contingent Workers 2,664 Middle 50% 57% 53% TOTAL 44,945 Management Below Middle 46% 40% 44% Total Workforce by Gender Management (full time and contingent employees) Category 2013 Number of New Employee Hires by Employment Contract and Gender Male 20,630 Hires Female Male Total Female 24,315 Contingent 491 418 909 TOTAL 44,945 Worker Teva 2212 2069 4281 Total Workforce by Region Employee (full time employees only) TOTAL 2703 2487 5190 Category 2013 Africa 28 Number of Employee Terminations by Asia 10,598 Employment Contract and Gender Europe 18,987 Category Full-time Contingent TOTAL employees workers Latin America 4,176 North America 8,454 Female 2,386 521 2,907 Oceania 38 Male 2,755 425 3,180 TOTAL 42,281 TOTAL 5,141 946 6,087 Teva respects the rights of employees to freely form associations and engage in collective bargaining. We maintain fair-minded and collaborative relations with employee representative bodies wherever we operate. 43 Teva CSR > Our Employees Safety At Teva we believe that everyone has the right to a safe and healthy working environment, and that all injuries and incidents are preventable. We strive to incorporate Environmental, Health & Driving Safety, and Laboratory Safety, as and Safety (EHS) considerations throughout well as Regional EHS Committees. Finally, to the lifecycle of Teva’s products, including support a strong safety culture, we appointed research and development; facility design and EHS Leaders at many Teva sites to champion development; manufacturing and distribution; and take responsibility for safety in their and commercial and administrative activities. departments, in addition to their usual jobs. In 2013, we made significant changes to In 2013, we also launched a major upgrade the governance and oversight of safety and to Teva’s global EHS Management System. health. Our Global EHS department provides This system provides the framework for technical support for the implementation of managing EHS across Teva, establishes our EHS Policy and Standards and ensures minimum expectations that our operations that the relevant programs, methodologies and must meet, and guides our facilities to tools align throughout the company. A new consistently implement our standards. Corporate EHS Committee composed of senior We expect to complete the development of management from all Teva divisions oversees this revised system over the next two years. EHS across the company. We also established For more information, on our global EHS Technical Advisory Committees in the areas Management System, please see Environment. of Occupational Safety, Process Safety, Office 44 Teva CSR > Our Employees TARGETZER Occupational Health Given the nature of our business, the main occupational health risk that employees face zero incidents, zero injuries, zero releases. is handling hazardous materials, in particular Our long-term goal is to eliminate all workactive pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). related injuries and illnesses. In 2013, we We have detailed guidelines in place for the launched a Target Zero campaign to help safe handling of APIs and drugs, which are establish a positive safety mindset and periodically reviewed. Our portfolio includes promote safe behaviors. In addition, we around 1,000 different molecules as well as expanded our safety KPIs to improve the way tens of thousands of other substances, each we monitor performance in certain areas, and of which must be handled in line with the completed a detailed third-party assessment regulations for its classification. To ensure of process safety management activities at that our employees keep abreast of changing several global locations. Recommendations are regulations, in 2013 we implemented a global currently being addressed at local and global chemical hazard communication process. This levels. Teva facilities operate local Hazard step is expected to improve knowledge and Reporting Boards, so that employees can management of combustible dust hazards report safety concerns. across our global network. We also hold periodic training sessions at all relevant Our OSHA recordable injuries and illnesses sites on the safe handling of APIs and other at Teva sites dropped by 30 percent globally chemical hazards. The Teva Global Health in 2013, as did the number of injuries and Advisory Committee oversees our activities, illnesses that resulted in lost workdays. identifies ways to implement best practices We are saddened by the death of our employee and ensures that we follow guidelines and in Israel who lost his life when an explosion achieve 100 percent compliance. occurred as he was feeding raw material into a vessel. Injuries and Lost Days 2011 2012 2013 Fatalities 0 2 11 Total number of recordable injuries 537 440 306 OSHA recordable injuries rate2 1.79 1.25 0.89 Total number of injuries resulting in lost workdays 302 252 179 OSHA injuries resulting in lost workdays rate2 1.01 0.72 0.52 Total number of lost workdays 3,542 2,428 2,028 1. A Teva employee in Israel died as a result of an explosion that occurred while feeding raw material into a vessel. 2. All rates per 200,000 hours worked 45 Teva CSR > Our Employees Mexico Plant Highlighted by Government for Safe Operations Over the past two years our TAPI Mexico plant implemented a significant program of activities to embed safety management processes and a safetyfirst culture, and to maintain 100 percent compliance with national and international safety standards. Training and communication has been crucial to the program’s success. Every employee in the plant participated in mandatory training programs, including all on-site contractors. On-site emergency response and first aid teams received intensive additional training, and new Process Training kits include safety information on each process that takes place at the plant. Plant managers identified five critical safety issues, which are communicated to employees and contractors at every opportunity – during “five-minute talks,” on computer screen savers, and more. To demonstrate the importance of safety messages, the leadership team has shared them by conducting safety awareness meetings and open forums. For example, the entire leadership team presented the new EHS policy to the workforce, and asked whether they were living up to the policy. As a result of this work, the Mexican Secretariat of Labor awarded the plant its Safe Place to Work certificate in January 2014. In addition, the Secretariat highlighted TAPI on its website as a case study of safe operations. 46 Teva CSR > Our Employees Health and Wellness We encourage our employees and their families to lead healthy lifestyles. Benefits such as sponsored medical screenings and health checkups are available to the majority of employees worldwide. Our business units implement additional such as smoking cessation and diabetes health and wellness activities on a country(see country examples below). by-country basis to best reflect local needs and interests. These can include flu vaccinations, Our long-term goal is to expand our global nutrition and exercise programs, and wellness health and wellness program to provide a initiatives covering lifestyle-related issues comparable experience for all employees such as smoking cessation and diabetes worldwide, while still addressing specific (see country examples below). local needs. Over the past year we carried out in-depth reviews of health and wellness Our business units implement additional activities everywhere, we operate to identify health and wellness activities on a country-byneeds and to leverage best practices. We also country basis to best reflect local needs and conducted interviews with health and wellness interests. These can include flu vaccinations, vendors to explore optional frameworks for a nutrition and exercise programs, and wellness global health promotion program. initiatives covering lifestyle-related issues 47 Teva CSR > Our Employees We have begun incorporating health and This will strengthen our governance of this wellness initiatives under the oversight of important area and help us to map out the compensation and benefits experts, as part of health and wellness needs of each country. our Global Total Rewards employee platform. Promoting Good Health Around the World Teva’s health and wellness activities around the world in 2013 included the following highlights, among many others. Israel A new fitness campaign, Get in Shape, offered group classes and lectures at Teva sites across the country. Employees also took advantage of opportunities to join events such as the Nike Nightrun in Tel Aviv, Cycling Around the Kinneret, and the Jerusalem Marathon. The campaign builds on the success of Teva Israel’s existing Health and Sport program. Germany Our holistic approach to health and wellness programs and support includes cultural activities, fitness, daycare, stress reduction and even wealth management. For example, we have arranged discounts for local fitness centers and organized sport communities where employees exercise together in their sport of choice. Teva’s Ulm facility offers an on-site daycare center that can accommodate up to 100 children. Hungary Around 600 employees took part in our second annual Sport Day in 2013. We organized running, walking and biking activities as well as fitness classes and healthy lifestyle campaigns. Twice a year, we also participate in the national Bike to Work campaign. United States We subsidize gym membership at all U.S. sites, and in 2013 we opened an on-site fitness center at our site in North Wales, Pennsylvania. 48 Teva CSR > Our Employees Inclusion and Diversity Respect is one of our core values as well as and the foundation on which we build our approach to inclusion and diversity. We respect, value and seek to include all individuals, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age or any other differentiator. As an increasingly global company, looking to performance, including our impact on patients expand access to medicines in new markets, and partners alike. diversity in our ranks is critical to Teva’s ongoing success. We believe that maintaining The strategy is designed to support our aim diversity and inclusion in our processes and to create an inclusive workplace culture organizational culture will raise our level of of engagement and empowerment for all. innovation, improve our insights into patient We strive to foster an environment that needs, enhance our employee development encourages open dialogue and exchange of practices and, ultimately, give Teva a ideas, where our employees feel they can competitive advantage. For this reason, we participate and be heard without being judged, launched a new Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) and where no one is inhibited from performing Strategy in 2013, designed to improve our at his or her personal best. 49 Teva CSR > Our Employees Teva Inclusion and Diversity Strategy Culture People → Stakeholders value I&D → Attract and develop a diverse workforce → Enable organizational champions → Inclusive culture so everyone can fully engage → Demonstrate our commitment Patients and Markets Partners → Proactively assess and capitalize → Align with business and on diversity insights I&D goals → Access and connect with new → Help us deliver business results markets with unique value propositions → Positively impact communities Inclusion & Diversity Foundational Principles → Integrated strategy → Defined metrics → Accountability for outcomes Following research with internal and external backgrounds is good for business. We also stakeholders, and certain pilot initiatives, provided a flexible implementation model we launched our new strategy across North that enables each function to focus on areas America in early 2014. To encourage managers of greatest impact. Ultimately, our goal is to to prioritize inclusion and diversity, we expand the I&D strategy worldwide, as well created a strong “ROI on Inclusion,” which as to incorporate a formal approach to hiring demonstrated why investing in teams made diverse suppliers. up of different perspectives, experiences and 50 Teva CSR > Our Employees Key Workplace Initiatives place at each North American plant by the end of 2014. → Teva Inclusion Network –In early 2014, we launched seven new Employee Resource → Women’s Leadership Development Groups (ERGs) in addition to our first ERG, Platform – In 2013, we started piloting for military veterans and advocates, piloted this integrated program to advance female in 2012. The network aims to improve the managers by helping women further their sense of community among our employees careers at Teva. For example, it engages and empower Teva’s diverse workforce to senior executive sponsors in championing realize the value of inclusion. high-potential female employees. → Inclusion Champions – In the first five → Multicultural Professional Forum – months since the launch of our I&D Another initiative we piloted in 2014, strategy, over 100 inclusion champions this forum meets virtually and in small stepped forward from every level of the groups to develop strategies to remove company to help communicate the value barriers and improve growth opportunities of I&D, promote our strategy, and raise for underrepresented professionals. awareness of related initiatives. Some fill formal roles, such as VP Executive Sponsors Future Goals for each ERG, while others have supported specific activities such as managing an ver the next year, we plan on refining awareness booth as part of our and extending our I&D strategy within International Women’s Day Celebration. North America. We will establish internal and external communication channels to → Engagement and Inclusion Councils consistently promote the value of I&D with (EICs) – These aim to foster engagement both existing and potential employees. An and create a more inclusive culture at important part of this will be formalizing manufacturing and distribution facilities the role and recognition of our Inclusion by identifying site-level changes that will Champions, who will continue to make a promote respect, trust, equal opportunity critical contribution in sustaining our cultural and fairness. Councils are comprised of shift. We will also look to expand our inclusive selected representatives from every level training and development programs to advance at the site. Following feedback from a pilot opportunities for diverse employees. In council at one Teva plant last year, we addition, we will pursue market research to worked hard to ensure that plant members learn more about the diversity of our patients from all levels and demographics put and markets, and will extend our partnerships themselves forward for nomination in the to include diverse suppliers. second year so that the councils were truly representative. We plan to have a council in 51 Teva CSR > Our Employees Engaging Outside Partners Healthcare Businesswomen's Association Stepping up engagement with external partners supports our aim of recruiting a more diverse workforce and enhancing internal development opportunities. For example, in early 2014, we established a relationship with the Healthcare Businesswomen’s Association (HBA). The leading networking organization for women in life sciences companies, HBA provides networking and development opportunities for Teva’s female employees. To put forward a nominee for HBA’s Rising Star program, which recognizes female leaders across the industry, we launched our own “Teva Rising Star“ recognition program. Five women from across Teva’s business groups were recognized for their leadership and outstanding contributions over the last year. Christine Baeder, Senior Director in North America Generics, was selected to represent Teva at the HBA Annual Luncheon in New York City. After attending the event, Ms. Baeder commented, “It was a great privilege to represent Teva, and an amazing opportunity to be connected with a group of peers across the industry and hear how women are making a difference in the lives of the billions of patients that we collectively serve.” 52 Teva CSR > Our Employees Learning and Development To succeed in our competitive business, we need our employees to perform at their best. We encourage them to take personal responsibility for their development and advancement within the company, and to strive for excellence and leadership in all they do. We provide a variety of ways to help our frequent additional feedback. They are given people navigate their development paths at the opportunity to evaluate their performance, their own pace, and to fulfill their potential. identify development needs and opportunities, These include development frameworks for and set goals. Managers are expected to offer a advancing their professional skills, traditional supportive climate that encourages on-the-job and virtual classroom programs, e-learning development experiences, exposure to mentors programs, performance support tools and and formal training programs. Teva’s talent access to relevant information. review process uses performance evaluation to Our global performance evaluation process is identify key talent within the company and to designed to be collaborative. Employees attend support their development and growth. This, in formal review meetings with their managers turn, supports our succession planning process twice a year, and are encouraged to seek and ensures that we have a pipeline of leaders. 53 Teva CSR > Our Employees oversight and expertise globally in the areas of Currently, many training and development talent and performance management, career opportunities are managed locally, within each development, and learning and development. country of operation. We are working toward a Our COE is staffed with subject matter experts more globalized approach to our development who ensure that Teva has the right programs, programs and career planning so as to provide tools and practices in place worldwide to a more consistent experience worldwide. maximize the contribution of our talented. During 2013, we established a Learning & employees at all levels. Over the next year, Development Center of Expertise (COE) within it will focus on strengthening managerial our corporate Human Resources function. capabilities, enhancing Teva’s annual This team is responsible for providing strategic performance management process and helping the business develop key talent Bringing Development to Employees' Desktops We invest in online and virtual tools that allow employees to tailor their development journey to their own needs and schedule, and to obtain the right information when they need it, including the following: iLearn This online learning center houses a variety of resources including e-learning courses, book summaries, videos, virtual simulations and performance support tools such as job aids. It aims to support leadership and employee development and is currently being piloted for managers and employees in North America as well as for senior leaders globally. GlobeSmart Our GlobeSmart online resource helps employees work and collaborate more effectively across cultures. It offers instant access to information and advice on how to conduct business effectively with people from over 80 countries. It also provides employees with a deeper understanding of their own cultural work style and how it may differ from that of others with whom they work. Compass A convenient online source of information and tools for managers. Compass includes key information about our business and industry, as well as leadership and people management skills. 54 Teva CSR > Our Employees Compensation and Benefits Teva strives to provide compensation and benefits that are competitive, equitable across our global locations and reward good performance. This approach, which we call Total Rewards, supports our aim of attracting, retaining and motivating high-performing individuals. Our Total Rewards package includes three main components: → Compensation – We strive to provide criteria and requiring plan alignment for salaries and annual bonuses that are similarly situated groups of employees. In competitive with those of our peers in most countries, our employees receive their local markets, are fair and transparent, pension contributions, medical insurance and foster a pay for performance culture coverage, risk insurance, paid time off, of meritocracy. We link compensation severance packages, a car allowance for to Teva’s global career architecture, to senior managers and a lunch subsidy. maintain internal equity. → Equity compensation – This is offered → Benefits – Plans are linked to local market to select senior level employees regulations and practices. Our global with significant impact on the company’s benefits guidelines seek to ensure performance. fairness by setting broad eligibility 55 Teva CSR > Our Employees To ensure that we offer competitive packages, our multinational pool for insurance-related we conduct market surveys, comparing benefits, which includes 13 countries. ourselves against a relevant peer group. This approach also improves employees In 2013, we conducted a robust benefits coverage and mitigates risks.. benchmarking exercise in our two biggest markets – the U.S. and Israel. In 2014, we will Employee Engagement implement a global benchmarking tool. We believe that employee engagement is We also enhanced our Total Rewards critical to our business performance. governance principles and processes during We expect managers to play an active role in 2013 and appointed a governance policy making sure that employees feel engaged and leader to improve accountability. In addition, satisfied in their work at Teva, and to act on we launched a best practice online tool – Ben their feedback. Track – to manage benefits and compensation. We communicate with employees globally through a variety of channels, including our Through mid-2014, around 70 percent of dedicated intranet, emails, newsletters and Teva’s plants within nine major countries of town hall meetings. In 2013, we conducted operation had been mapped into the system, our second Global Employee Survey, which following on-site visits by our corporate seeks employees’ views on 19 assorted topics, team. By mid-2015 we aim to incorporate including engagement, training, development, all of Teva’s compensation and benefits Inclusion & Diversity and Corporate Social activity worldwide, and will begin to realize Responsibility. More than 31,000 employees improvements and cost savings by identifying participated – 76 percent of our global areas that need aligning with our guidelines population. This feedback will be used to and opportunities for vendor consolidation. improve the employee experience at Teva. We also achieve economies of scale through In addition, selected survey questions act as a component of executives’ key performance indicators and compensation process, motivating them to lead in creating a good employee experience. 56 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Environmental Responsibility As a global company with 73 manufacturing plants, Teva is committed to business practices that promote socially and environmentally responsible economic growth. We believe that everyone has the right to Teva has grown significantly, mainly through a safe and healthy working environment; acquisition, over the past few years. that we earn the right to operate by being We are on a journey to create and implement effective stewards of the environment; and a global world-class approach to managing that all injuries, incidents and releases environment, health and safety (EHS) across are preventable. By striving for excellence all our sites. Some facilities already have in environment, health, safety (EHS) and strong EHS performance and continue to sustainability we also protect, enhance, and make progress; others are working to improve create business value for our organization, their record. Our new EHS management furthering our ability to expand global access system defines our minimum expectations to affordable medicines. 57 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility for excellence at a global level – “the energy use and our greenhouse gas (GHG) what” – while allowing local variations in emissions by introducing a variety of energyimplementation – “the how” – to reflect saving and renewable energy initiatives, the huge variety across Teva’s business which is expected to yield financial as well as and global operations. As a minimum we environmental benefits. require 100 percent compliance with local laws and regulations, and in many cases our Note: The environmental data presented in expectations go beyond compliance. this report covers Teva’s significant operational In 2013, we revised our Environment, Health, sites, including all of Teva’s manufacturing Safety and Sustainability Policy to reflect this facilities, most research sites and several mindset, and also improved our data collection major logistics sites. We are working toward capabilities. collecting data for all our facilities, as well as reviewing the impacts of other parts of value Teva recognizes climate change as a major chain, to determine which are material to our global challenge for both business and environmental footprint. society. We continue to work to reduce our 58 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility EHS Governance and Management Our Corporate EHS Committee, comprising seven Teva executives, oversees EHS material issues. To allow full integration across Teva and to ensure that our program incorporates input from all businesses and regions, in 2013 we created a Global EHS Leadership Team consisting of EHS leaders from each Teva division and region along with subject matter experts with global industry knowledge. In addition, the development and Our Senior Vice President of Environment, implementation of our EHS program work is Health and Safety oversees this governance supported by technical advisory committees, structure as illustrated below. The most senior which offer expert advice to help shape Teva’s executives in Teva have overall responsibility programs in the following areas: for EHS performance, while site leaders at all Teva facilities provide direct management and → Environment and Sustainability oversight. → Health → Lab Safety → Office Safety. 59 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Global EHS and Engineering Organizational Chart Global EHS & ENG Global Engineering Global Global Environment & Global Occupational Global Sustainability Health & Process Audits Safety EHS EHS EHS EHS EHS TAPI Region 1 Region 2 Region 3 Region 4 60 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility EHS Roles and Responsibilities POSITION ACCOUNTABILITY/RESPONSIBILITY Site Leader → Responsible for EHS Performance Site EHS Leader → Champion EHS within the site by facilitating initiatives, coaching EHS staff, and offering expertise Teva Employees → All employees are responsible for driving EHS excellence by integrating EHS into their regular business decisions Corporate EHS → Provides oversight of all EHS matters Committee Global EHS → Critical link between Corporate EHS Committee and Leadership Team businesses → Fosters teamwork to leverage expertise and optimize resource use Global EHS → Develops policy, strategy and EHS goals → Leads public policy and issue management → Develops performance standards, implementation tools, company-wide metrics/goals and audit program → Provides technical expertise and facilitates knowledge transfer and information sharing across the company → Ensures adequate and optimized use of EHS resources Regional EHS → Oversees site EHS program implementation and regional (Each Teva region EHS performance has an EHS Head) → Ensures adequacy, competency and quality of site and regional EHS resources → Controls local/regional waste management strategy → Participates in technical advisory committees and Global EHS Leadership Team Technical Advisory → Provide expertise and support Global EHS in setting Committees requirements → Examine subject area performance to suggest improvement and new initiatives → Develop and share training content in subject area 61 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility EHS Management System In 2013 we formally began the development read here. We have also created nine EHS of our single global EHS management business processes aligned with international system, guided by our new global EHS policy, standards (see chart below), which will form which became effective in March 2014. the foundation of a world class EHS program. The policy applies to all Teva employees as These will be fully implemented by first quarter well as customers, contractors, consultants 2015. and visitors to Teva locations, and can be Our Global EHS Business Processes Development and Identification & Management Management of of EHS Plans Requirements Governance EHS Organization Operational Control & Resources Plan Standards Management System Environment Do Overview & Health, Safety Structure & Sustainability Act Policy Performance Measurement, Monitoring & Reporting Management Review Check Non conformances, Incidents & Management Regulatory of Inspections Preventive Self & Corrective assessments, Actions Inspections & Audits 62 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility In addition to the nine key business processes, We are also pursuing data quality we are currently creating 40–50 global improvements to make sure that we properly standards and associated specifications track and verify all relevant requirements. that will guide Teva employees in their daily In 2013 we began the implementation of actions. These will be supported by integrated a global tool to help our facilities set up specification, guidelines and compliance compliance systems and undertake selftoolkits, which detail the operating procedures. assessments. The same protocols will be Through our global approach to governance, used for our new corporate audit program, Teva businesses and sites are closely launched in 2014. involved in developing our standards and specifications, and we believe this will help Teva’s Target Zero initiative aims to protect promote acceptance, adoption, compliance employees and the environment by achieving and continuous improvement. Our target is to zero releases or accidents. The compliancecreate and implement the management system related aspects of this initiative are being by the end of 2016. formally incorporated into our new EHS management system. We are also building the capabilities of our EHS team to help achieve Compliance this ambitious goal. As a responsible company, compliance with local laws and regulations is a basic Assessments and Monitoring expectation across Teva’s facilities, and serves as the baseline for all EHS program We have implemented a new company-wide requirements. We continuously monitor audit program as part of Target Zero. changes in regulations that might be applicable This includes a standard approach delivered to our operations, and we adapt our programs by a team of corporate and guest auditors to ensure compliance. We are building a robust from various regions and sites. A uniform, compliance program by instituting world-class centralized approach to corrective and management systems that can help us identify, preventive action helps us track and move investigate and ultimately prevent all incidents actions to faster closure. We conducted the and cases of noncompliance. first audits in early 2014. For more on Target Zero and our safety record, see Employees. 63 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Health and Safety Our EHS policy devotes significant attention to both our environmental impacts and the well-being of our employees. As we build our new global program for health and safety, we are committed to our Target Zero goal of zero incidents and a safe, healthy workplace. Employee health and safety issues are managed by our global EHS group and described in detail in the Employees section. 64 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Energy and Emissions Teva aims to minimize its environmental footprint and to have a positive environmental impact. Our first sustainability focus area includes priorities to reduce our energy use and thus our GHG emissions. These areas offer both operational cost-saving reduce energy use (see chart below). opportunities and an avenue to reduce our Each Teva site has appointed an Energy environmental impact. We continue to work Trustee, and regional energy leaders and teams toward GHG emissions reductions through a are developing a five-year energy saving plan. four-stream strategy incorporating efficiency, The Global Energy team manages and monitors cost reduction, renewables and awareness. the plan’s performance and execution, reporting to the Global Energy Committee and To help reduce our energy use and emissions, actively involving Teva’s top management in we have instituted a new governance structure the corporate energy-saving activities. and the Global Energy Saving plan to track and 65 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Energy Governance: Roles and Responsibilities Teva Global Operations (TGO) Energy Saving Committee → Governs and monitors global energy saving progress → Meets quarterly → Members: VP Strategy & Operational Excellence, Global Engineering, Global Energy, TGO management team Global Management Team → Plans, monitors and manages energy strategy, Owns global saving targets → Meets monthly → Members: Directors of Global Energy, Regional engineering leads, TGO: Finance, EHS, IT, Logistics, Procurements, Quality assurance Regional working Team → Prepares and executes regional energy plans, Owns regional saving targets → Meets on ongoing basis → Members: Regional Manager, regional leads in engineering, Finance, EHS, IT, Logistics, Procurement, Quality Assurance Site Working Team → Prepares and executes site energy plans, Owns site saving targets → Meets on an ongoing basis → Members/L Site Manager, Engineering Manager, Site Energy Trustee, local leads in Finance, EHS, IT, Logistics, Procurement, QA 66 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Performance Our total energy use in 2013 was 2,608,933 million per year in energy costs. Some of the MWh, an increase of 2.2% from 2012. biggest savings will come from projects that upgrade our building management systems, During 2013 we invested more than $2.8 such as the use of more efficient lighting and million in 14 energy efficiency projects around cooling, boiler upgrades and thermal insulation the globe. Many of our energy efficiency improvements. activities have a short payback period, and we estimate that, once fully implemented, these projects will save more than $1.5 Global Energy Consumption Supply Scope 1 and Scope 2 Mix 2012-2013 (in MWh) energy consumption 2,552,183 2,608,933 3,000,000 700,000 2,500,000 600,000 500,000 2,000,000 400,000 1,500,000 300,000 2012 2013 1,000,000 Purchased Electricity 1,102,009 1,136,116 200,000 500,000 100,000 Natural Gas 874,727 909,845 Fuel Oil 304,904 275,959 2012 2013 Purchased Steam 87,366 80,692 1,362,698 1,370,900 Diesel 64,247 59,941 1,189,375 1,216,808 Kerosene 13,194 4,571 307,350 306,594 LPG 104,099 116,942 571,221 588,438 Propane 1,519 3,635 Motor Gasoline 111 250 Direct energy consumption Scope1 Sum of in MWh Other 7 20,982 Indirect energy consumption Scope2 Sum of in MWh Direct energy consumption Scope1 Carbon Footprint (Ton CO2e) Indirect energy consumption Scope2 Carbon Footprint (Ton CO2e) 67 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Reducing Heat Loss through Cogeneration In 2013, our site in Weiler, Germany, began the operation of a new combined heat and power (CHP) plant that maximizes energy use. During electricity production, some energy is lost in the form of heat. A CHP plant uses this thermal energy to produce both heat and power at the same time – reducing wasted energy and removing the need for additional heat sources. This, in turn, reduces a site’s operational greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, the Weiler CHP plant generated 4.6 GWh of electricity, 3.2 GWh of heat and 1.3 GWh of steam, delivering heat and electricity to production and administrative buildings across the site. The plant’s efficiency has also removed the need for an additional steam generator to be built onsite. In the future, the CHP could possibly be converted to a combined cooling, heat and power (CCHP) plant through the addition of an absorption chiller, enabling the production of combined electricity and cooling in the summer months. 68 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Climate Change Teva recognizes that climate change is an and the Clean Air Law in Israel. Meeting these enormous global challenge with the potential requirements has enabled us to understand to affect both society and our business. In our emissions and their impact in great detail. 2011 we began monitoring our GHG emissions We are working to reduce air emissions from major Scope 1 and Scope 2 sources, beyond compliance and strive to anticipate such as the electricity and steam for our changes in regulation to ensure that our sites manufacturing processes and the purchased remain compliant in a constantly evolving electricity that powers our facilities. global legislative landscape. Two types of emission that warrant particular attention are volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and ozonePerformance depleting compounds (ODCs). VOCs cause the In 2013, we emitted 0.89 million tons of CO2 formation of ozone and can be carcinogenic e, 1.9 percent more than in 2012, reflecting (causing cancer). We have identified their the increase in energy use outlined above. We reduction at our sites as a priority. ODCs publicly report our global carbon emissions are typically used in fire protection and through the CDP framework and submitted refrigeration, and provide a further opportunity our first response in 2012. We implemented for reduction. We are working on an ODC 14 projects in 2013 alone to reduce energy inventory of all equipment, with the ultimate (see Energy and Emissions above), which we goal of reducing ODC release to zero. estimate will save more than 4,000 tonnes of CO2 [SUBSCRIPT THE 2] e per year. Ozone Depleting Compounds Our energy use is most affected by efficient use of our manufacturing sites. We are in the ODS 2012-13 process of streamlining our manufacturing to increase use of capacity, which will reduce our 7.4 energy use and related carbon emissions. 6.4 Air Emissions Compliance with local air quality regulations is the baseline requirement for management of air emissions at our sites. These vary by 2012 2013 region and include requirements such as Integrated Pollution Prevention Control in Europe, the Clean Air Act in the United States, 2. From Teva CDP Response 2013 – CC3.3b 69 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Water Water is critical to life and human health. Protecting water resources is therefore important to the communities where we operate and of the viability of our ongoing operations. We are working to understand and reduce of more water than other processes, but also water consumption at our global facilities as requires lower amounts of volatile organic well as examining the issue of water scarcity compounds. Our sterile product operations in the places where we operate. The water we also require a lot of water. We employ consume is intended primarily for production advanced technologies to biologically treat processes and for cooling. Certain operations our organic wastewater in compliance with have a more intensive water use than others. local regulations. Where feasible, we reuse For example, our Hungary operations use treated water from internal processes for biosynthesis to create active pharmaceutical nonproduction uses such as landscaping, ingredients, a process that involves the use washing and cooling. 70 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Water Consumption 2013 by Country (in thousand M3) Mexico, 63.6 1% Israel 1,189.5 Poland, 321.2 4% U.S. 13% 1,101.4 Hungary Netherlands, 99.6 1% 12% 1,596.2 18% Others, 285.2 3% Italy 881.2 10% UK, 103.5 1% India 476.3 Canada, 346.8 3% 7% Czech 579 Croatia Chile, 134.7 1% 7% 691 8% China, 132.9 1% Source of Water Usage 2013 3% 1% 4% Water supply network 27% wells internal Rivers/Lakes 65% Internal & external (IIDC) borewell Other 71 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Wastewater 2013 (In M3) Evaporation point 4% River/Lake 15% Saltwater 0% Zero liquid discharge 4% Municipal 77% 72 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Waste and Solvents Our ultimate Target Zero goal includes zero waste. Anything we waste incurs cost to our business, which passes on an increased cost to our products. Effective and efficient management of waste can therefore both minimize our environmental impacts and reduce the cost of medicines for our customers. In many cases, the waste we produce can be used as raw material for another business, and where we cannot eliminate a type of waste, we try to find another use for it. We have made significant progress in recycling solvents ourselves and through third parties. We also recycle metals, plastics and fiber products such as paper and cardboard. If we cannot find a recycling solution, we sometimes send our waste to be burned for energy recovery. In all cases we conduct our waste practices according to complex national and local disposal regulations and seek responsible partners to help manage our waste. 73 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Performance Hazardous Waste-By Type 2013 (in Ton) In 2013, we generated approximately 91,100 tons of nonhazardous waste and about 101,500 tons of hazardous waste. Organic Liquids and In 2013 we recycled 57 percent of our total Solvents 49% waste. We are working to improve how we categorize waste, to increase recycling and reuse, and to set new goals in 2014. We recycled 72 percent of our total nonhazardous waste, but we still have more work to do in identifying recycling opportunities, for example by recycling more solvent and handling aqueous wastes differently. Organic Wastes other than liquids and solvents 7% Packaging containing dangerous materials 2% Sludge from effluent treatment/ fermentation 7% 2012 2013 Other 2% Non-hazardous waste recycled 23,128 65,752 Aqueous Wastes 18% Non-hazardous waste not recycled 25,839 25,321 Halogenated Solvents 8% hazardous waste recycled 61,648 43,937 Inorganic Base Acids and Salts 3% hazardous waste not recycled 149,510 57,549 Medical Wastes 4% General Total 260,125 192,559 74 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Solvents Important raw materials in the manufacturing process of our products are solvents. We work hard to recover as much used solvent as possible for reuse, implementing recycling technologies both on-site and via third parties for this purpose. When we are unable to reuse a solvent, we find responsible partners to recycle or reuse it in other industries. In 2013, we recycled more than 28,800 tons of solvent this way. 75 Teva CSR > Environmental Responsibility Solvent Recovery in Hungary Teva’s Debrecen site in Hungary is a leading example of how we are using fewer solvents at our facilities by investing in recycling methods. The manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients requires the use of solvents such as toluene, hexane and methanol, which can have a negative impact on health and the environment if not handled and disposed of properly. To reduce solvent use and disposal at this site, we recycle solvents in two main ways: as part of the manufacturing process built into production plants, and at a separate solvent recovery unit at Debrecen. The production plant units use fast evaporators and reactors to recover 95 percent of the toluene used, as well as 92 percent of hexane and 93 percent of methanol. The solvent recovery unit uses evaporator and distillation columns to recover, for example, 87 percent of acetone, 96 percent toluene and 93 percent hexane. Additional downstream processes to treat wastewater include vacuum evaporators and a stripping column. Both further remove solvent content prior to the water’s being discharged for treatment. Over the past eight years, these processes have enabled us to significantly reduce the amount of solvent we purchase at Debrecen for the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients, as well as the amount of solvent waste Teva generates – (see chart below). Relative Solvent Consumption / Solvent Waste 100.000.00 50.00 50.000.00 0.00 0.00 2012 2013 kg solvent purchased per kg product kg solvent waste per kg product Solvent recovery unit at Debrecen 76 Teva CSR > In the Community In the Community We are committed to improving global healthcare through a range of activities that enhance access to medicines and contribute to the well-being of the communities in which we live and operate. We believe that one of the most effective ways of tackling social issues is to build sustainable partnerships with leading specialized nonprofit organizations. That’s why we seek to develop deep and holistic relationships with the organizations we support wherever possible by making smart use of our giving channels and providing support in a variety of ways. In addition to donating funds, products, services and other in-kind donations, we encourage and create opportunities for 77 Teva CSR > In the Community our employees to volunteer their time and needs and opportunities. We established expertise to help our partners address social a Global Community Relations Forum and challenges. Historically, Teva’s community network with representatives from our main relations and investment decision-making markets and business units, and we formed have been made within each country to guidelines and policies. In 2014, we will begin meet local needs and take advantage of local implementing a five-year strategy to further strengths. Over the past few years, we began cross-company alignment around social implementing a centralized, global approach, responsibility efforts. while continuing to take into account local Implementing a Global Approach Our ongoing efforts to align our worldwide community giving activities, and to capitalize on a global approach, include the following: → Integrating corporate social responsibility (CSR) into Teva’s core business strategy. → Developing and updating global policies and giving procedures, including community relations. → Creating guidelines for our giving and volunteering and setting a new Global Donations Policy. → Focusing our efforts for giving, partnering and volunteering on the health and well-being of local communities. → Improving global governance of local community relations budgets, programs and personnel management initiating a professional training program for local CSR representatives to ensure a more consistent ability to implement our policies and procedures. 78 Teva CSR > In the Community Corporate Giving In 2013 we supported over 520 community organizations worldwide, donating $47.6 million in funds and $61.9 million in products. Corporate Giving (US$ Millions) education and 30 percent to support other Category 2012 2013 local community needs. These numbers demonstrate our increased focus on health and Cash 50.1 47.6 well-being (see table below). Products & In-kind 32.1 61.9 Corporate Giving by Area of Focus TOTAL 82.2 109.5 50 45 45% In Teva’s 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility 40 Report, the numbers for cash and product and 35 40% in-kind giving were misreported, and have 30 35% 35% been adjusted for this report. The vast majority 25 30% 30% 30% 30% of our product donations are made by our U.S. 20 25% entity to improve access to medicines within 15 the U.S., and in the developing world. 10 Of the funds we donated in 2013, 45 percent 5 were given to projects that improve health 0 2011 2012 2013 and well-being, 25 percent to support science Local Community Needs Science Education Health and Well-being 79 Teva CSR > In the Community CASE STUDIES Canada: Educating Cancer Survivors For five years, Teva Canada has helped young cancer survivors reach their education goals through a partnership with Childhood Cancer Canada. In 2013, Teva donated $162,500 and our employees raised $23,000 to support 80 Survivor Scholarships. One of this year’s recipients is Simon Shin, a pharmacy student whose battle against cancer started at age 10 when he was diagnosed with bone cancer in a leg. He has endured more than 25 surgeries and 5 courses of chemotherapy. During his rehabilitation, Simon realized he wanted a career that enabled him to devote his life to helping others. This, along with his experience with medications, made a career in pharmacy an obvious choice and in 2013 he was accepted to the University of British Columbia’s School of Pharmacy. 80 Teva CSR > In the Community CASE STUDIES Israel Bringing Chemistry Wonders to Life Teva (Hebrew for nature ) of Chemistry is an educational program that aims to demonstrate the beauty and magic of chemistry to students in junior high schools. The program includes classes that incorporate experiential learning in small groups and hands-on activities and experiments, as well as tours of science museums, Teva laboratories and production sites. Since the program launched in 2004, over 14,000 students have graduated from Teva of Chemistry. In 2013, we conducted an impact assessment of the program, which showed that participants demonstrate an increased interest in studying sciences, as well as an improved knowledge of chemistry. 81 Teva CSR > In the Community CASE STUDIES Teva Founders Prize and Research Grants For more than 20 years, the Teva Founders Prize and research grants have been rewarded to researchers who excel in life sciences and biomedical fields. The prizes are awarded by Teva in partnership with the Israel National Academy of Sciences, and the grants are awarded in partnership with the Israel Science Foundation. In 2013, we honored scientists making groundbreaking biological discoveries that contribute to the development of medicines. Teva Award for Excellence in Memory of Eli Hurvitz This award honors the memory of our former CEO by recognizing excellence in education, science and culture. In 2013, the prize was awarded by a scientific committee led by Nobel Prize winner Professor-Aaron Ciechanover to two outstanding researchers in the field of immunology: Professor Dan S. Tawfik from the Weizmann Institute of Science and Professor Ashraf Brik from Ben Gurion University of the Negev. National Network of Excellence in Neuroscience (NNE) n 2012, Teva established the Israeli National Network of Excellence in Neuroscience (NNE) to bring together the country’s leading neuroscience research and medical institutions. With funding of $15 million over five years, we are supporting a wide range of research projects, postdoctoral fellowships and predoctoral scholarships. In 2013 50 applications were selected to receive funding awards. For more information, see Our Patients. 82 Teva CSR > In the Community Disaster Relief The need for access to medicines is especially acute when climate disasters strike vulnerable communities. We believe we have a duty to assist, and we do so by donating medicine through well-established nonprofit organizations taking part in relief efforts. Furthermore, in a growing number of disasters In May 2014, Teva and our employees reached in recent years, we launched a global out to assist relief efforts in the Balkan employee fundraising that which was matched countries and provided much-needed products, by the company. In 2013, Teva and our including disinfectants, antibiotics and more in employees donated over $100,000 in funds value of over $160,000. A global fundraising and $2.5 million worth of Teva medicines and campaign raised more than $10,000 in products to help the victims of super typhoon employee donations that were matched by Haiyan (Yolanda). the company, bringing the total to more than $20,000. In addition, over 70 members of the Teva Croatia firefighters team volunteered to help with the rescue and rehabilitation efforts in their region. 83 Teva CSR > In the Community Employee Volunteering An integral part of our community strategy is employee volunteering. It embodies our values and culture. In 2013, we continued to encourage employees worldwide to donate their time and expertise, and to deepen our relationship with patients and communities. We promote volunteering efforts that provide national and local NGOs. Activities ranged long-lasting and sustainable value to the from jogging and cycling to raise funds for MS local community, as well as offer employees patients in Europe, encouraging the elderly to opportunities to develop leadership and other take their prescription medicines in France, business skills. raising funds and awareness for cancer patients in North America, and supporting We support the many employees who underprivileged families in the Baltics. Where volunteer in the community in various ways, volunteering activities already take place, for example by creating and supporting we expect business units to broaden and volunteering opportunities, and in certain deepen these relationships. In line with our instances providing paid time off to volunteer. Global Community Relations Guidelines, During 2013, our employees around the we encourage our employee volunteering world donated their time to hundreds of initiatives to focus on health and well-being community-based organizations and to both activities. 84 Teva CSR > In the Community In 2013 More than 3,000 employees volunteered More than 30,000 hours with More than 525 community partners globally. Number of Employees Volunteering¹ Volunteer Hours¹ 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2,175 3,138 3,087 28,871 30,150 30,141 1. These figures do not include employees in the U.S. and UK, and represent approximately 60% of our operations. 85 Teva CSR > In the Community CASE STUDIES EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING Europe: Team Teva Climbing Against MS In May 2013, a team of more than 100 cyclists from across Teva Europe participated in the annual Climbing against MS fundraising challenge. More than 100 Teva employees scaled the grueling Mont Ventoux in the South of France – some up to three times in the same day – to raise funds for the National MS Fund in the Netherlands. Eight of these had already ridden 1,200 km from the Netherlands to the south of France before they even started the ascent. The team raised nearly €24,000 for research to improve the lives of people with MS. 86 CASE STUDIES US: Light the Night Walks Teva Oncology in the U.S. is proud to be a national sponsor of the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society’s (LLS) Light the Night walk, supporting its mission to help blood cancer patients live better, longer lives. Funds raised provide funding for lifesaving cancer research, financial assistance to cover patient expenses, free educational materials and events, and endless support. In 2013, Teva participated with more than 400 walkers on 40 teams across the U.S., raising over $250,000 for Light the Night. We are proud to walk with family, friends, colleagues and people affected by hematologic diseases in the quest to end blood cancer. Canada: Raising Funds and Awareness for Men's Health In November 2013, a team of almost 40 Teva Canada male employees grew moustaches and became walking, talking billboards as part of the Movember campaign to raise funds and awareness for men’s health. The team raised US$22,765 which will go toward fighting prostate cancer, battling testicular cancer and supporting men’s mental health initiatives around the world; the Teva team was in the top 8 percent of more than 1,400 Canadian fundraising teams. 87 Teva CSR > In the Community CASE STUDIES Hungary: Providing an Outdoor Space for Kindergarten Children When children at a local kindergarten needed a new playground, our employees implemented a recycling program to raise funds, which Teva Hungary matched. Fifty Teva volunteers then went to work renovating the playground, planting bushes, refurbishing toys and installing new play structures for more than 200 children to enjoy. France: Volunteering for Disaster Relief Teva France continues to support TULIPE, an organization that sends medicines to regions struck by natural disasters. In 2013, product donations were sent through TULIPE to the Philippines, Haiti and Central African Republic. Volunteers from Teva have assembled emergency kits and canteens in order to prepare first aid equipment. 88 Teva CSR > In the Community CASE STUDIES Israel: Volunteering with Disabled Adults For the third year in a row, volunteers from our tablets plant in Jerusalem volunteered at the Ilan hostel for disabled adults. To give the hostel residents a novel experience, they provided personalized photography tutorials. Residents used their new knowledge to take photos for an exhibition in the plant’s lobby and, along with their families, attended a launch event where they were presented with certificates of participation. Baltics: Bearing Christmas Gifts Caritas is an organization that supports 70 children from more than 20 financially underprivileged families near our Teva Baltics production plant. The nonprofit told us that what was needed most were food and desks for the children to study and do their homework. Our employees donated the funds to buy 200kg of food, and Teva donated writing desks and chairs that our employees delivered directly to families. In addition, we donated 70 boxes of Christmas candies, which were handed out by Santa Claus during a festive evening event. Italy: Volunteering for Children In November 2013, 70 volunteers from Teva Italy took part in a V-Day , or volunteer day, to help children with family and social problems. The volunteers worked with five nonprofit organizations dedicated to supporting these children and took part in activities ranging from gardening, cleaning, painting, preparing lunch, and playing games to supporting students in their school tasks. 89 Teva CSR > Contact Us Contact Us We would like to hear Ayala Miller what you have to say, Vice President Corporate Social Responsibility Please send us your feedback and insights to: ayala.miller@teva.co.il 90
