Social Responsibility Lodam report on social responsibility, 2014 Lodam’s Table of contents values Statement 2 Table of contents 3 Lodam electronics 4 Lodam and social responsibility 6 UN Global Compact 8 Statement Professionalism Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility 10 a competent and reliable individualism with respect Lodam’s energy-efficient products 14 business partner which for diversity, driven by We are pleased to present Lodam’s new report on For Lodam, the past period has been characterised keeps its promises and delihumour and job happiness Case: Refrigeration on rooftops of Riga 17 social responsibility. The report gives an overview by growth and tailoring of our organisation to this vers quality. and preparedness for chanSupplier responsibility 20 of our internal and external social responsibility growth. As a consequence of continued growth, we ges. Supplier code of conduct 25 activities from May 2013 to April 2014. The aim is to have adjusted our mission and vision to reflect our provide our customers, employees and other stakepresent position and strategies as well as our ambiPeople responsibility 28 Copyright © 2014 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. holders with insights into Lodam’s work with social tions. See our mission and vision on page 4. Anti-corruption 32 responsibility as well as our ambitions to contribute Final words and facts 34 to social responsibility. People responsibility is important to us, and we Good business keep measuring employee well-being via the Danacumen In the past year, our focus has been on anchoring ish “Great Place to Work“ competition, organised sound business practices in and further incorporating social responsibility into by the Great Place to Work® Institute. According all daily decisions, both interour daily routines. However, new challenges have to our revised vision, “Lodam wants to be one of nally and externally. also emerged. For example, Lodam has received the best places to work in Denmark with a trust inquiries from customers regarding Lodam’s use of index of 95% as measured by the Great Place to conflict minerals. Lodam supports human rights, Work® Institute”. and we wish to contribute to transparency in the supply chain. Therefore, we have started requestLodam joined the UN Global Compact initiative in ing information on the origin of these specific March 2012, and we continue to support the UN minerals from our suppliers. However, due to the Global Compact and its 10 principles on human complexity of our supply chain, this will be an rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. ongoing process. Read more about the scope of These principles reflect our commitment to running Ver. 4.0 27.05.2014 conflict minerals on page 21. our business in a responsible and serious way. To further support the anchoring and incorporation of social responsibility, we have decided to include Lodam Management our social responsibility policies and procedures in our quality assurance system, which means that they are now subject to regular auditing. Henning Højberg Kristensen Tore Østergaard CEO COO 2 Henning Højberg Kristensen, CEO Tore Østergaard, COO 3 Lodam in short: • A Danish company owned by the German company BITZER. • Lodam produces electronic control devices for OEM products within the HVAC&R* industry. • Products are developed in-house and produced by global partners. • Our export share is about 85%. * Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning & Refrigeration Lodam electronics Lodam possesses extensive knowledge and knowMission: how about developing, producing and implementEnergy efficiency through intelligent controls ing innovative and efficient electronic climate Our mission is to be a global leader within intelcontrol solutions. Lodam’s most important asset ligent electronics for air conditioning and refrigerais its staff in the form of more than 100 dedicated tion. We offer cost-effective and high-quality employees who work either at our modern facilities solutions, enabling our customers to consistently at our headquarters in Sønderborg, Denmark, at a outperform their peers in usability, serviceability and branch office in Aarhus or at one of our temporary energy efficiency. site offices in Asia or Europe. Vision: Lodam is a member of the BITZER Group, one of Our vision is to be the preferred company in the the largest groups in the global refrigeration and aireyes of our customers and employees conditioning compressor industry. • Lodam wants to continuously grow through innovative solutions. Employee satisfaction is important to preserving an • Lodam wants to improve customer satisfaction, inspiring and creative environment and the commitas measured in our annual surveys, by having a ment which is essential to securing the future develNet Promoter Score (NPS) exceeding 25. opment of innovative and energy-efficient solutions. • Lodam wants to be one of the best places to work in Denmark with a trust index of 95% as Lodam’s control solutions are important and reliable measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. integrated parts of our partners’ total systems – and help create a perfect climate for humans as well as Values: optimised storage conditions for foods and other • Professionalism a competent and reliable commodities. business partner which keeps its promises and delivers quality. Today, Lodam’s innovative climate control solutions • Inclusiveness individualism with respect for are used around the world, for instance in the followdiversity, driven by humour and job happiness ing areas: and preparedness for changes. • System controllers for condensing, heat-pump • Good business acumen sound business pracand air-handling units tices in all daily decisions, both internally and • Intelligent compressor electronics (ICE) externally. • Frequency converters for air-conditioning and refrigeration compressors • Transport refrigeration for sea and land transport. 4 5 Lodam and social responsibility Lodam’s social responsibility partnerships and networks: As a company with an international outlook, it is In 2013, Lodam again participated in ‘The World’s Lodam is a member of a number of networks, supnatural for us to look outwards when it comes to Best News’, a Danish campaign conceived by the porting social responsibility activities together with social responsibility and human rights. UN, Danida and a number of Danish NGOs; Lodam other companies and organisations. The list below has contributed to spreading the news that the reflects Lodam’s commitment to human rights, In 2012, Lodam entered into a three-year partnership Millennium Development Goals are a success: The environmental innovation as well as organisations with SOS Children’s Villages Denmark. In so doing, developing countries are making real progress. Ref. that support the local communities in which we do Lodam wants to support an international organisawww.verdensbedstenyheder.dk. business. tion whose values match Lodam’s own values, and which works long-term in communities where Lodam Human rights Innovation and technology has considerable business activities. We support a • UN Global Compact, www.unglobalcompact.org • TEGnology, www.tegnology.dk project with educational activities in Asia. Ref. www. • SOS Children’s Villages Denmark, www.soschild• CLEAN, Danish cleantech cluster childrensvillages.org. rensvillages.org • Member of Mechatronics Cluster Denmark, • Verdens bedste nyheder, www.verdensbedstenywww.mechatronicscluster.com (in Danish) heder.dk • Member of Dansk Ventilation, www.danskventilation.dk (in Danish) Goals and actions Environment • Partner in local project ”Green Power Electron• Project Zero, www.projectzero.dk ics Test Lab”, supported by a.o. Green Labs DK • CO2-neutral websites, www.CO2neutralwebsite.com • SPM, www.spm-erfa.dk Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption • Delta – EMC Klub, www.emcklubben.dk (in Danish) Results goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) Local cultural branding (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) • Fachverband Gebäude-Klima, www.fgk.de (in • Cultural and sports sponsorships: “Kultur i Syd”, German) Sønderborg Hus, Sønderjyske Elite Sport and • Member of Mekatronisk Selskab, www.meka– Goal Dybbølhallerne Continue to raise the awareness of Lodam’s CSR activities and policies among Lodam employees. tronisk-selskab.dk (in Danish) Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Employer branding and attraction Result Industrial cooperation 95% of all Lodam employees answered “I feel good about the way we contribute to society” in the • Great Place to Work® Institute, www.greatplaceDanish Great Place to Work 2013 survey, organised by the Great Place to Work® Institute. • Confederation of Danish Industry (Dansk Indu– towork.dk stri, DI), www.di.dk • Work Live Stay, www.work-live-stay.dk • Member of DI’s CSR network and Conflict Mine– • Best Brains, www.careerindenmark.com rals network, www.di.dk Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption New goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) Education • Industrigruppen Sønderborg (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) • Cooperation agreements with University of • Member of SET (Sønderborg Erhvervsog TuristSouthern Denmark and Aalborg University center), www.set-sonderborg.dk Goal • Energy sponsor programme at Aalborg university Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s CSR activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of employee satisfaction surveys (Great Place to Work®); 95%. • Panel of employer representatives at the University of Southern Denmark, www.sdu.dk 6 7 UN Global The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of Compact influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anticorruption: The United Nations Global Compact is a strategic The ten principles of the United Nations Global policy initiative for businesses that are committed Compact: to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human Human rights rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human Overall, the Global Compact pursues two complerights; and mentary objectives: 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human 1. Mainstreaming the ten principles in business rights abuses. activities around the world 2. Catalysing actions in support of broader UN Labour goals, including the Millennium Development 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of assoGoals. ciation and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The UN Global Compact incorporates a transparen4. the elimination of all forms of forced and comcy and accountability policy known as the Communipulsory labour; cation on Progress (COP) policy. The annual posting 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and of a COP is an important demonstration of a partici6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of pant’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and employment and occupation. its principles. Participating companies are required to comply with this policy. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary apIn summary, the UN Global Compact exists to assist proach to environmental challenges; the private sector in managing increasingly complex 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater envirisks and opportunities in the environmental, social ronmental responsibility; and and governance realms, seeking to embed markets 9. encourage the development and diffusion of and societies with universal principles and values for environmentally friendly technologies. the benefit of all. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Source: www.unglobalcompact.org 8 9 Environmental responsibility Lodam’s approach to being environmentally responAir and heating Energy consumption “Private” energy opportunities for employees sible is to devote most efforts to areas where we Lodam’s main building is heated by water-borne The table below shows our energy consumption for Lodam has a thermography camera which employmake the largest impacts. floor heating. The heat comes from (ground-tothe past five years relative to floor area and number ees can borrow outside office hours to check their Thus, some of our focus is on our products, which water) heat pumps which we have developed and of employees. homes and see where they may be able to improve/ reduce energy consumption for end-users, ref. produced ourselves. When the temperature drops lower their energy consumption. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 pages 14–19. However, we also focus on the producbelow freezing point, we supplement this heating In the past period, we had planned an after-hours kWh per m2, total 110 152 127 122 142 tion of our products, where localisation is important. solution with natural gas. We have investigated meeting for employees, where an energy expert Another focus area is the office facilities where we whether district heating would be more economiwould give a talk on how to save energy at home. kWh per m2, ordi93 122 develop our products. cal, besides being more energy-efficient. However, nary facilities and Unfortunately, the meeting had to be postponed, In the past period, we have worked with and introaccording to our calculations, the payback periods activities and it is therefore scheduled to take place in duced initiatives within the following areas: are 20 and 15 years, respectively, so we have dekWh per m2, pro29 20 2014/15. duct testing cided not to switch to district heating until the gas kWh per emplo5601 6801 5485 4649 5301 Localisation furnaces need replacing anyway. We have seasonal Environmental inspection yee Localisation is about streamlining logistics, increascontrol of our heating to ensure a more homogeneThe Danish local authorities inspect local companies ing transport efficiency and producing the products ous indoor temperature and save energy. Notes: In 2010, we extended our facilities with approx. 1,000 to ensure that they comply with environmental sq m. During the period of construction, our ground-to-water close to the markets for which they are destined. In 2013, a new building was taken over and added to regulations governing the minimisation of pollution. heating system was switched off. In 2012, we split the measuring Our strategy is an efficient logistics approach, which our headquarters. This building is also heated with of energy consumption into energy used for product testing and Due to the nature of Lodam’s business, inspections we call “in the area, for the area”. natural gas. We have monitored the level of energy energy for our ordinary facilities and activities in order to monitor are only carried out every three years. how energy is used. In 2013, we extended our facilities with a new Lodam’s products are produced by skilled manufacconsumption, and this building uses more energy 396 sq m building. This building is not as well-insulated as the turers in Europe, Asia and the USA. The purpose of per square metre than the main building. Therefore, other building, and thus more energy has been used during the November 2008: 1 remark (paper sorting winter period 2013/14. Lodam’s localisation project is to ensure that these it will be evaluated if the new building should be handled incorrectly). manufacturers are sited near our main customers. insulated or other initiatives should be carried out March 2012: 0 remarks Furthermore, Lodam is working to find qualified subduring 2014. Below we show our CO2 emissions, also relative to suppliers which are located near the manufacturers. Lodam has rented a set of pavilions which we use as floor area and number of employees. The next inspection is due to take place in 2015. All in all, transport and logistics are minimised, savmeeting rooms. However, the pavilions are heated 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ing money, time and energy. by electricity, which is not ideal, neither from a cost Printed matter Tonnes of CO2 0.040 0.043 0.050 0.039 0.043 Our main focus is on air transport as this is both the nor from an environmental point of view. In the next per m2 All printed matter, including this report, is printed most expensive, and also the most energy-intensive period, we will investigate how to lower energy using environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified Tonnes of CO2 2.043 1.921 2.167 1.493 1.609 mode of transport. consumption. per employee paper. We always print a limited number of copies. For the next couple of years, we will continue the Ventilation systems are installed in all buildings Our current supplier of printed matter is located Notes: Some of our energy consumption relates to natural gas, localisation project and monitor our use of air trans(except the pavilions). These are very energy-friendly very close to Lodam, which saves energy for transwhich is weighted more highly in the CO2 emission calculations. port of product parts and components. solutions, which also improve the indoor climate. The above CO2 calculations are made via a tool on www.klimaport. Ref. www.fsc.org. kompasset.dk. We have entered into a maintenance contract for all the systems, which includes a yearly check, which has already resulted in minor adjustments. 10 11 Goals and actions Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Results goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Goal Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Result Lodam has a list of proposed initiatives. This list is evaluated at all regular environment meetings, and new initiatives are added while decisions are made as to which initiatives to look further into or implement. Goal Further investigate initiatives for energy-efficient heating and CO2 optimisation at the Sønderborg headquarters. Result We have investigated whether district heating would be more economical, besides being more energyefficient. However, according to our calculations, the payback periods are 20 and 15 years, respectively, so we have decided not to switch to district heating until the gas furnaces need replacing anyway. We have looked into company car fuel consumption, and decided to replace at least one with a more energy-efficient car in autumn 2014. Goal Look into Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of our products to support investment decisions and decisions on approach. Result We have postponed this to the next period. The reason is that we have received inquiries regarding Lodam’s use of conflict minerals. We have therefore carried out analyses and started a process of requesting information on the origin of conflict minerals from our suppliers, ref. page 21. Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption New goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Goal Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Goal Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and produce the products close to the markets for which they are destined. We will especially monitor our use of air transport. Goal Look into Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of our products to support investment decisions and decisions on approach. 12 13 Lodam’s energy-efficient products Heat pump controller Controlling domestic hot water and heating Lodam develops innovative control solutions for Condensing units Lodam’s heat pump controller makes it possible How does the Lodam heat pump controller save climate system applications. Today, the solutions are Lodam condensing control solutions are used for clito gain total control of domestic hot water and energy compared to other products? used all around the world, for instance in the followmate control in condensing units for supermarkets/ heating for domestic comfort. The optimised ing areas: convenient stores, domestic and cooling storage control ensures low energy consumption and is • The unit cuts energy consumption and costs facilities. combined with a user panel for easy operation. through intelligent capacity control via the freSystem controllers quency inverter. • Heat pumps Air handling units You can remotely control and monitor the heat • Condensing units Lodam air handling control solutions are key to crepump via the internet, and download a data log • It includes intelligent defrost scheduling, which • Air handling units ating perfect comfort and climate for people – e.g. for service and diagnostic purposes. saves energy and ensures low capacity waste. in homes, industrial buildings and schools. Intelligent compressor electronics (ICE) Furthermore, with the Lodam heat pump control• Pre-programmed outside temperature compen• Compressor protection and monitoring Frequency inverters ler you can make your heat pump Smart Gridsation curves adapt to the fastest control/better • Frequency inverters Lodam’s inverter solution electronically controls ready. comfort. compressor capacity to match actual cooling Transport demands by changing the compressor speed. The • The controller can be used for heat pumps with • Reefer containers result is better part-load performance, thus saving air or water/brine as source. Supplementary heat • Truck & Trailer units energy and cutting CO2 emissions. sourcing from solar panels or electric heaters is possible. Accessories Heat pumps Multiple accessories are available for all Lodam conLodam heat pump controllers ensure COP (coeffitrollers to add extra value to the solutions: innovacient of performance) optimisation of individual systive and user-friendly user panels with colour distems and add knowledge about additional aspects plays, remote communication devices, sensors and such as anti-legionella control of domestic hot water. data loggers, web modules and Windows-based The controllers can be used in both domestic and multi-tools for communicating with the controllers. industrial heat pumps. 14 15 The nine air-cooled ECOSTAR condensing units are arranged in a space-saving configuration. Condensing unit controller Case: Refrigerated display cabinets in supermarkets using less energy Compact and energy-saving refrigerating system on rooftops of Riga With the Lodam condensing unit controller, our How does the Lodam condensing unit controller Using compact condensing units for refrigeraThe ECOSTAR condensing units reflect a systematic customers are in total control of their condensing save energy compared to other products? tion applications has technical and financial as approach to intelligent refrigeration: The infinite units delivering cooling to one or more evaporawell as energy-saving benefits. speed control of the integrated BITZER reciprocattors – thereby optimising their systems to save both • The unit cuts energy consumption and costs ing compressor with frequency inverter ensures enenergy and money. The condensing unit controller through intelligent capacity control using a A benchmark system has been established in the ergy efficiency. As the specific condensing unit runs can be tailored to any condensing unit. frequency inverter. It maintains the specified Latvian capital of Riga, in which air-cooled conmore stably, thus ensuring a more constant temperatemperature. This can be done very accurately. densing units made by BITZER and Lodam are ture, the quality of the products in the refrigerated The Lodam condensing unit controller solution is demonstrating their potential. areas is increased. Furthermore, the condenser techsold as a kit, containing the controller, a control dis• The Lodam controller controls the speed of the nology leads to a significant reduction of refrigerant play and the necessary sensors. The Lodam controlfans that condense the refrigerant. This ensures A total of nine ECOSTAR units are arranged in a charge and risk of leakage. ler is an important part of our customers’ condensthat the condensing pressure is exactly what it compact rectangle in the centre of the roof on a ing units, which are typically installed outdoors, e.g. should be, also taking the outside temperature building right on the outskirts of the city by the Having standard MODBUS communication protooutside a supermarket, and control the temperature into consideration. motorway leading to Vilnius. The building is part col, each ECOSTAR can communicate with a central in the refrigerated display cabinets inside the superof the A7 shopping centre, which opened in May control system. This allows for remote control and markets. • Also, it is possible to use the heat for room heat2013. monitoring of the daily operation. It is also possible ing. to get Internet access to the Lodam controllers from The complete setup consists of nine units, consistany browser via the built-in web server. Other benefits: As the condensing unit runs more ing of compressor, condenser and control system stably with a Lodam controller, thus ensuring a more in one. Instead of a bulky combined system which Complete solutions like ECOSTAR are currently constant temperature, the quality of the products in would place heavy demands on the structural popular in the Latvian market, first of all because the refrigerated display cabinet is much higher than design of the building, a “plug-and-play solution” of increasing energy costs in the Baltic region. This without a stable temperature. Another benefit is less has been delivered which takes up 40 sq m. had led to a general rethink. Many companies favour food waste. And finally a special low-sound mode A comparable combined system would need technologies that incorporate intelligent controlof fans ensures a low noise level at requested times, almost three times more space. It is the largest lers as well as frequency-controlled compressors. typically during the night and at weekends. ECOSTAR system in the Baltic region to date. This results in an appreciable reduction in operating costs as well. 16 17 Air handling controller Lodam Star Cool controller A perfect climate everywhere with minimum energy consumption With Lodam’s air handling controller, a perfect How does the Lodam air handling controller save Reefer container operators depend on reliable and Lodam’s cooling control solutions cater for a range climate can be created everywhere with minimum energy compared to other products? economical equipment. of applications: energy consumption due to demand-driven ventila• Reefer containers tion. The air handling controller operates in both • The air handling controller controls the supply Maersk Container Industry produces the Star Cool • Truck & Trailer units household and industrial units. and exhaust air with energy-saving EC fans or reefer container, which features a controller develAC fans with inverters. oped by Lodam. The Star Cool reefer container The supply of fresh, filtered air to maintain air quality controller meets the increasing demands for high is key to an optimised indoor climate and comfort. • The controller ensures demand-driven ventiquality and low operating costs, easy and userAs air handling costs energy, the goal is to ensure lation with CO2 and humidity sensors; if the friendly functionality and optimised serviceability. optimised comfort using as little energy as possible. humidity and CO2 values rise above a stipulated In fact, customers using Star Cool reefer containers Lodam’s air handling unit has a number of features level, the ventilation will increase, and as soon have cut operating costs and energy consumption that contribute to that goal. as the humidity and CO2 values are acceptable, by an average of 30%, but savings of up to 50% are the ventilation will be lowered again. In this way, possible compared to using conventional reefer only an absolute minimum of energy is concontainers. sumed to maintain a given level of comfort. The Star Cool controller features a unique humid• The air handling can be adjusted according ity control system, which minimises weight loss to outside temperature and day-and-night or and guarantees even higher product quality upon weekly requirements. delivery. Furthermore, the Star Cool controller sets new standards for user-friendliness and safety. 18 19 Supplier responsibility Lodam’s suppliers have been carefully selected We have looked into the possible ISO 14001 certiConflict minerals the components we procure for our solutions, but at based on quality and compliance with specifications. fication of Lodam, and have decided to undertake Conflict minerals are raw materials that come from present we do not have the full picture of the origin However, we also strive to select suppliers that are an analysis in 2014 to establish whether it would particular parts of the world where conflicts are of these materials. Thus, we have initiated a process committed to maintaining high ethical standards in be possible to obtain ISO 14001 certification in occurring and affecting the mining and trading of of requesting information on the origin of these the same way that we are. 2016. The manufacturers of Lodam’s products, EMS those materials. minerals from our suppliers. Due to the complexity (Electronic Manufacturing Services), are already ISO The Dodd-Frank Act requires US listed companies to of our supply chain, this will be an ongoing process. We are still in the process of incorporating social 14001-certified. submit annual reports on their use of certain minerAlso, EU legislation on the responsible sourcing of responsibility and our Supplier Code of Conduct als (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) from illegal minerals coming from conflict-affected and high-risk into our contracts with all strategic suppliers. Social Furthermore, in the coming period we will prepare mines in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) areas is being prepared. responsibility is only one element in these contracts, an overview of our suppliers’ audit ratings and qualand its neighbouring countries. Lodam has chosen to give precedence to the issue and many other issues are addressed in our dialo– ity certifications in order to identify focus areas. Lodam is not directly affected by this legislation; of conflict minerals over Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of gue and communication with these suppliers. however, we have received inquiries from customers our products to support decisions on approach, ref. regarding Lodam’s use of these minerals. The minerpage 12. However, our strategic suppliers have been asked to als are present in our electronic products through comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct, just like all other Lodam suppliers. This is an ongoing activity in step with new suppliers coming on board. Lodam’s social responsibility policies are now part of our quality assurance system and thus subject to regular auditing. In the past period, we have prepared new supplier audit templates, which include environmental, health and safety issues, ISO 14001 and deviations, if any. The templates also include use of solvents, discharge of waste water and disposal of waste in general at our suppliers’ production facilities. So far, these registrations are being used for monitoring purposes only; once we have built more comprehensive knowledge, we will decide how to proceed and which initiatives to introduce. 20 21 Goals and actions Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Results goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) New goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Goal Goal Introducing and implementing Lodam’s CSR policies within our supply chain: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with Code of Conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Result a. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the supplier contracts that we are working on with our Goal strategic suppliers. Some contracts have been signed, while others are still in progress (May 2014). Continue to work with social responsibility in relation to our supply chain via our quality assurance However, the Supplier Code of Conduct has been introduced and complied with by all main suppliers system: separately. a. Undertake an analysis in 2014 to find out whether it is possible to be ISO 14001-certified in 2016. b. We still introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers and repeat the compliance request b. Prepare an overview of our suppliers’ audit ratings and quality certifications, in order to identify focus to existing suppliers on a regular basis. areas. Goal Continue to work with CSR in relation to our supply chain via our quality assurance system: a. Supplier audits include areas such as environmental conditions and occupational health and safety. b. In connection with audits, check if the supplier is ISO 14001-certified, and if there are any remarks to the certification. c. Use of solvents, discharge of waste water and disposal of waste in general at our suppliers’ production facilities: Look further into the extent of the issue. Once we have built more comprehensive knowledge, decide how to proceed and which initiatives can be made. Result a. New audit templates have been prepared, which include areas such as environmental, health and safety issues. b. The new audit templates also include ISO 14001 and deviations, if any. c. The new audit templates also include use of solvents, discharge of waste water and disposal of waste in general at our suppliers’ production facilities Goal Investigate and provide a basis for deciding whether Lodam should be ISO 14001-certified. Result Lodam will undertake an analysis in 2014 to find out whether it is possible to be ISO 14001-certified in 2016 22 23 Supplier code of conduct Preface Lodam strives to select suppliers who are commitThis Code of Conduct applies to suppliers doing ted to maintaining high ethical standards. We are a business with Lodam. Suppliers must comply with signatory to the United Nations’ Global Compact, this Code of Conduct in all aspects of their operaand we expect our suppliers to share the fundamentions that relate to their business with Lodam. Suptal principles of the UN Global Compact initiative, plier companies must ensure that their employees whether signatories or not. comply with this Code of Conduct in all activities related to the suppliers’ business with Lodam. The Supplier Code of Conduct comprises the following specific areas: We expect our suppliers to ensure that their subsup• Remuneration and employment conditions pliers are aware of and comply with the principles • Working hours expressed in this Code of Conduct. • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining • Discrimination • Harassment and disciplinary measures • Child labour • Forced labour • Health and safety • Environment • Corruption and bribery Furthermore, our suppliers are required to comply with all relevant national legislation and regulations. The purpose of Lodam’s Supplier Code of Conduct is to outline in greater detail the standards we expect our suppliers to adhere to. Lodam views these requirements as an integral part of our business relationship with individual suppliers. We believe that ethical, social and environmental standards will provide competitive advantages for the benefit of Lodam and our suppliers. 24 25 Supplier code of conduct Specific requirements Discrimination If a child is found working, the supplier must act Environment We expect the supplier’s hiring and employment in the best interest of the child, and any measures We expect the supplier to meet all relevant local Remuneration and employment conditions practices (including promotion, training and rewards) taken must aim to improve and not worsen the and national environmental regulations and to strive We expect the supplier to comply with all legislation not to be discriminatory on the grounds of race, child’s situation. to minimise damaging effects to the environment. and regulations governing pay and working hours, colour, ancestry, religion, gender, gender identity or including those pertaining to minimum pay, overexpression, sexual orientation, age, physical or menForced labour Corruption and bribery time pay, sick leave, piece rates and other compental disability, health condition, pregnancy, political Forced, bonded or indentured labour or involuntary We expect the highest standards of integrity in all satory elements. opinion or affiliation, national, social or ethnic origin, prison labour is not to be used. business interactions. The supplier must not engage union membership, marital status, citizenship status in any form of corrupt practices, including extortion, Working hours or veteran status. Health and safety fraud or bribery, whether direct or indirect. We expect the supplier not to require employees to We expect the supplier to provide safe and healthy work more than 60 hours per week including overHarassment and disciplinary measures working conditions and take appropriate precautime, or more than the limits on regular and overWe expect the supplier not to use or permit the use tionary measures to protect employees from worktime hours permitted under local law, whichever is of corporal punishment or other forms of mental related hazards and anticipated dangers in the the lower. Workers must be entitled to at least one or physical coercion, disciplinary actions or sexual workplace. non-working day in every seven-day period. harassment. The supplier must comply with all applicable local Particular employees with unusual working condiChild labour legislation and regulations to prevent accidents and tions may be exempted from this general requireWe expect the supplier to ensure that no person is injury to health arising out of, linked with, or occurment when covered by specific national or internaemployed at an age younger than 15 (or 14 where ring in the course of work or as a result of the operational legislation; however, in the course of 12 weeks the law of the country permits) or younger than the tion of the employer’s facilities. no employee must be required to work more than age for completing compulsory education in the an average of 60 hours per week, including overcountry of manufacture where such age is higher We expect the supplier to continuously improve time. than 15. working conditions and reduce workplace-related risks and hazards by e.g. setting targets and conFreedom of association and right to collective The supplier must protect young workers of legal ducting appropriate training. bargaining working age, up to the age of 18, from any type We expect the supplier not to prevent employees of employment or work which, by its nature or the and other workers from associating freely with any circumstances in which it is carried out, is likely to lawful workers’ association or collective bargaining jeopardize their health, safety or moral. association of their choice. 26 27 People responsibility Lodam wants to be one of the best places to work Trust Index: Management and leadership Not only do we tell our new colleagues about practiin Denmark. This is so important for us that it is part Refers to the overall average result from the Trust Our managers have completed an intensive leadercal issues, we also introduce them to our values and of our overall vision: “Lodam wants to be one of the Index® Employee Survey by the Great Place to ship programme in the past few years, focusing on culture, and we ask them to contribute to our values best places to work in Denmark with a trust index Work® Institute. topics such as situational leadership, communicaand culture. Dialogue between new employees and of 95% as measured by the Great Place to Work® tion, balanced scorecards, delegation etc. The their managers about their professional tasks, about Institute.” programme now continues, however, with more cooperation and about personal development is an focus on the individual managers and their indivi– essential part of starting a new job at Lodam. Even though the past period has been characterdual needs. The present programme underpins the ised by growth, organisational changes and new managers’ ability to support the organisation in the All new employees are offered a personal planning management, Lodam has maintained a trust index Strength of coherence process of strengthening coherence. course, which also includes work-life balance eleof 93%, which places us among the very best work– It is important that all employees are aware of the The challenges faced by managers have been ments. places in Denmark (no. 16 in 2013). whole of Lodam’s business and Lodam’s stratetough, and the 2013 Great Place to Work survey gies and goals, and that they see the meaning and shows a slight decline in the employees’ view of The result from the 2013 Great Place to Work survey In this report, we describe how we have met the purpose of their tasks and have an understanding of the management’s ability to manage and delegate, shows slight progress in this area, though we have challenges of growth, organisational changes and the entire value chain. Establishing such an underref page 31. However, the process and the training not yet reached our goal, ref. page 31. new management, especially in relation to our three standing calls for a high level of comprehension of of the managers continue, and we believe that the goals: the process among managers as well as demanding decline can be ascribed to the uncertainty felt by We all work hard • Significantly improve the management’s ability strong communicative and delegatory skills. Each employees at the time of the organisational changWith growing numbers of colleagues and functions, to manage and delegate the work: Above 90% manager has to create a strong local environment, es, rather than the managers having become less it becomes harder to see what your colleagues are • Significantly improve the employees’ experience while at the same time contributing to building a able to manage. working on – and how hard they work. of team and family spirit: Above 90% strong chain throughout organisation with regard to Feeling that your colleagues work just as hard as you • Significantly improve the employees’ experience levels of understanding, the execution of tasks, helpTeam and family spirit do is very much a matter of trust – especially trust that their colleagues work just as hard as they fulness, flexibility etc. The team and family spirit has also been challenged in your manager’s ability to manage and delegate do: Above 90% Specific internal projects have been launched to creby the company’s growth and new family members and handle challenges associated with growth and ate a strong sense of coherence between the various (i.e. new colleagues). Focus has shifted from team change. These goals are part of the Great Place to Work® teams and divisions, and all managers have received and family spirit across the entire organisation to the Institute’s employee survey, which measures emtraining and coaching on their role in the projects. individual teams. This places a much heavier responFurthermore, a strong sense of coherence, whereby ployee engagement by surveying employee opinThese projects and processes will continue and be sibility for ensuring team/family spirit on individual all employees can see the meaning and purpose of ions, attitudes and perceptions of the level of trust further developed for as long as necessary. The promanagers. Lodam has thus focused on supporting their tasks and have an understanding of the entire between colleagues and between management and cesses also include a significant number of project the managers in this work. value chain, is important for their feeling of fairness. employees. management and quality assurance tools. Lodam devotes many efforts to welcoming new emDespite of the managers’ efforts and focus on this ployees. A central welcoming programme ensures issue, the 2013 Great Place to Work survey showed a that new employees feel welcome from day one. slight decline on this parameter, ref. page 31. 28 29 Photographer: Kaj Frandsen Health In connection with the (statutory) workplace assessPeople responsibility goals Health has also been a focus area in the past pement in 2013, special focus was on ergonomics. The indicators below relate to Lodam’s ability to maintain and improve employee well-being, motivation and riod. Lodam has an occupational health and safety An expert gave a talk on workplace ergonomics in job satisfaction. Furthermore, it shows Lodam’s ability to retain its employees, recruit new employees and organisation, which is statutory. Lodam’s occupageneral, and subsequently all employees were ofcreate new workplaces. tional health and safety committee has its own site fered an individual session during which the expert Description Actual 2012 Actual 2013 Target 2014 Comments at Lodam’s intranet, where it provides information would check and correct their chair, table, working No. of employees 82 employees at 1 91 employees at 1 An increase of 10% about activities and focus areas. positions etc. Furthermore, posters with ergonomic January 2013. January 2014. An increase of 26% An increase of 11% tips and reminders have been displayed around the Staff turnover 2.66% 6.9% Below 5% Measured as the number of retired In the past period, the importance of eating a premises. employees compared to the average number of employees. healthy lunch has been discussed. The committee wanted to ensure that it is possible for all employees First-aid courses have been held at Lodam for a Sick leave 1.52% 1.31% Not to exceed 1.8% Including long-term sick leave. to choose a healthy, varied and low-calorie meal. number of years, but not on a regular basis. FirstNo. of physical injuries 0 0 0 Lodam focuses on preventive Also, a system of providing feedback to and from aid courses, including instructions on how to use activities. the caterers supplying the lunch has been initiated. Lodam’s AED defibrillator, are now part of Lodam’s No. of psychological 0 0 0 Lodam focuses on preventive injuries, e.g. stress activities. Apart from a healthy meal every day, fresh fruit is internal training programme, and will be offered to Agreed and accomplished 67% accomplished 90% divided as folThe final 10% are courses that canlaid on every day. all employees every year. competence development and 18% scheduled. lows: 70% accomnot be accomplished for various (1 May 2014) plished, and 20% reasons (cancelled by the organiser, scheduled. postponed etc.). The committee also wanted to make sure that (1 May 2015) everyone is aware of the sport activities on offer Below are three goals which relate specifically to our These indicators follow the calendar year, except for the competence development goal. for Lodam employees. Various discounts are available. In addition, Lodam supports two annual local Lodam’s values The goals set out below relate to our overall goals and vision of being one of the best places to work in Denmark with sporting events to encourage team and family spirit Our values, which we have formulated and lived for a trust index of 95% as measured by the Great Place to Work® Institute. Lodam wants to improve in all areas measuacross Lodam, not only among the participants, but many years, and which influence everything we do red by the Great Place to Work® survey; however, the three goals set out below are specifically important to us. for all employees who are encouraged to cheer and and all the decisions we make, are: support the Lodam sports teams. These events are • Professionalism a competent and reliable Description 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Nov.) a bike&run event and a local rowing regatta; in both business partner which keeps its promises and Significantly improve the management’s ability to manage and 66% 81% 79% Above 90% delegate the work. cases the Lodam teams compete against teams delivers quality. Significantly improve the employees’ experience of team and 80% 81% 84% Above 90% from other local companies. • Inclusiveness individualism with respect for family spirit. diversity, driven by humour and job happiness Significantly improve the employees’ experience that their col84% 92% 90% Above 90% leagues work just as hard as they do. and preparedness for changes. Trust index: 89% 93% 93% 95% • Good business acumen sound business pracRefers to the Trust Index® Employee Survey, which measures tices in all daily decisions, both internally and employee engagement by surveying employee opinions, attitudes and perceptions of the level of trust between colleagues externally. and between management and employees. These goals follow the GPW calendar. The survey is carried out in September, and the results are available in November. 30 31 Anti-corruption Goals and actions Lodam strives to maintain strong ethical standards Gifts from Lodam, including business partner care, Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption and to be a company of good standing and integare thus based on the reasonability principle. We do Results goals and actions (May 2013 April 2014) rity. Lodam’s anti-corruption policy is based on the not give individual Christmas gifts, but we may give (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) UN’s Convention against Corruption as well as our gifts to show our appreciation of special efforts, also obligations under the tenth principle of the UN based on the reasonability principle. Moreover, we Goal Continue communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: Global Compact initiative: Businesses should work prefer to give gifts to a group of people instead of a. An annual general instruction to all employees. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion just one person. The gifts that Lodam or a Lodam b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts. (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.), at least once a year. and bribery. employee may receive are accepted only if they c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. comply with the reasonability principle; if not, they Result a. An annual general instruction was held in February 2014. The instruction is now part of Lodam’s geneCorruption is defined by Transparency International are returned. Furthermore, all the gifts received are ral internal training programme. as “the abuse of entrusted power for private gain.” donated to Lodam’s Christmas lottery, in which all b. Special annual instruction to employees with many external contacts was held in December 2013 and January 2014. Participation is registered in Lodam’s competence registration system. employees participate. c. No incidents registered (as per 1 May 2014). Within our supply chain, we ensure that our partners work against corruption as well, by asking our supOur focus area has been and will continue to be pliers to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct on awareness and understanding of this issue. The (ref. pages 25-27), which includes a paragraph on instruction held for all employees include informaHuman rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption corruption and bribery. tion on grey areas between corruption and building New goals and actions (May 2014 April 2015) relationships and what the reasonability principle (The four columns on the right show the UN Global Compact areas to which the individual activities relate) Lodam has an internal policy regarding gifts. Gifts to means. and from external partners must respect a reasonGoal ability principle, whereby they do not act as a means Continue communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. of persuading someone to do something which is b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). dishonest, illegal or represents a breach of confic. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. dence. 32 33 Final words and facts Lodam has worked with strategic social responsibilresult of the Danish “Great Place to Work” comFacts: Human rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Human rights Labour Labour Environment Anti-corruption ity for a couple of years now. Social responsibility is petition, organised by the Great Place to Work® Human rights Environment Anti-corruption now firmly anchored in the organisation, and awareInstitute, clearly shows that Lodam is succeeding Date of issue of this communication on progress ness of the company’s social responsibility activities in that area. 95% per cent of all Lodam employees (COP): 26 May 2013 and goals is high. We still provide regular informaanswered “I feel good about the way we contribute tion about social responsibility activities, but not as to society”. Company name and address: often as initially. We inform new employees about Lodam electronics a/s our strategy and activities, and we have a dedicated As a socially responsible company, Lodam will conKærvej 77 social responsibility site on the Lodam intranet. tinue to implement and incorporate the 10 princiDK-6400 Sønderborg ples of the UN Global Compact initiative into our Working in a company that focuses on social responstrategies and our daily work. VAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 sibility is very important to our employees. The 2013 Bank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: DK12626509 No. of employees on date of issue: 101 Management: Henning H. Kristensen, CTO Tore Østergaard, COO Board of Directors: Peter Schaufler Christian Wahlers Rainer Grosse-Kracht Jürgen Kleiner Christian Wehrle Kristian Strand Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012. This report has been printed using environmentally friendly ink on FSC certified paper in a limited number of copies. Ref. www.fsc.org. 34 35 Lodam electronics – Efficient energy control for better living Copyright © 2014 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Ver. 4.0 27.05.2014 Lodam electronics a/s Tel. +45 73 42 37 37 lodam@lodam.com Kærvej 77 Fax +45 73 42 37 30 www.lodam.com 6400 Sønderborg Denmark
