BT Better Future Report 2014 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Introduction We have been a signatory to the Global Compact since 2000 and we reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This annual Communication on Progress (see table) summarises the key sections of our report as they relate to the Global Compact's principles and our business strategy, culture and operations. There are links to further information such as measures, lessons learned and our future plans. Global Compact Principle BT information Pages on the site Principle 1: The Human Rights section of the report Businesses should summarises our approach to protecting Human  Ethics and support and respect the Rights. Our commitment to the Global Compact is human rights protection of reinforced in our Statement of business practice internationally which The Way We Work sets out how we do proclaimed human rights. business at BT. It applies to all our people and everyone else who works for BT around the world, in everything we do. Principle 2: The Human Rights section of the report summarises Businesses should make BT's approach to protecting human rights. BT's  Ethics and sure that they are not potential impact both positive and negative on human rights complicit in human rights human rights is managed by a number of abuses. departments and units throughout the business. Principle 3: We respect rights to equal opportunities, freedom of Businesses should association and collective bargaining. The employee  Engaging our uphold the freedom of section of this report sets out our relationship with people association and the trade unions. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: We don’t use or accept forced, bonded or Businesses should involuntary prison labour. We don’t demand or hold  Assessing our uphold the elimination of on to deposits or identity papers for our workers, or social and all forms of forced and deal with businesses that do. We only work with compulsory labour. people who choose to work freely. Our Sourcing environment with Human Dignity standard, specifies the minimum risk standards we expect of our suppliers. Principle 5: We don’t use child labour and we demand the same Businesses should of our suppliers and their suppliers. Our Sourcing  Assessing our uphold the effective with Human Dignity standard, introduced in 2001, social and abolition of child labour. specifies the minimum standards we expect of our suppliers. environment risk Global Compact Principle BT information Pages on the site Principle 6: We are an equal opportunities employer. As a Two Business should uphold Ticks employer, in the UK, we actively encourage  Promoting the elimination of the recruitment, development and retention of diversity discrimination in respect disabled people. The promoting diversity section of of employment and this report sets out our policies and practices occupation. relating to the elimination of discrimination in our employment practices. Principle 7: Our environment policy and management systems Businesses should are designed to ensure we comply with  Products support a precautionary environmental legislation and continually improve  Operations approach to our performance in these areas. We have produced environmental Designing Our Tomorrow (DOT) checklist as a free challenges. to use resource to help ICT product designers and others to incorporate thinking on minimising environmental impact at each stage of a product’s life-cycle into its design. Principle 8: Our approach to environmental issues is outlined in Businesses should the Net Good section of this report. Including our  Net Good undertake initiatives to environmental policy and our work to reduce the promote greater impacts of our products. environmental responsibility. Principle 9: We seek to maximise opportunities for the provision Businesses should of services and solutions which can help to reduce  Net Good encourage the negative environmental impacts, and which can development and provide significant environmental diffusion of benefits. In 2013 we set out our Net Good vision 'To environmentally friendly help society live within the constraints of our planet’s technologies. resources through our products and people'. Principle 10: BT has zero tolerance of bribery. The ethics and Businesses should work human rights section of this report details our  Ethics and against corruption in all business principles (which apply world-wide to all human rights its forms, including employees and everyone else who works for BT extortion and bribery. around the world) and progress on our implementation of them.
