Value Life n sib ility sp o R e s r r ow e s om o in nd T a . T Bu od s ay Life 2012 / 2013 Va l u e www.vygon.co.uk vygon@vygon.co.uk Contents Statement from the Managing Director 3-4 Introduction 5-6 • Business Responsibility at Vygon (UK) Ltd • Stakeholder Engagement at Vygon (UK) Ltd • Governance Customers 7-10 • Customer Health and Safety • Innovation • Award • Product Training • Gastrostomy Study Days • Customer Engagement Our Employees 11-14 • Our Employees in Numbers • Employee Engagement • Training and Development • Health and Safety • Health and Wellbeing • Diversity Community 15 • Vygon Helping Others • Product Donations • Supporting the Local Community Suppliers 16-18 • Our Suppliers • Vygon SA • Training and Awareness at Vygon SA • Research and Development • Vygon SA and Charitable Work Environment 19-20 • Waste • Energy Usage • Paper Usage • Water • Staff Travel • Premises Air Quality Vygon (UK) Ltd Targets and Plans for the Next Twelve Months 2014 21 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section 22-31 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that Vygon (UK) Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. It is our first annual Communication on Progress; we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Our COP is integrated into our main Business Responsibility Report, and we are committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Les Davies Managing Director Vygon (UK) Ltd, COP for 2014 3 Statement from the Managing Director Welcome to our third annual Business Responsibility report, titled “Value Life. We appreciate and Today and Tomorrow”. The report is designed and conducted according to the G4 Framework established by the GRI – the most widely used sustainability value our customers reporting framework. and employees. Vygon (UK) Ltd is a leading and trusted supplier of medical and surgical consumables to the National Health Service as well as operating within the We also value life in veterinary and private markets. the broader sense, This year we are presenting our report in two parts. Part one is divided into by caring about four sections highlighting our main stakeholder groups. Each section features some of the important work we are doing that’s making a positive difference the environment in to both our business and our stakeholders. This work isn’t always quantifiable, but can prove hugely beneficial to our employees, our customers and other which we operate. stakeholders. Part two contains the relevant aspects and indicators required by the GRI. Here we compare our latest 2012 / 2013 data with that listed in our We value life, previous report. for today and The title of this year’s report mirrors our global corporate branding and highlights our commitment to continuous sustainable development. In tomorrow. 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd was a finalist in the North West Supply Awards for Sustainability and although a relative newcomer to Business Responsibility, as a business we are enthusiastically embracing sustainability in all its forms. In 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd celebrated its 40th anniversary. To mark the occasion we held a large staff party to celebrate both our 40 year milestone and to look forward to our ongoing success. We are proud to say that many of the staff present at this celebration have worked for the company for more than 20 years. As a business Vygon (UK) Ltd has developed and adapted throughout the past four decades to remain successful in changing markets. Through all of this change the constant has been the energy, enthusiasm and ambition of our staff in all areas of the business. Our employees, both past and present, have been instrumental in moving the business forward, and the Vygon board and I are very appreciative of all their contributions over this period. As a tribute to all those who contribute to the success of our company, we are focussing this year’s report on people. Our staff help make the business grow year after year, and our customers inspire us to develop and design new Please send your comments to: products. We appreciate and value our staff and customers and all of their business.responsibility@vygon.co.uk contributions. We also value life in the broader sense by caring about the environment in which we operate. We value life, for today and tomorrow. We hope you find this report useful and interesting, and would welcome your feedback. Les Davies, Managing Director 4 Introduction Business Responsibility at Vygon (UK) Ltd The Vygon Group was established in France in 1962 by Pierre Simonet and has since expanded its business worldwide with subsidiaries in 21 countries. Our focus for We have product distributors operating in a further 64 countries. In total there are seven manufacturing units producing Vygon products, five of which sustainability are in Europe, the sixth in Colombia and the seventh in the USA.Vygon (UK) Ltd was established in 1973, and in terms of turnover (over £54 million in is built around 2012) is the leading subsidiary of the group.Vygon UK is now a leading and trusted supplier of medical and surgical consumables to the NHS as well as three elements: operating in veterinary and private markets. economic, We formally introduced Business Responsibility reporting three years ago. Sustainability, however, has always been an integral part of what we do as environmental a global company. Innovation and research have formed the basis of our company since its creation in 1962 in France. We focus on our customers and and social. their wellbeing, and this helps guide our sustainability strategies and goals. Our focus for sustainability is built around three elements: economic, environmental and social. In April 2013, we became an official participant in the United Nations Global Compact. We are now among the 10,000 companies around the world, formally committed to its ten principles. The United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate responsibility initiative in the world, with over 10,000 participants based in 140 countries. More information: www.unglobalcompact.org This report will serve as our first Communication on Progress to the UNGC. 5 Introduction Stakeholder Engagement at Vygon (UK) Ltd Stakeholder Examples of Areas of Interest Group Engagement Customers • Quality • Company website • Supply Chain • Sales Representatives • Customer Service • Product training sessions • Product Support • Tenders Employees • Business performance • Staff meetings • Fairness and equality • Vygon Connect • Training and • Company website development • NewsFlash www.vygon.co.uk • Job safety • Performance reviews • Charitable giving • Surveys • Champions Group and Vygon Helping Others Suppliers • Contractual terms • Supplier questionnaire • Sustainability • Company website requirements Community • Job opportunities • Website • Low environmental • Articles in local press impact e.g. noise levels, • Social media air pollution • Donations, supporting • Charitable support initiatives Governance Business Responsibility progress is monitored internally by the Steering Group Business which has representatives from key areas of the business: Operations, Human Resources, Marketing, Commercial and Finance. Meetings are held quarterly, Responsibility or more often if required. This Group approves sustainability principles, strategy and goals, and any associated major changes. progress is Business Responsibility Champions are departmental representatives who meet quarterly to discuss sustainability issues. There are nine representatives monitored in the group, who are known throughout the company. This year some have delivered business responsibility refresher training sessions to their teams, internally by the which encouraged better engagement and raised the champions’ profiles. Steering Group Vygon Helping Others is another employee group, whose responsibility is to look after and organise all charitable contributions and events. More which has information on Vygon Helping Others is in the “Our Communities” part of this report. representatives Both groups include the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator, who acts as a from key areas link and reports directly to the Steering Group. of the business. 6 Customers We have customers throughout the UK, both in the National Health Service and the private sector. We also supply products to the veterinary market. Customer Health and Safety Customer Health and Safety have always been a priority for Vygon (UK) Ltd. When researching and developing new products, we always focus on what our customers want and which products will be safer and easier to use on the patient. In the healthcare sector the health and safety of all patients is covered by legislation. To support the safety and welfare of patients treated using our products,Vygon (UK) Ltd has a stringent process in place that ensures any quality issues are handled immediately. Any product concerns are recorded and investigated by the Technical Department and should a product fault be identified, reports are made to Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA). Innovation There is a constant pressure on the NHS to make its everyday procedures safer and easier for patients. At the same time, it is looking for products to save the service time and money.Vygon is constantly working with clinicians to address these challenges, and introduce new products that meet their needs. Some examples of the most recent new products include Vadsite® and Curos®. Innovative Each year thousands of patients contract potentially life-threatening Vygon catheter-related bloodstream infections. Current protocols for ensuring correct cleaning of IV and needle-free devices are hard to enforce and measure. These products avoidable infections not only cost the NHS millions of pounds, but they also have an impact on patient therapy and hospital experience. are helping To help tackle this problem Vygon has introduced the Curos Port Protector, a simple, innovative device that provides healthcare professionals with an reduce patient effective method of reducing Catheter Related Bloodstream Infections (CRBSI). Independent laboratory tests show that Curos disinfects the device’s surface infection and by killing bacteria in three minutes, and prevents recolonisation for up to seven days. saving the Vadsite is the first clear, split-septum needle-free device in the UK to combine NHS time and a fixed, straight fluid pathway with glass syringe compatibility. We have created a device that meets both global opinion leaders’ recommendations and today’s money. healthcare workers’ requirements.Vadsite helps reduce CRBSIs through a number of key features including a clear, fixed straight fluid pathway which offers improved blood clearing, and a low priming volume. On top of their main medical benefits, both devices help our customers to be more efficient by saving them time and money. 7 Customers Award Vygon (UK) Ltd is very pleased to announce that it won ‘Highly Commended’ in the Improving the Patient Pathway Award Adult Acute Service category at the Excellence in Supply Awards North West 2013. To win this award Vygon had to meet a number of criteria listed by the judges at the North West Procurement Development: ‘Suppliers must be able to demonstrate how they have provided and or improved goods or services to NHS Trusts in the North West that have enhanced patient care to Adult Acute Services whilst delivering commercial benefit. Commercial benefits can be assessed as those quantifiable in terms of reduced whole life product costs, reduced length of stay, improved efficiency in theatres and so on.’ Vygon worked closely with a North West NHS Trust to develop a VYSET® custom arterial pack to help them streamline their current procedure in line with national guidelines, epic2 and Matching Michigan. Working with ITU and A&E they looked at the Trust’s current practice and policies around arterial line insertion and created a custom pack to suit the Trust’s needs. This enabled them to standardise practice and improve patient outcomes. Vygon and the Trust’s Procurement Department analysed current practice and calculated how the VYSET® custom pack would save the Trust time and money. The Trust found that by using the VYSET custom pack they would save £7 per procedure, which is around £23,000 per year based on current usage. They also quantified there could be as much as a 20 minute time saving element per procedure by using the VYSET custom pack as the components didn’t have to be sourced from different locations. The pack is now being implemented into all adult critical care services, including Theatres, Maternity, HDU & CCU. The Trust found that by using the VYSET custom pack they would save £7 per procedure, which is around £23,000 per year based on current usage. 8 Customers Product Training We provide all our customers with free training on our product ranges with many sessions tailored to meet customers’ needs. Vygon UK is the International Training Centre for the Vygon Group, meaning our training managers provide product training to customers around the world. In 2012, we trained over 325 people in 24 countries and in 2013 over 282 people in 22 countries, The areas that were covered in those sessions included: • • IV Management PICC Adults/Neonatal In 2012, we • • CVC and Arterial Bionector trained more • Nutrisafe® 2 than 325 Here are some examples of the feedback we’ve received from customers who have undergone product training: people in 24 “I just wanted to send an email to express my sincere countries and thanks for delivering training on needle-free devices at in 2013, more Bolton NHS Foundation Trust. than 282 I truly appreciate the level of commitment you and your colleagues have shown to the organisation by committing to a three week period of training, something that people in 22 other product companies aspire to, but seldom achieve. countries. On a personal note, I would like to thank you for the support you have provided to me which included designing and bespoking the educational materials, presenting at various internal professional forums, attending divisional meetings and generally having to field my many enquiries in the run up to the training being delivered. It has been very much appreciated knowing you will have had competing demands, but came with the most refreshing attitude and aptitude that meant anything was possible, and as a result of this we got there in the end.” 9 Customers 2012 Gastrostomy Study Days Vygon (UK) Ltd runs clinician-led gastrostomy study days, for up to 100 delegates. These events are funded by an educational grant, with all proceeds from the small registration fee going to our nominated charities PINNT or 6 study days, CHAS. All delegates have the opportunity to listen to experts and take part in hands-on workshops. 320 delegates, £4,800 donated to charity. 2013 5 study days, 300 delegates, £4,500 donated to charity. Customer Engagement Tenders provide an excellent customer engagement platform. Through our tender questions, we can monitor our customers’ latest expectations and interests regarding Business Responsibility. Our Sales Team records all their customer engagement in our CRM database. Recently, a new section has been introduced for them to record any communications related to Business Responsibility. We will provide more details on this in our next report. 10 Our Employees Our Employees in Numbers NewsFlash Managers 35 Office / Clerical 49 Warehouse / Facilities 29 Sales 34 Total number of employees 147 Employee Engagement We engage and communicate with employees about our Business Responsibility through various channels. In August 2013, we launched a new intranet site for employees,VygonConnect. This has been brought in to improve communication and reduce the number of staff emails. VygonConnect All staff receive a regular NewsFlash giving them the latest updates on products, sales successes, and any staff or departmental changes. Business Responsibility news and achievements are included in NewsFlashes along with charity news and announcements. At monthly staff meetings the Managing Director delivers updates on company performance. This meeting is an excellent engagement tool, and provides all employees with an opportunity to raise any questions or concerns they have about the business. Training and Development It is our policy to train all our employees, whether they are full-time, part-time or temporary. We invest heavily in employee development and in 2013, we spent an average of £4,367 per employee on training. Training needs are regularly assessed through performance reviews, and we have a dedicated training department that is informed prior to any training being undertaken. All training records are kept and maintained at local team level, and it is every individual’s responsibility to make sure that their personal record is up-to-date. 11 Our Employees Our induction programme for new employees includes a company presentation, inductions on Business Responsibility and Health and Safety, and an efficient driving course for all company car users. The Business Responsibility induction covers topics such as waste management, our membership of the UNGC, and ethical supply chain.This presentation has been created to raise awareness on all three aspects of Business Responsibility, and not just environmental issues. One of our In our last report, we set a target to have 100% of employees trained on the subject of Business Responsibility. In 2013, Business Responsibility induction most important training was delivered to 21 new starters. With some further refresher sessions development that have been delivered to existing employees, we’ve achieved a figure of 94% by the end of 2013. It is our plan to develop new, more job-specific opportunities training sessions next year, as well as extending this training to include our sales is promoting force. people who Our Sales Executives receive extensive training to ensure they are 100% competent when it comes to their product portfolio. They need to be trained already work for to a standard where they can promote our products in line with all current Vygon (UK) Ltd. clinical guidance and protocols. Their initial training plan when joining the company lasts on average six months, and includes in-depth product training, a three-day selling skills course, psychology of performance, hospital visits and procurement training. The whole programme consists of approximately 93 days of training. We believe in our staff and value their knowledge. That’s why one of our most important development opportunities is to promote people who already work for us. This allows us to develop and retain people who have valuable experience of our different product and business areas, and who also understand the company’s culture, processes and systems. Of our current managers, 50% have been promoted internally from non-management positions. In 2013, we reviewed and updated our performance management system. The new system includes regular one-to-one discussions and twice yearly appraisals. Our new system has been designed to recognise every employee’s contribution to the company’s objectives and targets, and to see how their personal achievements lead to the company’s overall performance. Rewards include recognition, development, and career opportunities. Health and Safety H&S Stats: It is the policy of Vygon (UK) Ltd to comply with the Workplace (Health, Safety 2011 2012 2013 and Welfare) Regulations 1992. We aim to provide and maintain a healthy and Fatalities 0 0 0 safe working environment. In return, we expect our employees not to take part Minor injuries 6 3 11 in any actions that might be deemed unsafe. Every employee in the company Major injuries 0 0 0 is trained to perform their job effectively and safely. Regular inspections are conducted by the Facilities Manager, and the effectiveness of the policy is reviewed annually. 12 Our Employees There have been no fatalities or major injuries. In 2013 the level of minor injuries recorded was slightly higher than in previous years. We have taken steps to ensure improvements for 2014, such as retraining employees on manual handling and use of equipment Health and Wellbeing We encourage our employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle. With this in mind, in 2012 we opened an on-site gymnasium for all employees to use free of charge. The gym is available 7.00am to 7.30pm every day so staff can exercise outside of working hours. Fitness classes are also offered. It’s hoped that by having a convenient, cost-free facility within the workplace it will make it easier for staff to commit to regular exercise and improve their overall health and well-being. It has been proven that employees who exercise regularly have better health overall which can reduce sickness and improve productivity at work. New canteen facilities have also been introduced that offer employees freshly-cooked food and a salad bar, further supporting them in making healthy lifestyle choices. Respectful to others: we value diversity and seek strength in our differences. Diversity We show respect while challenging We promote diversity among our employees as we believe that people with different backgrounds, attitudes and skills bring fresh and independent each other in a knowledge and experience. Diversity is embedded in our culture, and forms the basis of one of our five company values. constructive way. 13 Our Employees Our Equality and Diversity policy shows our commitment, and all our employees are expected to adhere to it. It prohibits discrimination Workplace diversity in numbers Leavers on basis of race, colour, sex, age, Male 76 2012 2013 Female 71 Total 31 Total 16 nationality, accent, Under 30 42 Female 14 Male 17 Female 14 Male 2 sexual orientation, 30-50 Over 50 84 21 religion, learning difficulties, physical Parental Leave appearance, Total Male Female Returned to work physical or mental 7 2 5 100% abilities, health, As yet full data is not available covering all aspects of diversity but plans are trade union being put in place to address this in future reports. We will be introducing a diversity questionnaire that all new members of staff who join Vygon in memberships, 2014 will be required to complete. Our existing staff will also be sent the spent or irrelevant questionnaire. convictions, political affiliation. 14 Community Vygon Helping Others Our charity group,Vygon Helping Others, has just completed its second year of activity. The committee invited employees during the year to take part in a range of fundraising events including quizzes, coffee mornings and raffles. The committee even ran a mini charity shop in support of the Macmillan Cancer Support World’s Biggest Coffee Morning. As part of its commitment to helping others,Vygon fund-matched money raised by a number of employees who undertook sponsored events for their own chosen charities. This included giving company match-funding following a Moroccan mountain trek, the UKbased Three Peaks Challenge, the Bath Half Marathon and the Race for Life. We have also introduced “Time & Talents” donations to encourage people to give more than just their cash. If employees give up their time to help a charity (e.g. organising events), they can receive a donation from Vygon towards that charity in support. In 2013 from staff fundraising and Vygon match-funding we donated £6,100.63 to charity. Product Donations As well as donating money to charities,Vygon UK also helps by offering free products when approached by medical organisations. During 2013, we donated products to support “Operation Hernia” in Nigeria, and emergency maternity and antenatal courses in Liberia. Supporting the Local Community In 2012 Vygon was approached by the Swindon Parkinson’s group who were looking for a place to meet. They needed a secluded location and thought our gatehouse looked ideal. The reason was not to hold a meeting but to practice their African drumming without annoying the neighbours! Drumming is both therapeutic and has positive health benefits for Parkinson’s sufferers, increasing blood flow, raising the heart rate, reducing stress and improving self-esteem. Sandra, Keith and Alan have now been drumming in the gatehouse twice a week for two years, and have found it to be beneficial to their health.Vygon is very happy to make such a difference. 15 Suppliers Our Suppliers Ensuring high standards in our supply chain is an important part of our Business Responsibility strategy. All our suppliers are required to comply with our Code of Conduct which is based on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) ten principles. At the end of 2013 we introduced an updated supplier questionnaire that was revised to be more detailed and to address all ten principles of the UNGC. It asks specific questions on labour standards, discrimination, health and safety, bribery and corruption as well as addressing their environmental commitments. We aim to gather this information not only from our new suppliers, but also from all of our existing suppliers. Our supplier range is not particularly wide with 76% of our products Supplier locations and the being manufactured within the Vygon Group and purchased from average spend: Vygon SA. The remaining 23% of products are sourced from a further 19 • UK 11 companies suppliers. £5,810,405 We have an additional 20 suppliers for non-product items including • Europe 2 companies stationery, furniture, marketing and warehouse equipment. £25,559,561 • Asia (China) 2 companies Vygon SA £1,295,172 • USA 4 companies Our parent company Vygon SA is our main supplier, providing 76% of £370,963 our products. They are also committed to sustainability, focussing on environmental elements. Two of their main manufacturing and sterilisation sites have achieved ISO14001 (Ecouen and Verneuil en Halatte, France). With this certification, a commitment has been made to respect and protect the environment when carrying out industrial manufacturing. Vygon SA’s approach to environmental challenges has been summarised in the following actions: • An efficient regulatory monitoring system that ensures full compliance with all current worldwide environmental regulations. • Minimising industrial effects, and risks to the environment with the aim of preventing accidents and contamination. • Improving waste management within the company by continual education. Vygon SA is our • Having a better understanding of our energy consumption. • Raising awareness of environmental issues and providing training for main supplier, employees. • Having open dialogue with concerned parties and the public, based on providing 76% of improved dissemination of information. • Every objective is constantly re-examined as part of a process of our products. continual improvement. 16 Suppliers Training and Awareness at Vygon SA In the last two All relevant departments get regular sustainability training concerning their years, the area of work. Some examples of training delivered during 2013 include safety percentage of on chemical products, and eco concept. waste being Each new employee receives a booklet that provides basic information about recycled the company which also includes the main environmental information. Each new starter is allocated a mentor who is responsible for overseeing their initial has gone up training. Every training plan includes the main aspects of the person’s job, but from 32% to 80% also includes environmental objectives and actions e.g. how to recycle, how to contribute to saving energy and reducing pollution. The mentor ensures every point is covered and understood. . The environmental newspaper “Envygonment” was created in 2011, and is sent out to all staff every month. Different topics are covered including the latest news and regulations on the subject, car emissions, waste figures and many more. Some examples of recent environmental achievements for Vygon SA: • Waste in the last two years, the percentage of waste being recycled has gone up from 32% to 80%. • In the new office building bought in 2012, rainwater is collected for use in It is company toilets, and an insulation system has been installed to minimise heat loss. • It is company policy to only have low emission cars in the fleet. policy to have only low Vygon SA has introduced a number of procedures into manufacturing to ensure the impact on the environment is minimised: emission cars. • The reprocessed plastic waste from device manufacture is used in the production of swab handles. • Ethylene Oxide is destroyed in the sterilisation process by catalytic oxidation. The process is very expensive but it prevents toxic emissions. • The use of bonding solvents has been reduced by replacing them with adhesives. • All water is recycled. Vygon SA Research and Development reinvests at least 10% Patient safety has always been the Vygon Group’s priority, and we always consider clinician needs when developing our products.Vygon SA reinvests at least 10% of its profits into research and development. All products undergo rigorous safety and technical testing throughout the development stages. Factors that are being looked at during the development stage are: improving of its profits into use, improving user safety, saving clinician time. research and In order to make its devices safer Vygon offers latex-free and DEHP-free development. products. 17 Suppliers Vygon SA and Charitable Work Vygon SA is also involved in humanitarian work. It supports the humanitarian association “Les Mamans du Soleil” that focuses on helping newborn babies and their mothers in Nigeria. Vygon involvement is based around training and educating local communities as well as donating products. Vygon SA also supports “Etoile de Martin”, a charity that helps children with cancer. In 2013,Vygon SA helped organise a sports day, in which Vygon employees took part. This event alone raised over 3,500 Euros for this charity. In April 2013, Vygon SA and Curie-Cancer signed a partnership agreement for the development of innovative medical devices. Curie-Cancer, the body responsible for developing Institut Curie’s industry partnership activities, will work with Vygon to develop a new generation of innovative medical devices to use mainly in chemotherapy. The partnership aims to introduce them to European, US and Asian markets. The development work will be based around reducing the risk of infection from implantable ports for patients who undergo chemotherapy. Vygon is a world leader in this field, and has agreed to design implantable ports that address the requirements. We will provide more details on how this partnership is progressing in our next report. 18 Environment Waste Recycling is central to our waste management programme and is integrated across all of our operations. Through our ongoing waste management In 2013, we diverted around 45 programme we recycle as much of our waste as possible. In 2013, we diverted around 45 tonnes of waste from landfill. 2011 2012 2013 Paper 8060 4425 3947 Cardboard 23510 14150 11923 Plastic 6455 3696 3713 Wood (pallets) 8060 4100 7220 tonnes Some changes have been made throughout 2013. New recycling bins have been put in the main kitchen. We also removed individual desk bins from our offices of waste to help us recycle more of our waste and send much less to landfill. from landfill. Working with a waste management contractor, we are planning to trial a mini baler to recycle our waste. All waste will then be picked up by the contractor and turned into electricity. Energy Usage 2012 2013 1660026 kWh 1683817 kWh Paper Usage In our last report paper usage was identified as one of the main areas of interest to our employees. Efforts have been made throughout the company, and procedures changed from paper-based to using emails or PDF files. The figures below do not show significant reductions. We are hoping, however, to see reduced numbers in the next couple of years as all processes are streamlined and put into practice. 2012 2013 January 25500 157750 February 82250 98200 March 71800 84750 April 129250 52500 May 11000 278400 June 71100 138565 July 57700 6525 August 56000 72425 September 1500 37500 October 134500 93825 November 82900 8000 December 3000 Not available All types of paper included, and Totals 726500 1028440 shown in A4 sheets equivalent. 19 Environment The Marketing Department has continued to use carbon balanced paper for all externally printed literature, and during the period 1st March 2012 to 25th November 2013,Vygon (UK) Ltd saved the equivalent of 3125 kgs of CO2. Water In July 2013 around 440,000 litres of water had to be drained from the sprinkler tank to allow repairs to be carried out.Vygon (UK) Ltd recognises the significance of this waste, and will make efforts to make savings in this area. Staff Travel In 2013 there was a strong focus on encouraging staff to use videoconferencing facilities whenever possible rather than travelling to meetings. The aim is to reduce the company’s costs and impact on the environment. The results so far are very promising. Although it is difficult to calculate the exact benefits in terms of CO2 almost 15128 miles have been saved, which is the equivalent of 7.3 tonnes of CO2. This also gave a significant financial saving of £11,750 (this figure only covers travelling costs). 2011 2012 2013 No. of vehicles 52 52 58 Average CO2 142.19 135 129 Saving 13% 5.27% 9.27% Premises Air Quality In July 2013, air quality testing was carried out at our head office in Swindon, Wiltshire. The test results showed some improvements were needed to 4% above the ensure a safe and healthy environment for all employees, especially those target set out in with respiratory conditions. Following the results, all filters within the air conditioning system were changed and the speed of the office airflow fans was our last report! increased. Retesting took place in October 2013 and all areas conformed. The final report was published on VygonConnect for all staff to view. . 20 Vygon (UK) Ltd Targets and Plans for the Next Twelve Months 2014 Environmental • Continue to encourage all departments to reduce paper usage by switching to emails, PDFs etc. where possible and discourage unnecessary printing. • Continue to use videoconferencing facilities as an alternative to travelling. • Achieve further reductions of 5.2% on fleet vehicle emissions. • Reduce the amount of waste being sent to landfill; look further into the “waste into energy” option. Social • Update all existing social policies in line with new company branding. • Continue participation in Sustainability VygView group to work towards producing a group level report. Employees • Introduce a diversity questionnaire to new recruits and gather information from existing staff. • Improve engagement by introducing more Business Responsibility related events. • Create more interactive and job-specific training sessions on Business Responsibility. • Develop community engagement plans for the Vygon Helping Others group. • Continue fund-raising activities for our existing charities as well as integrating two new charities – Timmy Mason Trust and Teckels Animal Sanctuaries. . 21 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section Introduction of G4 As a company employing 147 people,Vygon (UK) Ltd is ambitious in applying GRI guidelines to annual Business Responsibility reports. With the introduction of GRI G4 consideration was given to the additional complexity and, most importantly, the impact on the target audience. It was therefore decided to proceed with a report in two sections: the first reporting on Business Responsibility achievements and targets and the second to focus on the GRI G4 targets and achievements, which provides easier assessment against ‘in accordance core’ and ‘in accordance comprehensive’. Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Welcome to our third annual Business Responsibility report, titled “Value Life. Today and Tomorrow”. The report is designed and conducted according to the G4 Framework established by the GRI – the most widely used sustainability reporting framework. Vygon (UK) Ltd is a leading and trusted supplier of medical and surgical consumables to the National Health Service as well as operating within the veterinary and private markets. This year we are presenting our report in two parts. Part one is divided into four sections highlighting our main stakeholder groups. Each section features some of the important work we are doing that’s making a positive difference to both our business and our stakeholders. This work isn’t always quantifiable, but can prove hugely beneficial to our employees, our customers and other stakeholders. Part two contains the relevant aspects and indicators required by the GRI. Here we compare our latest 2012 / 2013 data with that listed in our previous report. The title of this year’s report mirrors our global corporate branding and highlights our commitment to continuous sustainable development. In 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd was a finalist in the North West Supply Awards for Sustainability and although a relative newcomer to the United National Global Compact, as a business we are enthusiastically embracing sustainability in all its forms. In 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd celebrated its 40th anniversary. To mark the occasion we held a large staff party to celebrate both our 40 year milestone and to look forward to our ongoing success. We are proud to say that many of the staff present at this celebration have worked for the company for more than 20 years. As a business Vygon (UK) Ltd has developed and adapted throughout the past four decades to remain successful in changing markets. Through all of this change the constant has been the energy, enthusiasm and ambition of our staff in all areas of the business. Our employees, both past and present, have been instrumental in moving the business forward, and the Vygon board and I are very appreciative of all their contributions over this period. As a tribute to all those who contribute to the success of our company, we are focussing this year’s report on people. Our staff help make the business grow year after year, and our customers inspire us to develop and design new products. We appreciate and value our staff and customers and all of their contributions. We also value life in the broader sense by caring about the environment in which we operate. We value life, for today and tomorrow. We hope you find this report useful and interesting, and would welcome your feedback. G4-2 Key impacts of Vygon (UK) Ltd As a small company employing 147 employees Vygon (UK) Ltd employs a single approach to managing all aspects of Business Responsibility. This only varies where the individual situation demands it. The approach is that a single person is assigned responsibility for sustainability management, operation and training, while reporting back to the company sustainability Steering Group on progress and for decisions on strategic issues. Vygon (UK) Ltd is in the contradictory position of employing a small number of people while being a major supplier to the UK healthcare market. This means a limited ability to afford resources towards achieving an impact in social, economic and environmental terms but offering a product that assists clinicians in providing a significant impact. Environmental Waste management • Targeting 0% landfill from Vygon (UK) Ltd Supply chain • 96% addressed • All new suppliers assessed Fleet vehicle emissions • Third successive year of exceeding targeted reduction in fleet vehicle emissions • Continued co-operation with NHS Supply Chain to reduce impact of carriage of goods Biodiversity • Continuing programme of planting and maintenance 22 • Monitoring of native species 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section Strategy and Analysis Social Human rights, bribery and corruption Codes of conduct for suppliers established and issued Employee welfare • Comprehensive employee engagement and Business Responsibility involvement programme established • Employee welfare factors continue to be developed in new premises 94% of employees trained in all aspects of Business Employee training Responsibility. Second year of involvement with • Wiltshire Air Ambulance Charitable Trust and Philanthropic • Macmillan Cancer Support Economic Community Continued growth and contribution to the local economy G4-3 Vygon (UK) Ltd continues to monitor all current trends, risks and opportunities: • Climate change and clean energy through managing the supply chain • Sustainable transport. See main report and above • Sustainable consumption and production through managing the supply chain • Conservation and management of natural resources through managing the supply chain • Public health trends in particular an ageing population effects of climate change through: injury, illnesses and epidemics • A continued policy of social inclusion • Global poverty and sustainable development through philanthropic involvement at local and Group level. At Group level Vygon is involved with the charity Les Mamans du Soleil. Organisational Profile G4-4 Vygon (UK) Ltd is a leading supplier of single use medical products to the UK healthcare market Primary products include: • Bionector • Biovalve • Leadercath • Lifecath • Multicath • Nutriline • MIC • Neurasafe • Nutrisafe® 2 • Premicath • VENE-K G4-5 Vygon (UK) Ltd is located in Swindon, Wiltshire, UK. G4-6 Vygon (UK) Ltd operates with a high degree of autonomy but is part of an international group, the headquarters of which are based in Ecouen, France. The group headquarters handles all matters involving other countries, i.e. exports, manufacturing, etc. G4-7 Vygon as a group was established in France in 1962 by Pierre Simonet. Group ownership remains in the hands of the founder’s family. G4-8 Vygon (UK) Ltd operates in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales providing a range of products helping healthcare professionals to treat patients more efficiently and economically. 23 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section Strategy and Analysis Vygon Group number of employees 1,800 Number of countries with a Vygon subsidiary 21 Number of countries represented by Vygon distributors 64 Vygon manufacturing units 7 Number of manufacturing plants: • Belgium 1 • Colombia 1 • France 3 • Germany 1 • USA 1 Vygon (UK) Ltd sales 2012 £54,323,000 Vygon (UK) Ltd units sold in 2012 50,913,246 G4-10 Vygon (UK) Ltd employees 147 • Female 71 • Male 76 • Part-time 18 • Full-time 129 • Supervisory Female 17 Male 27 G4-11 Employees are free to form or join joint consultative groups should they wish. G4-12 Total number of suppliers to Vygon (UK) Ltd 20 Location of non-Vygon suppliers USA 56% UK 40% Thailand 3.6% Other 0.4% All products are highly regulated, medical products. G4-13 There have been no significant changes to the supply chain since the last Business Responsibility report G4-14 Vygon (UK) Ltd recognises and follows the precautionary approach. This principle is addressed both at group level through rigorous research and development and quality systems and at UK level through compliance and technical departments. G4-15 Vygon (UK) Ltd has adopted the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This report will form part of the COP process marking the end of the first full year of membership. G4-16 BAREMA The Association for Anaesthetic and Respiratory Device Suppliers (EPSG Enteral Plastics Safety Group) Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 The content of this report refers to Vygon (UK) Ltd as the only entity G4-18 In compiling this and previous reports Vygon (UK) Ltd has required a unique approach that is suitable for: • A small company • A company reporting on its own sustainability status while belonging to an international group • A company employing an individual with sole responsibility for the introduction and maintenance of sustainability • The type of market in which we operate, is highly regulated and extremely customer focussed Material aspects have been selected with these considerations foremost. Therefore aspects relating to manufacturing are not given as great an impact as those relating to the supply chain. In fact most of the main, potential impacts are covered by regulations required for research, development, production and quality control. Some material aspects have been addressed in previous Business Responsibility Reports, 2011 and 2012. 24 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section The procedure adopted is that all aspects are assessed by the individual responsible for sustainability, the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator. These are then assessed and prioritised for recommendation to the Business Responsibility Steering Group. Once selected the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator is responsible for their implementation, monitoring and reporting. Vygon (UK) Ltd is still new to Business Responsibility reporting and is still focussing on internal impacts. This will remain so in a number of areas because of the degree of responsibility lying with the Vygon Group for the manufacture of 76% of products sold. However we are increasingly able to include impacts outside of the company in reporting in direct relation to development of Business Responsibility within the company. G4-19 / G4-20 / G4-21 G4-19 Material Aspect G4-20 Addressed G4-21 Boundary* Economic Economic Performance Where relevant Market Presence Not relevant Indirect Economic Impacts Where relevant Procurement Practices Material Environmental Materials Where relevant in previous Outside report Energy Material Water Not material Biodiversity In previous report Emissions Yes, where material Effluents and Waste Yes, where material Products and Services In previous report Outside Compliance Not material Transport Yes, but mostly in previous report Overall Not material Supplier Environmental Yes, and in previous report Outside Assessment Environmental Grievance Not material Mechanisms Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment Material Labour / Management Relations Not material Occupational Health and Safety Yes, where material Training and Education Material Diversity and Equal Material Opportunity Equal Remuneration for Women Not material and Men Supplier Assessment for Labour Material Outside Practices Labour Practices Grievance Not material Mechanisms 25 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section Human Rights Investment Yes, where material Non-discrimination Material Freedom of Association and In previous report Collective Bargaining Child labour Material Outside Forced or Compulsory Labour Material Outside Security Practices Not material Indigenous Rights Not material Assessment Not material Supplier Human Rights Material Outside Human Rights Grievance Not material Society Local communities Yes, where material Anti-corruption In previous report Outside Public Policy Not material Anti-competitive Behaviour In previous report Outside Compliance Not material Supplier Assessment for Impact Yes, where material Outside on Society Grievance Mechanisms for Not material Impacts on Society Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety Material Outside Product and Service Labelling In previous report Outside Marketing Communications Not material Customer Privacy Not material Compliance None in this reporting period See separate list of individual topics for topic specific boundaries. G4-22 There have been no changes that require restatement of information provided in previous reports. G4-23 There have been no changes in the scope and aspect boundaries from previous reporting periods. G4-24 Vygon (UK) Ltd provided a breakdown of stakeholder groups in a previous report. These are: • Vygon Supplier Employee Directors • Customer Regulator Customer Community Government Distributor • Other Other suppliers Other community Other distributors. 26 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section G4-25 The management approach to aspects and topics has been clearly defined and is influenced by the size of the company and the market in which it operates. Management of stakeholders is handled in the same way. That is all research and recommendations are presented by the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator to the Business Responsibility Steering Group, who in turn decide on the selection of new stakeholders as well as the issues raised by them. G4-26 No engagement has been undertaken with stakeholders specifically in the production of this report. Stakeholder Group Engagement Vygon • Supplier Continuous* • Employee Continuous* • Directors Annually Customer • Regulator Continuous* • Customer Continuous at all levels* • Community Continuous* • Government Continuous* • Distributor Continuous* Other • Other suppliers Continuous* • Other community Continuous* • Other distributors Continuous* * “Continuous” refers to engagement integrated into everyday activities of the various, relevant departments. G4-27 Of all stakeholder groups the market in which Vygon (UK) Ltd operates dictates that the Customer is the most significant. Numerous examples of specific concerns have been addressed but the most significant single example is that of the largest, single purchasing group within the category of customer, the NHS Supply Chain providing NHS supplies for England. In representing a Government organisation they are keen to be seen as leading the supply chain and have produced the NHS Supply Chain Supplier Code of Conduct which outlines responsibilities of suppliers to the NHS in England. Similar emphasis has subsequently been adopted by organisations representing Scotland and Wales. In response to this Vygon (UK) Ltd evaluated the most suitable method to indicate compliance with the Code of Conduct and decided upon enrolment with the United Nations Global Compact. This report will be used additionally as a COP (Communication On Progress) report to the UNGC for 2013. G4-28 We have used 2012 as the factual base year for this report but have also used factors from 2013 to illustrate progress in particular areas. G4-29 Our previous Business Responsibility Report was produced in December 2012. G4-30 Wherever possible Vygon (UK) Ltd has aimed for an annual reporting cycle. G4-31 Ensuring stakeholders understand the Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility programme that they are happy with the direction in which the company is moving and are able to communicate positive or negative views and thoughts is a foremost priority. For this reason we have established a dedicated e-mail address as well as the regular contact details for this GRI Report and the accompanying Business Responsibility Report. These are: E-mail: business.responsibility@vygon.co.uk Telephone: 01793748800 Extension 8859 Address: Alla Cimotisa The Pierre Simonet Building, V Park, Gateway North, Latham Road, Swindon Wiltshire SN25 4DL G4-32 GRI Content Index for ‘In Accordance’ Core. 27 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section G4-34 All strategic matters relating to the Business Responsibility programme at Vygon (UK) Ltd covering economic, social and environmental matters, are made by the Business Responsibility Steering Group. Decisions at an operational level may be made by; • Business Responsibility Co-ordinator • Business Responsibility Departmental Champions Group • Vygon Helping Others (social). G4-35 Responsibility for delegating authority for economic, social and environmental topics to employees within Vygon (UK) Ltd lies with the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator, but with full backing of the members of the Business Responsibility Steering Group. The Steering Group is made up of all senior members of management within the organisation. G4-36 The Business Responsibility Co-ordinator holds a management position within the company and is given authority for integration of Business Responsibility to all departments. G4-37 Consultation with stakeholders is conducted by the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator. This again reflects the size and structure of the company. All topics raised are referred to the Business Responsibility Steering Group. G4-38 Composition of Business Responsibility governance bodies and committees. Standard responses: Independence • All members of committees are employees of Vygon (UK) Ltd. Tenure • All members of committees are permanent members. Competence on social, economic and environmental issues • Due to the size of the company only the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator has full competence in all elements of Business Responsibility. Other members are made aware of their specific area of responsibility and of events elsewhere within the company, by the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator. Stakeholder Representation • No stakeholders from the ‘Customer’ or ‘other’ groups of stakeholders are represented on these committees. Business Responsibility Steering Group Executive / Other Positions Gender Under Non-Executive Represented Social Group UK Managing Director (Chair) Executive Area Development Manager, Male N/A North America Company Secretary Executive Finance Manager, IT Manager Female N/A UK Commercial Manager None Female N/A Operations Manager None Male N/A Marketing Manager None Female N/A HR Manager None Male N/A Business Responsibility None Female N/A Co-ordinator Business Responsibility Departmental Champions Group Business Responsibility None Female N/A Co-ordinator (Chair) Commercial Associate None Male N/A Creative Marketing Executive None Female N/A Laboratory Technician None Female N/A 28 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section Business Responsibility Departmental Champions Group Purchasing Associate None Male N/A Customer Service Associate None Male N/A Finance Administrator None Female N/A Customer Service Trainer None Female N/A Warehouse Operative None Female N/A Facilities Assistant Manager None Male N/A Vygon Helping Others Marketing Executive (Chair) None Female N/A Business Responsibility None Female N/A Co-ordinator Creative Marketing Executive None Male N/A Commercial Supervisor None Female N/A Commercial Veterinary Associate None Male N/A Sourcing Support Co-ordinator None Female N/A Customer Service Associate None Female N/A Customer Service Associate None Male N/A Customer Service Trainer None Female N/A Finance Administrator None Female N/A Assistant Distribution Manager None Male N/A Home Delivery Associate None Female N/A G4-39 See above G4-40 Considerations borne out of being a smaller company are the most prevalent in selection of the Business Responsibility Steering Group. It includes the most senior members of the company, the Managing Director and the Company Secretary / Finance Manager / IT Manager, but also managers of the functions most affected by Business Responsibility resulting in a good number and cross section of management representation. Individual criteria requested under G4-40: • Diversity is a consideration when appointing any Vygon (UK) Ltd employee. In appointing a manager to the Business Responsibility Steering Group it would be assumed that the diversity has already been considered. • Independence. All members are Vygon (UK) Ltd employees • Expertise and experience relating to economic, social and environmental topics is confined to expertise required of their department, with the exception of the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator who is well versed in all aspects of Business Responsibility. • No stakeholders from ‘other’ and ‘customer’ groups are included. G4-41 This disclosure relates to larger companies. Little or no conflict of interest occurs. When it does the matter is co-ordinated by the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator. Cross Board membership. Not applicable. Cross Shareholding with suppliers and other Not applicable. stakeholders. Existence of controlling shareholder. Not applicable. Related party disclosures. Not applicable. G4-42 The Business Responsibility Steering Group, including the Managing Director are completely responsible for the development, approval and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value and mission statements, strategies, policies and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. 29 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section G4-43 Development and enhancement of the Business Responsibility Steering Group on knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics is the responsibility of the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator. The position is required to maintain company knowledge of Business Responsibility news and trends and report them to the Business Responsibility Steering Group so that changes may be made where necessary. The position is also responsible for training Vygon (UK) Ltd employees at all levels on Business Responsibility matters. G4-45 Vygon (UK) Ltd is responsible for the identification and management of economic, social and environmental risks and opportunities. On the whole these will be researched and identified by the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator and reported back to the Business Responsibility Steering Group. However those elements initiated at a strategic and company development level will be initiated by individual members of the Business Responsibility Steering Group on subjects relevant to their department. Again these will be reported back to the Business Responsibility Steering Group with information provided by the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator. G4-46 The Business Responsibility Steering Group will consider effectiveness of the entire organisation’s risk management for social and economic issues. Environmental issues at Vygon (UK) Ltd are at a relatively low level as the company is not a manufacturer. All potential environmental issues on a local basis have been addressed. The majority of the effectiveness in risk management for environmental issues arises at the research and development stage and on through to the manufacturing stage. In a highly regulated market and with quality such a key issue in that market, such subjects are well covered at the manufacturing stage and will be covered locally in the course of supplier assessment. G4-47 No time is specifically dedicated to the review of economic, social and environmental impacts, risks and opportunities. Instead these are conducted during the regular work of the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator and the constituent members of the Business Responsibility Steering Group. In this way, as a smaller company,Vygon (UK) Ltd is able to better manage the resources allocated to Business Responsibility. G4-48 The Business Responsibility Co-ordinator is responsible for ensuring as many material aspects as possible are covered by the annual Business Responsibility Report. This is then reported back to and reviewed by the Business Responsibility Steering Group who will also review the report before publication. G4-49 All critical concerns for Business Responsibility are routed through the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator who will then communicate with the Business Responsibility Steering Group either within a meeting or on an individual basis. G4-50 All critical concerns were addressed in the same way as G4-49 above. 30 2013 Vygon (UK) Ltd Business Responsibility Report GRI G4 Section G4-51 In accordance with the company size and resources available there are no remuneration policies specific to Business Responsibility within the organisation. This includes Fixed and variable pay • Performance based • Equality based • Bonuses • Deferred or vested shares Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments Termination payments Clawbacks Retirement benefits. G4-52 See G4-51 above. G4-53 See G4-51 above. G4-54 Vygon (UK) Ltd only operates in the UK. G4-55 See G4-54 above. G4-56 Vygon (UK) Ltd operates in the UK healthcare market. The product and customer themselves determine a level of values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour. In order to illustrate this Vygon (UK) Ltd has adopted a number of measures, all of which are available to the customer and stakeholders in general: The Vygon Group has adopted the SNITEM industry specific guidelines and Vygon (UK) Ltd follows the group in adhering to these. The Vygon Group President is currently president of SNITEM Vygon (UK) Ltd has enlisted in the United Nations Global Compact and actively supports the ten principles. Vygon (UK) Ltd has produced a number of relevant codes of conduct covering activity in this area. All are available on request. They are; • The Professional Code of Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct • Sustainability Code of Conduct. G4-57 Vygon (UK) Ltd works in an environment that is very customer orientated as befits the type of product produced. There are therefore many mechanisms by which advice on ethical and lawful behaviour and matters related to organisational integrity may be communicated, both internally and externally. Some examples are: Contact with Sales Executives who are not only trained to sell but to educate, maintain and ensure the customer is well catered for. Telephone and electronic sales support where customers in particular, but any stakeholder may raise concerns. Frequent education and training days attended by not only Sales Executives but invariably by a member of management. Dedicated Business Responsibility contacts as previously mentioned fed directly to the Business Responsibility Co-ordinator. Personal access to all members of the Business Responsibility Steering Group. Formal, electronic reporting process using the SuperOffice CRM database. G4-58 See G4-57 above. 31 Vygon (UK) Ltd • The Pierre Simonet Building • V Park • Gateway North • Latham Road • Swindon • Wiltshire • SN25 4DL Tel: 01793 748800 • Fax: 01793 748899 • Twitter: @vygonuk Web: www.vygon.co.uk Content correct as of: 06/2014 www.vygon.co.uk
