GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Recycled papers and soy ink, certified by Forest Stewardship Council(FSC), was used to print this report. About This Report Sustainability that GS Caltex pursues GS Caltex pursues management activities for sustainable growth. To this end, the company builds up trust through communication with various stakeholders and creates economic, environmental, and social values throughout the entire service process. GS Caltex, a corporation representing the energy & chemical industry in Korea, reveals the activities and success of sustainable business operation to stakeholders in a transparent manner, and takes this as an opportunity to obtain feedback from internal stakeholders and make another leap forward. Contents Introduction 04 CEO’s Message 06 Corporate Overview 08 GS Caltex Vision 09 GSC Way Reporting Period This sustainability report covers the activities and 10 Ethics Management performance from January 1 to December 31, 2013. For the key quantitative 11 Corporate Governance Structure performance, the results of the past three years(from 2011 to 2013) are revealed for comparative analysis. The report also mentions some major issues 12 Sustainability Management which occurred in the first half of 2014 in order to make these issues public in a 13 Selection of Report Subject timely manner. Reporting Scope The report scope ranges from GS Caltex headquarters Material 18 Management Activities for Sustainable Growth to key domestic workplaces including Yeosu complex. Some data was derived from the logistics center, lubricant plant, gas stations, filling stations, and Aspects 23 Providing the Best Quality Products and Services for Customers affiliated companies. Parts which need to be noted are marked with an asterisk. 28 Environmental Management and Response to Climate Change 33 Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System Reporting Principle GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report was written based on the G4 Core Guideline of GRI(Global Reporting Initiative). And we 37 Employee Value Enhancement tried to engage the stakeholders in the report and listen to their diverse opinions in compliance with AA1000SES. This report was reviewed by the Company’s staff with GRI’s official certification and the external specialized agency. Special Story 41 Social Responsibility Activities Compared to the previous reports, there is not much difference in terms of the report scope, boundary and method of measuring. Appendix 46 Financial Data Additional Information More information on GS Caltex can be found 47 Sustainable Management Performance Data on our website where you can see or download the sustainability report. If you have any inquiries or need further information, please contact us via the 49 UN Global Compact following. 50 GRI G4 Index Point of contact: GS Caltex CSR team Address: GS Tower, 508, Nonhyeon-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Telephone: 82-2-2005-1614 E-mail: c16895@gscaltex.com CEO Message Dear valued stakeholders, GS Caltex is well aware that a company should not only pursue profits but fulfill its various social responsibilities as a corporate citizen in order to achieve sustainable growth. With this in mind, GS Caltex engaged in social responsibility programs during 2013, and we have published the ninth sustainability report to share our success and future plan with customers, local communities, and other stakeholders. Despite the challenging business environment, GS Caltex completed the construction of the No.4 HOU(VGOFCC) and made large-scale investments including the completion of the compounded resin plants in Czech Republic and Jinju of Korea in 2013. Moreover, GS Caltex announced its new vision of ‘Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner’ at the beginning of 2014 and is now strengthening internal competitiveness in pursuit of a great new takeoff. In addition, we have revamped our countermeasures for each scenario in preparation for the prolonged uncertainties and risks in the recent business climate, and we are trying to stick to our basic principles in any given situation. GS Caltex seeks to contribute to harmonious social development through continuous interaction and cooperation with our shareholders. At GS Caltex, we continue our efforts to become a truly global corporation that communicates and grows alongside our society. We ask you for your consistent interest and support for our passion for a better future. GS Caltex promises to develop high quality products, provide Vice Chairman & CEO Jin-Soo Huh valuable services, and become a responsible company as a corporate citizen, through continuous innovation and passion based on its corporate vision, ‘Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. introduction introduction 06 Corporate Overview 07 GS Caltex, founded in 1967 as the first domestic private oil refiner, has Business Domains led the Korean oil refining business and recorded annual sales of about 46 trillion won(based on consolidated financial Petroleum statement) in 2013. The capital structure of GS Caltex consists of 50% of the shares owned by GS Energy, 40% by GS Caltex strives to become a stable domestic supplier of petroleum products Chevron(Overseas) Holdings Ltd. and 10% by Chevron Global Energy Inc. through about 2,970 gas stations and 430 filling stations across the country. The company also tries to enhance exports as around 68% of the total sales come from GS Caltex acts as a stable supplier of refined oil, lubricants, and petrochemical products that provide a powerful engine exporting products. for domestic industries, and exports oil and petroleum products to twenty countries around the world based on advanced GS Caltex produces high quality petroleum products through advanced automatic technology and differentiated quality. The company is Korea’s No. 1 energy corporation that constantly takes up the production facilities, such as crude distillation facilities with a daily capacity of challenge to lead the global energy market. 775,000 barrels, and facilities to desulfurize diesel and kerosene. The company has continued upgrading facilities to actively respond to the rapidly changing market conditions. It secured a daily process capacity of 268,000 barrels, the largest in Korea, through upgrading facilities by completing the construction of the Corporate Overview As of December 31, 2013 Overseas Network No.3 HOU(VRHCR) in 2010 and No.4 HOU(VGOFCC) in 2013. Therefore, it has been able to become the ideal oil refinery plant, the Perfect Complex, and is now improving Classification Content profitability and competitiveness. GS Caltex London Branch Name of company GS Caltex Corporation GS Caltex(Yantai) Energy Co., Ltd. Petrochemicals Date of establishment May 19, 1967(incorporated as Honam Oil Refinery Co., Ltd.) GS Caltex China Co., Ltd. GS Caltex started the aromatic products business in earnest in September 1990 when Location of headquarters GS Tower, Nonhyeon-ro 508, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea it completed the construction of the production facilities with an annual paraxylene GS Caltex(Langfang) Plastics Co., Ltd. Overseas office(branch) China, India, Singapore, UK(London), etc. capacity of 0.2 million tons and an annual aromatic products capacity of 0.5 million GS Caltex(Jinan) Energy Co., Ltd. tons. The company has achieved the capacity to produce 2.8 million tons of aromatic No. of employees 3,225 GS Caltex Czech, s.r.o. products a year(including 1.35 million tons of paraxylene, 0.93 million tons of benzene, Type of business Crude oil refining business 0.17 million tons of toluene, and 0.35 million tons of mixed xylene) through steady GS Caltex(Qingdao) Petroleum Co., Ltd. expansion of its facilities. Thus, the plant has become one with the world’s largest Field of business Oil and petrochemical fields GS Caltex(Qingdao) Energy Co., Ltd. production capacity with the highest competitiveness as a single aromatic product GS Caltex Abu Dhabi Branch plant. It also plans to achieve sustainable growth by acquiring new investments. GS Caltex(Suzhou) Plastics Co., Ltd. GS Caltex began to manufacture PP products in April 1988 when the polypropylene Shareholders Structure GS Caltex India Private Ltd. GS Caltex(Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd. plant with an annual capacity of 0.12 million tons was completed. The plant Classification No. of shares Share ratio has achieved a capacity of 0.18 million tons a year through steady expansion of GS Caltex Singapore Pte. Ltd. production facilities. Since 2001, the plant has been supplied with polypropylene’s GS Energy 13,000 50% raw material, propylene from the RFCC process, allowing stable supply of the material Chevron(Overseas) Holdings Ltd. 10,400 40% and improved cost competitiveness. Moreover, GS Caltex now has a total of 476 Chevron Global Energy Inc. 2,600 10% thousand tons of propylene production capacity after the construction of VGOFCC enabled an additional 0.25 million tons a year in propylene production. As part of the composite resin business expansion, the company has secured production bases(GS Caltex(Langfang) Plastics in 2006, GS Caltex(Suzhou) Plastics in 2010, GS Caltex Organizational Structure As of July 1, 2014 Czech in 2011, and GS Caltex Jinju composite resin plant in 2013) and continues to seek new markets for growth. CEO Base Oil and Lubricants GS Caltex’s base oil facilities are capable of producing 26,000 barrels per day and Government & Public Relations Corporate Audit export more than 70% of the produced base oil to overseas markets. The company Corporate Planning Human Resources meets strict requirements for automobile and industrial lubricants by producing environmentally friendly, high quality base oil with the state-of-the-art Hydrocracker Corporate Legal method. R&D Center GS Caltex’s lubricant business division produces 9,000 barrels of lubricants a day and GS Caltex China 8,000 tons of grease products a year. It is recognized for its excellent product quality, owning the largest sales volume and highest market share in the domestic lubricants market. Moreover, GS Caltex is trying to explore new overseas markets after the Petrochemicals establishment of the Indian branch in 2010, and plans to continuously expand its Supply & Trading Manufacturing Marketing Finance & Lubricants market share and sales. Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report introduction introduction 08 GS Caltex Vision 09 GS Caltex’s corporate vision serves as the most powerful motive GS Caltex found it necessary to share the integrated and energy to consistently move toward goals in this tough business environment. and consistent common framework(principle) with all employees with the aim of achieving the company’s vision and After gathering various opinions and holding in-depth discussions, GS Caltex declared its new vision to encourage all staff management goals, as well as of proactively preparing for future changes in market conditions. With this in mind, the members to blend their capabilities with enthusiasm in January 1, 2014. company established GSC Way, through which it is realizing its vision. Caltex Vision Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Corporate Values Trust Fulfil one’s role, trust and respect one another. 1. Value No.1 2. Energy & Chemical 3. Partner D Flexibility Welcome diversity with an open mind and behavior. We will be recognized as the world’s We will develop and expand our We will not simply exist as ‘a company’ leading value creating company by business into a wide range of fields but act as a close partner that Challenge Set high goals and pursue them aggressively. providing top-quality products and services including energy products and services supports and shares the growth of all Excellence to customers, delivering the highest and and chemical products and solutions, stakeholders. Excellence Strive for excellence in individual and organizational most consistent profitability to investors, beyond our existing lubricants and performance offering an industrial engine, stable supply petrochemical products. of resources, and social contribution to the Trust Core Behaviors nation and society, and giving opportunities to enjoy growth and a happy and rewarding Flexibility Challenge life to members of society. Proactive Think ahead and be the first to act Vision Statement Strategically utilize and external Collaboration on resources and capabilities Performance Driven Deliver tangible results Mission & Our mission is to deliver quality products and services by Core Value developing the potential of energy & chemical resources. Core We are committed to increasing our capacity to generate apabilities environmentally responsible and innovative new values. Big Hairy As a global energy & chemical company, we are passionate about Audacious growing with our partners and helping the world move forward. Goal Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report introduction introduction 10 Ethics Management 11 Corporate Governance GS Caltex places top priority on ethical management and makes Sound corporate governance is a prerequisite to corporate all-out efforts to perform all its business activities in a fair and transparent manner. It announced its code of ethics and has competitiveness and fundamental to healthy and sustainable development of the company. GS Caltex is committed to applied it to all corporate activities that have an impact on customers, partners, employees, shareholders, the nation, society, securing reliability and transparency in management activities through the decision-making system led by the Board of and the world. Based on the CEO’s commitment to ethical management, GS Caltex continues its efforts to form a companyDirectors(BOD). wide consensus on ethical management and to incorporate transparency and honesty into its corporate culture. Voluntary Compliance System and Relevant Training CEO Composition of the BOD BOD Members (as of April 2014) GS Caltex appointed the CCO(Corporate Compliance Officer) for The recommendations for director nominees are made in acBOD/ Title Name Position efficient execution of the voluntary compliance system and the Audit Committe cordance with the respective internal procedures and guidelines UNOs(Unit Compliance Officer) in each division and subsidiary CCO(*1) Appointment of both shareholders, and the final appointment is made at the Inside Dong-Soo Hur Chairman GS Caltex Corporation to create and execute voluntary compliance policies and realize Reward/ Corporate CCO General Meeting of Shareholders. The BOD is composed of ten Director Jin-Soo Huh Punishment Compliance Office Each Unit Vice Chairman & CEO, GS Caltex Coporation follow-up management. The Corporate Compliance Committee Committee (Corporate Legal Team) (Corporate Reporting directors who possess professional expertise and risk management Compliance Officer) UCO(*2) Byong-Yol Kim President, Manufacturing, GS Caltex Coporation composed of the CCO and UCOs supervises and encourages Appointment capabilities; three from GS Caltex, one from GS Holdings, one from UCO Kyung-Suk Suh Vice Chairman & CEO, GS Holdings Coporation ethical management activities at workplaces twice every year. (Unit Compliance GS Energy, and five from Chevron. Corporate Compliance Officer) NonThe committee’s performance is reported to the Board of Committee *(including CCOs Wan-Bae Rha Vice Chairman & CEO, GS Energy Coporation from subsidiaries) standing Directors in a transparent manner. All employees of GS Caltex Training and Dissemination Operation and Compensation of the BOD Director R. C. Krogmeier Vice President, receive the CCP(Corporate Compliance Program) training in a (*1) Corporate Compliance Officer As our Board members are from GS Caltex, GS Holdings, GS EnChevron International Products Head of Unit (*2) Unit Compliance Officer yearly mandatory course: they learn the issues that they must ergy, and Chevron, their executive compensation schemes follow understand and related tasks they must perform, including basic the internal policies of the respective company, and the members J. S. Farrand Vice President, ethics, fair trade, sexual harassment prevention, information are not compensated separately for their BOD activities. The Board Employee CCP Education Performance Chevron Downstream & security, and internal transactions. Unit: person resolutions require an affirmative vote of more than two-thirds of all registered directors, as stated in the Articles of Incorporation. Chemicals Classification GS Caltex Partner Ethical Management Expansion Online 3,026 To ensure the independent operation of the BOD and prevent any G. M. Hanggi General Manager, GS Caltex revised the practical code of ethics and the voluntary possible conflicts of interest, Board members are prohibited from Chevron Manufacturing Offline 159 44 compliance rules with the aim of expanding the application range exercising their voting rights on agenda items that are of special W. J. Miner Country Chairman, of the voluntary compliance program to overseas subsidiaries Total 3,185 44 interest to them. Chevron Korea and of strengthening the responsibilities and roles of the UCOs. The Board Support Office provides support to the directors on all J. J. Kuehn General Manager, The company required all employees to sign the pledge of Board matters, including preparation of agenda for Board meetings, voluntary compliance, and sent 3,451 of these official documents to ask its client companies and partners to comply with GS Caltex through proactive communication and cooperation with related diChevron Supply & Trading ethical management policy targeting national holidays. It also issues the monthly ethical management webzine ‘Ethics Virus’ to help visions and regular meetings with Chevron resident director. Board employees raise their awareness of ethics. members are provided with meeting materials at least one week The ethics counseling channel is run for telephone/e-mail consultation regarding ethical management-related inquires or ethical before the actual meeting to ensure enough time to review the dilemmas that can arise from transactions with GS Caltex. The Ethics Management Hotline allows internal employees and stakeholders agenda items. Seven Board meetings were held in 2013 to review Composition and Role of the BOD to come forward with information or to report the violation of ethical management polices by employees, unethical practices, and make decisions on key agenda items such as the 2014 BusiTitle Member Role irregularities, and unfair transactions. The personal data of informants is protected and kept confidential, and informants can also provide ness Plan, No. 3 Product Wharf Project and No. 4 PX Project. anonymous tips about any unethical practices. Accountability 3 •Review and discussion of Committee governance-related issues ☎ Ethics Management Hotline : 82-2-2005-6011 ☎ Grievance Settlement(reporting sexual harassment) : 82-2-2005-6012 : ethics@gscaltex.com Committees under the BOD Audit 4 •Review and discussion of compliance BOD operates three separate committees including the AccountCommittee program and major audit issues Compliance with the Fair Trade Law ability Committee, Audit Committee(different from the audit LNG Procurement 2 • Review and discussion of With the growing importance of fair trade, GS Caltex set up the ‘advance review system for fair trade law compliance’ in December committee under the commercial code), and LNG Procurement Management LNG business-related issues 2009. This review system makes it mandatory for relevant departments to examine transactions with a risk of fair trade law violation, Management Committee. Committee members are selected at Committee in advance. This aims to minimize the risks of legal violation and to further clarify employee obligations in abiding with the law by the BOD meeting after all the Board members are appointed at the proactively managing various issues related to fair trade. GS Caltex has continued to strengthen its management of this system, receiving annual General Meeting of Shareholders. A total of six committee no punishments from the Fair Trade Commission in 2013. meetings were held in 2013. Future Plan GS Caltex plans to improve and expand the employee on/offline training course to provide more substantial and effective programs. The company strives to raise the ethical awareness of all agents in the value chain. As part of this effort, it runs the voluntary compliance program in overseas subsidiaries and supports partners with ethical management practices based on the revised practical code of ethics and voluntary compliance rules. Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report introduction introduction 12 Sustainable Management 13 Selection of the Reporting Subjects For GS Caltex, sustainable management is a concept identical GS Caltex selected and reported the subjects in accordance with to corporate social responsibility and a requirement to continue its business. GS Caltex runs the CSR Strategy Framework the reporting subject selection principle provided by GRI 4, the sustainability reporting guidelines. The reporting subject and CSR Committee to pursue sustainable management through risk management activities in the economic, social, and selection principle is composed of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Sustainability Context, Materiality, and Completeness, and the environment sectors. responses of GS Caltex to each item are as follows. CSR Strategy Framework Stakeholder Inclusiveness GS Caltex set up the four CSR strategies, ‘Sustainable Operation’, ‘Reliable Energy’, ‘Accountable Engagement’, ‘Responsible Marketing’, GS Caltex supports the prosperity of all stakeholders including customers, investors, the society, the nation, and employees, and acts in 2010 and manages diverse issues related to the economic, social, and environment sectors. To promote the company-wide CSR as their partner that shares their hardships and accomplishments. To this end, the company is involved in various CSR activities and activities, the company developed the ISO26000-based diagnosis index to evaluate the level of CSR activities and enact improvements. communication efforts in order to listen to the opinions of stakeholders and reflect them in management decisions. The report deals with In 2012, it built and ran the ‘CSR performance management system’. Under this system, the 30 CSR performance management indices the key issues selected based on interaction with stakeholders. are selected, measured, and improved for the CSR practices of each division. CSR Committee Classification of stakeholders Since 2010, GS Caltex has run the CSR Committee composed of the CEO, chairman, and executives, and the committee members Communication channel Efforts to enhance mutual value for stakeholders discuss and make decisions on the main CSR issues in the economic, social, and environment sectors. GS Caltex reinforces the CSR system by exchanging opinions with the committees related to sustainable management from a company-wide perspective. Government •Public hearings, discussions, seminars GS Caltex earings, abides by the regulations and policies of Korea and the GS Caltex held a total of three CSR Committee meetings in 2013, and especially strived to improve working-level consultations between •Website countries into which it makes inroads it also fulfils its tax payment obligations. the CSR Committee and the major committees/councils related to sustainable management. •Conference on economic cooperation Labor unions •Joint Labor-Management conference GS Caltex set up the vision of ‘achieving Labor-Management prosperity through •Joint Labor-Management volunteer a productive Labor-Management relationship’ and runs diverse programs Main Agenda Items of the CSR Committee in 2013 activities involving both the labor union and management to realize the vision. •Joint Labor-Management campaign Classification First committee Second Committee Third committee Main agenda Direction of CSR strategy Review on CSR performance index Direction of CSR strategy improvement NGOs •Social contribution activities GS Caltex cooperates with NGOs in various ways including donation, voluntary operation Reporting the status of representative Performance of social contribution projects in •Discussion service participation, and investment in infrastructure, which contribute to •Website, Company Newslettter, sustainable development and social stability. Social contribution projects 2013 and the projects operational plan for 2014 Media Reports Subsidiaries •Notices including the CEO’s message GS Caltex makes efforts to establish a sound order of market economy by •Website, Company Newsletter, building reasonable relations with subsidiaries through compliance with the Media Reports internal regulations for transactions. Major Committees Related to Sustainable Management GS Caltex runs various committees and councils to respond to each issue related to sustainable management based on their expertise. Partners •Consultative meeting with partners GS Caltex strives to have fair and transparent transactions with its partners Economic risks that directly affect corporate management are controlled by the Risk Management Committee. This committee has •Portal website for purchasing and to enhance the value of coexistence through information sharing and been active since May 2004 in order to evaluate and manage risks regarding fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and oil prices. The •Survey on satisfaction level technology dissemination. committee chairman is the CEO, and its members are GS Caltex executives from various departments including Finance and Supply & Trading. The committee contributes to sustainable development of the company by making important decisions on risk management. Local •Social contribution activities GS Caltex is involved in environment protection activities at workplaces and communities •Discussion sharing activities in order to engage the local communities and give them hope. Environmental issues that had a major impact on management in 2013 together with the economic risks, are managed by the •Website, Company Newsletter, Environmental Safety Committee. The executives at all workplaces of GS Caltex and its subsidiaries participate in this committee. It Media Reports conducts company-wide advanced safety management by introducing advanced safety technology and management tools, and steadily monitors matters decided by the committee members. Customers •Customer satisfaction survey GS Caltex is raising the trust of customers by delivering the best-quality products •Channels of gathering customers’ and services through technology advancement and transparent distribution In addition, committee/council meetings are regularly held on various issues ranging from consumers and information security to ethical opinions, including the customer center network. The company uses various channels to gather customers’ opinions in management and shared growth. The CSR committee contributes to sustainable management improvement by closely interacting with order to have better communication with them. these committees and councils. Shareholders •Business Report GS Caltex maximizes the values of shareholders and investors by realizing stable Future Plan and investors corporate governance through transparent management of BOD and continuously improving corporate competitiveness. GS Caltex strives to fulfil corporate social responsibilities in a strategic and efficient manner by reorganizing the company to efficiently manage CSR risks. As part of this plan, GS Caltex has selected and managed ‘CSR management items and potential issues’ since the first Employees •Company Newsletter, internal Bulletin A company needs to respect the rights and improve the value of employees in order half of 2014, considering global guidelines like GRI and ISO26000, the previous CSR performance index, and management conditions at board to raise its competitiveness. GS Caltex enhances the value of employees by creating home and abroad. The company will engage in strategic CSR activities from the perspective of sustainable management with the aim of •Survey on employees a dynamic corporate culture and pursuing a fair personnel management policy. detecting the changes in the domestic and overseas CSR environments and of figuring out countermeasures. Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report introduction introduction 14 15 Sustainability Context Completeness GS Caltex created a pool of sustainable issues in terms of sustainability. The pool was written based on the analysis of stakeholders’ The materiality evaluation led to the eleven key issues(one related to customers, three to the economy, three to employees, and four opinions, review of global standards(GRI G4, ISO 26000), examination of GS Caltex internal issues and documents, and external envito the environment). The eleven issues are divided into nine categories according to the GRI G4 Guideline. GS Caltex categorized these ronment analysis(benchmarking advanced companies, media research and survey result of reputation). These activities result in a total issues into five themes in the 2013 Sustainability Report and simply explained the economic, environment, and social impact and perforof 38 issues related to GS Caltex. mance to stakeholders. In addition to these key issues, relevant topics will be continuously monitored to prevent sustainability-related risks. Materiality Materiality evaluation was conducted with two criteria: ‘the impact of GS Caltex’ and ‘the interest of external stakeholders’. ‘The impact of GS Caltex’ is the evaluation result by the GS Caltex TFT from the perspective of short-term finance and mid and long-term strategy. ‘The interest of external stakeholders’ is the evaluation on benchmarking advanced companies, media research, and survey result of reputation. The materiality evaluation by GS Caltex sustainability management TFT was conducted through an e-mail survey. More than Key Issue Reporting Subject G4 Aspect 70% of all employees participated in the survey, showing their high level of interest and support of sustainability management. • Financial soundness • New growth engine Management activities for sustainable growth • Economic performance • Increase in market share Pool of sustainability issues and Materiality evaluation result • Appropriate pricing of products and Providing the best-quality products and • Product and service labeling services, actives for customer satisfaction services to customers Classification Issue Classification Issue Classification Issue • Reduction of energy consumption • Energy • Improvement in energy efficiency Environmental management and response to • Emission Customers Appropriate pricing of products Economy Research & Development Customers Providing proper information climate change and services, activities for regarding products and services • Response to climate change • Wastewater and materials Overall customer satisfaction Employees Improving communication with employees Society Protecting the human rights • Accident prevention for each working Reinforcement and dissemination of safety • Industrial safety and health Economy Financial soundness and entitlements of community process Oil Spill system Employees Health care of employees members Employees Efforts to recruit talented Customers Protecting customer safety and • Efforts to recruit talented employees • Recruitment employees Economy Promoting ethical and transparent Employee Value Enhancement health Training for capacity building • Training and education management Employees Training for capacity building Society Expanding communication with stakeholders Employees Prohibition on discrimination, Employees Accident prevention for each providing equal opportunities working process Society Shared growth with partners Economy New growth engine Economy Encouraging fair transactions Analysis on Changes in the Key Issues Environment Response to environment regulations Compared to the 2012 evaluation result, efforts to recruit talented employees, financial soundness, training for capacity building and oil Environment Oil Spill Environment Wastewater and materials spills emerged as new issues in 2013. This is because of the awareness that enhancing value for employees—the source of the corporate management Employees Labor-Management relationship competitiveness—is essential to the company’s sustainable development. Dealing with the oil spill issue has become crucial, especially Environment Reduction of energy use management Customers Fair management marketing because of oil outflow accidents by domestic and foreign oil companies*. In addition, the financial soundness issue received attention due Emvironment Improvement in energy Environment Compliance with environment to the prolonged economic slowdown at home and abroad in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. efficiency regulations Environment Water resources management *As for the oil spill accident caused by the collision with the Uisan oil tanker in January of 2014, the company is dealing with the aftermath. The actions to be taken regarding the accident will be included in the next report. Economy Increasing market share Society Attaining sustainability for Employees Fair performance evaluation and partners reward Environment Response to climate change Environment Environment-friendly products Environment Biodiversity protection Society Facilitating corporate social responsibilities and expanding Employees Spreading safety-centered Society Reflecting the global human investment corporate culture rights standard in the business Employees Balance between work and life Environment Improvement in emissions management Customers Personal information protection Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspects GS Caltex conducted materiality test based on analysis of stakeholder’s opinions, global standard assessment(i. e GRI G4, ISO 26000), review on internal issue and data, and analysis of external environment, and as a result, it reported economic, environmental, and social effects and performances on core issues by classifying them into 5 themes. 1. Management Activities for Sustainable Growth 2. Providing the Best-quality Products and Service to Customers 3. Environmental Management and Response to Climate Change 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System 5. Emplyee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 1. Management activities for sustainable growth 19 Exploring and expanding new markets The company has completed production facilities for 12 thousand ton LFT materials in the Jincheon and Jinju plants(domestic Export Expansion through Acquiring Material Aspect 1. plants) and Suzhou plant in China. It plans to build additional faNew Global Markets cilities in the Jinju plant by 2015, driving up the entire production Korea does not produce a single drop of oil, but the export amount to 20 thousand tons. Management activities for amount of oil and petrochemical products is 11.2 billion dollars, accounting for 18% of Korea’s entire exports. This has greatly Management Innovation Activities sustainable growth Material helped the Korean economy cope with the global economic downturn. V-Project GS Caltex exports its products to about 50 countries around the GS Caltex has made great investments in building Heavy Oil world including China, southeastern Asian countries, European Upgrading Units to achieve profitability and competitiveness. To Aspect 1. countries, and South America. It also exports manufactured prodachieve optimum profitability through the operation of Heavy Oil Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. ucts using imports from oil producing countries like the UAE. This Upgrading Units requires company-wide collaboration among is thanks to the proactive investments in upgrading oil refining crude oil purchasing department, sales department, and planning facilities and business diversification in high value-added sectors department as well as production/technical service department. For this collaboration, GS Caltex has carried out the ‘V-Project’, and Services for Customers including aromatic products and lubricants. This enhanced corporate competitiveness has laid the foundation for GS Caltex’s a company-wide mega project, since 2013. ‘V-Project’ stands for Management Activities for Sustainable Growth growth. In 2013, the company achieved a total export amount of 31.1 trillion won. ‘Vision’, ‘Victory’, and ‘Innovation throughout Value Chain’. The project involving the Manufacturing Division, Supply & Trading Division, and Corporate Planning Division came up with about Annual Export Amount forty detailed tasks for improvement in 2013 alone, and then carried out these tasks, resulting in huge profit. In 2014, ‘V-Project’ 2011 2012 2013 has been extended to ‘Optimal operation of advanced facilities’, Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. 30.2trillion won 31.9trillion won 31.1trillion won ‘Improving efficiency in energy/utilities’, and ‘Optimization of petrochemicals’s. Response to Climate Change Commercialization of Carbon Fiber LFT LFT stands for Long Fiber Reinforced Thermoplastic. Carbon fiber Recovery of the global economy in 2014, including delay, growth of emerging competition, won LFT is produced by mixing of carbon fiber with various plastic resexchange rate appreciation, increase oil supply is expected to be more difficult business environment ins and additives by means of GS Caltex’s distinct LFT processing technology and resin formulation know-how. The produced Overview of Major Improvement Tasks and Financial Results of GS Caltex. We are seeking a reliable underlying profitability through enhanced competitiveness Unit: billion won carbon fiber LFT has a superior stiffness and impact resistance GS Caltex to overcome this situation. Will be a distinctive competitive advantage in the new market, Classification Areas to improve 2013 2014 balance and also shows minimized post-deformation tendency in but GS Caltex excavation and constant innovation, R & D activities are effective. Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. final automobile parts. This carbon fiber LFT is 50% lighter and Performance (e) has similar or higher mechanical strength compared to steel. Optimal operation of 1) Strengthening 64.2 136.4 competitiveness in Heavy GS Caltex Polymer R&D Team embarked on a long series of Heavy Oil Upgrading sour crude oil processing Units 2) Optimization of process carbon fiber LFT-related experiments for development of weightof Safety System (Scope I) operation reduction material for automobile at the end of 2012. The team 3) Optimization of product import/sales has successfully launched this new material in 2014 by applying This issue affects the impact key stakeholders Highlights it to several vehicle models of Hyundai/Kia Motors and is still Improving efficiency 1) Increasing the use of low45.5 in energy/utilities end energy sources endeavoring to expand its application for global electric vehicles. 2) Reduction of energy usage (Scope II) The company has completed production facilities for 12 thousand 3) Optimization of hydrogen Government Exports HOU ratio ton LFT materials in Jincheon plant and Suzhou(China) plant. It production/steam recovery Shareholders and plans to build additional facilities in Jinju plant by 2015, driving up Unions Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Investors Total 64.2 181.9 the entire production capacity to 20 thousand tons. Community Contractors Customer Employees NGO Subsidiaries 31.1 trillion won Amount of export 34.6 % Highest level of HOU Units in the oil refining industry GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspect 1. Management activities for sustainable growth Material Aspect 1. Management activities for sustainable growth 20 21 Six Sigma Initiatives and Knowledge-based Securing New Growth Engines engineering polymers and methyl ethyl ketone(MEK) is widely diverse polymer, nylon is a product to be substitute bio materials. Management Activities through R&D used as an industrial solvent or intermediate material of organic To meet the demand for environmentally friendly materials, Material Aspect 1. Material Aspect 1. The recent business environment requires companies to continusynthesis. Because these chemicals are almost exclusively GS Caltex is developing the technologies for the production ously change and secure consistent competitiveness. In response R&D Framework obtained from fossil oil, the chemical industry is looking for of bio-based nylon. Our bio-based nylon is produced through to this, GS Caltex introduced the Six Sigma initiatives as a compaGS Caltex is committed to secure global top-tier R&D technolalternative resources combined with new transformation a polymerization process with pyrrolidone as a raw material, Management activities for Management activities for ny-wide innovation program in 1999, and has performed knowlogy. To this end, GS Caltex Technology R&D center carries out methods to synthesize those products cost-efficiently. GS produced from renewable biomass. It can be used as fiber or edge management activities for establishing its Learning Organiintensive research projects in five areas—Biochemical, High-valCaltex is developing process technologies for the production of engineering plastic. Particularly, bio-based nylon has excellent sustainable growth sustainable growth zation since 2004. In addition, GS Caltex has carried out about ue composite material, Catalyst technology, Applied technology, BD and MEK from renewable feedstock, 2,3-BDO, through the moisture absorption property, enough to be used as a cotton 380 Champion projects, 800 BB projects, and 4,600 GB projects Oil refining & technical support. And we are supporting for the catalyst conversion process. The 2,3-BDO would be produced by substitute. Its mechanical property is similar to existing materials, until 2013, and accomplished 23 strategy CoP(Community of company to become the Energy & Chemical Corporation through fermenting various biomass with our proprietary microorganism meaning that it can be applied to high value-added fiber, vehicles, Practice) and 2,000 learning CoP through continuous execution developing new promising energy & chemical materials. and process. GS Caltex applied the patent on catalyst and and electric and electronic components. This technology has and changes in management programs. Based on these perproduction process of BD and MEK, and verified technology been selected as one of ‘the 100 future technologies to lead the Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. formances, GS Caltex is moving forward in pursuit of excellent Biochemical Areas development for pilot-scale production in 2013. Korean industries by the year of 2020’ and recognized as an financial outcomes, talent nurturing, and work process change. Bio-butanol excellent and promising technology. GS Caltex prepares for the rapidly changing future business High Value-added Composite Materials Achieving Financial Soundness Carbon Fiber Future Plan of R&D and Services for Customers and Services for Customers environment by developing “Bio-butanol”, the next-generation biofuel and biochemical material, which constitutes the three GS Caltex is developing technologies to produce high valueGS Caltex is conducting a scale-up research of the biochemical Financial Strategy Execution for Stable major bio energy sources along with biodiesel and bioethanol. added carbon fibers from petroleum-derived pitch, a byproduct field for the future commercialization. Through this research, Cash Flow Since 2007 when the research began, the company has secured of the refining process. Core technologies to produce activated the company will assess commercial feasibility and carry out GS Caltex carries out various efforts to achieve stable and comworld-class technologies in the entire process ranging from the carbon fibers have been developed for the last 3 years on a various projects for future technology sales/licensing and plant petitive financial solidity to be prepared against high volatility and 2G inedible ligno-cellulosic biomass(i.e. EFB, Wood, Bagasse, bench scale. Pilot-scale production facilities are currently under construction. It also considers a strategic partnership to obtain a uncertainty of the market.The company completed investment in Corn stover etc.) pretreatment/hydrolysis process to microbial construction and are expected to run in early 2015 as a part of stable supplier of biomass materials in preparation for the start Heavy Oil Upgrading facilities in early 2013, and has been creatfermentation and separation/purification process. Microbes ‘Jeonju Carbon Valley project’. Moreover, substantial research of the full-scale biochemical production process. In addition, GS Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. ing stable cash flow based upon the improved competitiveness. which enables the biobutanol production using ligno-cellulosic efforts are put into developing pitch-based long carbon fibers Caltex strives to expand the market of biochemical products and Moreover, GS Caltex has maintained the appropriate level of biomass, and the entire process integration and optimization with higher price competitiveness than PAN-based carbon fibers. high value-added composite materials and to explore their new cash and debt by establishing the loan and financial management that remarkably increase energy efficiency are the advantages applications. With active investments in R&D, GS Caltex will Response to Climate Change Response to Climate Change strategy based on its short and long-term business plan.The of GS Caltex biobutanol. Moreover, GS Caltex applied for more Bio-based Nylon improve the profitability of existing businesses and discover new company tries to enhance its short and long-term loan repaythan 40 patents while developing the biobutanol technology, and Nylon is one of key polymers used in many applications such growth engines. ment structure by reflecting the cash flow for business managereceived NET(New Excellent Technology) certification from the as clothes fabrics, parachutes, carpets, and car parts. As a very ment.GS Caltex also continues efforts to achieve stable financing government in 2014. and to deal with financial risks by additionally increasing its bank credit line. 2,3-BDO(2,3-Butanediol) Experiment of Bio-butanol production microbes 2,3-Butanediol(2,3-BDO), a colorless and odorless liquid of high Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. boiling point, can be used as a reagent in a number of chemical Investment in Facilities synthesis. In addition to its applications in solvent and antifreeze Unit: million won preparations, it could also be applied to high value added 2011 2012 2013 purposes such as ingredients of cosmetics, agrichemicals thanks of Safety System of Safety System 631,137 964,108 511,089 to their strong applicability and replace existing petrochemicalbased products. Due to the extensive industrial applications of this product and growing demand for new and eco-friendly chemicals, interest in microbial production of 2,3-BDO has been increasing recently. In response to this trend, GS Caltex is developing strain and process technologies for production of 2,3-BDO from renewable biomass through fermentation. Also, Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. we have been building a comprehensive intellectual assets on the strain and production process of 2,3-BDO and completed verification of pilot scale production technology in 2013. BD/MEK(1,3-Butadiene/Methyl Ethyl Ketone) 1,3-Butadiene(BD) is an important industrial chemical used as a monomer in the production of synthetic rubber such as tires, Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report 2013 GS Caltex in figures Ran of Hked fi r to t OU rast in K h t o No e com io, tha rea in . in M4 HO pletio nks term U n s Material Refining capacity of Yeosu Complex HOU Units To arch 2 cons of th tal e Inv 013 tructi est on me nt A Aspect 2. (world’s fourth largest capacity as a single plant) mo unt Imported 80 : 5, kinds of crude 850 oil from 21 countries bill ion wo n Providing the Best Quality Products and Services for Customers Composite resin plant in Jinju Completed on Exported products November 12, 2013 equivalent to 84% of crude oil imports Composite resin plant in the Czech Republic Completed Annual production capacity on October 17, 2013 30,000 tons Oil and petrochemical products are required to be of high quality because they serve as basic fuel and materials for other industries and machinery. Service that ensures customer satisfaction is the Annual production key to having an edge over others, in the fiercely competitive market. capacity 40,000 tons GS Caltex carries out company-wide activities based on top-quality products and services to offer GS Caltex high value to customers. The company recognizes the franchise owners of gas/filling stations as gas stations ‘partners’ who should grow with GS Caltex in order to enhance the rights and interests of customers, and supports various activities related to their management and customer service. lion mil 3, 8 Key Stakeholders Affected by the Issue Major Performance The first oil refining Ranked first in company that received NCSI(National Customtons Shareholders and Government the CCM(Customer Centered Management) er Satisfaction Index) for five consecutive years Total of 190,000 tons of annual composite Investors Unions certificate three times resin production capacity by domestic and in a row overseas facilities Equal to the production capacity of 3.8 million vehicles Community Contractors * 1,500cc vehicle(1.2 ton) is used as basis. *The figures mentioned in the data above were recorded as of December of 2013. Customer Employees NGO Subsidiaries 3 times Ranked 1 Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products and Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products and Services for Customers Services for Customers 24 25 Efforts to Enhance Customer Value organized by the Korea Customer Agency and certified by the Products and Services Trusted vent LPG stations from violating regulations due to operational Fair Trade Commission, which examines all corporate manageby Customers negligence. GS Caltex conducts inspections on gas/LPG stations Process for Customer Value Enhancement Material Aspect 1. Material Aspect 1. ment activities from the perspective of customers and makes about 7,000 times per year. GS Caltex already declared that customer value was the main continuous evaluation of the improvement of the activities. The Accomplishing the Corporate Vision strategy for its corporate management in the early 1990s. It has customer-centered management system has the goal of building through Quality Management Service Quality Management Management activities for Management activities for performed optimal and systemic processes for customer value up the trust of customers through the prevention of customer GS Caltex applies its own quality standard, which is much stricter GS Caltex adopted a virtuous circle system of establishing service enhancement since 2006. complaints and the quick remedial system. It also aims at providthan the Petroleum and Alternative Fuel Business Act, to all its strategy, field training, evaluation, and reward, and strengthened sustainable growth ing perfect-quality products and services to customers, enhancsustainable growth projects. Quality management is the basis of achieving its vision executive abilities in the field in order to offer better services to ing corporate value, and increasing competitiveness by reflecting of becoming the ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical Partner’. customers. As part of this system, the company produced the customer opinions(VOC) collected via various channels in consix-step service manual for services with the focus on the basic Customer Value Enhancement tinuous improvement activities. factors including service quality, kindness, and cleanliness. It is GS Caltex’s Quality Management Policy distributing the manual through gas station managers, the online Material Aspect 2. Material Aspect 2. Customer-centered management GS Caltex has made the internal reporting system more prompt website, and the Digital Signage of gas stations. Customer-centered corporate culture & and efficient by integrating the Management Committee, the • GS Caltex, a leading energy service corporation, provides the products and services that meet the requirements and improvement in the customer rights and interests main decision-making group into the CCM Committee, in 2013. Operation of Star SVC Team expectations of customers and abides by the relevant regulations Providing the Best Quality Products Providing the Best Quality Products Internal Evaluation It became the first in the oil refining industry to receive the cerby managing quality in a scientific and systematic manner. The Star SVC Team of GS Caltex visits about 1,200 workplaces to Strategy Prevention Remedial management and planning system system system improvement tificate of CCM three times in a row, and was also selected as an offer the mentoring program, and it involves service manual trainexcellent company in performance management, thanks to its • Moreover, we enact initiatives in becoming the ‘Value No. 1 Energy ing, listening to customers’ opinions, and encouraging field staff. and Services for Customers and Services for Customers Planning the Product CCM system, Standardization Operation & Chemical Partner’ by gaining customers’ trust and impressing VOC-based Quality/Service CSC operation, for customer performance VOC management and improvement since the introduction of The team directly shares knowledge gained through various expethem. strategy management VOC complaint evaluation, the CCM system in June of 2014. riences and cases with staff members, instead of providing manual and relevant management resolution VOC sharing, • To this end, GS Caltex is committed to establishing its quality memorizing education. These activities make the training program education process the whole management system in accordance with BS EN ISO 9001 and KSA process CSC(Customer Service Center) Operation more efficient and increase the actual value for customers. 9001/ QS9000, registerin GS Caltex provides services based on the optimized system to Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. improvement meet customer needs. The CSC(Customer Service Center) is Service Quality Monitoring the integrated customer service channel that runs the One-stop Product Quality Management GS Caltex service evaluation consists of the site-visit evaluation CCM(Customer-Centered Management) counseling service for inquiries regarding service and product GS Caltex started running ‘the Kixx Quality Service Vehicles’, in which monitoring staff members visit the site and make an asResponse to Climate Change Response to Climate Change Practice quality and other inquiries through integrated system managewhich can identify counterfeit petroleum and any defects in qualsessment and an online evaluation in which customers evaluate GS Caltex introduced its customer-centered management culment in order to offer customers a higher level of satisfaction ity on the spot in July of 2007, with the aim of managing quality the service quality on the marketing website(www.kixx.co.kr). ture in 2006, and became the first oil refining company that than its competitors. The customer service system continues to in the distribution phase. ‘The Kixx Quality Service Vehicle’ visits Based on the monitoring result, the workplaces with improved received the certificate of an excellent CCM company in July of be improved to handle GS Caltex gas stations across the country to carry out various service quality and the workplaces and organizations with excel2010. The Customer Centered Management(CCM) is a program activities, such as quality tests and facilities inspection. The emlent service quality are rewarded. These evaluation results are ployees running these vehicles also share expertise like manageused as references for customer satisfaction activities and for ment knowhow and collect managers’ opinions. follow-up education at workplaces that need to improve service Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Since 2013, GS Caltex has expanded its activities and operated and workplaces with poor service quality. ‘LPG Quality Service Vehicles’ for GS Caltex filling stations. In addition, GS Caltex holds the ‘Star Festival’ which selects exDuring the time of change in legal quality requirements, these cellent gas/filling stations, a first in the industry, as a way of putvehicles have carried out thorough quality management to preting customer-centered and value-based management into pracof Safety System of Safety System tice. In the festival the company selects the gas/filling stations which show remarkable business performance through manage2014 CCM Certificate Award Ceremony Service training ment activities for customer satisfaction as ‘Star Partners’. It also Kixx Quality Service Vehicle shares the business knowhow of excellent workplaces with other participants to raise the overall service quality of GS Caltex. Future Plan Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. GS Caltex is not satisfied with its current service quality and strives to identify and improve the factors that adversely affect the quality of products and services. It will strengthen the inspection of counterfeit or adulterated petroleum in order to raise customer confidence in products and to contribute to the establishment of the distribution order of petroleum products. Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products and Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products and Services for Customers Services for Customers 26 27 Creating Social Value Together part of this program, the company invites blood cancer patients GS&CONCERT 2013 ored with the Grand Prize in the membership card category of with Customers who cannot afford to attend cultural performances to top-class GS Caltex held the ‘GS&CONCERT 2013’, a music concert for ‘App of the Year Chosen by Customers’ in 2013. Material Aspect 1. Material Aspect 1. performances like Man of La Mancha and SPAMALOT in order to GS group customers with GS&POINT membership, on October Supporting the Korean Society for support their emotional healing. 26, 2013. Customers applied for concert tickets in one of the catPrivate Information Protection – Rehabilitation of Persons with egories from among ‘Dad, You are the Best’ Zone’, ‘Family Zone’, PIMS Authentication Management activities for Pleasant Energy Marketing in Your Life Management activities for Disabilities through Points Donation ‘Couple Zone’ and ‘Friend Zone’, which served as an opportunity GS Caltex became the first domestic oil refiner that received the GS Caltex is actively engaged in donation activities in which to communicate between kids in their teens and twenties and PIMS(Personal Information Management System) authenticasustainable growth customers participate to spread the joy of sharing, directly. Once Idea Contest, College Students as Marketers sustainable growth parents in their forties and fifties. At the concert, various subsidtion acknowledged by the Korea Communications Commission customers donate the points that they collect when refueling on GS Caltex selected the first/second GS&POINT marketers from iaries and brands of GS group held events and gave out gifts to and evaluated by the Korea Internet Security Agency in 2013. the marketing website(www.kixx.co.kr), GS Caltex accumulates among college students to strengthen online and SNS communicaparticipants. The concert was a great success, thanks to about Through the PIMS authentication, the 15 million GS&POINT the points, which are the same as the points donated by customtion activities with customers in 2013, and held the 2013 GS Caltex 20,000 GS&STREET customers and 8,600 GS&POINT particimembers and the users of the GS Caltex bonus card are able to ers, to set up a fund. The fund raised is donated to the Korean idea contest. The 60 marketers selected among college students pants. GS Caltex plans to keep holding the ‘GS&CONCERT’ as a use membership services without concern about private inforMaterial Aspect 2. Material Aspect 2. Society for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities and used as and about 400 contest participants worked with the staff members unique event for all generations. mation security. GS Caltex has strengthened the management the ‘DoDream’ fund to encourage teenagers from families with the to come up with better ways to improve the communication system of customer information annually, and will provide information disabled, to pursue their dreams. and to listen to customers’ voices. GS Caltex plans to interact with GS&POINT Received Quality security education to all employees and take technical measures Satisfaction Awards Providing the Best Quality Products Providing the Best Quality Products customers through more diverse and active ways. to protect personal information. Na-Num Card Donation to the Korean GS&POINT won in the ‘2014 Quality Satisfaction Awards’ in June Red Cross of 2014. GS&POINT is integrating membership of the GS group. Future Plan for Customer Satisfaction and Services for Customers and Services for Customers GS Caltex launched ‘GS&POINT Na-Num Card’ in 2010 which alMain ideas selected through the contest It allows customers to accumulate points in GS subsidiaries and GS Caltex will continue to reflect the opinions of customers lows customers to accumulate their gas mileages collected at gas affiliated stores and to use the collected points to enjoy various by consolidating the company-wide framework of customer• Pedestrian overpass and round-shaped gas station that makes stations or affiliated stores as donation fund, with the aim of creatthe best use of road space experiences in 16,000 affiliated stores including GS Caltex, GS centered management and strengthening the integrated admining the donation culture. ‘GS&POINT Na-Num Card’ is a memberSHOP, GS25, GS Supermarket, and GS Watsons. Under the sloistration of customers’ opinions. It will also intensify its activities • Gas stations tailor-made for bikers ship point card that automatically transfers the points customers gan of ‘Happiness of family and life’, GS&POINT provides sports, to help gas/filling stations, partners which grow together with Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. earn by refueling or repairing their cars at GS Caltex gas/filling • Characters with the GS Caltex logo and advertisement proposals travel, and culture programs that can be enjoyed by all family GS Caltex, satisfy customers through enhanced support of workutilizing the logo stations or at Auto Oasis into the donation fund. GS Caltex accumembers. places, and improve customer contact points. GS Caltex strives mulates the donation, which is the same as the points donated by to pursue constant innovation in the changing environment to beResponse to Climate Change Response to Climate Change customers, and gives the fund to the Korean Red Cross. The fund I am your Event, Refresh Your Life Other Activities and Performances to come a company which is always loved by customers and brings is used as living support, residential condition improvement fund, GS Caltex offers the ‘I am your Event’ program to customers of Enhance Customer Value them hope. and education and cultural activities assistance for children raised GS Caltex gas stations. It organizes various cultural events includby grandparents with low income. ing movie, performance, reading, etc. so customers can take a Ranked No. 1 in NCSI for Five Consecutive Years break from their hectic routine and feel refreshed. The ‘I am your GS Caltex provides the best-quality products and services and at Support for Blood Cancer Patients through Cinema’(previously known as Cinema brunch) has especially been the same time offers diverse promotional and marketing activiGS&CONCERT 2013 Cultural Sponsoring a popular program among customers for more than ten years. It is ties, including the benefits of affiliated/bonus cards and cultural Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. GS Caltex has participated in the seat donation program orgaa unique culture marketing event that invites customers to watch events, with the aim of improving customer satisfaction. As a nized by the Korean Blood Cancer Association since 2006. As movies at the GS Caltex Theater and serves them brunch. result of these efforts, the company is recognized as ‘the favorite and enjoyable gas station for customers’ and ranked first in the NCSI(National Customer Satisfaction Index managed by the Koof Safety System of Safety System rea Productivity Center) gas station service sector for five years in a row. It scored 82 points in the customer satisfaction level, a Points donation for the Korean Society for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities College Students as GS&POINT Marketers 3-point increase(3.8% up) from the previous year and the highest score among the domestic oil refiners. This demonstrates that the customers’ expectations for GS Caltex are rising. Grand Prize in the App of the Year Chosen Quality Satisfaction Awards Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. by Customers GS Caltex offers the GS&POINT mobile application to facilitate the convenient use of point services and mobile communication for customers. The GS&POINT application enables customers to use the accumulated points in an easy and convenient way by offering services like mobile card usage by customers, franchise store search, and participation in events. The company was honValue No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Response to Climate ChangeServices for Customers 29 Efforts to Grow into an Eco-friendly automated and continuous manner. Automated measurement Company networks are running to allow the systematized management of Material Aspect 1. the air quality in the vicinity of our plant sites. Strengthened Environmental Management Low NOx burners are being installed in existing plant heaters, Activities and new processes are being implemented to reduce emissions Management activities for Since the declaration of environmental management principles of NOx from the initial production stage. Additional NOx reducthat made environmental factors the top priority of our business tion facilities have been deployed in boilers and incinerators since sustainable growth Material practices in 1996, GS Caltex has strengthened our eco-friendly 2008. Moreover, we develop improvement plans to reduce the management system and put our environmental management amount of combustion and endeavor to cut the emissions of air principles into practice. pollutants through the use of the cleaner LNG fuel. Based on these activities, GS Caltex signed the second GwangAspect 3. yang Bay Area Voluntary Agreement with the Ministry of EnviProviding the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. Environmental Management Principles ronment and Jeollanam-do, to reduce the emissions of air pollut• GS Caltex considers environmental management as our core ants generated near the Yeosu National Industrial Complex and priority in fulfilling our responsibility to protect the environment surrounding areas. We have committed ourselves to cutting air as a healthy corporate citizen, which makes the prevention of and Services for Customers pollutant emissions by 13% from the base year of 2008 by 2016. environmental pollution its top priority. * RTO : Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer * VRU : Vapor Recovery Unit Environmental Management and Response to Climate Change • We abide by all environmental regulations in all our business practices to maintain a pleasant living environment, thus earning trust from the public. Activities to Prevent Soil Pollution • To meet these environmental goals, we build environmental At the Yeosu Complex, we have been installing oil pipes on the management systems in accordance with the KSA/ISO 14001 ground since 2003, which used to be laid underground, to enand register these systems with international certification bodies. sure the fundamental prevention of soil and underground water Material Aspect 3. Moreover, we continuously check to make sure these systems are improved and that our environmental management principles are contamination. We have also prepared wells at the plant for the proclaimed both internally and externally. constant monitoring of underground water pollution. Since 2011, we have conducted soil pollution inspections for Environmental Management and Crude oil refinery facilities require a large amount of energy consumption and emit diverse pollutants Activities to Cope with Climate Change about 550 stations directly managed by GS Caltex and cleaning GS Caltex strictly observes emission standard regulations. The work for polluted workplaces. We have made continuous efforts and harmful substances. Accordingly, such facilities should be strictly managed to minimize the Response to Climate Change Yeosu Complex is equipped with air pollution control facilities to prevent soil pollution by expanding Clean Stations equipped effect on the environment. Recently, the management of such facilities has been gradually improved. such as electric precipitators, scrubbers, RTO*, VRU*, and NOx with double-walled tanks and pipes and oil leak sensors since In particular, the Korean government has implemented the GHG and Energy Target Management reduction units, which help us reduce emissions of dust, VOC, 2013. In addition, we train sales staff and gas station partners Sox, and NOx. In addition, every stack within our plants has Clean through education programs so they can identify and respond to System since 2012 as a part of the preparation for the cap-and-trade system that will be introduced SYS(automated gas emissions measurement units) installed soil pollution. in 2015. In order to observe such social requirements and alleviate risk factors for the business, GS Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. to measure pollutants including dust, SOx, NOx, and CO in an Caltex has made various kinds of efforts including preventive management activities and eco-friendly technology development. of Safety System Key Stakeholders Affected by the Issue Major Performance Pollution Prevention Facilities – Monitoring Pond Result of the activities to prevent soil pollution with gas stations Government Number of Clean Reduction rate of harmClassification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Shareholders and Gas Stations ful chemicals(benzene) Unions Gas stations that Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Investors have undergone No. of gas 217 565 259 the soil pollution C6H6 stations inspection Community Contractors No. of gas stations No. of designated as Clean gas 135 154 147 Gas Station stations Customer Employees 147 60 * In 2012, the number of gas stations that underwent soil pollution inspection increased compared to the figure of normal years due to the total inspection under the voluntary agreement. NGO Subsidiaries % GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Response to Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Response to Climate ChangeServices for Customers Climate ChangeServices for Customers 30 31 Activities to Prevent Water Pollution luting emissions from benzene and 1.3 Butadiene by about 60% GHG and Energy Management management and response systems by organizing a task force GS Caltex monitors the sources of wastewater generated from in 2017 compared to 2009. GS Caltex has reached the benzene in charge of GHG and energy within the company and dividing GHG and Energy Management System Material Aspect 1. Material Aspect 1. manufacturing processes and manages the discharge of wastereduction target early through the stable operation of a marine work processes ranging from the calculation of GHG emissions to water on a daily basis. To increase the recycling rate of wastewaVRU, the installation of an aromatic tank VRU in Seoksan area, GS Caltex is actively responding to the GHG and Energy Target responses to climate change policies. ter, the wastewater from distillation facilities is reused by desaltand stricter management of LDAR(Leak Detection and Repair). Management System and the cap-and-trade system through our Management activities for Management activities for ers in the crude oil refining process. Additionally, carbon filters Even after this accomplishment, we have constantly endeavored preemptive activities as an eco-friendly company. Preparation for the Cap-and-trade System were installed to improve the capability of eliminating pollutants to reduce the emissions to achieve our own reduction target. We have continued to carry out activities including diversified enGS Caltex is carrying out preemptive reviews in various aspects to sustainable growth in water filtered in wastewater treatment facilities. Moreover, our GS Caltex also signed the Agreement for Emergency Response sustainable growth ergy innovation programs and Solomon-Study programs to reduce prepare for the cap-and-trade system. Since 2013, we have focused internal operational standards for water pollutant discharge have and Joint Prevention of Chemical Accident with companies in the GHG emissions and enhance energy efficiency, and obtained ISO on the analysis of foreign cap-and-trade systems, the estimation of been maintained at 80% of the statutory minimum. If discharge Yeosu Complex in 2013 to swiftly respond to leakage accidents 50001 certification, a first in the oil refinery industry. We have also marginal abatement cost, the prediction of emissions and reduction concentrations are higher than the legal threshold, then environof harmful chemicals at early stages and avoid further pollution. strived to achieve goals of the GHG and Energy Target Management quota, the evaluation of the reduction potential of each workplace, mental non-conformance reports are issued to manage water We organized the emergency response team and designed the System by assigning emission reduction goals to the workplaces and the division of roles and responsibilities of each group. In Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. pollutants to sustain our endeavors in reducing the discharge of joint preventive measures, and have conducted joint response through the GS-ETS, the internal cap-and-trade system. addition, we organized study groups to enhance understanding of pollutants. In order to reduce the increased pollutants generated training for chemical accidents. After a few years of implementing the system, we enhanced the underthe cap-and-trade system and the capabilities of major divisions and by newly installed processes, we completed the improvement of standing of the cap-and-trade system mechanism among our employees. departments. Management of Waste Disposal and Services for Customers and Services for Customers wastewater treatment facilities including carbon filters in August 2014. GS Caltex operates the waste disposal demand system to ensure Greenhouse gas emissions trading concept efficiency in waste management. Through this system, we swiftly GHG and Energy Management Plans Purchasable Management of Hazardous Chemicals collect and dispose the waste generated during the process opSaleable Exceeded Our EHS Integrated Information System allows us to check the eration and maintenance work so that it is not left on work sites. emissions daily consumption of hazardous chemical substances and make The waste generated during the annual maintenance work is Unused Actual regular evaluations of chemical consumptions on a monthly and sorted, stored, and disposed properly in the early stages through emissions Plan Do Check Action quota emissions quarterly basis. With the sincere implementation of a voluntary the provision of storage methods, disposal guidelines, and enviMaterial Aspect 3. Material Aspect 3. Quota Quota Actual agreement(30/50 Program) that we signed with the Ministry of ronmental management education for partners. In addition, we emissions Environment in 2004, we won the Award of Environment Minwork with disposal companies to reuse sludge(waste oil) from • Examination of • Investment • Management of • Saving the ister in 2010, and signed another voluntary agreement(SMART: wastewater treatment facilities as fuel for kilns of cement comthe opportunity in energy the Energy Intensity energy cost Company A Company B Environmental Management and Environmental Management and of energy reduction Index • Securing the Quota > Actual emissions Quota < Actual emissions Stewardship–based Management for Area-specific Risk reducpanies, and utilize waste catalysts containing transition metals reduction facilities • Internal cap-andemission credits tion Target) with the Yeongsan River Basin Environmental Office as resources by extracting metal elements with the assistance of • Prediction of • Introduction trade system by achieving the Response to Climate Change Response to Climate Change in December 2012. The SMART Program aims at reducing polspecialized companies. GHG emissions of the energy • Record of the total reduction target and reductions management GHG emissions early system(ISO 50001) Energy Management Systems • Implementation of and response Projects to Enhance Energy Efficiency to the GHG and GS Caltex conducts energy study programs with energy consulting Energy Target Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Management firms as well as our internal activities to improve our processes. System Based on these consultations, we reduced fuel consumption by LDAR Measurement Agreement of SMART Program improving the heat exchanger network through plant and equipment *Energy Intensity Index(EII) Energy Intensity Index was developed by Solomon Associates in the U.S. to compare the energy consumption efficiency investment. We also identified weak points in energy consumption of Safety System of Safety System in the process of oil refineries around the world. The energy efficiency of each in our processes, including the heating furnace facilities with low refinery is assessed by calculating the actual energy consumption in each operating process to the unit output or expected energy consumption based on efficiency. We therefore improved facility designs, and invested in the statistics collected by Solomon Associates. The higher the energy efficiency, plant and equipment, thereby enhancing energy efficiency. the lower the EII since the energy consumption to the unit output can be reduced. Reinforcement of the Energy Consumption Management GS Caltex runs the Energy Portal, the integrated energy GHG Management Activities management system for the Yeosu Complex, to manage the energy Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Reinforcement the Internal Control Framework reduction target and result, energy consumption, and energy loss in Coping with the current GHG and Energy Target Management each process on a daily basis. Moreover, we publish the Daily Energy System and the national GHG cap-and-trade system that will Report that enables interactive communication between staff in be introduced in 2015, GS Caltex is steadily reinforcing the charge of immediate action and feedback on energy loss. Through MRV(Measurement, Reporting, Verification) System based on these activities, we divide work processes between the departments the real-time GHG/energy management system and measuring in charge of production, technology, and energy to optimize the devices. Furthermore, we operate well-organized and specialized energy consumption for each process. Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Response to Climate ChangeServices for Customers 32 Reinforcement of Daily Energy Enhancement Activities Environmentally Friendly Products We have applied the energy saving system with automatic Highly Efficient, High Quality Products Material Aspect 1. switches to less frequented facilities, such as substations, to save energy in the Yeosu Complex. We have expanded the use of high The development of high quality, eco-friendly products that delivefficiency LED lighting, and avoided operating certain facilities, er cleaner and high energy efficiency is central to our low carbon Management activities for which can be flexibly used regardless of time, during power peak energy policy. To reduce sulfur content, our gasoline, kerosene, Material times(10:00 – 11:00 a.m., 2:00 – 5:00 p.m.) for efficient energy and diesel products are especially processed by highly advanced sustainable growth consumption. In addition, we run our independent power plant desulfurization units. We boast the highest quality in the global to substitute for electric power supplied by Korea Electric Power and domestic markets. Aspect 4. Corporation(KEPCO), for the purpose of actively participating in GS Caltex will continuously endeavor to develop eco-friendly the government energy saving regulation. products. We participate in the Auto-Oil research program conducted by the government and automobile companies to study Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. Integration of Industrial Complex the standard of fuel for vehicles that can reduce GHG and car In addition to internal innovative activities, GS Caltex is enhancing exhaust emissions. We also carry out environmentally friendly the efficiency and profits of oil refinery and petrochemical plants technology development, including research on bio-butanol, a and Services for Customers in the Yeosu Complex by integrating raw materials, byproducts, clean fuel for the next generation. and utility into one source as part of the networking project of the Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System complex. We try to contribute to the national economic growth High Quality Gasoline by creating synergy through the exchange of byproduct hydrogen Our gasoline products, with improved engine-cleaning function and steam within the complex. compared to other gasoline products, maximize engine output, control abnormal combustion, prevent noise and knocking, and enhance fuel efficiency, thereby contributing to the reduction of Concept Map of Industrial Complex Integration Project CO2. Material Aspect 3. Atmospheric steam dump Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel(ULSD) Collection of Supply of steam Our ULSD is an eco-friendly product that meets the needs of Environmental Management and waste heat Decrease of the clean diesel vehicles. Our advanced desulfurization units produce Production of steam supply of steam ULSD with sulfur content of less than 10ppm. It also meets the Decrease of fuel The petrochemical industry produces a myriad of useful products necessary in modern society, but Response to Climate Change Generation of consumption waste heat national and global top-level regulation on acetone number, Optimization of the use of steam lubricity, polycyclic aromatics content and density as well as it may have harmful effects on human beings and the environment throughout the entire process Company in the sulfur content. We also run the combined production system for ranging from production, storage, transport, use, and disposal. complex GS Caltex biodiesel from plants to actively reduce CO2 emissions. With the growing attention to the safety of petrochemical industry, preventive activities for potential accidents related to safety, are considered essential in strengthening the competitiveness of Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Future GHG/Energy Management Plans Kerosene In 2014, the quota and detailed plans for the three years Our kerosene products are mainly used for indoor heating and companies. beginning 2015 along with the guidelines for the cap-and-trade cooking devices. These products produce less harmful gases system will be released. This is important for companies to apply during combustion and accordingly do not cause eye or nose of Safety System for necessary emission credits. As the cap-and-trade system irritation. As the odor commonly found in oil products is reduced, has a huge impact on corporate management environment, GS our kerosene products can be stored indoors without disrupting Caltex will establish its long-term roadmap including optimized pleasant indoor environments. They are environment friendly Key Stakeholders Affected by the Issue Major Performance implementation plans to minimize potential risk factors. products with sulfur content of less than 10ppm. The Ministry Moreover, we will actively suggest our opinions by reviewing if of Environment gave them the ‘eco-label’ in recognition of their Number of emergency TRIR(Total Recordable the government’s plans are future-oriented and if the quota is quality. Government drills per year Incident Rate) allocated in a fair manner. Shareholders and Unions Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Investors Community Contractors Customer Employees NGO Subsidiaries More than 50 0.03 % Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination of Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System Safety System 34 35 Dissemination of Safety Culture Establishment of Safety Culture through Efficient Management of Fire Service Structure assessment aimed at identifying potential risk factors is the most IIF(Injury Incident Free) Every raw material, intermediate product, and finished product essential activity to run incident-free workplaces. GS Caltex reguHealth and Safety Management Material Aspect 1. Material Aspect 1. Considering the increasing concerns about small and big accihandled in the Yeosu Complex is inflammable, thus requiring larized the risk assessment for the construction of new processBased on the principle of according top priority to health and dents in our workplaces home and abroad, GS Caltex has introthorough preparation for unexpected accidents with fire. In order es, the alteration of existing installations and other major work safety management for employees of our company and partners duced IIF, a new safety culture program, for the first time in the to extinguish fire and minimize personal injury and property damprocesses, to prevent accidents caused by defects of installations Management activities for Management activities for since 1996, GS Caltex has continuously implemented preventive industry to actively respond to such incidents. IIF assigns duties age, GS Caltex has a total of 188 first-line emergency agents(47 or human errors. In addition, we introduced the Bow-Tie Risk Asactivities including the EHS&Q System. We will put in our utmost in safety activities for workers, supervisors, and managers. agents per each shift group) and 100 daily duty workers as sessment Method, an advanced risk management method, for sustainable growth efforts to become an ‘incident-free company’ by reinforcing the We conduct education for each position to provide related sustainable growth second-line emergency agents. They are notified of mock emerthe first time in Korea. With the participation of all employees in Safety First Leadership and establishing truthful and autonomous knowledge and implementation methods, and foster internal gency situations and go through quarterly fire drills, undergoing this assessment, we won First Prize in the Good Practice of Risk safety culture. facilitators to perform a role as a catalyst and missionary in the 16 fire suppression training sessions per year to respond to real Assessment Award conducted by the Ministry of Employment creation of safety culture. We set a specific and achievable safety emergencies. and Labor in 2013. goal under the slogan ‘Go home safe’ and try to accomplish that * Bow-Tie Risk Assessment Method: This method is used to select a certain Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. goal. Furthermore, we won the 1st Korea IIF Success Award that Safe Environment Competition risk factor and analyze the cause and effect regarding the top-risk factor for the occurrence of the event. One of its advantages is that the assessment is granted by JMJ, a global safety consulting firm, to a project or Since 1998, GS Caltex has conducted the safe environment result can be reviewed more easily than other methods. organization with the best practices and performance of IIF culcompetition, aiming to enhance the awareness of safe environHealth and Safety Principles and Services for Customers and Services for Customers ture for the past year. ment among our employees and encourage self-motivation. In-Construction and Pre-start-up Safety Review • At GS Caltex we ensure the health and safety of all our employees Since 2013, we have also selected one of our partners who has GS Caltex is well aware that a minor problem in the construcand our partners. We consider it a top priority in our management Enhancement of Crisis Response Capability achieved the EHS Performance target and contributed to growth. activities and gravitate towards a safe, pleasant, and incident-free tion can cause a huge accident. Since 2007, the company has through Emergency Drills workplace by carrying out continuous improvements and preventive implemented the safety review process in which the review team, actions in everything we do. GS Caltex has a variety of emergency scenario responses that Preemptive Response to Safety which consists of safety, environment and installation profescan occur during the process of production, transport, and stor• We comply with all of the health & safety regulations in our entire sionals, participates in the design of new projects and finds risk age, to respond to any accidents at an early stage. Our production Examination of Corroded, Weak, and Old business conduct and make sure that health & safety information is factors. After the implementation of the in-construction and preand storage facilities carry out internal emergency drills over fifty Facilities by Cutting-edge Technology Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. honestly shared across the company. start-up safety review, the incident rate of new projects has retimes a year and joint drills with fire stations, police stations, and Petrochemical installations are prone to cause personal injury • To this end, we guarantee that the health and safety of our workers markably decreased, and our practice has served as a model for Korea Coast Guard more than once a year. Moreover, workplaces and environmental accidents due to fire, explosion, and leakage. is secured regarding: design, maintenance and operation of benchmarking in the industry. establishments, and the minimization of health & safety risks near residential areas provide guidance for preventive activities GS Caltex calculates risk degrees by analyzing the corrosion Moreover, we conduct ‘the noise impact assessment’ with highResponse to Climate Change Response to Climate Change (through health & safety improvement programs and training). aimed at securing safety and ‘response guidance for residents’ mechanism of each installation, and examines the processes that tech 3D modeling and analysis methods to minimize the impact In this way, we create advanced health & safety management for emergencies on a regular basis. This is done in cooperation are vulnerable to corrosion on a regular basis. We purchase highsystems. of noise generated by installations. We identify the pattern of with community service centers, 119 safety centers, and resident tech portable X-ray equipment and special ultrasonic equipment, noises of fluids in pipes and revolving equipment with a 3D simucouncils. carry out examination on them, and predict the service life of the lation method, apply insulation with strong sound absorption equipment, thereby preventing any problems in work processes function such as soundproof walls and vibrating pads, and use caused by the deterioration of installations. the pipe lagging method, thereby controlling noise in the work process. Material Aspect 4. Material Aspect 4. Identifying Potential Risk through Systematic With these efforts, GS Caltex has achieved 6 million man-hours Risk Assessment during the construction process of VGOFCC and completed our In work processes handling petrochemical substances, the risk Duties of Each Position in the IIF Program factory construction in Jinju without any incidents. Reinforcement and Dissemination Labor Living IIF in Action Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System of Safety System Good Practice of Risk Assessment Award of the Ministry of Actively express their opinions for safety Emergency Drills Employment and Labor in 2013 Inspector Coaching IIF in Action Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Give directions to workers in an effective manner for safe operation Manager Leading IIF in Action Provide education on organizational behaviors and establish safety culture Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System 36 Construction Completion of Safety Training Future Safe Management Plans Center GS Caltex will create a strong safe environment culture focusing GS Caltex established the Safety Training Center in October 2013 on the role of chief safety officers to take the initiative in safety Material Aspect 1. to prevent accidents related to safety involving our employees leadership. We are planning to organize the safe environment and workers of partner companies at the Yeosu Complex. Our committee with the participation of the management commitManagement activities for staff and partner workers in the complex are provided with safety tee, in which the members decide the safe environment issues education at the Safety Training Center equipped with 24 indoor on a quarterly basis. 30% of the KPI(Key Performance Index) sustainable growth and outdoor training courses, video lecture rooms, and protecof the executives in charge of production and operation will be Material tive equipment exhibition halls, and established on 19,000m2 of reflected in safe environment performance. We will also organize land at the No. 2 Plant. We will include the training courses at the the emergency response team at the Production Department to Safety Training Center for all safety education in the future, and strengthen the functions of emergency response, rescue service, Aspect 5. continuously manage our workplaces as incident-free places by and fire suppression and prevention, and will establish the safe Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. putting safety rules into practice, including the use of protective inspection team at the headquarters to specialize the installation equipment and compliance with the work procedures. examination, safe environment inspection, risk assessment, and accident investigation, thereby promoting systematic safety acObservance of Global Safe Environment tivities. and Services for Customers Standards The safe environment assessment for workplaces identifies potential problems that might be overlooked by employees and faEmployee Value Enhancement cilitates idea creation related to new safe environments. It is also used to monitor compliance with safety regulations. We conduct the safe environment inspection led by the headquarters and the self-inspection at each workplace on a yearly basis. We have also Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. contributed to the safe management of our partners by carrying out the internal inspection on a total of 31 items in the health and safety management system and related activities, targeting our five partners which implement the health and safety manageResponse to Climate Change ment system. We also get together to discuss plans for improveIn the petrochemical industry with its continuous growth and advanced technologies, one of the most ment. important factors for competitiveness is human resources. Each employee’s creativity and sense of challenge serve as a driving force to accomplish the vision of GS Caltex despite fierce competition in the industry. We provide various support for our employees to help them feel proud of the company GS Caltex Safety Training Center and concentrate in their work to grow together with the company. We will become a leading Material Aspect 4. company in the global energy industry through talent development programs for continuous growth opportunities, high reward for performance, constant challenges based on trust, and our organization culture pursuing the balance between work and life. Reinforcement and Dissemination of Safety System Key Stakeholders Affected by the Issue Major Performance Level of Satisfaction Number of Children Government Cared for by One Nursing in EAP System Shareholders and Teacher at Jiyeseul Unions Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Investors Childcare Center Community Contractors EAP Customer Employees NGO Subsidiaries 90 % 4.5 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement 38 39 Talent Development Leadership Development Job Competency Development GS Caltex conducts regular education to enhance capabilities and In order to reinforce job competencies of creating outcome in the Differentiated Recruitment Process Direction of Development Material Aspect 1. Material Aspect 1. required skills at each stage from new employees to executives. business, we provide mandatory basic training programs about GS Caltex considers human resources as underlying assets for We select and develop team leader candidates through the production process and finance to all employees, and conduct GS Caltex introduced the history exam in the recruitment the achievement of the vision ‘Value No. 1 Energy & Chemical LDC(Leadership Development Center), our internal leadership core job competency building programs to strengthen the process in 2008 for the first time as a private company to Management activities for Management activities for Partner’. We implement diversified systems to cultivate talented program. We also evaluate the leadership of our executives expertise of each field. nurture talents with a right view of our country. We also hold employees who take the initiative and act on the corporate values and team leaders from multiple aspects and provide them with the online recruitment fair to provide those who cannot attend sustainable growth sustainable growth the offline fairs Online recruitment fair is carried out in realand core behaviors feedback on a yearly basis. Foundation Competency Development time through our website and SNS in the form of interactive In particular, we set ‘Developing business leaders with the leaderWe identify foundation competencies required by all employees communication, providing answers to questions from job ship and expertise to take the initiative for the accomplishment of Coaching and Mentoring and provide programs to cultivate such capabilities. At the seekers. GS Caltex vision’ as our mission, and focus on cultivating leaderWe run the coaching program with professional coaches to beginning of each year, we evaluate the level of competencies of ship job and foundation competencies. reinforce the leadership capacity of our executives and team each employee and provide them internal/external and online/ Performance of New employees on New year’s Kick-off Meeting Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. leaders. We also train internally certified coaches and provide offline education based on their needs. the coaching opportunities to all employees on voluntary base by Talent Development Programs internally certified coaches. We also run a mentoring program for High Potential Individual Development and Services for Customers and Services for Customers Our talent development program is systematized with leadership first and second-year employees. We develop talented employees to grow into future leaders. We development programs for each stage of career, one-on-one assist these high potential individuals in taking MBA courses at based coaching/mentoring, development of job and foundation top-notch national and international universities. We also provide competencies for enhancing individual capability, and advanced them with internship opportunities at global companies including education/internship opportunities for selected high potential Chevron to help them learn advanced practices and apply their individual. experiences to their work. Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. Response to Climate Change Response to Climate Change Direction of Talent Development Annual Investment in Employee Education Balance between Work and Life Unit: 100 million won, except indirect education expenses Employee Welfare and Benefit System 2011 2012 2013 Health Care System 72.7 72.8 64.2 For the enhancement of our employees’ health and welfare, we Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. Corporate Values support medical expenses for employees and their spouses and children(under 20). The annual health check-ups are expanded Core Behaviors into comprehensive health checkups when employees turn 35 Leadership years old. We also run a medical office at the headquarters and a of Safety System of Safety System hospital in affiliation with the Yeosu Complex to prevent diseases and accidents suffered by employees. We have group personal Focusing on expertise and skills as professional competencies Employee Education accident insurance in response to potential diseases and incidents for successful performance of each employee’s duties of employees. Job Competency Process Finance Job competencies Leisure Support System Business Acumen GS Caltex provides diversified support for work and life balance. Material Aspect 5. Material Aspect 5. We provide vouchers for condominiums in various vacation areas Competencies commonly required of all employees in the country, and also provide free accommodation during the in the company or certain group summer season for employees at Jeju Island, Seorak Mountain, Foundation Competency Jeongseon, Cheonan, and Baegam. Employee Value Enhancement Employee Value Enhancement Interpersonal Communi Talent Execution Creativity Adaptability influence cation development team members team leader or higher position Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement Special Story 40 EAP(Employee Assistance Program) EAP is a grievance settlement program that provides one-to-one Material Aspect 1. counselling with experts to resolve the grievances and difficulties Jiyeseul Childcare Center of employees. GS Caltex runs the EAP system with the assistance of external companies to provide expert counselling service Management activities for to help employees solve various problems in their social and In order to ease the employees’ burden of child rearing, GS Caltex personal lives. sustainable growth opened the childcare center in March 2012 near GS Tower in Through this system, GS Caltex promotes balance between work Yeoksam-dong for the children of employees of GS Caltex. and life and enhances productivity. More than 100 employees The childcare center in the building of two floors and one use this counselling service for their interpersonal relationships, basement with 496m2 of total floor area is open from 7:30 a.m. child rearing, work conflicts, and financial problems. Our to 8:00 p.m. A total of eleven nursing teachers work for the employees’ families can use the EAP system as well. center with the best childcare conditions as the teacher-child Providing the Best Quality Products Material Aspect 2. ratio is 1:4.5 The building of the childcare center was designed by remodeling a private house to create a comfortable and Services for Customers atmosphere for children. We prevent potential accidents Counselling Service Status by installing safe doors at stairs and fingerprint scanners for teachers and parents, and the center is also equipped with Job-related affairs Personal affairs toilets for children with disabilities. Stress from work Financial problems Child rearing Intense development Environmental Management and Material Aspect 3. Mental health Personal growth Conflicts at work Interpersonal relationships 90% Response to Climate Change Satisfaction rate of users: GS Caltex has made efforts to share difficulties of the underprivileged by Jiyeseul Childcare Center conducting CSR activities, reflecting the needs of local communities and businesses. These activities include Mom Talk Talk, one of our major CSR Reinforcement and Dissemination Material Aspect 4. activities. Moreover, we have strengthened the consistency and sincerity of our activities through active participation of our employees through voluntary of Safety System donation and regular volunteer activities. Number of children healed Number of Audience through Mom Talk Talk program of Yeulmaru Material Aspect 5. Employee Value Enhancement 2,148 107,145 Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner Special Story Corporate Social Responsibility Activities Special Story Corporate Social Responsibility Activities 42 43 Mom Talk Talk for Children ties. The Grand Theater accommodates 1,021 attendees, and the students have received 5.45 billion won in scholarships. We have ing the photo exhibition and the poetry and painting exhibition by With the belief that children are the future of our society, we Small Theater accommodates an audience of 302. The park is also been running the English Class Program by native speakers utilizing the spatial characteristics of the venue. launched Mom Talk Talk, one of our major CSR activities, in also equipped with exhibition halls for various purposes. Yeulfor students of schools on islands since March 2007 to contribMarch 2013 to encourage underprivileged children to dream of a maru enhanced the level of culture and art of Yeosu, which used ute to relieve the education. Native English-speaking teachers Construction of Solar Energy Center hopeful future by reducing their psychological distress. As part of to have no cultural area, and satisfies the local residents’ need for hold classes once a week for about 190 students at 13 elemenin Cambodia Miracle Achieved by Cooperation the Mom Talk Talk activities, we have conducted psychotherapy cultural spaces. tary, middle, and high schools on islands in the Yeosu area. of Company, NGO and Government programs for children at 13 local centers around the country, and In addition to these programs, we have taken the initiative in supAs 80% of the population in Cambodia cannot be provided with provided the intensive healing camp at Yeulmaru, a culture and Social Welfare Support porting local schools by providing expenses for dinner and school central electricity, nine-tenths of the population spends nights art park in Yeosu, for a total of 2,148 children this year. Through GS Caltex has run the ‘GS Caltex Love Sharing Center’ that ofuniforms for middle schools in areas with a large population of lowin darkness, relying on tiny kerosene lamps or car batteries. To the Mom Talk Talk activities, we have tried to resolve children’s fers free meals to the elderly in Yeondeung-dong, Yeosu with the class households, aided by social welfare fund of the GS Caltex resolve this problem, GS Caltex has been implementing an approblems in their relationships with friends at school by carrying assistance of Yeosu Seniors Welfare Center since 2008. From labor union since 2006. The company also makes a matching conpropriate technology-based energy support project for lowout group art therapy programs. To this end, we have invited topMondays to Fridays, the center provides free lunches to approxitribution to the amount collected by the labor union for the fund. income households in Battambang since 2011 in cooperation class experts and professors in the field of art, play, and dance mately 350 elderly people per day. Around 400 people from the with KOICA(Korea International Cooperation Agency) and Good for the integration of therapy methods, and directly run therapist GS Caltex Employees’ Wives Club, the GS Caltex Retired EmGS Caltex Voluntary Service Corps Neighbors. training programs. We enhanced the level of art therapy proployees Club and 17 local women’s voluntary service groups parGS Caltex conducts volunteer activities with GS Caltex VolunWe organized a volunteer team consisting of our employees in grams by providing our art therapists, who were selected through ticipate in this service, taking turns. As of 2013, a total of 441,454 tary Service Corps in Yeosu, in which our major workplaces are 2012 to conduct volunteer activities in Cambodia. We distributed strict evaluation, with training programs on a weekly basis. We free lunches were served, and 22,167 volunteers participated in located, to share love and support with neighbors as a member solar power lanterns to low-income households in Battambang have been praised for establishing a nationwide children psychothe service. of the local community. We have a total of 38 voluntary service with the participation of the company’s researchers, and comtherapy process on a stable groundwork in the first year, thanks Furthermore, GS Caltex supports local welfare centers and conteams in the Yeosu Complex, carrying out a wide variety of social pleted the construction of the Solar Energy Center in August to the efforts made by Good Neighbors, a nonprofit organizaducts the Sharing of Love on Korean Thanksgiving Day and the service activities including talent-donating activities such as elec2013. The center plays multiple roles by creating jobs in the local tion, as our partner. According to the survey of the children who House Repairing Service for the elderly who live alone. tric and boiler works and photo shooting, delivery of side dishes community, nurturing solar energy experts, and enhancing the experienced the Mom Talk Talk programs, their self-esteem and In order to support underprivileged neighborhoods on islands for senior citizens living alone, volunteering at free meal centers awareness of solar energy through education for local residents interpersonal relationships have improved. They also feel less and in isolated areas, which are lagging behind relatively in terms for the elderly, and disability experience activities. Around the along with production and sales station. depressed and their attitude has become less aggressive. Based of development compared to urban areas, GS Caltex has run company’s foundation day in every May since 2005, we have on the framework established in the first year, Mom Talk Talk the Summer Camp in Villages on Island to attract more tourists conducted volunteer activities including going on picnics with Future CSR Activity Plans will continuously contribute to the qualitative improvement of since 2005. As of 2013, a total of 6,850 people visited the islands children with disabilities. At the end of each year, we hold the GS Caltex focuses on sustainable CSR activities to contribute children psychotherapy. through the summer camp. We also conduct the abalone spat nationwide wish-fulfillment relay event, a customized volunteer to actual changes in society. Based on a stable implementation discharge event for the conservation of marine resources and activity to grant wishes for underprivileged neighbors, such in the first year, we will continuously expand the foundation of Yeulmaru income growth of fishing villages, support events on the islands, as providing food or anything they want or helping them go to Mom Talk Talk program, one of our major CSR activities, by carYeulmaru is a culture and art park in Yeosu, which was conand provide free travel packages for the elderly on the island. places which they want to visit. rying out art therapy program contests and recruiting participatstructed by receiving an investment of 110 billion won made by ing schools, institutes, as well as the second group of therapists. GS Caltex since 2007, serving as a venue for sharing culture and Scholarship and Educational Programs GS Caltex Green Art Contest & Green Moreover, we will conduct regular education for therapists and for relaxation for local residents. Yeulmaru, which indicates ‘A Since 1996, GS Caltex has awarded GS Caltex Scholarship to stuWriting Contest establish processes used in psychotherapy for children to imspace full of rolling waves of culture and art and where people dents of middle and high schools and colleges in Yeosu in order GS Caltex has been holding the Green Art Contest in Seoul and prove the effectiveness of therapy programs. We will also supcan relax as if they are lying down on a floor of a traditional to develop local human resources. In 2013, we gave scholarships the Green Writing Contest in Yeosu every year under the themes port sustainable development of society as a global energy comhouse’, is equipped with high quality sound and lighting facilito a total of 325 students in Yeosu. Until 2013, a total of 7,283 of children and environment. At the Green Art Contest held in the pany through solar energy development projects in Cambodia, as Olympic Park in May 2013, we arranged the green energy experiwell as expand our CSR activities by reflecting the needs of local Social Responsibility Hierarchy ence hall where visitors can experience eco-friendly energy, and residents in Yeosu, including Love Sharing Center and the English installed photo zones and wish murals utilizing recycling waste. Class Program by native speakers for students on the islands, and Beautiful World through Energy Sharing The Green Writing Contest held in Yeosu Yeulmaru in October Yeulmaru. 2013 featured various cultural and art experience events includMom Talk Talk Completion of Solar Energy Center in Cambodia Mom Talk Talk Camp GS Caltex Love Sharing Center Major activities •Training therapists of Mom Talk Talk •Supporting Mom Talk Talk centers •Conducting Yeulmaru Camp programs Nationwide project Local project Foundation project • Child education • Environment conservation activities • Establishment and operation of Basic activities • Global energy sharing • Scholarship and education projects • Yeulmaru • Social welfare support Donation • Mom Talk Talk donation • Self-Designated donation Participation Volunteer • Individual volunteers • Special volunteer activities activities Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Annual Operation Performance of Yeulmaru(as of June 2013) Where? How? Why? Yeulmaru construction project One of major CSR activities of GS Caltex At the center of Yeosu To fulfill the corporate responsibility and role High accessibility for for the development of local community residents The gross area of Yeulmaru Around 700,000m2 For days workers for construction Local community Total expenses: 110 billion won invested by GS Caltex One-third of the population in Yeosu visited Yeulmaru Appendix What the name of Yeulmaru means A space full of rolling waves of culture and art and where people can relax as if they are lying down on a floor of a traditional house In the first year, 2.7 times more visitors were recorded compared to the average number of visitors of culture and art centers in the country No. of performances Cutting-edge cultural space Audiences Small Theater Grand Theater with 3 exhibition halls with 302 seats 1,021 seats 29,706 audiences 73,936 audiences 19,509 audiences visitors for exhibitions average number average number of culture and average number visitors for performances in Jeollanam-do art centers in the country of Yeulmaru A total of 107,145 visitors Sources: 2012 Art Performance Status Study by Korea Arts Management Service Yeulmaru, the Artistic and Cultural Landmark of GS Caltex Land for the second Yeulmaru project will be added in 2015 Financial Data Sustainable Management Performance Data UN GLOBAL COMPACT Changed the range and Supported the 2012 Yeosu EXPO stream of culture in the Served as a venue of GS Caltex CSR activities GRI G4 INDEX eastern area of Jeollanam-do Appendix Appendix Financial Data Sustainable Management Performance Data 46 47 Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss Unit: million won Category 2013 2012 Category 2013 2012 Category Unit 2011 2012 2013 Assets Sales 45,659,771 47,872,746 R&D R&D expenses 100 million won 470.3 434.2 458.7 Current Assets Cost of sales -43,919,469 -46,468,646 Selling, general and administrative Quality Quality check of gas stations Case 6,413 6,639 6,523 Cash and cash equivalents 600,721 663,278 expenses -840,222 -893,174 Quality check of LPG stations 655 Accounts and notes receivable 3,266,605 3,585,634 Operating profit 900,080 510,926 Share of profit(loss) of equity method PIMS(Korea Communications Commission, Korea Internet & Short-term financial assets 1,130,636 825,169 accounted investees -7,677 -1,953 customer Security Agency) Certification Inventories 5,210,040 5,061,025 Finance income 1,197,077 1,358,141 satisfaction CCM(Korea Fair Trade Commission, Korea Consumer Agency) Recertification Prepaid income taxes 364 22 Finance costs -1,455,374 -1,448,970 Time required to handle customer complaints Day 2.6 2.4 1.8 Other current assets 594,085 706,087 Other income 264,890 233,044 KSQI(Korea Management Association) Ton Best Call Center Best Call Center Best Call Center Total current assets 10,802,451 10,841,215 Other expenses -371,701 -304,199 Non-current assets Profit before income taxes 527,295 346,989 Environment Air pollutants Dust 203 179 202.6 Long-term financial assets 399,028 491,986 Income tax expense -153,628 -7,318 Nox 3,937 3,410 4,279.7 Investments in associates and 282,860 300,965 Profit from continuing operations 373,667 339,671 joint venture SOx 9,390 7,113 7,644.8 Profit from discontinued operations, Property, plant, and equipment 10,655,481 10,775,339 net of tax 391,753 CO 581 457 428.1 Investment property 44,969 35,658 Profit for the year 373,667 731,424 Intangible assets 64,392 63,856 Profit(loss) attributable to: VOC1 189 189 173 Deferred income tax assets 2,375 1,402 Owners of the parent 373,667 734,090 Water pollutants BOD 65.7 66.19 169.28 Other non-current assets 33,740 33,708 Non-controlling interests -2,666 COD 118.31 118.37 157.13 Total non-current assets 11,482,845 11,702,914 SS 79.43 80.83 103.22 Total assets 22,285,296 22,544,129 N-H 3.26 3.63 5.68 Liabilities Current liabilities Phenol 0.08 0.07 0.52 Accounts payable-trade 3,346,710 2,993,137 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Unit: million won Amount of waste Specified waste 22,370 16,927 20,542 Short-term financial liabilities 3,763,590 4,102,177 General waste 14,130 15,727 19,047 Category 2013 2012 Income taxes payable 69,019 98,632 Profit for the year 373,667 731,424 Recyclable 20,176 18,072 23,744 Other current liabilities 145,096 162,435 Other comprehensive income(loss), net of tax: Harmful chemical NaOH 4,880 4,939 6,777 Total current liabilities 7,324,415 7,356,381 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Non-current liabilities substance consumption2 H2SO4 494 460 562 Defined benefit plan actuarial gains(losses) 3,168 -16,678 Long-term financial liabilities 5,541,949 5,581,027 1,688 1,741 1,734 Changes in equity method accounted investee‘s HCl retained earnings 557 -1,559 Employee benefits 32,057 71,897 Total 3,725 -18,237 NH3 40 32 323 Deferred income tax liabilities 279,823 294,088 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss PCE 59 61 54 Other non-current liabilities 97,386 112,758 Net change in unrealized fair value of available-for7,388 1,173 Total non-current liabilities 5,951,215 6,059,770 sale financial assets Environmental Wastewater and marine pollution 100 million won 71 150 61.3 Changes in equity method accounted investee‘s capital 127 -2,847 Total liabilities 13,275,630 13,416,151 investment expenses3 Air pollution 219 300 184.6 Effective portion of changes in unrealized fair value of cash flow hedges -6,637 2,248 Equity Foreign currency translation differences -2,266 -13,731 VOC 55 3.9 Common stock 260,000 260,000 Total -1,388 -13,157 Soil pollution 6 6 17.7 Capital surplus 66,270 66,270 Total comprehensive income for the year 376,004 700,030 Others 3 80 18.4 Capital adjustments -58,926 -58,639 Accumulated other comprehensive Attributable to: income 14,193 15,581 1 3 Owners of the parent 376,004 702,696  ntil 2012, the figure of VOC emissions was recorded except emissions from ocean U The details of the environmental investment expenses are presented below. Retained earnings 8,728,129 8,844,737 shipment(the data of 2012 was calculated with the exception of emissions from the ocean Wastewater and marine pollution: Introduction of the advanced treatment system at the Equity attributable to owners of Non-controlling interests -2,666 the parent 9,009,666 9,127,949 shipment in the chemical substance emission data released in 2011). Since the chemical No. 2 wastewater treatment facilities in the No. 1 Plant substance emission data is currently released, the VOC emission data of 2011 and 2012 Air pollution: Replacement of catalysts to improve air quality Non-controlling interests 29 were revised in this 2013 report. VOC: Installation of VRU for the storage tank of aromatic products and the improvement Total equity 9,009,666 9,127,978 2 of VRU facilities of the ocean shipment team As the materials about harmful chemical substance consumption in 2011 and 2012 have Total liabilities and equity 22,285,296 22,544,129 errors, the figure above was revised based on the annual report. Soil pollution: Quality examination of pipes in areas surrounding the factories Others: Improvement in facilities handling toxic substances in the RFCC process Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Appendix Appendix Sustainable Management Performance Data UN GLOBAL COMPACT 48 49 Since joining the UN Global Compact in December of 2010, GS Caltex has been a strong supporter of its principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, fulfilling its duty to come up with the Category Unit 2011 2012 2013 COP(Communication on Progress) report each year. GS Caltex will continue to increase its efforts to implement and Environment GHG emissions Direct emissions(stationary tCO2eq 6,302,721 6,283,089 6,824,874 comply with the principles of the UNGC. combustion, mobile combustion, process emissions) Indirect emissions(purchased 1,298,151 1,348,271 1,601,917 steam and electricity) UN Global Compact Energy consumption Direct energy consumption TJ 89,496 87,458 91,937 Outcomes from activities (every energy resources Sector Principles Related activities (pages in the report) except purchased electricity and steam) Human 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection • Providing education on in-house sexual harassment 10, 39, 40 Indirect energy consumption 11,158 11,596 13,415 of internationally proclaimed human rights. prevention and human rights protection (purchased electricity and rights steam) 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in • Running welfare system for employees’ work and life Society TRIR 1) % 0.06 0.05 0.03 human rights abuses. balance No. of trainees of ethical Online No. of people 3,011 3,026 Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association • Operating labor union and guaranteeing freedom of 39, 50 management education 261 159 and the effective recognition of the right to collective engaging in the union Offnline No. of trainees of ethical bargaining. Online 16 • Discussing issues related to human rights through the management education for 154 44 CSR Committee partners Offnline Education hours per employee Hour 102 129 97.2 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms • Abiding to the regulations of the International No. of employees as of forced and compulsory labour. Labor Organization and the UNGC principles DB No. of people 3,233 3,249 3,137 beneficiaries of retirement 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of ※ GS Caltex strictly prohibits every kind of forced labor and pension DC 55 101 159 child labor in all workplace child labour. No. of employees by each Executives 55 52 55 2) 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of • Prohibiting discrimination by gender regarding wages type of employment General employees 1,710 1,596 1,534 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Offering equal opportunity of employment Production workers and technicians 1,274 1,330 1,357 Support employees 50 53 53 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach • Establishing Environmental Management Principles 20, 21, 28, 29, Contract and dispatched workers 264 229 185 to environmental challenges. • Obtaining Certificate of the Energy Management System 30, 31, 32 Others 48 54 41 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote (ISO50001) greater environmental responsibility. No. of employees by area Seoul and other areas 1,782 1,616 1,500 • Adopting the internal cap-and-trade system(GS-ETS) Yeosu 1,619 1,698 1,725 • Signing the Voluntary Agreement of Hazardous No. of retired employees 184 297 226 Chemicals management with local government and companies in the Yeosu Complex Rate of retirement % 5.13 8.22 7.00 Investment expenses for 9. Businesses should encourage the development and • Developing High Quality Products CSR activities million won 565 490 245 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Conducting R&D of Biochemical 1) Total Recordable Incident Rate: The rate of every incident that is equivalent to or more serious than incidents requiring first-aid Anti• Signing of all employees for the pledge of voluntary 10 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its 2) The number of employees as of December 31, 2013 compliance corruption forms, including extortion and bribery • Expanding Voluntary Compliance System and Strengthening the role of Compliance Officer • Run training programs on compliance Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report Appendix Appendix GRI G4 INDEX 50 51 General Standard Disclosures ● : Full , ◐: Half, ○ : Not, N/A : Not Applicable Specific standard disclosures ● : Full , ◐: Half, ○ : Not, N/A : Not Applicable ECONOMIC Indicator Subject Page Reporting Level Reporting Level Indicator Subject Page Reporting Level Omissions Note Economic Performance Strategy and Analysis Generic DMA 18 ● G4-1 A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 4~5 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 22,46.48 ● Organizational Profile EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 31 ◐ EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 48 ◐ G4-3 Name of the organization 6 ● EC4 Financial assistance received from government ● There is no assistance received G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6 ● G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 6 ● G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report 6 ● ENVIRONMENTAL Indicator Subject Page Reporting Level Omissions Note G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 ● Energy G4-8 Markets served 6, 7 ● Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 28 ● G4-9 Scale of the organization 6, 22 ● EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 48 ● EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 31~32 ◐ G4-10 Total number of employees 48 ● EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 32 ◐ (The number of members of the labor union 1,299 / G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 75.65% Total number of candidates 1,717) Emissions G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 6~7 ◐ Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 28 ● EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions(scope 1) 48 ● G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain ● There is no Significant changes. EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions(scope 2) 48 ● G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 12 ● EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(ghg) emissions 31~32 ◐ G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 49 ● EN21 NOX , SOX , and other significant air emissions 47 ● organization subscribes or which it endorses Effluents and Waste Memberships of associations(such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in G4-16 which the organization 49 ● Generic DMA 28 ● Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 47 ● EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 47 ● G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 6 ● EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 30 ◐ G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 13~15 ● Overall G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 14 ● Generic DMA 28 ● EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 47 ● G4-20 Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 18, 23, 28, 33, 37 ● G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 18, 23, 28, 33, 37 ● G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 47 ● LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement 2 ● Indicator Subject Page Reporting Level Omissions Note Stakeholder Engagement Employment Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 37 ● List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization G4-25 Core Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders G4-24 with whom to engage 13 ● LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 48 ◐ Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant G4-25 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an 13 ● LA2 locations of operation 39~40 ◐ Occupational Health and Safety G4-26 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process 13 ● Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 33,40 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting 13 ● LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help ● 100% monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Report Profile LA6 work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 35,48 ◐ LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 34~36 ◐ G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 2 ● Training and Education G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2 ● Reported annually since 2006 Generic DMA 37 ● G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 ● LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 48 ● Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist LA10 them in managing career endings 38~39 ◐ G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. 2 ● G4-33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 2 ● PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Governance Indicator Subject Page Reporting Level Omissions Note G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 11 ● Product and Service Labeling Generic DMA & Aspect-specific DMA 23~25 ● Ethics and Integrity Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes ● There is no violations Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, G4-36 environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. 10 ● PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 47 ● Value No.1 Energy & Chemical Partner GS Caltex 2013 Sustainability Report
