2013 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Report 2013 1 What is CSR? The European parliament’s definition of the term CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility): ”The responsibility of enterprises for their impacts on society.” The Danish Business Authority www.samfundsansvar.dk Shared value The EU further elaborates this definition with a description that businesses should have procedures in place to integrate social, environmental, ethical, human rights and consumer issues in their operations and strategies. The goal is to create 'shared value' for both the businesses and society as well as to counteract any adverse impact the business may have on society. In 2013, the EU has proposed new possible guidelines for CSR reporting within companies. These guidelines were not approved by the end of the year. 2 2 Pictured, from the left, is Birger Brix, CEO of the Schou Foundation and Jakob Thøisen, CEO of Palsgaard A/S. corporate social responsibility 2. 2 About the report This is Palsgaard's fourth CSR report. We produce a report every year. The purpose is to provide a balanced overview of the most significant CSR-related goals, topics, activities and results in the Palsgaard businesses included in the report. In terms of structure and principles, this CSR report Our most important stakeholders in relation to this has been constructed in a similar format to our first, report are the company's customers, employees, award-winning1 report for 2010. trend-setting retail trade, local community, the media, important industry competitors and NGOs. Scope These stakeholders are defined, in collaboration with The CSR report includes the following legal entities: Palsgaard’s senior management, through a selection Schou Foundation, Palsgaard Estate A/S and its assoprocess that includes relevance analysis. To ensure we ciated forest and agricultural areas, Palsgaard A/S and cover the broad spectrum of stakeholders, we report its subsidiaries, and Nexus A/S (see figure in section widely on our CSR activities. 3). These entities will all be treated as one entity entitled 'Palsgaard' in the report. Associated companies in Palsgaard supports the UNGC (United Nation Global which Palsgaard does not have a majority shareholdCompact) initiatives and as such, the report also funcing are not included in the report. The scope of the retions as our annual COP (Communication on Proported data has been detailed in section 15. This report gress). covers the annual year 2013. The report and specified data have been reviewed by Reporting principles an independent auditor and the auditor’s declaration The report has been prepared using the principles can be found in section 14. Our reporting practice is determined in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines explained in section 15. from Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as well as the associated sector supplement for food production. See section 16 for an overview of relevant GRI indicators, including references, The topics included in this report have been determined based on evaluations of interest and relevance in connection with the development of Palsgaard's CSR strategy and associated strategic objectives (see section 5). Table of Contents 1. What is CSR? 2 9. Production and environment 26 2. About the report 3 10. Sales and logistics 30 3. Palsgaard in brief 6 11. Product application 32 4. A message from the 12. Contribution to society 38 management8 13. Data summary 42 5. Our foundation and agenda for 14. The independent auditor's sustainability10 statement43 6. Customer-driven innovation 14 15. Reporting practice 44 7. Raw materials and suppliers 16 16. GRI table 46 8. Our employees 20 3 ¹) FSR-Danske Revisorer's Award for Best First Report). 2 5. Our foundation 9 Production and environment • The purpose of the Schou Foundation • Processes • Our reputation • Energy and climate • Management structure and responsibility distribution • Utilisation of raw materials and derivative products • Heart working people • Packaging • Policies • Environmental conditions, water and wastewater • Corruption and cartels • Environmental conditions in our facilities internationally • Sustainability agenda • Forestry and agriculture • Organisational memberships 6. Customer-driven Innovation 10. Sales and logistics Report structure • Nexus, Palsgaard's development company • Marketing • Global application facilities • Dialogue with customers and partners The report follows our value chain • Certified safety in product development • IT (sections 5-12) and is based on the • Collaboration with universities and knowledge centres • Transport cultural foundation of the business. • Future energy reductions in the refinement of oils The value chain includes the lifespan 11. Product applications of the product from original idea to the 7. Raw materials and suppliers point where the finished product lands on consumers’ tables as a food • Food safety ingredient. This is followed by a • Supplier management • Improvement of the nutritional profile of foods description of our contribution to • Supplier evaluation • Ingredients for reduced-fat foods • Partnership on sustainable production of palm oil • Trans free emulsifiers the surrounding society. This format • E-numbers represents a logical structure for our • Reduction of food waste processes and products. Readers 8 Our employees • Technical applications who are interested in particular subjects can consult the references in the GRI table in section 16. • Well-being and employee retention 12. Contribution to society • Local and global anchorage • MTU • Employee satisfaction • Commitment to local community • MUS • Support for people in need • Palsgaard’s OSH organisation • Responsible tax • Pension scheme with profit sharing • Palsgaard Mexico – Innovation ensures improved quality of life for children and adults with Down’s syndrome. 4 3. Core CSR objectives for Co2 3 Wastewater emissions 1,0 emission 0,15 (kg Co2 per kg finished product) Accident Frequency (accidents with absence (l per kg finished product) per million working hours) RSPO-certified material Raw Palm consumption OiL 104,00 (kg per 100 kg finished product) 100% FigurE 1: Core CSR figures TARGET TARGET and targets 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 2020 Co2 emission (kg Co2 per kg finished product) 0.40 0.32 0.18 0.18 0.17 0.15 0 Accident frequency (accidents with 20 22 8 14 11 3 absence per million working hours) Wastewater emissions (l per kg finished product) 1.47 1.22 1.42 1.53 1.39 1.00 Raw material consumption 107.60 107.90 107.19 106.49 107.37 104.00 (kg per 100 kg finished product) RSPO-certified palm oil (%)¹, ² 100 ¹S  ee Section 7 on partnerships on sustainable ² Data not available We have a target of achieving CO2 neutrality in 2020. For the other key production of palm oil figures, the 2020 goal have yet to be defined. 5 3 PALSGAARD IN BRIEF Palsgaard develops and manufactures emulsifiers and stabilizers for the food industry. We have production facilities in Denmark, Mexico, China and the Netherlands. A new factory in Malaysia is in the development phase and will be ready for production in 2014. We have application centres in Denmark, Singapore, China and Mexico as well as a sales organisation covering more than 100 countries. Palsgaard additionally manages 4,503 hectares of forest and agriculture in Denmark, Latvia and Lithuania. 6 3. FigurE 2: Schou Foundation Organisation chart The organisational chart shows the entities covered by the report, highlighted in blue. The management structure and distribution of responsibility are described further in section 5. Schou Foundation CEO: Birger Brix Board chairman: Rasmus Christiansen Board members: Jette Baagøe, Ole G. Mouritsen PALSGAARD ESTATE A/S JUELSMINDE GOLF LOTTRUP FARM LOTTRUP FORESTRY Buildings maintenance, HELLEBJERG MILL FARM COURSE agriculture and park Capidea MEZINVEST MSP Nexus A/S ¹ PALSGAARD HELLEBJERG NordINDUSTRISCANCapital Fund LTD. HOLDING A/S Research and A/S A/S tyskland UDVIKLING FLAVOUR A/S Forestry, Forestry, development Sales, Industry Property Industry Industry Latvia Lithuania Production with investment company investment investment subsidiaries and joint ventures Total Wind A/S FigurE 3: Palsgaard A/S subsidiaries and joint ventures SUBSIDIARIES JOINT VENTURES BRAZIL POLAND GERMANY Palsgaard Brazil Palsgaard Polska Sp . z.o.o. Kampffmeyer Food Innovation GmbH FRANCE RUSSIA GREECE Palsgaard France SAS Palsgaard R Credin Hellas SA NETHERLANDS SINGAPORE ¹ Palsgaard Netherlands B.V. Palsgaard Asia-Pacific PTE Ltd CHINA SOUTH AFRICA ¹ Palsgaard China Ltd. Palsgaard South Africa Pty Ltd MALAYSIA GERMANY ² Palsgaard Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Palsgaard Verkaufsgesellshaft mbH DUBAI USA Palsgaard Middle East FZE Palsgaard USA Inc. MEXICO ¹ Palsgaard Industri de Mexico S. de R:L:. de C.V. ¹ Production units ² Production unit to be included in the 2014 report 7 What is the UN Global Compact? “The Global Compact asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the United Nations. The treaty has grown to become a critical platform for the UN to engage effectively with enlightened global business.” The 10 principles UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon of UN Global Compact Human rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Employer rights Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4. Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5. Support the effective abolition of child labour, and Principle 6. Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility, and Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 8 corporate social responsibility 4. 4 Ambitious targets ensure solid results Dear reader In 2013, we have put an additional focus on responsiPalsgaard has worked strategically with CSR in the ble supply chain management. Our intention is that our previous four years. The result is highly positive conraw materials are supplied by producers that recognise tributions on several areas. Every year, we complete the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and additionally new development platforms within specifically chosen carry themselves in an ethically responsible manner. strategic focus areas – such as climate, employees, company management and products. Our support for In the report, we describe the company’s core values the UN Global Compact contributes to the foundation in the relevant areas. We also explain how these core of our strategy and reporting, which mirrors the drive values contribute to the guidance of new targets in and challenges we face. a modern company such as ours. Through our work on CSR we have committed to a range of short and We strongly believe in environmental responsibility. long-range, social and environmental targets that we This has resulted in our ambitious goal to achieve CO2 and our stakeholders can measure against. This report neutrality in 2020. Our efforts in this area have shown documents our progress towards the achievement of a reduction in our CO2 emissions of 48.7%, measured these goals. as an absolute total over six years (2007-2013). As expected, these efforts have also proven to provide We hope that you will find the report interesting and a financial advantage in terms of energy savings. Our that you enjoy reading it. ambitions in this area also contribute to developing new ideas that have become the basis of further energy reduction efforts. Our efforts within the CSR area have also significantly increased the interest for our products worldwide. It is important to us that all employees are open towards these new initiatives that global growth requires of an organisation. The completion of a course in 2013 on knowledge sharing, communication and collaboration, has further strengthened the organisation. Close relations increase the collaborative spirit in the team. It also builds additional strength within the company and ensures that we are ready to offer our customers the service, knowhow and credibility that are at the core of Palsgaard. A 2013 satisfaction analysis among our employees showed ‘a high level of job satisfaction’ according to the EEI categorisation. Content and happy employees are part of Palsgaard’s identity. Unfortunately, we have seen a small reduction in satisfaction compared to 2011 and hence we are planning a range of activities to reach the previous level. As we are active in more than one hundred countries globally, responsibility across the entire company is a requirement. In our ‘Code of Conduct’, we strongly oppose corruption. We require unconditional compliance of our regulations in this area and we inform relevant Jakob Thøisen Birger Brix employees of the conduct that is expected, if such a CEO CEO doubtful situation should arise. Palsgaard A/S Schou Foundation Palsgaard 22. May 2014 Palsgaard 22. May 2014 9 5 Our foundation and agenda for sustainability The companies under the Schou Foundation banway to ensure a stable business through innovation, ner are united in featuring a unique culture based on process optimisation and risk minimisation. In this way, our extended history. The beautiful Palsgaard Estate we become a reliable supplier for our customers and and its surrounding nature is the physical illustrative provide a safe workplace for our employees. framework of this culture and the perfect location for our head office. We have a strong bond with the local Management structure and responcommunity, which extends to the close collaborations sibility distribution we share with customers globally. This combination of Palsgaard is owned by the Schou Foundation, whose local and international anchoring is one of our strongprimary goal is to conduct business, support business est assets, alongside our key priorities for employee related research and development as well as managsatisfaction, engagement and cooperation. ing the Palsgaard estate as a beautiful and pleasant working environment for all employees. Einar Viggo Schou The founder of the company, Einar Viggo Schou, parFounder of Palsgaard ticularly valued responsibility, community and environThe structure as a foundation provides us with the ment. These are the standards that serve as cornerfreedom to consider our business in a more discerning stones for our traditions and business conduct. They visionary way compared to many publicly listed comhave been essential foundations of Palsgaard for a panies. It also allows us to achieve our goals through The purpose long time, prior to the development of the term Corporesponsible growth rather than solely focusing on fiof the rate Social Responsibility (CSR). nancial returns. This ownership structure also acts as a Schou guard against possible hostile takeovers from competiFoundation Our reputation tors or other sources. The board of the Schou FounIt is our ambition that the Palsgaard name is linked with dation (see figure 2) consists of three members – one 1. To preside over companies that the superior quality and service. It is of great importance woman and two men. Any new member of the board is foundation’s senior management to us that the products fulfil and exceed the expectachosen by the existing board members, the resigning may find appropriate for the fulfiltions of functionality and the stringent demands on board member as well as the foundation’s responsible ment of the general targets of the the safety of food products. We achieve this through CEO in unison. foundation. our quality control procedures and innovation works, which are frequently carried out in close cooperation The CEO is responsible for safeguarding the purpose 2. To preserve and further develop with customers in our application facilities (see section of the Schou Foundation and manages the financial Palsgaard Estate with all its de6). Our aim to be a responsible team player with our aspects of the foundation to achieve this purpose. The lights, as a beautiful and pleasant customers also arises from our Code of Conduct and person also carries the position of managing director in workplace for all employees. the Palsgaard CSR strategy. the holding company Palsgaard Estate A/S. 3. To create, own and support independent companies for research Our desire is for the company to be an attractive and The Schou Foundation owns a number of companies, and development within the areas stimulating workplace. Our status as a foundation proas described in our organisational structure in section that the foundation’s senior manvides employees with a unique status, as a central part 3. The directors of the individual, foundation-controlled, agement may find appropriate to of the Schou Foundation goal is to achieve a positive companies are required to run the companies in acpromote the activities of the founworking environment for all (see section 8). cordance with the purpose of the Schou Foundation. dation. They are furthermore expected to comply with any We also aim to act responsibly to the world around us – guidelines established by the board. 4. To provide support for the both locally through an active engagement in the local Palsgaard foundation to the extent community and globally, e.g. through effective climate Palsgaard’s CSR strategy and action plans are enthat the Schou foundation’s senior and environmental efforts (see sections 9 and 12). trenched to 2016. Throughout this period the CSR management deems it justifiable in organisation is responsible for the practical implemenconsideration of the other targets of It is also a fundamental prerequisite for us that we tation of the strategy and the continual application of the Schou foundation. always conduct ourselves in a financially responsible CSR throughout the organisation. 10 corporate social responsibility 5. Heart Working people The unique culture that characterises the entire company is expressed through the phrase Heart Working People®. This phrase expresses our actions and attitude towards our colleagues and stakeholders generally, and in particular: • Our close and confidential cooperation and knowledge-sharing with our customers • Our dedication in our day-to-day work and in creating solutions to further improve food products • Our caring approach to each other as colleagues • Our commitment to our surroundings The company’s vision, mission and core values are closely integrated and accepted in our companies globally. Palsgaard’s Palsgaard’s Palsgaard’s mission vision values Our core foundation is to be an attractive place of We aim to be the preferred, responsible partner We aim for the core values to be continued in work with advanced technology. We manufacture and supplier of quality products, service and the company and that our actions and activities and sell highly refined and customised emulsifier knowledge to regional and multinational food should be carried by: and stabilizer solutions for the global food market producers while increasing the specific sales to • Loyalty as well as the non-food market within polymers non-food manufacturers within polymers and • Responsibility and cosmetics. cosmetics. • Commitment 11 Strategic objectives: 5 • CO2-neutrality by 2020 • Reduction of volumes of wastewater • Reduction of volumes of waste and increased percentage of production yield • Reduction of packaging volumes • Improvement of the working environment • Increased employee skills • Improved management and integration of CSR in subsidiaries • Improved supplier management • Increased efforts to reduce corruption and the formation of cartels • Continued initiatives in the local community • Increased share of certified palm oil • Known for sustainability Policies Facilitation payments can be difficult to avoid in cerTo ensure we fully implement the objectives of both tain countries, yet despite this, Palsgaard believes that the Schou Foundation and those of the individual combusiness conduct shall take place without these types panies, Palsgaard has approved specific policies and of payments. It is crucial that our employees are aware guidelines that express our approaches and provide of Palsgaard’s stance on this and conduct themselves the guidelines for our activities. These policies reflect accordingly. Employees that may be exposed to any atour ambitions within CSR and include the similar letempts of corruption, bribery or creation of cartels must gal entities as this report (see section 2). We routinely register this and progress the case to the awareness of implement updates of these policies to ensure that the the senior management. guidelines comply with the current regulations. Sustainability agenda New policies and guidelines are introduced in accordAs our company grows and develops, the focus on the ance with the paramount formal directives to the extent company’s environmental and social responsibilities we deem necessary. Specific areas do not have written polities but are managed through the responsibility of General areas the individual. This is done in accordance with the obof responsibility jectives of the Schou Foundation as well as the current policies legislation, common decency and practical logic. • Code of conduct The areas that we believe require dedicated considera• Environmental policies tions and where we deem it necessary to specify our • Product and quality policies efforts, are covered by the policies on the left. • Purchasing policies • Employee policies Our ISO certified quality assurance systems ensure • Supplier code of conduct that our procedures are compliant with the current policies, applicable standards and legal requirements. This is supplemented by our written guidelines in the company employee manual. Corruption and cartels In our Code of Conduct, we describe the company’s attitude to corruption and cartels. In the previous years, we have increased the focus on ensuring that our employees are aware of the position of the company on these problem areas. Hence we have completed efforts that document the ban on cartels. All relevant employees in the Palsgaard companies have provided written assurance that they comply with the stance of the company and the consequences of non-compliance of the company’s policies in this area. An employee that is found to not comply with the company’s relevant policies will be dismissed and a considerable penalty would be payable. In 2013 we increased the knowledge of our Code of Conduct among our supporting agents and distributors that cover approx. 70 countries. 12 corporate social responsibility 5. Organisational memberships Palsgaard's commitment to a variety of organisations is motivated by the desire to consider the best interests of ourselves as well as those of the industry, our customers and the consumers. The Confederation of Danish Industry (Dansk Industri DI). Works to influence political has increased. This is the reason that we have comdecisions that may affect the company's ability piled a complete CSR strategy and established a founto create growth and jobs. Particularly, we dation to work systematically towards our objectives. participate in DI’s CSR network, where new Furthermore we have formalised the work on responlegislation and trends are discussed. Knowledge sibility. Following in-depth work on priority analysis and sharing is important for companies to enable evaluation, the strategy and framework was therefore development of their CSR work. Furthermore, formalised in 2011. In this model, customers, employwe are also members of a range of sub divisions ees and other stakeholders have been considered. in DI. The focus areas and objectives are drawn up in this See www.di.dk Palsgaard’s participation in organisations and chapter and explored further in other sections of the networks contribute to the development of our report. business connections. It is important to us European Food Emulsifiers Manufacturers to be members of organisations that further Association (EFEMA) aims to create and ethical and sustainability in the value chain. maintain contact to applicable authorities and to propose standards for good production practice, food safety and consumer protection in the production of emulsifiers. See www.emulsifiers.org Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). A database that provides information to customers about suppliers’ working environments and other ethical considerations. See www.sedex.org.uk Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). Supports sustainable production of palm oil. See www.rspo.org United Nation Global Compact. An initiative for businesses that voluntarily undertake to align their activities and strategies according to the ten internationally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, employee rights, environment and anti-corruption. See www.unglobalcompact.org Virksomhedsnetværk for Socialt Ansvar (VFSA Business Network for Social Responsibility). Promotes dialogue between businesses on social responsibility. See www.vfsa.dk 13 6 Customer-driven innovation When our development team makes decisions about the properties of a new product, how it should be proIn order to be able to service customers globally, we have created application facilities in Denmark, Singaduced and the raw materials that should be incorpopore, Mexico and China. Among other things, this enrated, it also determines the production properties that sures that local market requirements and demands for will be added to the structure and shelf life of the food environment and food safety are included in our prodit is to form part of. An important element is the product development. Our global positioning of application uct’s ability to improve the nutritional and environmenfacilities also reduces our customers' needs for expental properties throughout the value chain. This is the sive and environmentally influential international travel. reason why the innovation process is often driven by a close partnership with our customers. Certified safety in product development Other development projects are internally driven. For The ISO/FSSC 22000 certification of Palsgaard's example, these can be aimed at researching entirely management system for food safety (see section 11) Viggo Norn CEO new opportunities within food products or development includes an extended procedure for systematically asNexus A/S of processes that offer improved utilisation of raw masessing a range of questions on food safety connected terials and energy. to the consideration of new raw materials. This expanded procedure ensures that we proactively evaluNexus ate risks and document the safety of future products. Progressive – Palsgaard's development company Our production facilities in Denmark, Mexico and the solutions Development work at Palsgaard takes place across the Netherlands are all ISO/FSSC 22000 certified. organisation through the company Nexus A/S. Nexus Within Palsgaard’s research and organises all larger projects in groups consisting of a Collaboration with universities and development, we aim to achieve a wide range of professionally competent experts that knowledge centres basic understanding of the challenges represent the broad aspects of the company. The proPalsgaard depends on a highly qualified work force, and innovations we may face. At the jects are managed and documented through our qualand we see it as our duty to contribute to shaping and same time, we strive to direct our ity assurance system. This ensures efficient, targeted developing the education of future generations at uniwork towards practical research and and sustainable development where all issues are versities, technical academies and other academic development. This can be achieved considered – from customer needs and requirements institutions. Hence we work with educational establishthrough progressive solutions, which for resource utilisation to the potential environmental ments and knowledge centres at several levels both in are advantageous for Palsgaard’s impacts of the processes. Denmark and internationally. customers and that meet the expectations of the modern society.” The development may be carried out with a view to inAs in previous years, several international food engitroduce new or enhanced products. The aim may also neering students have completed work placements in be to develop new processes or improve the existing our R&D divisions. A range of concluding projects has ones. If so, the aim of the development work will typialso been carried out in our laboratories. Students take cally be to create alternative and less resource-intenpart in the company's daily activities where they are sive processes in terms of raw materials, energy, caassigned to independent development projects. These pacity or other considerations. One example of such a are completed in close collaboration with our labodevelopment project is the refinement of oils described ratories. This aims to provide the students with new at the end of this section. knowledge about physics and chemistry within the food emulsifiers area. In addition to the professional aspects Global application facilities of these work placements, we emphasise the social The core of Palsgaard's customer partnerships is our side as students and Palsgaard employees increase application facilities, where we can simulate the proawareness of different environments and cultures. duction conditions at a customer's factory. In collaboration with our customers we can develop new products Other forms of collaborations with educational estabor enhance the quality or nutritional profile of existing lishments and knowledge centres include mutual exfood products. We can also contribute towards optimischange of knowledge in shared interest areas. These ing customers’ processes. By creating a research enpartnerships are both formal and informal. For examvironment that closely resembles a real production enple, we host study trips, company visits etc., aimed at vironment, the path from idea to production is reduced. generating interest in the natural sciences and food 14 corporate social responsibility 6. ISO Certifications ISO 9001 ISO 22000 Palsgaard Denmark Palsgaard Netherlands FSSC 22000 Palsgaard Mexico In Palsgaard Malaysia, the ISO/FSSC certification will be completed in 2014. In Palsgaard China, we have initiated the preliminary works to achieve the similar certification. chemistry, physics and technologies relating to food products. In connection to our collaborative efforts with students, Palsgaard has – together with other Danish companies – contributed to an innovation project for approx. 800 students from the Business Academy in Aarhus, Denmark, and other business orientated educational establishments in Europe. The wide range of international representatives in the project groups supported the interdisciplinary skills of the students and assisted the innovation in the project specifics. The projects’ theme was ‘The green community’. Palsgaard was tasked to create a problem formulation for a green project for a group of students and we chose the relevant topic of ‘Reduction of Food Waste’. The project group created a positive solution model and won the category ‘What can be realised now?’ among the five categories. The suggested solution involved our customers and resulted in a range of ideas to increase the effectiveness of reduction of food waste in food production. Future energy reduction in the refinement of oils Traditionally, refinement of cooking oils means that the oils go through a complex process consisting of several energy-intensive processing stages, such as heating to remove flavour-disrupting substances. At Palsgaard, we have taken advantage of our comprehensive knowledge of the properties of cooking oils and their refinement processes to develop a new refinement method. The method involves a simpler and gentler process, which reduces the energy consumption by up to 80%. The process has also shown itself to utilise raw materials more efficiently as well as reducing the amount of trans fats in the product. We anticipate that we can Increased focus on Lars Preuss contribute to the development of new refinement processes that will involve financial, nutritional and enviinnovation and Strategic Laboratory Manager Nexus A/S ronmental benefits. The project will run over four years interdisciplinary and the development in the process has so far been very positive. We have applied for patents for this decollaboration velopment in a range of countries. It is gratifying to see that educational establishments today have radically increased the focus on innovation and interdisciplinary collaboration. It is precisely this interaction between the different professional areas that is the required fundamental base for us, as a company, to be able to view problems from new angles, generate radical ideas and complete successful innovation projects.” 15 7 Raw materials and suppliers The raw materials in Palsgaard’s products primarily consist of various types of vegetable oils, gums (hythis project, we have further defined and specified the framework for the provisions that we require of our supdrophilic polysaccharides), starches and glycerol. The pliers in terms of ethical conduct in the supply chain. key proportion of our suppliers is European companies but a significant proportion of these raw materials’ first The influence on suppliers, which are distanced from value chain stages are in third world countries. This inus by more than one business or production link in the cludes, for example, palm oil and palm oil derivatives. value chain, is both a difficult and resource intensive Hence, there is always a risk that the environmental task. However, this does not prevent us from setting and employee conditions that we wish to uphold for our ambitious goals. Palsgaard is a relatively small participroducts are not fully implemented in early stages of pant in the global market for raw materials and our posthe value chain. This can be a result of local legislation sibilities of setting specific responsibility requirements not being present or not being on a similar level with in the value chain – and controlling that these requirethe standards that applies in our part of the world. ments are carried out – are therefore limited. However, we ensure that our attitudes in this area are clear to With this basic understanding, we have therefore deeveryone and we make use of every possibility to influfined supplier conditions as an area to be addressed in ence our suppliers in the right direction. our CSR strategy. Our code of Conduct also define the requirements we Supplier management set for suppliers and collaboration partners in terms of For several years, supplier management has been an business ethics, human rights and employment rights. integral component of our quality assurance system. This ensures that the raw materials we use meet our Supplier evaluation standards for quality and reliability of supply. It also As part of our ISO 9001 and ISO/FSSC 22000 certifiensures that we, in partnership with our suppliers, are cation, supplier evaluation is included in our working able to continuously implement improvements and oproutines. In relation to this, management evaluations timisations. When we visit suppliers, we always check of our suppliers are carried out three times per year. that they comply with the required food safety standIn 2014, the management evaluation in relevant CSR ards (HACCP). areas is becoming part of the total QMS (Quality Management System) evaluation. For some time, we have worked on a project designed to further increase the professional and organisationA point system based on a questionnaire of CSR and al aspects of our supplier management in relation to the supplier’s relationship to the UN Global Compact CSR. Our Supplier Code of Conduct and purchasing and the 10 principles (see section 4) that forms part of policies create the framework for this project and it’s this, is included in the evaluation. We have determined our ambition to expand the partnerships with our suproutines for responsible supply management and will pliers in CSR-related areas. During the development of continue this project in 2014. In addition to the evaluation questionnaires, the project also includes guidelines for possible further auditing with the supplier. Whether Palsgaard will enter collaborations with a specific supplier is based on an overall evaluation that includes specifications, food safety and CSR. If we deem it necessary, we will attempt to guide our suppliers through dialogue to enable them to reach a higher level of responsibility. In 2013, we also completed a Supplier Code of Conduct and we are working towards all suppliers applying these principles. Alginate On the basis of the present activities for a responsible management of our suppliers, we contribute towards the highest possible level of sustainability and stability in the whole supply chain. 16 corporate social responsibility 7. Carob fruit Cocoa beans Rapeseed Supply evaluation case study A substantial Indian supplier has been evaluated. The supplier fulfils the specified requirements. We have also received a statement of CSR activities that the business additionally supports. Examples are described below: • Operating a local hospital and associated ambulance service • Expanded assistance for an orphanage • A home for the mentally disabled • A canteen for the company’s employees • Local school and operation of buildings that can be utilised by the local community. We are pleased to be able to collaborate with a supplier that extends significant responsibilities towards its employees and local community. Wherever possible, we will to the best of our ability contribute to a positive development in the choice of suppliers. 17 RSPC SCCS 7 certification Palsgaard has supported Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange – also see section 5) since 2008. The database is dedicated to information about the ethical conduct of suppliers as employers. This contributes Sustainable Palm Oil) was founded in 2004. RSPO is a coalition of parties from all sectors of the palm oil industry as well as NGOs who work with social conditions and the environment. In 2007, the organisation set up to expanding responsibility in the supply chain. As a a certification standard containing a number of criteria includes: member of Sedex, we deliver an in-depth self-evalufor sustainable production of palm oil within the seven ation questionnaire for the database. This information, principles listed on the left. 1. Obligation to maintain open which applies to Palsgaard in Denmark and our subcommunication. sidiary in the Netherlands, are available for customers Palsgaard has been a member of the RSPO since 2. Compliance with legislation and that are also members of Sedex. 2008. In 2012, we achieved the RSPO SCCS certificaregulations. tion (Supply Chain Certification Standard) in the cat3. Obligation to ensure long-term ecoPalsgaard Denmark has also completed a SMETA egory Mass Balance (MB). Based on this certification nomic and financial sustainability. 4-Pillar Audit (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit), as well as an annual audit relating to the application 4. Implementation of best practice in which is carried out by Bureau Veritas Certification. In of the standard and the eTrace commitment, we are growing and production. 2013, our Dutch subsidiary was also audited. An SMEcertified to handle RSPO Mass Balance products in 5. Environmental responsibility and TA 4-Pillar Audit involves ethical considerations, the our business. In 2013, we experienced increased interpreservation of natural resources working environment and the practices of the company. est in products with RSPO-certified palm ingredients. and biological diversity. This positive enthusiasm has meant that we frequently 6. Responsibility to employees, indiPartnership on sustainable producguide stakeholders in the importance of participating in viduals and communities affected tion of palm oil an RSPO SCCS certified supply chain. To achieve this by our growing and production. Palm oil is the most frequently used cooking oil in the we have, among other things, prepared material that 7. Responsible cultivation of new world. It is extracted from oil palms, which mainly grow further discusses the details of RSPO, the standard areas. on plantations in South-East Asia (primarily in Indoof certification and the supplier requirements. We also 8. Obligation to continually improve nesia and Malaysia). Some concern exists about the note how Palsgaard meets these specific standard rekey activities consequences that growing oil palms may have on the quirements. Furthermore, we also extend the informaclimate and biodiversity in South-East Asia. Working tion on responsibly produced palm oil and RSPO to our conditions for plantation workers are also being quessubsidiaries, agents and distributors. This partly takes tioned. For these reasons, the RSPO (Roundtable on place through an expanded intranet and at seminars. Palm oil kernels 18 corporate social responsibility 7. Sunflower oil Happily, there has been a positive development in our suppliers’ assortment of RSPO certified raw materials. This means that we can expand our RSPO certified product programme and hence include a broader circle of customers in the RSPO certified value chain. It is our aim solely to use RSPO-certified raw palm materials before the end of 2015 (see table of key figures, page 5). Our new emulsifier factory in Malaysia will also manufacture products that contain palm oil. Therefore, it has been decided that this facility should also be RSPO certified. Palm oil fruits Audits/ Certifications RSPO SCCS Palsgaard Denmark Sedex audit Palsgaard Denmark Palsgaard Netherlands We will continually follow up on the topics mentioned above for our other production companies, where this is deemed relevant. 19 8 Our employees Palsgaard's slogan Heart Working People expresses the core of our working culture. Our employees are In 2013 we worked with the local authorities to assist a total of 15 people in furthering their education or career. committed and hard working, and apply their heart into This was carried out through offers of flexible working their work. In our daily collaborations with customers, arrangements, work or practical placements. our aim is for them to see us specifically as 'heart working people' who are deeply committed to solving our Every year we offer students in further education the customers' problems and continuously work hard to possibility to complete part of their studies in the busihelp them out. ness. Hence, we have had both Danish and international university students collaborate on projects with As a foundation-owned company, Palsgaard is driven Nexus (see section 6) within the research and developby a desire for long-term development rather than conment areas. centrating on short-term profit optimisation. The foundation structure provides us with a unique opportunity Local and global anchorage Annette Gottlieb-Petersen Work placement for 3 months to prioritise our business goals openly. As described in Palsgaard's headquarters are located in the small section 5, it is part of the Schou Foundation's aim to encommunity of Juelsminde, which is a town of approx. sure an attractive place of work for all our employees. 4.000 inhabitants. As a responsible business, we see This is also the core of Palsgaard's mission, which has it as our special duty to contribute to the town and the been made operational through a set of basic values: local community. This viewpoint forms an important Work placement loyalty, responsibility and commitment. These values ilpart of Palsgaard's special culture. We aim to extend lustrate our basic guidance principles for the company, and adapt this culture to all the local communities that ”I have really enjoyed my work placemanagers and employees with an aim of creating a our subsidiaries form part of – with the necessary rement with Palsgaard where I have safe, secure and stimulating workplace. spect for the local circumstances and requirements of carried out professionally relevant course. work. They considered my requireWell-being and employee retention ments for flexible working hours, the If we find that an employee is not thriving at work, we In our subsidiaries around the world, we attempt to proavoidance of deadlines and need for try very hard to improve the situation and to solve probvide our employees with the health options we are used breaks. I was met with a welcome lems in a suitable way. Our relationship with our emto in Denmark. We also offer relevant professional and attitude everywhere. During the time ployees rests on the premise that a working life should language courses. Schemes are adapted to local conI was at Palsgaard, I realised that be able to accommodate both strong and weak phases ditions. In Russia and Poland, for example, we have I had encountered a very positive and that the workplace should serve as part of the soset up health insurance and company life and accident workplace. From day one, I felt that I lution in difficult times. For example, we systematically insurance schemes for employees. Another example is was regarded equal to all other emarrange absence interviews in the event of long-term South Africa, where employees in an associated comployees. Work placements are not just illness. The purpose is to discuss any measures that pany we acquired, were offered company-based health a project for the management – I was we may be able to implement to reduce the employee's and pension schemes. met by encouragement from the entire period of absence or adapt the job to changed circumcompany. It is rare to experience that stances. It is frequently the case that employees with We seek to improve the lives of our employees in a social responsibility also extend to a long-term illness are able to return to work on a partglobal perspective. Through this, we tie our employees people outside the company.” time basis. We are convinced that it is a sensible soluand businesses abroad closer to Denmark. And it intion for the individual employee to be able to return to creases the quality of life for our employees in different work gradually. Palsgaard hence endeavours to retain health-related situations. or relocate employees who are no longer able to meet the requirements of their original job. In the latest established subsidiary, Palsgaard MalayPalsgaard's employees are ensured the option of sia, we offer attractive conditions, such as sickness and job-related advice from our HR manager. This always accident insurance for employees and their families as takes place in full confidence. The HR manager also well as a canteen arrangement. Prior to the start-up of works to support vulnerable employees. People who the facility, all employees in the factory went through a have been out of work for a long time can be supporttraining period with us in Denmark. This initiative siged in the form of trial periods, flexible work and work nificantly improved the collaboration – both professionplacements. After their trial period or work placement, ally and socially. most generally have a much clearer idea of how they are able to contribute in the workplace. ￼ 20 corporate social responsibility 8. Employee satisfaction Palsgaard’s very low employee turnover and an average employee seniority in Denmark in 2013 of 11,65 years is a sign that our employees feel very loyal to the workplace (see figure 4). We consider it a great strength to have satisfied and motivated In 2013, a particularly dangerous influenza epidemic employees. At the same time, it saves us high recruitment costs. The employee saterupted in the area of Mexico where our subsidiary is isfaction in the company also ensures a valuable continuity in our working processes. located. A lot of employees were in the risk areas and It contributes to maintaining a high quality in both our products and customer service, the illness could result in significant influence on the an as such contributes to the trust our customers place in us. employees and their families – and hence the operation of the company. Hence we decided to carry out a vaccination programme for all employees and their families. The risk of contamination of this dangerous, and for some, life threatening illness was hence eliminated. MTU Figure 4: Every other year we carry out an employee satisfaction survey (so-called MTU), based on a range of paEmployee turnover (%) rameters. The aim of the survey is to identify potential 25 areas of improvement and it is an important tool to en20 sure that Palsgaard remains an attractive workplace. 15 In line with Palsgaard's globalisation, employees in all 10 the companies within the group have participated in 5 the survey since 2011. In order to be able to compare 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ourselves with similar European businesses, we have chosen the internationally recognised analysis company Ennova (dk.ennova.com) to undertake the survey. This ensures that our results can be compared internationally with the European Employee Index® (EEI). Figure 5: Schou Foundation Since we started our surveys in 2006, we have continuEEI other industry Employee survey, 2013 ously implemented initiatives for improvement in areas where required. This means that we have increased 100 the collaboration level, which has had a positive influence in a wide range of areas across the organisation. 80 60 Evaluation We also carried out an MTU in 2013. This survey unfortunately showed a small reduction in the combined 40 work satisfaction across the whole group by 2 points – to 75 points. The result is still very positive, though, 20 as a level of 70-79 points indicate a high level of work satisfaction in the EEI category. In Palsgaard Denmark 0 Daily work My tasks and the My safety in we achieved 71 points in work satisfaction but we have content of my work employment set ourselves a target of 75 points prior to the next MTU in two years. 100 Result interpretation In our subsidiaries, the survey result was 83 points 80 80 100 point in job satisfaction. The level of 80-100 points defines > Very high job satisfaction “very high job satisfaction”. Since it can be a challenge 60 Evaluation 70 79 point to maintain a close frequent contact – and thereby a > high job satisfaction deeper understanding of well-being in our subsidiaries 40 60 69 point across the world – we are very satisfied with this result. > Middle job satisfaction 20 50 59 point A tangible evidence of our employees job satisfaction > Low job satisfaction 0 is the annual distribution of jubilee medals – a tradition Employment Social aspects Under 50 point happiness > Very low job satisfaction that dates all the way back to 1933. 21 8 MUS 57 points to 65 points in the MTU for 2013, which we We carry out employee development conversations consider very satisfactory. (MUS) with all employees on a yearly basis. In these conversations, the employee and their manager have The employee development conversations ensure that an opportunity to measure up the expectations and employees know what is expected of them and which possible areas of improvement in the job. Business targets that must be achieved. At the same time, agreestrategy and basic values can also be discussed in ments are created to determine the personal/profesthese conversations. Continual overall performance sional development for the following year. The converareas regarding improvement of MUS are carried out. sations also provide room for a good dialogue on soft This ensures that a positive dialogue with concrete values, such as how the individual employee is thriving targets and action plans is in focus. It also involves a or if there are areas that the specific manager should higher degree of systematic and strategic approach in be aware of. The updating of the MUS material has unorder to evaluate skills efficiently. This improves our doubtedly had a positive effect on one single question ability to identify educational needs for each employee. in the employee satisfaction survey: “My immediate As a result of this improvement of MUS, everyone are manager and I have discussed challenging but realismore capable of utilising each other’s resources and tic goals for my development”. The responses on this it is easier to identify mutual needs and requirements. question have increased by 14 points to 72 points. ObThe MUS schedule, which is utilised by the manager viously, we consider this a very positive development. and employee during the conversations, will be developed on a continuous basis going forward. This will In 2013 a cross-organisational development project take place in connection with the implementation of a for managers and specialists concluded with a training new employee administration system, in Denmark and course for all other employees at Palsgaard Denmark. in subsidiaries. The purpose of this final course was to provide everyone in the organisation with an insight into the overIn 2012, we identified new objectives for MUS and durall development project “Communication, knowledge ing 2012 and 2013 we have worked to intensify the resharing and collaboration. The course work was done sults of this process. The set questions and procedures on the topics: Communication Knowledge sharfor the practical implementation of the conversation ing Cooperation . A personality profile – a so-called Knud Brix 65 year anniversary have been upgraded. Hence we have improved the DiSC profile – was completed for all employees that results of the conversations. A clear indication of this requested it during the course. The profile is a tool to is the increased number of completed conversations. gain insight into their own and colleagues' behaviour The system has also been expanded to all subsidiarpatterns. During the course, and subsequently in own ies and it has thereby reached all employees in the departments, extensive work has been done on aspiAnniversaries organisation. rations for future processes and establishing ground rules with a focus on getting better everyday life for In 2013, five employees celebrated These combined efforts have resulted in a growth from everyone (see page 23). their 25-year anniversary while two employees celebrated 40 years of employment. One employee celebrates an impressive 65 years of employment in the company. The anniversaries are celebrated with a gathering for all employees as well as previous anniversary holders and invited guests. Two 25-year anniversaries were celebrated in Palsgaard Netherlands. We have a close and collegiate collaboration in our companies around the world. 22 corporate social responsibility 8. The OSH organisation at Palsgaard work broadly on safety. Development path We have worked as instructors on a development project for Palsgaard’s senior management, general management, specialists and employees over the course of a year. The title was Palsgaard’s OSH organisation to work on the many different statistical results of the ‘Collaboration, Communication and Palsgaard's OSH organisation consists of a worksurvey in 2014. It is expected that the results will conKnowledge Sharing.’ ing environment committee in each of the companies tribute as important elements of the future planning of Palsgaard A/S and Nexus A/S. At Palsgaard A/S, we night shifts in the company. The experience was unique in seehave also set up seven working environment groups. ing how the employees lived up to Our OSH organisation processes working environment Other OSH contributions are: the slogan ‘Heart Working People’. issues related to day-to-day operations and handles • To increase the safety in connection with internal trafThe values of the company – loyalty, workplace risk assessments (APV). It also records and fic on the company’s areas, all production employees responsibility and commitment – penevaluates industrial accidents and near-misses. These have been issued with jackets with fluorescent maetrates the thought and work patterns assessments form the basis of the identification of arterials with reflexes to replace their previous black of all employees. This was highly eas for improvement and setting up objectives for new working jackets. visible during the exercises and coninitiatives related to the working environment. • A two-minute daily exercise programme using elasversations. tics, balls and exercises has been introduced on a In 2013, there was a reduction in the number of worktrial basis for a small group of the administration staff Our task was to strengthen the emrelated accidents with absences (see the result in secwith stationary jobs. This has proved to have a posiployees so that employee wellbeing tion 3). This reduction is, among other things, achieved tive effect on the reduction of tension in the shoulders was optimised along with business by a focus on near-miss accidents. This area is imporand neck. It has also had a positive effect in social growth. We encountered significant tant to us and we will continually strive to reduce the capacity. commitment and the employees gennumber of work-related accidents even further. •  The OSH organisation will continue to focus on imerally are very enthusiastic about their provements of working routines and development work. This contributed to a positive Reduction of noise in the workplace has been a focus of the safety culture in 2014. This will, among other input in the development project. area for a number of years. In 1989, the first hearing initiatives, focus on the prioritisation of preventative assessment was carried out at Palsgaard. In 2013, anactions in everyday life. The focus Palsgaard puts on wellother hearing assessment was carried out on employbeing in the employment relationship ees in the production areas and application divisions. Pension scheme with profit sharing clearly contributes to creative very The survey showed that the noise level at Palsgaard is To secure our employees financially after retirement, loyal employees with high levels of job at an acceptable level. Palsgaard has offered a unique pension scheme with satisfaction.” profit share for all its employees in Denmark since In 2013, all Palsgaard Denmark employees with night 1941. The profit-sharing element is established via the shifts have completed a voluntary health control. The Palsgaard Foundation's Pension Savings Association. purpose was to illuminate possible health problems The employer and the member (the employee) deterrelated to night shifts and to provide the employees mine the agreement. The employee pays in 2.5 5% with tools to assist them with handling the awkward of his/her salary after which Palsgaard on the basis of working hours in daily life. We evaluated the health our annual accounts pays an equivalent amount multiand well-being in comparison to the working condiplied by a contribution factor. This factor has in recent tions and more specifically, the risk for development years been in the range of 0.9 to 1.8. The scheme was of gastro intestinal diseases, cardio vascular diseases set up in 1941, before state pensions were introduced and sleep disorders, which are common symptoms of in Denmark. A scheme like this, in which the employer working night shifts. The survey also focused on the and employee were privately able to make savings social consequences, stress and psychological sympprovisions, had never been seen before. As far as we toms that can relate to this type of work. On the basis know, the Association is still the only one of its kind in Annette Mørk-Sørensen of the completed control, happily we could determine Denmark. Dorte Finderup Uldall that the employees that carry out shift work at night are Instructor and coach, generally thriving. Our OSH organisation will continue AMS coaching and teams 23 8 Palsgaard Mexico Innovation ensures improved quality of life for children and adults with Down’s syndrome. The Palsgaard Foundation donated US$100.000 to a T2 is produced by Palsgaard and marketed in the MexiCTDUCA research project in 2013. The donation was can and American markets under the ‘Special Nutrition’ made by Birger Brix, representing Palsgaard A/S, and group. Patent applications have been filed for the proMiguel Hidalgo from Palsgaard Mexico in connection duct in Mexico and a range of other countries. with a visit to Mexico by the Crown Prince Frederik and Crown Princess Mary of Denmark on 11 November 2013.” The project is dedicated to people afflicted with Trisomi 21, also known as Down’s syndrome. CTDUCA is an organisation that helps children and adults afflicted with Down’s syndrome to strengthen their metabolism and further their educational skills to improve quality of life. Since 2010, Palsgaard Mexico Miguel Hidalgo Managing Director has worked in partnership with CTDUCA. Research Palsgaard Mexico has shown that children with Down’s syndrome often are intolerant to a range of foods. This limits the body’s ability to absorb certain nutrients. Medal of honour Palsgaard’s research team in Mexico has developed a food supplement called T2. This product contributes Palsgaard Mexico received its latest with special nutrients that support nutritional intervenrecognition in 2013 when the Crown tion and further the absorption and digestion of imporPrince Frederik and Crown Princess tant components, necessary for the production and Mary of Denmark presented director activation of neurotransmitters in the brain. Miguel Hidalgo with the Dansk Eksportforenings (Danish Export AssoSignificant positive results have been recorded through ciation) diploma and the HRH Prince the utilisation of the supplement. Several clinical, cogHenrik’s of Denmark’s Medal of Honnitive, bio-medicinal, ethnological and physiological our for his extraordinary efforts and studies have been completed. These have been carsuccess in furthering Danish products ried out in collaboration with the University of Mexico, in the Latin American countries. the University of San Luis Potosi, Iberoamerican University, COPOCY, CONACYT and parents of children “I’m very proud to receive this recogniwith Down’s syndrome. The conclusions have noted tion and pleased that our progress that regular usage of the food supplement T2 improves and work to further Danish exports in cognitive, psychological and social abilities in children Mexico has been received with such with Down’s syndrome. a positive response,” says Miguel Hidalgo. The studies have also shown that T2 stimulate mobility and movement. Fear-related behaviour is also reduced. Positive changes in sleep indications for individual diagnosis groups have also been seen. This has resulted in a generally improved sleep pattern and hence an increased quality of life in daylight hours. The product has also been noted to have a positive influence on the quality of life in people with autism and ADHD. Positive results have also been shown for other conditions with similar character traits after taking T2, such as diabetes, gluten allergy and high blood pressure. 24 corporate social responsibility 8. Did you know – The sleep patterns for people with Down’s, autism and ADHD often show increased activity of sleep apnoea, which results in disrupted sleep? Support for CTDUCA “Since 1908, a long time prior to CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) being coined as a term, social responsibility was an increased priority for Palsgaard’s founder, Einar Viggo Schou. His philosophy was that employees and their families should experience safety at Palsgaard and that this should be extended to the local community. This responsible business profile was continued by the heir, Herbert Schou, and is today a cornerstone for Palsgaard. Hence it is natural for us to support CTDUCA in the work it carries out for people with Down’s syndrome. Among many other things, we contribute to a project on the establishment of an educational facility that furthers the independence for this group of people (The University of the Independent Life). We are very pleased to witness the development that the joint innovation project has brought.” Birger Brix CEO of The Schou Foundation 25 9 Production and environment The location of Palsgaard's headquarters in an area of great natural beauty provides us with a special incenIn 2011, we signed an agreement to purchase electricity from Danish wind farms. As a result the total elective to protect the area and reminds us every day that trical consumption in Palsgaard’s facilities in Denmark production must go hand in hand with sustainability. are now CO2 neutral. We expect to continue to purWe have expressed our commitment to the environchase electricity from sustainable energy sources to ment in a written policy, which obligates us to run our the extent that is required in terms of company usage. business in a responsible way. This includes, among Following this, we have decided to continue the agreeother aspects, that our impact on the environment is ment with Energy Denmark in 2013. continually reduced and that our areas of natural beauty are preserved and, if possible, expanded. The aim is For many years, Palsgaard has had a tradition for opto preserve the natural condition and beauty of these timising and streamlining its production processes so areas. that financial performance, quality and environment go hand in hand. In 2005, for example, we built one of the Palsgaard has prepared 'green accounts' since 1996. largest privately owned straw-burning plants in DenThese have primarily involved the environmental ismark. This meant replacing fuel oil with straw from our sues included in our environmental approvals and the own fields as a renewable energy source. In 2009, we requirements of green accounts. In conjunction with the further converted the primary energy source from fuel development of Palsgaard's CSR strategy (see section oil to natural gas on all kettles, both steam and heat-oil. 5), we have evaluated the environmental issues that we and our stakeholders believe to be important for the Comparing the current energy consumption with previcompany. These issues and their links to our producous years, the results of these efforts have been very Improved utilisation processes are described below. positive. In 2013, we used 1,11 kWh per kg finished tion of waste reproduct, compared to 1,36 kWh in 2008. Natural gas sources Processes has a CO2 emission, which is 20% lower than fuel oil Palsgaard’s (Denmark) most important production proand the impact on the local environment in terms of In 2013, Palsgaard reduced the cesses are illustrated in the chart in figure 6. Material sulphur dioxide, and nitrogen oxide has therefore been total amount of combustible waste and resource streams have been calculated per kilo of significantly reduced. At the same time we have saved to 0,009 kg per kg finished prodfinished product. the environment for more than 100 annual oil tanker uct. Since 2010, we have actively deliveries. worked towards recycling as much Energy and climate waste as possible. In 2012, a central Palsgaard’s target for the entire group is CO2-neutrality As part of our on-going work on energy-reducing and waste sorting area was established by 2020. This neutrality is to be achieved through proCO2-saving projects, we have decided to complete a at Palsgaard Denmark and we conjects and initiatives regarded as valid and appropriate survey to establish whether setting up a biofuel plant tinually work on sorting according to by both the company and its stakeholders. We believe would be technically possible and financially attractive. source. 39% of our combustible waste that the most sensible solution is first and foremost to The overwhelming part of our energy consumption is was recycled in 2013. focus on reducing our energy consumption to a minicurrently covered by natural gas, and the first stage mum. The remaining CO2 emissions will be neutralised of the new project will clarify the benefits that such a It is more advantageous to sort and by other means. The target is to reduce the energy biofuel plant may bring. In 2013 we carried out a prerecycle waste rather than incinerating consumption per kilo of finished product to 1.05 kWh. survey and we expect a decision on a possible realisait. This has been shown by improved tion of the project to be taken during 2014. utilisation of waste resources through During 2013, we achieved a reduction in the total ennew sorting technologies for received ergy consumption from 1,17 kWh to 1,11 kWh per kg Utilisation of raw materials and waste and increased prices on recyfinished product. Hence we made a significant achievederivative products cled paper and plastic. In most cases, ment towards reaching our target. he material yield is significantly above 90%. We conthis also contributes to a reduction in tinuously work to increase our raw material utilisation CO2 emissions. The reduction of electrical consumption has partly rate and this, in turn, helps to reduce our total use of taken place through a change to more energy efficient resources. For example, we strive to reduce the numlighting, such as LED light fittings. Conversions and ber of product changes in our production planning, optimisation of production has also been carried out which has lead to changes in our production processto achieve more production and energy efficient proes, which again lead to an enhanced utilisation of raw cesses in several factory divisions. Furthermore, a list materials. of energy optimisation initiatives is planned for 2014. 26 corporate social responsibility 9. Palsgaard has very limited amounts of actual production waste. In 2012, we developed a system for the internal recording and labelling of all types of derivative products. This means that we are now working even more focused on reducing the amount of derivative products. It also ensures that products are sorted effectively which, in turn, optimises our ability to sell them. Our aim is to improve utilisation of raw materials to a level, where we will only need to use 1,04 kilos of raw materials to produce 1 kilo of finished product by 2015. The quantity of derivative products can be seen in the data summary in section 13. Packaging Palsgaard's packaging volumes are generally small and constitute less than 1,5% of the overall weight of our products. We are continuously working to reduce packaging volumes – both for inand outbound products. It is our aim to recycle 90% of our raw material packaging by 2015. The project on packaging reduction has not been prioritised in 2013, due to other large projects that require similar resources. External specialist companies handle the majority of our packaging waste for recycling purposes. Transport pallets are sold for re-use. Figure 6: Palsgaard's production processes Palsgaard's production processes comprise emulsifier production of which certain products are sold as finished products and others are processed further before they are sold. Energy 1.11 kWh pr. kg Heating Vacuum Pressure Quality control Raw materials 1.07 KG Cooling Finished products Cooking oils 1.00 kg Glycerol Starches Quality control Stabilizers Emulsifier production Monoglycerides Esters of monoglycerides Quality control Ammonium phosphate (AMP) Subsidiary materials Polyglycerol esters etc Derivative Packaging products Water 0.08 kg Cleaning agents Quality control Lubricants Semi-manufactured goods Heating Quality control Vacuum Pressure Cooling Emissions/waste 0.17 kg CO2 pr. kg 1.39 litres of waste water pr. kg 0.009 kg combustible waste Quality control Production of Whipping emulsifiers Integrated emul./stab Pelleted emulsifiers Powdered emulsifiers etc. 27 9 Environmental conditions, water In 2013, a project to identify the more water intensive and wastewater processes in the company was completed. The impleProduction waste water mainly comes from cleaning of mentation of water saving initiatives will continue to containers and pipes. This wastewater contains remtake place throughout 2014 and 2015 and the effect of nants of vegetable oil, fat, phosphorus and nitrogen. these initiatives is expected in the years to come. The wastewater is treated in our own pre-treatment plant before it is led out into the municipal waste water The measurement of water usage in 2012 now insystem. The pre-treatment plant removes the majority cludes all Palsgaard production companies. This has, of fats, oil, protein, phosphorus and nitrogen. of course, resulted in an increase in the total recorded amount. We have chosen to focus on the reduction In 2013 it was decided not to continue a project to esof waste water volumes through activities which are tablish a vegetation filter for final cleansing of wastewaplanned to be implemented over the coming years to ter. The project was evaluated as not financially viable reach our strategic target of reducing volumes to 1 litre and several factors were uncertain. Instead, we are per kilo finished product by 2015. working on future reduction of the amount of wastewater through utilisation of cooling water recycling sysEnvironmental conditions in our tems, optimisation of cleaning procedures, production facilities internationally of larger batches, reduction of water usage in vacuum In the emulsifier factory in the Netherlands we have in pumps and utilisation of automatic closure valves etc. 2013 focused on a cooling production water circulaIn 2013, Palsgaard derived a wastewater amount of tion system in order to save energy. The project has 1,39 litre per kg finished product, which is a significant had a positive effect. The environmental management reduction compared to previous years. Our strategic system, covering Palsgaard Netherlands, ensures that target is to reduce the amount to 1 litre per kg finished significant environmental conditions are evaluated anproduct by 2015. nually. They are then systematically prioritised in terms Figure 7: Co2 emissions per kg finished product (kilo) 0,50 0,45 0,40 0,35 0,30 0,25 0,20 0,15 0,10 0,05 0,00 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target 28 corporate social responsibility 9. of target setting and risk reduction. The most signifiCertification). This certification ensures that the forests cant initiative areas are energy reduction and water usare managed on sustainable principles. The certificaage, recycling of waste and noise reduction. We have tion is audited annually. Through the certification, we Co2 also optimised the emulsifier production facility so the ensure that the forests are managed with high levels of amount of raw materials per amount of finished product forestry and administrative expertise, including sustainhas been reduced. The result of these efforts is includable principles in terms of financials, consideration for ed in the calculation for Palsgaard’s annual usage of the environment and recreational conditions. neutral 2020 raw materials. (see, among others, section 3). Palsgaard Estate manages 540 hectares of agricultural A solar panel facility was installed on the factory roof of land in Denmark on which wheat, malt barley, rape and Palsgaard Mexico in 2012. This facility produces more grass are cultivated. It is a significant priority that the than 85% of the factory’s electrical requirements. Genagriculture is carried out under conditions that consider erally, the Mexican facilities have a constant focus on nature, the environment and employees. The land is production process optimisation and the reduction of farmed through the usage of modern machinery and CO2 emissions. New investments are continually made with long-term and financially viable considerations. into reduction of water and electrical usage as well as In 2013, an unannounced company inspection was wastewater and waste. Every year, a training seminar carried out by the Danish Afgrifish Agency in relation is carried out on environmental awareness for Mexican to ‘The rules on possession, storage and handling of employees. It is organised so both the employees, their pesticides and spraying records”. The authorities found family, neighbours and the local community benefit that our activities in this area fully comply with current from the knowledge that is provided. Hence we contribregulations. ute to the establishment of a culture that is aware and responsible towards the environment. The many initiatives at the factory in Mexico have received recognition from both the authorities and customers. In 2013, the company reached the highest possible level within the ”Industria Limpia Clean Industry” certification. The latest recognition was received in 2013 when Crown Prince Frederik and Crown Princess Mary of Denmark presented director Miguel Hidalgo a medal of honour for his extraordinary efforts and success in furthering Danish products in the Latin American countries. In 2013 Palsgaard Mexico was certified to ISO/TS 22002-2008 and FSSC 22000. Hence it features a high food safety level. Forestry and agriculture Palsgaard owns 3,009 hectares of forest in Denmark, Latvia and Lithuania. The Danish forests are PEFCcertified (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Figure 8: Figure 9: Figure 10: Waste water emission per kg Raw material usage per Energy usage per kg finished product (litre) 100 kg finished product (kg) finished product (kWh) 2,00 110,0 1,500 1,80 109,0 1,400 1,60 108,0 1,300 1,40 107,0 1,200 1,20 106,0 1,100 1,00 105,0 1,000 0,80 104,0 0,900 0,60 103,0 0,800 0,40 102,0 0,700 0,20 101,0 0,600 0,00 100,0 0,500 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Target Target Target 29 30 corporate social responsibility 10. 10 Palsgaard continuously develops its activities with customers and partners in a global perspective. Sales and logistics Our website, www.palsgaard.com, includes all relevant information about the company, products Transport As Palsgaard's influence action possibilities in the This may often present challenges in terms of and news. The site includes a CSR section with transport area are limited, we have decided for the nurturing and maintaining our network of contacts our CSR activities and offers the visitor to downtime being not to set strategic CSR targets in this without extensive travelling. Our sales and logisload our CSR reports. area. External carriers deliver the vast majority of tics solutions are therefore important for the overour products door-to-door and some customers all CSR profile of our products. We are in a conOur marketing material also includes results of chose to pick up products from our warehouses tinuous dialogue with our customers and partners product testing. It has always been one of our themselves. Products from Denmark to mainland to ensure long-term and sustainable partnerships principles to provide fully objective information Europe are transported on trucks while overseas while our warehousing and transport solutions about our products. deliveries take place by ship from Northern Euroensure that products also reach our customers on pean ports. For financial, logistical and environtime with due respect for CSR. Dialogue with customers and mental reasons, we strive to optimise packaging partners formats and volumes transported so that capacity Marketing The distance between Palsgaard's headquarters of these ships is utilised as efficiently as possible. It is highly important for our sales that our customand our global markets inevitably involves travelers are aware of the properties and options that ling for our employees, customers, subsidiaries In Asia demand for our products has grown signifiPalsgaard's food ingredients offer. As described in and agents. As our expertise lies in our close diacantly. This has influenced decisively on the decisection 6 on Innovation, our product development logue with customers about products and producsion to build a new emulsifier factory in Malaysia. often takes place in close collaboration with custion, we run a number of application centres with The most important raw materials for our product tomers at our application facilities. This ensures local specialists in Denmark, Mexico, Singapore programme are available in the local area and the that our products create the greatest possible and China. The combination of local laboratories combination of newly established, local production value for them. Our application centres also work and our many globally positioned subsidiaries and facilities, proximity to raw materials and a central as demonstration laboratories where existing sales units, ensures that there is a reduced need placement of the factory ensures a significantly reand potential customers are able to test our food for our business contacts to travel to Denmark. In duced environmental burden compared to sending ingredients in their own products. The geographiour global communication, internet phone calls, goods back and forth between Europe and Asia. cal spread of the application centres reduces such as Skype, are widely utilised. We also use travelling distances and thereby our impact on the video conferencing equipment across the organiclimate. sation. It provides efficient contact and further reduction of travel activities to subsidiaries and Palsgaard's primary market contact is handled by customers abroad. our own sales team and by a number of external sales agents. Combined, they cover more than IT 100 countries on all continents. This personal conWe are currently implementing a new IT platform tact is supplemented by brochures, technical artiacross the company. This ensures that we reach cles and marketing material, which can be downa future-proof solution while we improve our level loaded from our website or via our new system of information and knowledge sharing with our “myPalsgaard”, which is an expanded extranet. At international companies. We expect that this will seminars, all material is solely delivered electronistrengthen and optimise the logistics in terms of cally so resources are not required for printed the supply of goods to customers and it will facilimaterial. Printed materials, such as brochures tate a broader clarity in terms of the disposition of etc., are made available for concrete activities raw materials. We also expect that the new solusuch as customer visits and trade shows. All mation will optimise our logistical control and result in terial printed in Denmark (approx 95% of the total less finished goods transport as a tangible result. production) is environmentally certified with the The solution will include a better user interface, Nordic Swan Mark. These prints are documented which means that our employees will have easier B.E.S.T. in Baking CO2 neutral and paper is produced with the standaccess to relevant information. AwarD ards of the FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council)1. A small proportion of our brochures are printed in Read more on page 45. China, where we also set requirements in terms of environmental production. ¹) See the back page 31 11 Product application Palsgaard's emulsifiers and stabilizers are developed mainly for use in foods such as bakery products, dairy In connection with the FSSC 22000 certification we expanded our number of specific food safety goals, and products, chocolate, ice cream, margarine products, the results are monitored by management on a contimayonnaise, dressings etc. The purpose of our pronuous basis. We have established a permanent transducts is to give food the required consistency and to verse organisation across the company tasked with ensure stability and shelf life while taking into account ensuring efficient communication routes via our Food consumer requirements for special types of foods, e.g. Safety Team and working groups. This ensures that reduced calorie content. Our products are also used to changes and new requirements from authorities and support special production processes that customers customers are continuously aligned and managed. At may have to enable their food processing to be carried the same time, we ensure systematic analysis of risks out more gently or at lower temperatures. and systematic management of food safety in all parts of the chain – from the purchase of raw materials to It is vital to us that our products give food the required the delivery of the finished products to our customers. properties without in any way posing a health risk to end consumers. This is why we continuously work to These standards are applied throughout the food chain improve food safety and the nutritional properties of and certification allows us to deliver food ingredients to our products. We also strive to improve the overall national and international customers who require that quality of foods by incorporating our products. we comply with these standards. Food safety We have set concrete targets that include never having For many years, we have managed food safety by use to recall products as a result of lack of food safety – of our HACCP system (Hazard Analysis and Critical which thankfully has never been required. During the Control Points) in compliance with the requirements in years of reporting we have had one minor non-conforEU Regulation 852/2004. mance due to an open space by a closed gate (see section 16) In order to strengthen our food safety management system further, we are also certified to ISO 22000. The decision has been made that all our manufacturing Since 1996, our quality management system has been subsidiaries should be FSSC 22000-certified, and we certified according to ISO 9001. In addition to our ISO are continuously striving to achieve this. Our facility in 22000 certification, which contains requirements for Mexico is the latest to become certified. the management system, methods and controls, we chose to set ourselves more stringent standards by Improvement of the nutritional certifying Palsgaard according to FSSC 22000, which profile of foods includes the technical specification ISO/TS 22002-1. Many consumers are generally sceptical towards food This sets out specific requirements for the basic proadditives – the so-called E-numbers. Our food ingregrammes that form part of our food safety control. dients play a positive role in this context. For example in relation to subjects as the fight against obesity or reduction of food waste. We continuously seek to adapt our product range to match the latest knowledge about the impact of food products on consumer health and well-being. It involves making improvements to the nutritional profile of food, while we avoid unwanted ingredients in our products. We therefore focus on developing products that support the production of food with low fat contents and improved fatty acid composition as well as we work on reducing the content of trans fatty acids in our own products. 32 corporate social responsibility 11. Focus on increasing the health of the population Denmark is not the only country focused on increasing the health of the general public. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA, November 2013) recognises that the health of the population should be increased through regulations on reduction of trans fats in processed foods. “While consumption of potentially harmful artificial trans fat has declined over the last two decades in the United States, current intake remains a significant public health concern,” said FDA Commissioner Margaret A. Hamburg, M.D. “The FDA’s action today is an important step toward protecting more Americans from the potential dangers of trans fat. Further reduction in the amount of trans fat in the American diet could prevent an additional 20,000 heart attacks and 7,000 deaths from heart disease each year – a critical step in the protection of Americans’ health.” Source: http://www.fda.gov/newsevents/newsroom/pressannouncements/ucm373939.htm 33 11 Ingredients for fat-reduced foods Generally the structure and creaminess of the ice As a response to the increasing consumer awareness cream will become poorer when a less saturated – e.g. of fat content in food, we have spent years developing healthier – fat is used. Palsgaard has developed emulproducts that contribute to retaining consistency, taste sifier/stabilizer blends that can contribute to shaping and shelf life of fat-reduced foods. This includes foods the structure of the ice cream so it still has the right such as margarine, mayonnaise, cream, ice cream and mouthfeel even though less saturated fats are used. chocolate. It will also maintain the correct melting properties and storage stability that ice cream manufacturers and conSaturated and unsaturated fat in foods sumers want. Healthier products also mean increased focus on the saturated fat level in the products, primarily for health Margarine with reduced fat content reasons, as saturated fats are linked to an increased Palsgaard has developed solutions for the production risk of, for example, coronary heart disease. A higher of margarine, which makes it possible to reduce the fat content of unsaturated fat creates a healthier profile content considerably. Puff pastry margarine, which is than traditional inclusions. used in laminated bakery products such as croissants, Danish pastries and puff pastry, often has a fat content Fat is a key ingredient in ice cream, as it provides the of up to 80%. We have developed the product Palgaice cream with the creamy, soft structure that consuard® 1325, which makes it possible to reduce the fat mers want. Because of their functional good, propercontent of margarine to 50% without affecting the functies, coconut oil or partially hardened palm seed oil are tional properties of the margarine. For table margarine often used as a fat source. Unfortunately these fats (spreads), Palsgaard has developed an emulsifier conhave a very high content of saturated fat. cept that makes it possible to produce spreads with a fat content of just 10%, but with the same mouthfeel and stability as a traditional product with a significantly higher fat content. Margarine emulsifier with low melting point In 2013 we launched the product Palsgaard® CITREM Figure 11: 3212, which has a significantly lower melting point than Can be utilised as an emulsifier for cooking margarine and other margarine emulsifiers. Traditionally, an emulsifier Palsgaard® other types of margarine. Alternative emulsifiers for these requires high melting temperatures for optimal effect. Citrem 3212 applications have a significantly higher melting point. The significantly lower melting point saves energy for the food manufacturer in the heating process. In addition, the emulsifier is easier to handle in production, Palsgaard® Citrem 0170 as it is in liquid form. The Palsgaard® CITREM 3212 product already melts at approx. 20°C, whereas alterPalsgaard Citrem 3203 ® native margarine emulsifiers typically require 53-59°C Palsgaard® Citrem 3237 in the melting process. Hence the product is both an Palsgaard® Citrem 3245 advantage in the customer’s production process and Palsgaard® Citrem 0184 energy efficiency. See figure 11. Palsgaard Citrem 3212 ® 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Degrees [°C] 34 corporate social responsibility 11. Saturated/unsaturated fat in chocolate effect on health. We recognise that there may be a Our products can also assist confectionery manufactulink between trans fats and health, and it is partly the rers with their production process while also ensuring industry's responsibility to try to find solutions for this. healthier products. In the confectionery industry, recent That is why we are continuously working to develop years has seen a focus on changing from saturated to emulsifiers with reduced trans fatty acid content witunsaturated for health reasons. When an increased hout compromising their functionality. The majority of amount of unsaturated fats is used, the product beour emulsifiers therefore have a content of trans fatty comes more difficult to work with during the production acid of less than 1%. These emulsifiers can contribute process as unsaturated fat crystallises much slower to the development and production of foods with reduwhen cooled. The result is longer production process ced levels of trans fatty acids – without compromising and increased energy consumption. By using Palsgaon the sensory and shelf life quality of the finished food ard's crystal-promoting products, which are added in product. small amounts, the crystallisation process is accelerated and stabilised. This reduces both processing time E-numbers and energy consumption. The majority of Palsgaard's food ingredients are additives and the products therefore include one or more EChocolate with reduced fat numbers. These are part of an internationally recogniIn connection with fat reductions in confectionery prosed classification system for food and drinks additives. ducts, we have primarily focused on the reduction of The E-number ensures that the ingredient in question the calorie content. This has typical taken place by complies with the identity and purity requirements that WHAT ARE TRANS reducing the total fat content and adding sugar subare based on a scientific toxicological assessment of FATS? stitutes. For the manufacturer, fat reduction causes the ingredient in question, as part of a standard food. problems during processing as a reduced fat content Through partial hardening of oils, the increases the viscosity of the chocolate and makes it Palsgaard's ingredients are primarily based on vegetamolecule structure in natural/vegetadifficult and very energy-intensive to complete produble raw materials and other natural components. The ble oils and fats can be transformed ction. By adding Palsgaard® AMP and Palsgaard® products are used to improve and/or secure the strucfrom cis form to transform. Hence PGPR emulsifiers these production problems are elimitures and stabilities of foods in modern food production trans fata are created. Many scientific nated. Through development work on emulsifiers, we without misleading consumers in terms of the nature of studies have shown that trans fats can managed to achieve a stabile chocolate with a reduced the food. Through our participation in interest groups increase the cholesterol level in the fat level of up to 40%, without the production process and industry organisations (see section 5), we aim to blood and hence contribute to arthrequiring additional energy. Hence the utilisation of our engage in a nuanced dialogue with decision-makers erosclerosis with increased risks of products helps reduce the energy usage and ensure an and consumer organisations on this subject. myocardial infarction. This is the base environmentally friendly production. for the recommendation by the health In order to meet consumer requests for fewer E-numauthorities in many countries to generTrans free emulsifiers bers in foods, Palsgaard has developed a range of ally reduce the intake of trans fats. Since the 1990s, it has been known that trans fats (see stabilizers for ice cream, which combines the propertext on What are Trans Fats? ) may have a negative ties of several ingredients. Hence the ice cream only Did you know – The usage of food The consistency of foods is an important part of meeting the additives in the EU requirements for healthier products, follows strict rules and in some instances, energy and regulations savings in the production processes. According to EU labelling legislation, emulsifiers must always be declared on the labels of products where they are used, either by their name or their corresponding E-number. The use of an E-number means the additive has undergone a stringent safety evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), has been found safe for use and has been authorised by the European Commission. The E-number is attached to each category of emulsifiers or other food additives and is part of an international code of recognition. Source: EFEMA, www.emulsifiers.org 35 11 Did you know The Danish consumer organisation “Stop Spild af Mad” (Stop Wasting Food) is one of a total of 21 partners that are taking part in most ambitious EU project to fight food waste. Last year, the EU commission presented eight solid “It is the first time food waste is on the agenda at the initiatives to reduce food waste and a new four-year same time across many different organisations and joint European project, entitled ‘Fusions’ is becoming a on a range of levels. More than ever, food waste has reality. The strength and support of the project comes become a consistent part of the news agenda within from the 21 participating European partners from the the last year. I’ve been active within this area for more whole food chain (industry, retail and consumer orthan ten years and I have not experienced this moganisations). This way, a platform is created for both mentum before,” says Toine Timmermans, coordinator non-governmental and governmental organisations as of the Fusions project. well as companies. Source: Voresmad.dk /Landbrug og Fødevarer (Agriculture and Foods), Denmark, 2012 needs one or two E-numbers to fulfil the requests for consistency, shelf life and resistance to temperature fluctuations. Reduction of food waste The amount of food ending up as waste instead of being eaten is of increased concern to the general public – and not without reason. Surveys show that the percentage of food that ends up as waste throughout the production chain and at the hands of consumers is 30-50%. This is inappropriate both in terms of the environment, society and economics. The subject of food waste was hence debated at the Transforming Food Waste into a Resource food conference at the EU Parliament at the end of 2010. One of the conclusions from the conference became a draft of a commitment to global reduction of food waste of at least 50% within 2025 as one of UN’s development goals for the century. As part of this debate, the EU adopted a polity on ‘How to avoid food waste – strategies for a more effective food chain in the EU (2011/2175(INI))’. There is also a significant focus on the reduction of food and resource waste in other international contexts. Denmark was the host of the Global Green Growth Forum 2013 (GGGF), which also features resource effectiveness as a key theme of the forum. The Danish minister for food at the time, Karen Hækkerup (S) noted on the policy suggestion on an international protocol to reduce global food waste, “Food waste also happens in supermarkets, in food manufacturing facilities and agriculture. It is important that we target the whole cycle when we consider an ambitious international protocol. Food waste is not just what consumers throw in the bins at home.” At Palsgaard, we believe that we contribute positively to this agenda because our emulsifiers and stabilizers mean increased shelf life and longer freshness of food 36 corporate social responsibility 11. Emulsifiers in plastics Palsgaard’s emulsifiers are also used as additives in plastic production, such as polyethylene films, which are used in food packaging, amongst other usages. The emulsifiers provide an antifogging effect, which maintains the transparency of the film. products. Meanwhile, as described in section 9, we ble oils such as RSPO-certified palm oil approved for have achieved a high rate of utilisation of our raw mafood packaging. Emulsifiers are utilised in plastic packterials and have identified recycling options for our proaging to improve anti-static anti fogging properties. In duction waste. You can also read about our partnership 2012, in partnership with a group of stakeholders, with BØRNEfonden (The Children’s Foundation) on the topic of food waste in section 12. Palsgaard commenced a four-year project within surface treatment and paints. The purpose of the project Technical applications is to develop wood protection agents and paints based Palsgaard's products are also used outside the food on natural raw materials. The project was organised industry. Our vegetable-based emulsifiers are, for under the auspices of “HøjteknologiFondet” in Denexample, capable of replacing petrochemical products mark, which is also supporting the project financially. in traditional technical/chemical applications and other The broad aim of the project is to develop coating and contexts that require emulsions or suspensions. For paints which, via the correct choice of raw materials, Palsgaard contributes to a example, our products are used in skincare and cosprovides the best protection of outdoor woodwork and four-year project on innovation metics products, where producers wish to use natural at the same time has the lowest impact on the environwithin surface treatments. plant ingredients or avoid certain chemicals, which can ment. Palsgaard's task in this interdisciplinary work is be replaced by Palsgaard products. to develop emulsifiers based on vegetable oils. If the project succeeds, it will imply a reduced impact on the The polymer and plastics industry is a growth area environment from wood protection agents in the future. where manufacturers are researching, with a view to reduce CO2 emissions in the value chain. Palsgaard is now able to offer emulsifiers that are based on vegeta37 38 corporate social responsibility 12. 12 perties and value our products add to foods – as well Contribution to society In addition to contributing to society in terms of the prochildren with Down’s syndrome achieve an improved level of learning. Palsgaard’s research team has deas through the jobs we create – we directly add value to veloped a dairy replacement based on whey protein, society through donations, maintenance and preservawhich can benefit the children’s capacity for learning tion of natural areas and our tax contributions. and future improved quality of life. Social commitment is based on our mission to create Palsgaard has, through our partnership with CTDUCA, a workplace with motivated employees who work tomade contributions to the development of this product. gether in unity. This ensures that our employees are This ensured that the product was able to go through proud of working at Palsgaard, that they thrive in their the necessary research and become approved for consurroundings and that they wish to make a visible difsumer distribution. (Read more on the special nutrition ference. We also hope that our commitment to local for children with Down’s syndrome in section 8). communities contributes to a positive relationship with our neighbours and local authorities, and that it promoExamples of other CSR activities in Mexico have been tes health and skills development in the local commudescribed in previous reports, such as: Other activities nity. • Support for replanting of 330 ha forest. • Donation of recycled plastic barrels for water storage. Other activities in the local area Commitment to the local community • Life Quality programme for all employees and their supported by Palsgaard have been Palsgaard Estate has a century-old tradition of engafamilies. described in previous CSR reports. ging in the local community that we are part of. Over • Focus on the individual employee’s training, job saThese include: the years, Palsgaard and the Schou Foundation have fety and health. contributed in the form of facilities for the benefit of lo• Donation of an area of land to estabcal inhabitants. One of the most important was access Palsgaard Russia supports the “Children Foundation”, lish a road to relieve heavy traffic to to the Manor library, donation of the church in Juelswhich runs an orphanage in the Ural area. This support Palsgaard. minde, donation of 16.5 hectares of land for Hellebjerg takes place through 2-3 annual donations, consisting • Employees that are voluntary fire Sports and Youth College and the establishment of a of an amount supplied by the company and an amount fighters can be available for the Fire golf course. of money that has been collected by the employees in Corps for emergencies in daylight the Russian company. The money is used to purchase hours. We have upheld the tradition of contributing and provitoys for the orphans, who really appreciate them. The • Participating landowner in the coding financial support to the local community and the children send letters of “thank you” every year to our operative efforts to complete a 22 voluntary efforts that take place in the local sports and colleagues in Russia. km coastal path from Juelsminde to leisure activities. For example, we donated a section of Horsens. land for the construction of a new parking space by the Support for people in need • Support for the local, independent above-mentioned church in Juelsminde. As part of a set agreement with BØRNEfonden amateur theatre group “Palsgaard (Children’s Foundation), we donate to projects in West Sommerspil”. This include the loan The town Juelminde lies by the east coast of Denmark African republics such as Cape Verde, Benin and the of outdoor staging and the Estate and have been active within fishery, shipping and saarchipelago Fogo every year. Among other initiatives, park area. iling for many years. In 2013, a harbour museum was these projects focus on the development of infrastrucestablished and Palsgaard has contributed with loans ture and education. Support is also provided for entreof books and artefacts. Furthermore, a donation was preneurs, which results in an increase in employment made towards the establishment of the museum. The and hence an improved standard of living. Our collaproject was interesting to us as, among other things, boration with BØRNEfonden started in 2008, when we the old war ship Fregatten Jylland (launched in 1860) decided that the money, that previously had been used has a historic connection to Palsgaard and Juelsminde. for Christmas presents for customers and other business associates, should instead be used for sustainaAs part of Palsgaard’s culture, our international subble development in third world countries. sidiaries are also active in their efforts to support their local communities: The latest Palsgaard-supported project relates to the construction of water storage and toilet facilities in a Palsgaard Mexico has established a partnership with nursery in Benin. The project will contribute towards a the organisation CTDUCA – an organisation that helps better water quality and hence reduce illnesses that are 39 12 spread through water in the local area. As part of the arrangements has an easier home life by being able to project, children and their parents receive education on bring home dinner and finally, we support young people hygiene. in West Africa with education and therefore support the community structure where it is required. Another project in Benin, which was concluded in 2013, is the purchase of a boat for students that have Palsgaard Singapore: Our commitment in Asia incluto cross a river to get to school. Now they can be cardes the support of local areas when there is an urgent ried safely across the river throughout the year – even need for help. When the typhoon Yolanda (Haiyan) hit in the monsoon season – and hence get full value of the Philippines, causing widespread devastation, Palsthe education. gaard donated an amount to the Red Cross charity, which operate in the country. In 2013 we established a new arrangement in Palsgaard’s canteen to reduce food waste. This was partly by Palsgaard South Africa is dedicated to B-BBEE (Broadrequest from employees. Immediately after the lunch Based Black Economic Empowerment), which includes break, employees can purchase excess food from support for the black population to enable achievement the buffet. The food is sold in plastic containers supof a higher social standard. Within the B-BBEE proplied by the company. All money raised are allocated gramme, we have chosen four focus areas for our anto BØRNEfonden and support the education of young nual actions: people. In this respect, we have sponsored a trainee in Benin and now support a technical school for young 1. Black ownership and senior management people in the country. The money is primarily allocated 2. Preferential Procurement: buy all material and for scholarships but is also used for tools and bicycles services from black owned companies. for student transport. The success of the project lies in 3. Social-Economic development our own satisfaction that we have indeed reduced food 4. Enterprise development waste. At the same time, the employees that uses the John Naidoo Manager J&R Transport Palsgaard South Africa For a period of time, Palsgaard South Africa used a local transport company for goods deliveries in the local area. A black South African owned the company. The collaboration was unstable, as the owner of the company hadn’t learned about the running of a business and didn’t own the basic equipment to run an effective company. To remedy the situation, we arranged for the owner to attend a course on basic management. We also contributed with IT assistance in terms of the installation of a PC, printer and mobile phone. Our support for this delivery company has resulted in six people now being employed by his company and the successful running of the company as a whole. As a bonus, Palsgaard now has a loyal, flexible and effective partner for local transport of our goods. 40 corporate social responsibility 12. We have contributed in various ways towards these activities. The next section is an example of our actions in terms of point 4 development of company structures: Figure 12: Effective tax rate Responsible tax A significant part of Palsgaard's contribution to society 100.0% comes from the payment of corporation tax. It is our be80.0% lief that taxes should be paid in the country in which in60.0% come is earned. We are an international company and 40.0% are subject to different taxation conditions in the various countries in which we operate. We comply with all 20.0% the legislative requirements of these areas and engage 0.0% in reasonable negotiations with our subsidiaries on the 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 prices of our products with a view of setting our prices in accordance with the normal market conditions. This Palsgaard’s effective tax rate (see calculation in section 15). ensures that the income is taxed where it is generated. The political influence of Palsgaard Palsgaard Manor has through the years been home to a range of people that have influenced the political scene in Denmark and abroad. These include the maker of a king to the murderer of a king. Marsk Stig, who was behind the murder of Erik Klipping in 1286, was connected to the original Palsgaard Manor. The current Norwegian royals are also historically connected to Palsgaard. From 1898 to 1908, the Norwegian diplomat Wedel Jarlsberg owned the manor. He was the host of the negotiations that concluded in the Danish Prince Carl – after the secession of Norway from Sweden in 1905 – could ascend the newly established Norwegian throne as King Haakon the seventh. 41 13 Data Summary Indikator Enhed 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Energy Energy consumption, total kWh per kg finished product 1.26 1.19 1.16 4 1.17 4 1.11 Energy consumption, electricity mWh 10,946 11,215 10,910 11,337 11,539 Energy consumption, fossil mWh 31,905 32,845 31,476 33,068 33,929 Emissions CO2-emissions ² kg per kg finished product 0.40 0.32 0.18 4 0.18 4 0.17 CO2-emissions tonnes 13,438 12,029 6,554 6,856 7,021 NOx-emissions (nitrogen) kg 23,749 6,142 5,828 6,241 6,436 SO2-emissions (sulphur dioxide) kg 19,556 1,406 1,238 1,449 1,471 Water Water consumption ³ m3 110,646 136,289 131,520 154,897 167,311 Waste water litre per kg finished product 1.47 1.22 1.42 1.53 1.39 Waste water m3 49,820 45,393 52,267 58,126 56,857 Derivative products and waste Derivative products ³ kg per kg finished product 0.08 0.09 0.08 4 0.08 4 0.08 Waste (flammable) kg per kg finished product 0.012 0.012 0.011 4 0.011 4 0.009 Waste (flammable) tonnes 339 360 339 341 322 Chemical waste kg 13,460 8,385 9,819 17,929 17,979 Compliance of authority requirements Number of incidents of non-compliance number 0 0 0 5 1 0 Working environment Accidents, total number 7 9 3 5 4 Accidents, Denmark number 7 8 3 5 4 Accidents, the Netherlands number 0 1 0 0 0 Accidents, China number 0 0 0 0 Accidents, Mexico number 0 0 0 0 0 Accident frequency, Denmark ³ number per million working hours 20 22 8 14 11 Employee conditions Employee turnover turnover rate 11,8% 4,4% 4,8% 5,3% 3,1% Tax Effective tax rate % 21,2% 16,6% 32,8% 5 29,2% 31,4 Raw materials Raw material consumption (kg per 100 kg finished product) 107,60 107,90 107,19 106,49 107,37 RSPO-certified palm oil ¹ ¹ ¹ ¹ ¹ Recycling of raw materials packaging ¹ ¹ ¹ ¹ ¹ 1) Data not available. 3) As a result of data availability and for the application 4) Den beskrevne midlertidige hændelse (se afsnit 9) har 42 2) See Section 3 for long-term targets. of current standards, the calculation method has been forbedret nøgletallene for 2012 og 2013 med 0-5%. changed compared to what was previously reported. 5) Opdateret data. corporate social responsibility 14. 14 The independent auditor’s statement To the Management of Palsgaard Conclusion Pursuant to the agreement of 27 February 2014 we During our review, nothing has come to our attention have reviewed Palsgaard’s* reporting ”Corporate Sothat causes us to believe that the reporting of quantitacial Responsibility Rapport 2013” (”the reporting”) in tive data for 2013 for the Group is not in accordance order to issue a statement on the quantitative data for with the described reporting practice and information 2013 on pages 5 and 42. reported by the companies included. The reporting is the responsibility of the Company’s Copenhagen, 22 May 2014 Management. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our review of the reporting. The Work Conducted Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab We have conducted our work in accordance with the international standard on other assurance en-gagements and additional requirements under Danish audit regulation to obtain limited assurance about our conclusion. We have obtained limited assurance because, comLars Kronow pared to a reasonable assurance engagement, our Statsautoriseret Revisor work has been limited primarily to enquiries of com(State-authorised Public Accountant) pany management and personnel as well as analyt-ical procedures. The purpose has been to obtain limited assurance that the quantitative data presented for 2013 in the reporting at Group level are in accordance with the reportHelena Barton ing practice described in sections 2, 3 and 15 and the Lead Reviewer information reported by the companies included. By agreement, we have not reviewed quanti-tative data at the companies’ premises, as the review has only taken This assurance statement is at translation of the Danplace at the head office in Juels-minde, Denmark. ish assurance statement. In case of doubt, please refer to the Danish version of the statement. Our review is based on an assessment of risk of misstatements. We believe that the work conducted provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. * The units which ‘Palsgaard’ comprises are specified in chapter 3. 43 15 Reporting Practice The data basis for this report includes the entities indicated in the summary. All data for resource and raw materials consumption and finished products only include production units. Data have been collected to the extent that they have been available within the framework of our existing systems. We will continue to add more units in our data reporting so that we will be able to present a more complete picture of the company in future. Agricultural activities are not included. Our reporting period runs from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013. The targets have been calculated using 2009 as basis year. Data Units Indicator Calculation method included basis by data Raw material Annual production volumes are based mainly on company B P consumption purchasing statistics, production reports and counts The statement is based mainly on product usage statistics and Finished products B volumes of derivative products and waste. the volume of finished P, PANL, PAMX products is therefore a direct calculation. Energy consumption, Electricity consumption has been determined on the basis of stateM P, PANL, PAMX, PACN electricity ment from electricity provider. Energy consumption, Natural gas and oil consumption are measured via direct meter M P, PANL, PAMX fossil readings. The result of energy-saving initiatives have been calculated on the baEnergy savings B P sis of energy consumption compared to volume of finished products. Electricity: The most recently available data from energinet DK’s declarations have been used as emission factors for Denmark. CO2 emissions for scope 1 are included. The most recently available local emission factors have been applied to entities outside Denmark. Emissions B Fossil fuels: CO2, NOX and SO2 emissions from fossil fuels have been P, PANL, PAMX, PACN calculated as consumption multiplied by current standard factors developed by: dansk gasteknisk center a/s based on an assumption of complete incineration and scope 2 in accordance with the Green House Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). Emissions from personal and transport vehicles are not included. Water usage M Water usage has been calculated based on own meters. P, PANL, PAMX, PACN Waste water volumes have been calculated on the basis of meter readings on the waste water system. the reason that the waste water Waste water M P, PANL, PAMX, PACN volume is smaller than the used water volume is that a significant quantity of water evaporates in cooling towers. The calculation of derivative products is based mainly on sales Derivative products B P statistics, production reports and counts. Waste volumes have been calculated on the basis of invoices from Waste (flammable) M P waste removal companies. Chemical waste volumes have been calculated on the basis of weight Chemical waste M P slips received from waste removal companies. Breaches of terms and conditions as number of breaches of Number of breaches M P, PANL, PAMX conditions applicable to metering. industrial accidents have been calculated on the basis of accident Industrial accidents M records for all employees which have entailed more than one day of P, PANL, PAMX, PACN absence. Accident frequency has been calculated per 1 million working hours. Accident frequency B DK Number of working hours is a calculated figure of working hours. Employee turnover and average seniority has been calculated on the Employee turnover B basis of an estimated number of full-time employees at the beginning DK of the year, based on Palsgaard's payroll system. Employee satisfaction is based on palsgaard's employee satisfaction Employee survey which is carried out every other year and includes all employDK, PANL, PAMX, M satisfaction ees. the main indicator of work satisfaction is applied as a general PACN target and is compared to eei (european employee index). The effective tax rate is calculated by the company accountant based DK, PANL, PAMX, Tax B on the results of the group and the accounts and tax declarations. PACN a M=measured P: Palsgaard A/S and Nexus A/S DK: All entities in Denmark 44 B=calculated PANL: Palsgaard Netherlands PACN: Palsgaard China A=estimated PAMX: Palsgaard Mexico corporate social responsibility 15. B.E.S.T. IN BAKING AWARD We work strategically with CSR and actively include it in our marketing. Among other things, this has resulted in us receiving honorary recognition for ”B.E.S.T. in Baking Award” (Becoming Environmentally Sustainable Together) at the IBIE trade show in USA in 2013. The recognition was partly presented due to the fact that our CSR report and additional material closely describes and documents our responsibility policies. 45 16 GRI Table The GRI table is based on GRI guidelines Version 3.0. Two indicators have been omitted in accordance with omission options ('reasons for omission') for reasons of competition. GRI Indicator Description reference to the report Section reference or statement of indicator Profile indicators Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about 1.1 Message from the management 4 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 2.1 Name of the organization Company name 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Products 3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 2.3 Organisation 3 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Headquarters Back cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names 2.5 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically Geographic distribution 3 relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Ownership 3 2.7 Markets served Sales organisation 3 BEST in Baking Award, PAUS 15 Industria Limpia Clean Industry, PAMX 9 ISO/FSSC certifications, PAMX 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 9 Diploma of Dansk Eksportforening and HRH Prins Henrik's Medal of Honour, PAMX 8 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Reporting year 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report This is Palsgaard's fourth CSR report 2 3.3 Reporting cycle Every year 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back cover Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality; 3.5 Sustainability agenda 2 and 5 • Prioritizing topics within the report; and • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report Scope of the report, scope of data 2 and 15 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Scope of the report, scope of data 2 and 15 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Legal entities covered by the report 2 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the Data basis 15 compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI-table 16 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Statement 14 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance Management structure and 4.1 5 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight distribution of responsibilities Responsible manager's 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer position as Managing Director 5 of Palsgaard Gods A/S For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 3 members of the Board, of 4.3 number and gender of members of the highest governance body 5 whom one is a woman that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Palsgaard has no mechanisms 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. in place for this Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Palsgaard's mission, vision, values and 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and Code of Conduct support the principles 4 and 5 social performance and the status of their implementation contained in the UN's Global Compact Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Has positions in governance bodies; 4.13 Membership of assocaitions 5 • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or • Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholders 2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Process of selection of stakeholders 2 and 5 46 corporate social responsibility 16. GRI Indicator Description reference to the report Section reference or statement of indicator Performance indicators (C=core indicator) EN1 (C) Materials used by weight or volume. Consumption of raw materials 9 EN3 (C) Direct energy consumption by primary source. Energy consumption, total 9 Energy consumption, distributed EN3 (C) Direct energy consumption by primary source. 13 by electricity and fossil fuels EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy savings as a result of optimisation 9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Energy-saving products 6 and 11 EN8 (C) Total water withdrawal by source Water usage 13 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Conservation of areas of natural beaty 9 EN16 (C Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CO2 emissions 13 EN20 (C) NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. NOX and SO2 emissions 13 EN21 (C) Total water discharge by quality and destination. Waste water 13 EN22 (C) Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Waste 13 EN23 (C) Total number and volume of significant spills. Emissions into the ground 9 Number of incidents of non-compliance. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary None in 2013. One in 2012 on an EN28 (C) 11 and 13 sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. open space by a closed gate, which resulted in a DKK 20,000 fine. Accidents, accident frequency and Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, LA7 (C) geographical distribution. Palsgaard 8 and 13 and number of workrelated fatalities by region. has not had any fatal accidents. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Support for medical assistance LA8 (C) 8 and 12 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases and treatment Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage SO1 (C) Contributions to society 12 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO5 (C) Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Participation in organisations / lobbying 5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 Food safety 11 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage PR3 (C) Labelling with E-numbers 11 of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Contributions to public EC8 (C) 12 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. roads, schools, etc. Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices that promote access Ingredients for fat-reducing foods FP4 (C) to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and 11 and trans fat-free emulsifiers affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need (sector-specific). For further details of the GRI standard and terms used in the table, please refer to www.globalreporting.org 47 we are e x p e r t s in e mulsif iers and stabilizers for bakery, confectionery, dairy, ice cream, margarine and fine foods and we are happy to share our expertise. our company values can be defined in just three words : loyalty, responsibility and commitment. we aim to be the preferred partner and supplier of quality products, application service and knowhow to regional and m u l t i n a t i o n a l food companies. to Palsgaard l o y a l t y means that we act as a reliable and honourable business partner for our customers. we treat information confidentially and know how to keep a business secret. to Palsgaard r e s p o n s i b i l i t y means caring about the environment and being aware of our corporate social responsibility; we have a goal to be CO 2 neutral by 2020 and are members of SEDEX and RSPO. to Palsgaard c o m m i t m e n t means we are dedicated to getting the best results for our customers’ products to the benefit of their customers. we care about our employees and have a declared aim that Palsgaard must be a pleasant place to work. Palsgaard we know that our most important resource is the k n o w h o w and d e d ic a tio n found in our employees. Heart we are committed to getting the best results with our products in our pilot plants and in your facilities. Working at Palsgaard we don’t sell standard solutions we start with your needs. Palsgaard Heart Working People ® heart work is the best way to achieve success let us help you get it. our products are produced according to the strictest quality criteria. we are experts in emulsifiers and stabilizers and we are happy to share our expertise with you. let our pilot plants help you shorten the step between idea and your new product. heart work is the best way to succeed Palsgaard A/S DK-7130 Juelsminde, let us help Denmark you do Tel +45 76 82 76 82 so. Fax +45 76 82 76 83 direct@palsgaard.dk www.palsgaard.com Climate neutralized This CO2-neutral brochure This brochure complies The paper used for this was produced under the with the environmental brochure complies with auspices of the Graphic requirements made of the FSC® (Forest Stewardship Association of Denmark Nordic Swan Mark. Licence Council) standards for ethiand has been made number: 541 309 cal and responsible forestry climate-neutral through the and wood products. purchase of CO2 quotas.
