UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 About Holcim Holcim is one of the world’s leading suppliers of cement and aggregates (crushed stone, gravel and sand), as well as further activities such as ready-mix concrete and asphalt including services. The Group has majority and minority holdings in around 70 countries across all continents. Holcim has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2003 and reports yearly on progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. This Communication on Progress refers to 2013 data and performance information which is included in the Holcim Corporate Sustainable Development Report 2013 Statement of Support from CEO Bernard Fontana: “Holcim continues to participate in the UN Global Compact and remains committed to its philosophy, intent and principles. To strengthen our adherence to the Compact, the relevant principles were referenced and are reflected in a new Directive on the use of contract labor issued in January 2012, which is binding on all Holcim Group companies. The principles also provided the foundation for the Holcim Supplier Code of Conduct issued in 2011. At local level, Holcim is represented on the board of the Swiss Global Compact network and remains involved in the local networks in many other countries where Holcim operates.” Criteria Holcim commitment Links Strategy, Governance and Description of Holcim’s commitment Engagement 1. C-suite and Board level discussions of strategic aspects of Global Compact implementation • Impact of broader Holcim is committed to creating value for all its • CEO and Chairman Statement in the 2013 sustainability trends on the stakeholders and has placed sustainable development at Annual Report. (See page 14) long-term prospects and the heart of its business strategy. • CEO statement in the 2013 CSDR (see financial performance of page 4) the organization • Exco Interview in 2013 annual Report (see 1 Criteria Holcim commitment Links comment by Thomas Aebischer on pages 16 and 17) • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR and online • Major sustainability risks Holcim has a well-embedded business risk management • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR and opportunities in the process for identifying risks at both corporate and Group (page 14) near to medium term (3-5 company level. Since 2007, a materiality review has been years) implemented to ensure the identification of sustainability risks and opportunities. • Social and environmental Holcim has recently announced the Holcim Sustainable • See the Holcim Sustainable Development impact of the Development Ambition 2030 where it outlines its long term Ambition 2030 detailed on pages 6 to11 of organization’s activities strategy and intermediate goals. The overarching the 2013 CSDR emphasis of the Ambition is to be part of the solution to the problems of our time. The Ambition focusses on: • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR • Sustainability enhanced Solutions (page 14) • Climate • Resources • Communities • Overall strategy to Holcim has a well-embedded business risk management • Vision and strategy section of the 2013 manage sustainability process for identifying risks at both corporate and Group CSDR (page 12) impacts, risks and company level. Sustainability impacts, risks and • Business Risk section in the 2013 Annual opportunities in the near to opportunities are included in the remit of the risk Report. (See pages 48 and 120) medium term management process. • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR (page 14) • Key performance Sustainable development data and performance • SD Performance Data in the 2013 CSDR indicators to measure information is updated on a yearly basis in Holcim’s (page 38 onwards) 2 Criteria Holcim commitment Links progress Sustainability Report • Major successes and See link. • Sustainable Development section in the 2013 failures during the Annual Report. (See page 69) reporting period • CEO statement in the 2013 CSDR (see page 4) 2. Effective decision-making process and systems of governance for corporate sustainability • Involvement and A steering group for SD operates as a sub-committee of • Managing sustainable development, CSDR accountability of the Executive Committee and includes the CEO, two other 2013, Page 13 management (C-suite) in Exco member and the head of sustainable development • Corporate Governance section in the Annual corporate sustainability Report. (See page 113) strategy and implementation in line with Global Compact principles • Corporate governance structure (Board of Directors or equivalent) and its role in oversight of corporate sustainability implementation in line with Global Compact principles • Evaluation and executive For the most senior executives a standard variable • Remuneration section in the 2013 Annual incentive structures compensation system is in place. SD indicators form an Report. (See page134) promoting sustainability integral part. strategy in line with Global Compact principles 3 Criteria Holcim commitment Links 3. Engagement with all important stakeholders • List of stakeholder groups Key stakeholders are included on our website. We have • See “stakeholder” section on our website engaged by the an independent expert panel of stakeholders who review organization our materiality process and give recommendations in our report. • Process for stakeholder At Holcim, developing and maintaining strong relationships • See “stakeholder” section on our website identification and with its stakeholders is vital to the success of its business. engagement Holcim is committed to a continuous process of listening to, and learning from, people and organizations engaged with its operations around the world. • Outcome of stakeholder Holcim remains committed to ongoing consultation with a • See “stakeholder” section on our website involvement broad range of stakeholders, as demonstrated by the fact that 76% of Group companies have a community advisory • SD Performance Data in the 2013 CSDR panel in place and 76% conducted a stakeholder dialog in (page 38 onwards) 2012. • Process of incorporating For example an External Report Review Panel has been • See “stakeholder” section on our website stakeholder input into asked to give feedback to Holcim’s SD materiality review. and corporate strategy and business decision-making • Stakeholder Panel Statement and response in the 2013 CSDR, page 48 UN Goals and Issues 4. Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues • Adoption or modification of Holcim is committed to creating value for all its • Vision and strategy section of the 2013 business strategy and stakeholders. Sustainable development has been placed CSDR (page 12) operating procedures to at the heart of the business strategy for many years, as it • Innovation Section of the Annual report 2013 4 Criteria Holcim commitment Links maximize contribution to contributes to adding value and ensuring continued (Page 52) UN goals and issues success. • See the Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 detailed on pages 6 to11 of the 2013 CSDR • Innovation chapter in the CSDR 2013 (page 22) • Development of products, As a major player in the industry, Holcim has a role to • Innovation chapter in the CSDR 2013 (page services and business contribute to sustainable products and building techniques 22) models that contribute to through product and process innovation. • Innovation Section of the Annual report 2013 UN goals and issues (Page 52) • See the Holcim Sustainable Development Ambition 2030 detailed on pages 6 to11 of the 2013 CSDR • Foundation for Sustainable Construction • Social investments and Holcim aims to link its CSR engagement with its business • See the “Relationships” pages of the 2013 philanthropic contributions activities. Group companies focus on projects in CSDR, (Pages 31 to 34) that tie in with the collaboration with stakeholders where the expertise can organization’s core contribute to achieving greater impacts. Engagement competencies, operating areas include education provision, infrastructure building context and strategy and sustainable community development. An “Inclusive Business” initiative focusing on shelter and sanitation has been started. Furthermore, Holcim makes significant strategic Social Investments (detailed in the CSDR) in the communities in which we operate. All social investments made fall under the same scrutiny as projects. • Public advocacy on the Holcim constructively contributes to the climate change • More information on Holcim’s position on importance of one or more policy debate to develop effect tive regulatory incentives to climate change. UN goals and issues improve energy efficiency and CO2 intensity. 5 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Partnership projects and Holcim has a number of corporate strategic partnerships Links: collective actions in with ICRC; IUCN; WBCSD and UNGC. Furthermore support of UN goals and operating companies engage in many local partnerships issues • ICRC; • IUCN; • WBCSD & CSI; • UNGC • List of partnerships on our website Human Rights Implementation 5. Robust commitments, strategies and policies in the area of human rights • Reference to relevant Holcim's commitment to human rights is part of our CSR • Link to Holcim CSR Policy (Refers to the international conventions policy and reflected in our participation in the UN Global Universal Declaration of Human Rights) and other international Compact. instruments • Written company policy (e.g. in the code of conduct) on human rights • Reflection on the Human rights have been identified as an important issue • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR relevance of human rights in the SD materiality review. (page 14) for the company 6 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Allocation of Human rights management is coordinated by the social responsibilities and responsibility department in collaboration with the risk accountabilities within the management unit and other relevant functions such as organization Human Resources and Procurement. 6. Effective management systems to integrate human rights principles • Risk and impact Human Rights are part of Holcim’s risk management http://www.holcim.com/sustainable/social/respect assessments in the area system: In addition, specific assessments are conducted ing-human-rights.html of human rights in countries where HR issues arise. Holcim has developed and implemented a Group-wide human rights management system in line with John Ruggie’s Guiding Principles. The first round of assessments in all three risk categories has been conducted on a global level. The second round starts in 2015. • Regular stakeholder The Holcim External Report Review Panel has identified • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR consultations in the area human rights as an issue of high importance in Holcim’s (page 14) of human rights SD materiality review • Internal awareness-raising 37% of Group companies report including equal • Section on Human Rights, CSDR 2013, page and training on human opportunity issues in training programs, while 33% of 29 rights for management Group companies report covering human rights in and employees employee training. • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies report having systems to collect • Section on “Responsible employment” in communication channels and handle employee grievances and complaints, and CSDR 2013, page 27 and other procedures (e.g. 77% report having arrangements for submitting complaints whistleblower and/or grievances anonymously. Furthermore, 22% report 7 Criteria Holcim commitment Links mechansims) for reporting having specific committees in place to deal with human concerns or seeking rights disputes. advice • Inclusion of minimum Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • See “Suppliers” section of 2013 performance human rights standards in Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already been data sheet – page 38 of CSDR 2013 contracts with suppliers published and communicated to suppliers and a and other relevant methodology for identifying and assessing critical business partners suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects • Audits or other steps to covered by the UNGC has been developed and is monitor and improve the currently being rolled out. Holcim has furthermore human rights performance implemented a Contract Workers Directive, formalizing the of companies in the supply obligation of Group companies to respect ILO core chain conventions and the principles of the UNGC. 7. Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration • System to track and Holcim has developed a Group-wide human rights Section on Human Rights, CSDR 2013, page 29 measure performance management system in line with John Ruggie’s Guiding based on standardized Principles that includes comprehensive issue monitoring. performance metrics Indicators are based on the Danish Institute’s Human Rights Compliance Assessment Quick Check. The first round of assessments in all three risk categories has been conducted on a global level. The second round starts in 2015. Holcim furthermore monitors its impacts through continuous stakeholder engagement that includes Community Advisory Panels and regular needs assessments. • Leadership review of Group company leadership monitors performance and monitoring and improvement results as part of the annual business improvement results planning and risk management cycle. In addition, results 8 Criteria Holcim commitment Links of human rights impact assessments are reviewed by top management and corresponding actions defined. • Process to deal with We are developing action plans based on the results of incidents the assessments and mitigate perceived or factual violations. Furthermore, all Holcim Group companies are required to have Community Engagement Plans that includes the establishment of Community Advisory Panels where appropriate. The Sustainable Development function at corporate level supports Group companies in addressing potential challenges with site visits, stakeholder engagement activities, cooperation with global and local expert organizations, workshops and training. 8. Standardized performance indicators (including GRI) on human rights • Outcomes of risk and Holcim has developed a Group-wide human rights Section on Human Rights, CSDR 2013, page 29 impact assessments management system that includes human rights impact assessments in selected countries of operation. The assessment process includes the development of an action plan to address identified risks, if applicable, which includes clearly defined timelines and responsibilities. Progress is monitored and reported at local and corporate levels. • Outcomes of internal 37% of Group companies report including equal awareness raising and opportunity issues in training programs, while 33% of training efforts Group companies report covering human rights in employee training. • Outcomes of mechanisms The share of Group companies reporting having for reporting concerns or anonymous procedures for submitting complaints or seeking advice grievances increased in the reporting period (2013: 88%; 2012: 69%). Additionally, 22% of Group companies report 9 Criteria Holcim commitment Links having special committees responsible for hearing, processing and settling disputes related to human rights issues in place. • Percentage of contracts 71% of Group companies report screening all major with business partners investments for human rights-related risks . A Supplier guaranteeing minimum Code of Conduct has been implemented in the context of human rights standards Holcim’s Sustainable Procurement Initiative. Templates for contractual agreements with suppliers cover UNGC principles. • Outcome of audits or other Holcim has implemented a Sustainable Procurement • See “Suppliers” section of 2013 performance steps to monitor and Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already been data sheet – page 38 of CSDR 2013 improve performance in published and communicated to suppliers and a the supply chain methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC has been developed and is currently being rolled out. 10 Criteria Holcim commitment Links Labour Principles Implementation 9. Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour • Reference to relevant Holcim's commitment to employment practices is part of its • Link to Holcim CSR Policy (Refers to the international conventions CSR policy and reflected in its participation in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights) and other international Global Compact. In order to formalize this commitment, instruments (eg. ILO Core Holcim has issued a Contract Workers Directive in 2012, Conventions) & written which addresses all the areas covered by the ILO Core company policy on labour Conventions. • Reflection on the Employment practices have been identified as an • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR relevance of the labour important issue in the SD materiality review. (page 14) principles in the company • Allocation of Responsibility and accountability for labor rights lies with responsibilities and the human resources department of Holcim and the accountability within the operating companies, in coordination with the Social organization Responsibility department of the SD function. 10. Effective management systems to integrate the labour principles • Risk and impact Employment practices have been identified as an • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR assessments in the area important issue in the SD materiality review. (page 14) of labour • Regular stakeholder The Holcim External Report Review Panel has identified • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR consultations in the area employment practices as an issue of high importance in (page 14) of labour Holcim’s SD materiality review and are part of all human rights assessments and site-specific impact assessments. • Internal awareness-raising Holcim is committed to providing equal opportunities for all • Section on “Responsible employment” in and training on the labour its employees and works on strengthening a culture of CSDR 2013, page 27 11 Criteria Holcim commitment Links principles for management mutual respect, trust and openness. and employees • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies report having systems to collect • Section on “Responsible employment” in communication channels and handle employee grievances and complaints, and CSDR 2013, page 27 and other procedures (e.g. 77% report having arrangements for submitting complaints whistleblower and/or grievances anonymously. In January 2012, we mechanisms) for reporting issued a new antibribery and corruption directive as part concerns or seeking of our company Code of Conduct. advice Through the adoption of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Directive (ABCD) Holcim has mandated that each Holcim Group Company adopt a whistle-blowing system (WBS) in the event it does not already have one in place. Guidance has been issued to Group Companies to assist them in implementing a new WBS or in measuring existing WBS systems. Four Group companies reported incidents of discrimination in 2013, which were dealt with in accordance with the Holcim Code of Conduct. • Inclusion of minimum Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • See “Suppliers” section of 2013 performance labour standards in Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already been data sheet – page 38 of CSDR 2013 contracts with suppliers published and communicated to suppliers and a and other relevant methodology for identifying and assessing critical business partners suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects • Audits or other steps to covered by the UNGC has been developed and is monitor and improve the currently being rolled out. Templates for contractual labour performance of agreements with suppliers cover UNGC principles. companies in the supply chain 12 Criteria Holcim commitment Links Environmental Stewardship Implementation 11. Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship • Reference to relevant Holcim’s commitment to sustainable development is part • Link to environment policy on Holcim website international conventions of its mission statement and is further demonstrated by its and other international membership in the World Business Council for instruments (e.g. Rio Sustainable Development and its participation in the UN Declaration on Global Compact Environment and Development) Holcim is committed to continuously improve its • Reflection on relevance of • Link to environment policy on Holcim website environmental performance and provide positive environmental contributions to its business and to society. • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR stewardship for the (page 14) company • Written company policy on environmental policy • Allocation of Environmental stewardship is part of the climate change, • Managing Sustainable Development, CSDR responsibilities and environment, alternative resources and environmental 2013, Page 13 accountability within the relations functions with the Holcim SD department organization • Specific commitments and All environmental commitments and targets are listed in • Progress towards targets CSDR 2013 – see goals for specified years the progress towards targets. page 3 12. Effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles 13 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Environmental risk and CO2 and energy, eco-efficient products, atmospheric • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR impact assessments emissions, resources management and biodiversity have (page 14) been identified of high importance and waste and transport as well as water as of medium importance in the SD materiality review. • Regular stakeholder Holcim is committed to a continuous process of listening In our CSDR please see: consultations on to, and learning from, people and organizations on its • External panel role – page 14 environmental impact environmental impact around the world. This is done through the WBCSD or IUCN’s independent expert panel • External panel statement page 48 etc. See also our website section on stakeholders • Section on “Responsible employment” in • Internal awareness-raising Internal awareness-raising and training on environmental and training on stewardship for management is part of internal CSDR 2013, page 27 environmental communication and Holcim’s training activities. stewardship for Sustainable Development topics, including environmental management and aspects are covered in all our leadership training courses. employees • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies have systems to collect and • Section on “Responsible employment” in communication channels handle employee grievances and complaints, and 77% CSDR 2013, page 27 and other procedures (e.g. have arrangements for submitting complaints and/or whistleblower grievances anonymously. mechanisms) for reporting concerns or seeking advice regarding environmental impacts 14 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Inclusion of minimum 77% of Holcim Group companies screen local suppliers • See “Suppliers” section of 2013 performance environmental standards ensuring that they have an environmental management data sheet – page 38 of CSDR 2013 in contracts with suppliers system in place. and other relevant business partners • Audits or other steps to Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement monitor and improve the Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already been environmental published and communicated to suppliers and a performance of companies methodology for identifying and assessing critical in the supply chain suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC is being developed. The development process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. 13. Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship • System to track and The Plant Environmental Profile self-assessment • CSDR 2013 Methodology section – page 45 measure performance questionnaire is the source of performance information based on standardized and data to all other environmental impacts of the cement, performance metrics aggregates and ready-mix concrete business segments. Consolidation of CO2 and energy data is consistent with the WBCSD/WRI cement CO2 protocol. • Leadership review of SD committees supports the overall decision-making • Managing Sustainable Development, CSDR monitoring and process and propose key issues to the Executive 2013, Page 13 improvement results Committee 14. Standardized performance A comprehensive list of environmental indicators and • SD Performance Data included in the CSDR indicators (including GRI) on Holcims performance against those indicators is available 2013. (Pages 38 to 44) environmental stewardship on our website. See link opposite. See also link to the • Link to Carbon Disclosure Project Carbon Disclosure Project where Holcims submission may be downloaded. 15 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Outcome of audits or other Holcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • See “Suppliers” section of 2013 performance steps to monitor and Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already been data sheet – page 38 of CSDR 2013 improve performance in published and communicated to suppliers and a the supply chain methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC is being developed. The development process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. Anti-Corruption Implementation 15. Robust commitment, strategies and policies in the area of anti-corruption • Reference to relevant Holcim applies the highest standards of business conduct. • Holcim Code of Conduct international conventions The Holcim Code of Conduct provides the guiding and other international principles against which to make decisions. This instruments (e.g. UN commitment is further demonstrated by its membership in Convention Against the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Corruption) and its participation in the UN Global Compact. • Reflection on relevance of Holcim applies high standards to corporate governance. • Holcim Code of Conduct anti-corruption for the Since 2004, binding for the entire group, the Code of • See CSDR 2013, page 15 – “Integrity” company Conduct defines Group-wide standards of business • Written company policy on behavior expected of all staff. anti-corruption (e.g. in code of conduct) • Allocation of For information regarding the organization see: • Holcim website responsibilities and organization and management accountability regarding corruption within the organization 16 Criteria Holcim commitment Links 16. Effective management systems to integrate the anticorruption principle • Risk and impact Corporate governance has been identified as an issue of • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR assessments in the area high importance in business risk management and in the (page 14) of anti-corruption SD materiality review • Regular stakeholder The Holcim External Report Review Panel has identified • SD materiality review in the 2013 CSDR consultations in the area employment practices as an issue of high importance in (page 14) of anti-corruption Holcim’s SD materiality review. • Internal awareness-raising Holcim has introduced a centrally coordinate training • See CSDR 2011, page 8 – “Operating with and training on antiprogram in this area. integrity” corruption efforts for management and employees • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies report having systems to collect communication channels and handle employee grievances and complaints, and and other procedures (e.g. 77% report having arrangements for submitting complaints whistleblower and/or grievances anonymously. mechanisms) for reporting concerns or seeking advice on corruption • Inclusion of minimum antiHolcim is implementing a Sustainable Procurement • http://www.holcim.com/uploads/CORP/AR_2012 corruption standards in Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already been _final_e_SG.pdf contracts with suppliers published and communicated to suppliers and a and other relevant methodology for identifying and assessing critical business partners suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects • Audits or other steps to covered by the UNGC is being developed. The monitor corruption and development process involved internal workshops and improve the performance interviews with selected external stakeholders. of companies in the supply 17 Criteria Holcim commitment Links chain 17. Effective monitoring and The Holcim Code of Conduct covers all aspects of our • Holcim Code of Conduct evaluation mechanisms for operations, including specific provisions on bribery and the integration of anticorruption. Group companies are responsible for ensuring corruption that their managers and employees are aware of their responsibilities under the code and for implementing appropriate measures. These include training and information sessions, integration of the code provision into contracts and a requirement for employees to sign the code. • Process to deal with The code is very clear – violations will not be tolerated. incidents Noncompliance with the code may be subject to disciplinary sanctions including termination of employment; and this is explicitly stated within the code. 18. Standardized performance See link to GRI content index opposite which contains a • GRI content index. indicators (including GRI) on comprehensive list of GRI indicators. anti-corruption Value Chain Implementation • 19. Implementation of the Global Holcim has implemented a Sustainable Procurement • See “Suppliers” section of 2013 performance Compact principles in the Initiative. A Supplier Code of Conduct has already been data sheet – page 38 of CSDR 2013 value chain published and communicated to suppliers and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers against SD criteria, including the aspects covered by the UNGC has been developed and is currently being rolled out. • Audits/screening for See link opposite • See “Suppliers” section of 2013 performance compliance in the value data sheet – page 38 of CSDR 2013 chain 18 Criteria Holcim commitment Links Transparency and Verification 20. Information on the company’s profile and context of operation • Legal structure, including See link • Corporate Governance section in the 2013 any group structure or Annual Report. (See page 113) ownership • Countries where the See link • Link to 2013 Annual Report. (See page 243) organization operates, with either major operations or operations that are specifically relevant to sustainability • Markets served (including See link • Link to 2013 Annual Report. (See page 8 and geographic breakdown, also business reviews pages 86-102) sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) • Primary brands, products, See link • Link to 2013 Annual Report. (See page 10) and/or services • Direct and indirect See link • Link to Economic impact along the value economic value generated chain graphic (value chain) on the Holcim for various stakeholders website (employees, owners, government, lenders, etc.) 19 Criteria Holcim commitment Links 21. High standards of transparency and disclosure • COP uses the Global Yes – See link • GRI content index. Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines • COP qualifies for Level A+ CSDR 2011 • CSDR of the GRI application levels • COP includes comparison Yes – See link • SD Performance Data included in the CSDR of key performance 2013. (Pages 38 to 44) indicators for the previous 2-3 years 22. Independently verified by a credible third party • Independently verified Yes – See link • CSDR (see assurance statements, page 46 to against assurance 48) standard (e.g. AA1000 Assurance Standard, ISAE 3000) • Verified by independent Yes – See link • CSDR (see assurance statements, page 46 to auditors 48) • Reviewed by a multiYes – See link • Information on the panel – Holcim website stakeholder panel 20
