SBAB Bank AB (publ) Sustainability Report 2013 2 STATEMENT BY THE CEO Statement by the CEO Contents Statement by the CEO 2 Objectives and strategies 3 Economic sustainability 5 Social sustainability 9 Environmental sustainability 12 Reporting and governance One of SBAB’s most crucial assets is trust. Our business builds on our of sustainability work 13 customers, owners, employees, investors, business partners and the general Business environment 14 public having trust in SBAB and the values we represent. Consequently, it International and national is our ambition to continue developing the company in such a way that we agreements  15 strengthen trust in SBAB. GRI index 16 For SBAB, sustainability entails the long-term creation of value. By genAuditor’s review report 19 erating value for the company’s stakeholders and building trustful external relations, SBAB is able to achieve its vision and contribute to the positive development of society. Issues of sustainability have always been important to SBAB and we went to considerable effort over the year to develop our sustainability work. In 2008, SBAB reported its sustainability work in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the first time and in 2009, we signed the UN Global Compact initiative which comprises principles concerning human SBAB in brief rights, aspects of labour law, the environment and corruption. In 2013, SBAB sharpened its focus on sustainability work. The Board of Directors and Executive Management of SBAB have adopted three strateSBAB Bank AB (publ),”SBAB”, gic areas for SBAB as a sustainable company: sound finances, responsibility commenced operations in 1985 and transparency, and sustainable housing. Efforts in these target areas and is owned by the Swedish state. represent an important part of the company’s continued development. I perceive considerable opportunities for SBAB to grow in a manner that SBAB’s business concept is to is sustainable in the long term and to contribute to a sound economy in provide a new banking experience society. to consumers in Sweden by treating every customer as unique and Per Anders Fasth being the bank that is easiest to acCEO, SBAB cess and understand. The products are divided into three areas: Lending Savings Payments The Lending area offers residential mortgages and retail loans to private individuals, and property credit to property companies and tenant-owner associations. Savings offers savings accounts and mutual funds to private individuals, and savings accounts to corporates and tenant-owner associations. The Payments product area is being launched at an initial stage in 2014 and will offer simple payment and card solutions for private individuals. In 2013, SBAB had approximateRead more at ly 480 employees, with offices in sbab.se Karlstad, Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES 3 Objectives and strategies Introduction For several years, SBAB has worked with issues involving In each target area, SBAB has adopted several directly sustainable enterprise. Efforts have primarily focused measurable targets that can be followed up. Beyond on issues involving the responsible granting of loans, the targets mentioned above, SBAB also conducts employee satisfaction, health and commitment, as well several activities to achieve set targets on economic as endeavours to contribute to reduced energy consustainability, social sustainability and environmental sumption and environmental impact. Sustainability work sustainability. is important both in securing the long-term generation of value in the company and in managing risks and opportunities associated with SBAB’s operations. Three overarching target areas The development of SBAB’s business operations and Sound finances external changes entail new challenges on which the As a bank, SBAB bears a particular responsibility. This company must take a stance. It is therefore important involves contributing to customers’ financial security the sustainability work is conducted in a goal-oriented and, as part of the financial system, safeguarding manner and with a clear strategy. a long-term sustainable economy in society. Sound finances are a prerequisite to SBAB being able to achieve this and to being able to conduct long-term SBAB’s responsibility as a bank sustainable business operations. Actual outcomes in SBAB is a Swedish bank with housing financing and terms of return on equity, Common Equity Tier 1 capital deposits as its predominant areas of business. SBAB is ratio and rate of dividends determine the degree of responsible for conducting sound and responsible lendtarget achievement in this area. ing, marketing and sales, and for contributing to financial stability and the positive development of society. Responsibility and transparency SBAB’s work in these areas is important in the company For SBAB, responsibility and transparency involve workachieving its objectives. SBAB’s vision is to create a new ing for responsible lending, marketing and sales. Comera in banking by offering a superior customer experiponent targets in this area are satisfied customers who ence. The ambition is to develop the company in such perceive that SBAB states its prices and product terms a way that SBAB achieves this vision in a manner that clearly and openly, and a low loan loss rate. Through contributes to long-term sustainable economic growth. openness and transparency, SBAB seeks to improve the reputation of the banking and finance sector. SBAB’s responsibility as an employer also forms an SBAB’s targets as a sustainable important part of this target area and should lead to a company high proportion of motivated employees. In 2013, SBAB’s Board of Directors and management were involved in designing SBAB’s targets and strategy Sustainable housing in sustainable business. In the autumn of 2013, a SBAB has extensive experience and knowledge in special working group was established including the funding of housing. Issues affecting homes and housing Chairman of the Board, three other Board Members are deeply rooted in the company’s culture. Sweden and five representatives from Executive Management, faces numerous social challenges that are economicalincluding the CEO and all Business Area Managers. ly, socially or environmentally linked to housing. Being The working group was tasked with preparing proposhighly committed to sustainable housing, SBAB seeks to als for long-term sustainability targets for SBAB to be contribute to the positive development of society. adopted by the Board of Directors. SBAB has a specific objective of contributing to the fiIn December 2013, the Board of Directors of SBAB nancing of new housing production and, in cooperation adopted three target areas of particular importance to with others, to initiate activities to improve the housing SBAB as a long-term sustainable company: environment is particularly exposed areas. Further• Sound finances more, it is SBAB’s ambition to be able to contribute to • Responsibility and transparency reduced energy consumption in Swedish households. • Sustainable housing SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 4 OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES Stakeholder dialogue The owner For SBAB, an active and frequent dialogue with stakeSBAB is wholly owned by the Swedish state. The owner’s holders is an important tool in being able to prioritise governance of SBAB occurs through the Annual Genthe right sustainability issues. eral Meeting, the Board of Directors appointed by that Meeting in accordance with the Companies Act, the Stakeholder and materiality analysis Articles of Association, and internal guidelines. SBAB In 2013, SBAB intensified its dialogue with stakeholders applies the Swedish Government’s ownership policy, by means of a stakeholder and materiality analysis. in which the Government states the assignment and SBAB asked representatives of different stakeholder objectives, applicable frameworks and stance on key groups what sustainability issues were of greatest immatters of principle regarding corporate governance in portance for SBAB today and over the upcoming years. government-owned companies. The ownership policy Through qualitative telephone interviews, opinions and also requires that SBAB adhere to the Swedish Code of perceptions were gathered from representatives of Corporate Governance. SBAB’s prioritised stakeholder groups: The Chairman of the Board and CEO of SBAB meet • Customers with the Ministry of Finance on a quarterly basis to ac• Owner count for SBAB’s development, including developments • Employees in sustainable business. • Investors Additionally the Ministry of Finance regularly organises networking meetings with representatives of Sector and stakeholder organisations associated with government-owned companies to discuss sustainability the bank and property sector also participated in the issues in particular. In 2013, SBAB participated in four analysis. such meetings, which are also valuable opportunities to Some of the areas that stakeholders highlighted as discuss how other government-owned companies work crucial to SBAB being a sustainable company were: with issues of sustainability. • Economic stability and profitability • Sound and responsible lending Employees • Customer satisfaction SBAB is a relatively small organisation with short • Good business ethics decision-making paths, whereby information on the • Clear social commitment company’s vision, targets and results is readily available to all employees. SBAB pays attention to employees’ Customers opinions and viewpoints in different areas through the SBAB communicates with customers mainly by teleannual employee survey and employee dialogues. phone and via the Internet. The Customer Centre in SBAB holds regular monthly and departmental Karlstad responds to customer enquiries regarding meetings to disseminate information and to pursue SBAB’s products and services, and receives viewpoints a dialogue with employees. The “Ask management” and suggestions for improvement. function on SBAB’s intranet is also used. This allows SBAB conducts customer surveys to obtain a clear employees to anonymously pose questions to Executive picture of customers’ views of the company. These Management and to receive answers. include Swedish Quality Index’s (SQI) annual customer survey, as well as regular measurements using the Investors customer loyalty measure Net Promoter Score (NPS). In SBAB regularly meets Swedish and international 2013, SBAB also recruited a customer panel comprisinvestors. The purpose is to keep investors well-informed ing some 700 customers to gather customer views and about SBAB’s activities, the company’s bonds and experiences in a structured way. strategies and to describe the situation in the Swedish A further way for SBAB to conduct a dialogue with economy. SBAB seeks a close dialogue with investors, customers is via www.sbab.kundo.se, Facebook and providing them opportunities to pose questions on the Twitter. company’s operations, since this lays the foundation for their investment decisions. For SBAB, the dialogue with investors provides a greater understanding of what issues are important to investors. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 5 Economic sustainability Economic stability and profitability Outcome 2013 Sound finances – economic stability and profitability – Return on equity for 2013 was 9.5%, which was short of are decisive to SBAB being able to conduct long-term the target of 10%. The Common Equity Tier 1 capbusiness operations. They are also prerequisite to SBAB ital ratio was 23.3%, which was above the target of being able to contribute to customers’ financial secu18-20%. The Board of Directors proposes that profit rity. SBAB forms part of the financial system and with for 2013 be carried forward and that no dividend be sound finances, SBAB has the prerequisite conditions to paid. The reason for this is that the Swedish Financial contribute to a sound economy in society. Supervisory Authority has announced further rises in the risk-weight floor for residential mortgages, which would Financial targets increase the need for equity. The 2013 Annual General Meeting adopted the folOne way of measuring how SBAB generates economlowing economic targets affecting SBAB’s profitability, ic value for stakeholders is by presenting data on the capital structure and dividend policy: financial value generated and how this is distributed. Economic targets and key figures Direct economic value generated in accordance with GRI (indicator EC1). Income, 2013: SEK 1,900 million SEK billion Objecti2013 2012 2011 2010 ves 2014 Return1) ≥10% 9.5% 4.2% 4.2% 7.5% Common Equity Employee salaries and remunerations, Tier 1 capital ratio2) 18-20% 23.3% 16.4 15.0 14.1 SEK 341 million Operating expenses, SEK 413 million Dividend3) >40% – – – – Disbursements to public sector, SEK 212 million 1) Return on equity is to be calculated as net profit/loss for the year divided by Retained economic value, average equity. SEK 935 million 2) The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio is to be calculated in accordance with current regulations and the definitions applicable under Pillar 1, without transitional rules. 3) Ordinary dividends are to be calculated based on profit for the year after tax and taking the Group’s capital structure into account. Profit/loss and balance sheet items, SBAB Group Responsible granting of loans 2013 2012 SBAB endeavours to offer financial products that are Jan–Dec Jan–Dec % sustainable in the long term – for individuals, as well as INCOME STATEMENT ITEMS for companies, tenant-owner associations and society Net interest income, SEK million 1,963 1,941 1 in general. Other operating income1), SBAB bears a responsibility to conduct sound, longSEK million –70 –693 – term lending operations and the company endeavours Expenses, SEK million –815 –728 12 to do that. This lays the foundation for trustful customer Loan losses, SEK million 7 –20 – relations. By being easy to access and understand and Profit, excluding net result by striving to be clear and transparent in the lending from financial instruments, SEK million 1,046 1,101 –5 process, we should make customers feel secure in their Operating profit, SEK million 1,085 500 117 undertaking and in SBAB as a lender. Net profit for the year, SEK million 873 360 143 The lending process BALANCE SHEET ITEMS SBAB’s granting of loans is based on a thorough credit Lending, SEK billion 258.7 255.9 1 evaluation that elucidates whether customers have the Doubtful loan receivables financial capacity necessary to be able to meet their after individual provisions, commitments. Foremost, the customer’s repayment caSEK million 15 13 8 pacity is assessed. Loans are not approved if repayment Deposits, SEK billion 45.9 27.7 66 capacity cannot be ascertained. Secondly, any collateral Funding, SEK billion 243.9 253.9 -4 for the loan is assessed. The credit evaluation for private 1) Includes net result from financial instruments and net commission. individuals includes a calculation of housing costs. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 6 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY Calculation of housing costs New lending, fourth quarter 2011–2013 + Borrower’s income1) SEK million – Housing expenses2) 12 12 – Living expenses3) 10 10 = Surplus (or deficit) 8 8 1) 6 Stated income is checked using, among others, credit information service UC. 6 2) Amortisation, running costs, monthly fees and stressed interest rates. 4 4 3) In accordance with the Swedish Consumer Agency’s guidelines – taking the number of minors and adults in the household into account. 2 2 0 0 Q4 2011 Q4 2012 Q4 2013 If this calculation indicates a sufficient surplus, the loan 0–50% 75–85% can be approved on the condition that there are no 50–75% >85% other circumstances indicating that SBAB should not approve the loan. If the calculation indicates a deficit, the loan is not approved. Loan portfolio (% as per 31 December 2013) For residential mortgages from SBAB, collateral is posted in the form of a mortgage on a property or a participation in a tenant-owner association. The loan 11% may be equivalent to at most 85% of the value of the 26% home. This limit, the mortgage ceiling, was introduced 0–50% 22% in 2010. In total, 11% of SBAB’s portfolio consists of 50–75% loans with a loan-to-value ratio of more than 85% – a 75–85% >85% percentage that is decreasing over time. SBAB works continuously to update its lending process to always 41% maintain a high level of quality in its granting of loans. Repayment SBAB takes the view that repayment contributes to the customer’s mortgage with SBAB and the loan-tosound household economy. More than two thirds of value ratio of the commitment. The loan-to-value ratio SBAB’s residential mortgage customers amortise at can be described as the proportion of loan in relation to least one of their loans and an amortisation requirethe market value of the home. As a supplement to basic ment is imposed on all new residential mortgages with pricing, SBAB can occasionally apply temporary offers a loan-to-value ratio of more than 75%, as well as on clearly stated terms. for unsecured loans. Over the year, SBAB worked to develop clearer guidelines regarding amortisation on Credit management residential mortgages. SBAB has a responsibility and willingness to help cusIn the autumn, the Swedish Financial Supervisory tomers who encounter temporary payment problems. Authority submitted a proposal that Swedish banks The ambition is to early on establish a dialogue with the should offer customers individual amortisation plans customer, whereby SBAB tries to help the customer find and the Swedish Bankers’ Association has changed a way out of the situation that has arisen. The customits recommendation in accordance with the proposal. er has an opportunity to discuss with SBAB the often The proposed changes are in line with SBAB’s view on difficult decisions that must be taken. amortisation and the company intends to follow these SBAB works with a continuous process of change to as soon as the necessary adaptations to systems and enhance the credit process and minimise loan losses. processes have been implemented. During 2013, SBAB’s credit management implemented a preventive insolvency process in connection with Transparent pricing of residential mortgages its visits to 28 tenant-owner associations in locations Transparent and straightforward pricing of residential with high unemployment and depopulation. SBAB has mortgages forms part of an open and trustful customheld discussions with and helped association achieve er relation. SBAB’s pricing of residential mortgages better and sounder finances to avoid them becoming is based on the current listed rates for each maturity insolvent. In turn, this also affected the individual tenpublished by SBAB on www.sbab.se. The customer’s ant-owners positively. specific interest rate is presented as a deviation from the rate. The size of the deviation is based on the size of SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 7 Loan losses SBAB also offers 20 mutual funds from various fund Loan losses represent an indication by which SBAB can managers chosen by SBAB. Through these elective assess how well the credit process works and is a measfunds, customers have the opportunity to build up their ure of the bank’s assumption of responsibility towards own fund portfolio. customers and owners. Based on adopted risk tolerSBAB weighs in sustainability issues involving ethics and ance levels, SBAB always seeks to minimise loan losses. the environment, for example, as part of the process of SBAB’s loan losses for 2013 amounted to a positive SEK evaluating what fund managers it should cooperate with. 7 million (neg 20), corresponding to a loan loss level of An example of this is SPP whose funds are managed in acnegative 0.00% (pos 0.01). cordance with the Storebrand Group’s model for Socially Responsible Investments (SRI). Long-term savings Clear fund fees Savings represent an important element in a bank’s The annual fee is a standardised measure developed to offering This affords customers the opportunity to gain make it possible to compare what different funds cost. The a return on their savings capital and to be able to invest annual fee includes, for example, the management fee, for the future. custodial costs, registration fees and other rule-based fees. Since SBAB’s three savings funds have only recently been Savings accounts launched, the annual fee is an estimation. SBAB offers private individuals, companies and tenThe management fee that forms part of the annual ant-owner associations savings accounts with simple fee is the fee that the customer pays for the manageterms in the shape of: ment, administration, accounting and auditing of the • Interest from the first krona fund. • No commitment period Fees not included in the annual fee or the manage• No fees ment fee are: • Free withdrawals • Performance-based fees are fees charged to the fund • National deposit guarantee on amounts when the manager succeeds in delivering a return up to EUR 100,000 that is better than the comparison index. • Costs associated with trade in the fund’s holdings – Savings funds so-called transaction costs or brokerage. During the spring of 2013, SBAB launched a mutual • Buying and selling fees are fees imposed, where fund offering consisting of: applicable, when the customer buys or sells partici• SBAB Fri – the free-of-charge mutual fund1) pations in a fund. These are charges imposed by the • SBAB Savings fund Short-term1) distributor in certain cases and are not charged to the • SBAB Savings fund Average-term1) fund. SBAB does not charge buying and selling fees in • SBAB Savings fund Long-term1) the distribution of funds. • 20 elective mutual funds from external fund managers 1) SBAB’s mutual funds are managed by Öhman Fonder AB. SBAB Fri the freeof-charge mutual fund, is a share-index mutual fund that is completely free of charges and that has the objective of shadowing the development of the 30 most traded companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. SBAB’s savings funds Distribution of asset categories Estimated Fixed-income Alternative Savings horizon Management fee annual fee Share funds Funds assets1) SBAB Savings fund Short-term >3 years 0.9% 1.2% 20% (+/10%) 70% (+/20%) 10% (+/10%) SBAB Savings fund Average>5 years 0.9% 1.2% 50% (+/20%) 35% (+/15%) 15% (+/10%) term SBAB Savings fund Long-term >7 years 0.9% 1.3% 75% (+/25%) 10% (+/10%) 15% (+/15%) 1) Alternative assets in the shape of commodities, real estate and hedge funds. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 8 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY Counteracting financial crime Knowledge of finance SBAB works actively to prevent exploitation of the SBAB seeks to disseminate knowledge of finance to its company for criminal activities. As the bank extends its stakeholders in different ways. This is achieved primarily operations, the measures taken to prevent SBAB from through the Economic Research unit and the Corporate being misused for criminal activities are also extended. clients & Tenant-owner associations business area. Different forms of transaction monitoring and other checks ensure that fraudulent activities are kept at a low Economic Research unit level. SBAB’s chief economist and private sector economist SBAB’s operations shall be conducted in such a are financial experts who conduct independent analymanner that the risk of the bank being used for money ses on aspects of macroeconomics and private sector laundering or financing of terrorism1) is minimised. An finance. They also act as public spokespersons on such overarching risk assessment is made at least once annumatters and work to share and disseminate information, ally to identify risks and undertake measures to prevent knowledge and skills to investors, employees, customSBAB from being used for money laundering. As new ers, the public and the media. This work is conducted products and services are developed, these are also enin many ways and through multiple communication compassed by risk assessment of this kind. A thorough channels. awareness, combined with delimited operations, careful procedures and on-going checks, minimises the risk of Corporate clients & Tenant-owner associations SBAB being used for money laundering or financing of SBAB’s Corporate clients & Tenant-owner associations terrorism. business area regularly visits trade fairs and holds seminars for trustees or board representatives from tenant-owner associations. In 2013, SBAB participated Collateral in 15 trade fairs, at which SBAB had the opportunity to Collateral represents an important area within SBAB share its knowledge and experiences on how the boards and is part of SBAB’s economic responsibility. Conof associations can work to spread their associations’ sumer protection and bank confidentiality are of great risks. importance for customers’ trust in SBAB. Security and SBAB also arranges seminars, at which the company the proactive protection of SBAB’s customers form part invites other experts in the sector to talk about, board of the management and development of products and liability, efficiency measures or new legislation affectservices. ing housing associations, for example. In 2013, SBAB During 2013, a security strategy was developed arranged six such seminars. within SBAB, focusing on the changed security needs entailed by SBAB’s development into a consumer bank. The focus is on dealing with fraud, IT security, data security and process development. In addition, SBAB’s risk reporting will be developed to encompass Key Risk Indicators (KRIs) in the area of security. As part of the strategy process in the area of security, SBAB’s governing instructions and guidelines in this area are being reworked and adapted in accordance with international standards for data security. SBAB has reworked its continuity plans to adapt these to the requirements set out in GL-44. 1) In the continued text, financing of terrorism is included in the concept of money laundering. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 9 Social sustainability The starting point for SBAB’s work in the area of social such as money laundering and ethics, including corsustainability includes the company’s direct responruption. The courses were mainly been aimed at client sibility as employer towards all of its employees. This managers within Retail Market. A total of 65 employees responsibility also encompasses issues concerning the attended the courses which were conducted on four shared workplace. Having employees who are satisfied occasions during the year. and healthy, and who have opportunities to develop in their professional roles is prerequisite to SBAB being an Key employee figures attractive workplace. Issues of equality and diversity are Key figures 2013 2012 2011 2010 important because they involve human rights but also Satisfied employees 70 70 73 771) because SBAB as a company shall be able draw benefit Female executives at yearfrom all of the expertise and experience needed for the end, % 41 44 39 33 company to achieve its established goals. Positions at year-end, 474 414 399 382 By working with issues of housing and housing environof which, held by women 266 232 232 218 ment, SBAB also perceives an opportunity and a responsiAverage age, years 42 42 42 42 bility to contribute to the positive development of society. Personnel turnover, % 7 9 14 4 SBAB has identified this as a strategically important target Short-term sickness absence, % 2.0 1.9 1.9 1.6 area, which it refers to as “sustainable housing”. Long-term sickness absence, % 0.7 0.2 0.6 0.9 Total sickness absence, % 2.7 2.1 2.5 2.5 SBAB’s responsibility as an employer Use of health-promotion contribution by all employees, % 76 78 69 65 SBAB strives to have committed and motivated employProportion of male employees, ees. The ambition is for SBAB to always be a healthy receiving parental leave alworkplace where people thrive, feel comfortable and lowance, % 28 41 33 16 can develop. To achieve this, it is important that our 1) Prior to 2011, the employee satisfaction survey (Tempen) was conducted internalemployees are familiar with SBAB’s values – simple, ly. The results have been recalculated for comparison with employee satisfaction surveys conducted with external help. customer-driven and bold – and that they base their work on these values. During 2013, a process was Employee Survey therefore conducted regarding SBAB’s vision, values To improve SBAB, an annual employee survey is carried and personal leadership. out, in which employees answer questions concerning To meet current and future challenges, SBAB recruited job satisfaction, motivation, commitment, leadership new employees during the year. Over the year, 82 (48) and personal development. Specific results are proemployees started work at SBAB and 31 (36) left the vided for each department or group, enabling them to company. This means that, by the end of 2013, SBAB had develop a plan of action for improvement. a total of 474 (413) employees, excluding temporary staff. The 2013 employee satisfaction survey (see page 10) revealed that SBAB continues to maintain a favourable Leadership level compared with the industry average in Sweden. SBAB’s managers bear a considerable responsibility in However, the results were slightly lower in certain areas motivating and engaging employees. Over the year, an compared with the preceding year. Employees’ average evaluation program was carried out, including seminars assessment of the professional and personal developand leadership courses for managers, leadership trainment decreased slightly, as did their assessment of their ing, work group development and workshops throughout immediate managers. Confidence in the management the company. The purpose was to reach a consensus team has been strengthened. on SBAB’s vision and how the business objectives are to In addition to the employee survey, SBAB also be achieved. Managers also bear great responsibility implements a quarterly brand survey to ascertain how in contributing to the development of the bank and its customers, employees and the public’s attitude and employees by conducting regular employee dialogues. perception of SBAB’s brand are developing over time. These dialogues result in personal business and development plans, in which employees’ goals are linked to those Employee dialogue of the bank in general. During the year, each employee shall have an employee dialogue with his/her immediate manager. In Training and skills development these interviews, which comprise a personal business Skills enhancement programs are carried out continplan, the employee’s objectives are linked to the bank’s uously within SBAB. Over the year, the Compliance overall business plan, enabling everyone to see their function implemented internal training courses in areas contribution to the overall situation. The aim is that all SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 10 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY Results from external employee satisfaction survey (ESS) 2013 2012 2011 Questions/areas ESS1) Sector2) ESS1) Sector2) ESS1) Sector2) Overall employee satisfaction 70 73 70 70 73 71 Professional and personal development 65 66 68 64 70 65 Immediately superior manager Professional competence 81 77 83 73 84 75 Leadership qualities 74 67 77 63 78 65 Manager works persistently towards set goals 79 n.a. 82 n.a. 81 n.a. 1) ESS = Employee Satisfaction Survey conducted among SBAB’s employees. 2) Average sector index. employees will have an employee dialogue and a folIn 2013, SBAB had on average 65 (80) students per low-up review annually. During 2013, 81% (80) of the month in the resource pool, equivalent to about 24 (30) bank’s employees took part in an employee dialogue. full-time positions. Of these, 13 (4) students were given New recruitment and internal reorganisation explain permanent employment in 2013. why not all employees had dialogues. At the Business Development unit in Stockholm, in 2013, SBAB hired in 14 recently graduated software Equality and diversity developers, of whom 13 have been given permanent Among other reasons, equality and diversity are imporemployment at SBAB. tant at SBAB in order for employees to thrive and be In Stockholm, SBAB also had two interns in 2013. able to make good decisions. All employees are to have One of these spent 10 weeks performing practical equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities regarding assignments within the Credit and Risk and Legal units, every aspect of the workplace, regardless of gender, the other within Purchasing and Service. transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other beliefs, sexual orientation, functional disabilities or Salary review age. Equality and diversity must always be considered SBAB conducts regular salary reviews to prevent any in the recruitment process. SBAB endeavours to attract systematic or unreasonable salary differences. One of both male and female applicants from diverse backthese was performed in 2013 and, in cases where ungrounds. The bank’s target is a 50/50 gender distribureasonable salary differences were identified, an action tion between men and women among managers with HR plan was established for future salary revisions. In the responsibilities. At year-end, 41% (44) of managers were 2013 salary review, SBAB made a special prioritisation women, a decrease compared with 2012. to ensure that women’s salaries were in line with men’s salaries for equal work. Distribution of male and female managers Workplace bullying Key figures Objectives 2014 2013 2012 2011 If workplace bullying is reported, the company has Female executives at year-end, %1) 50/50 59/41 56/44 61/39 procedures in place for investigating and taking remedial action. Reports are made to immediate superiors 1) Percentage distribution between men and women in managerial positions. who then contact the HR department. Alternatively, employees can approach the HR department directly. If With regard to ethnic and cultural diversity, SBAB has the employee belongs to a union, a representative from the ambition of providing customers with service in that organisation is brought into the investigation. No more than 10 languages. Today, SBAB can serve cusknown cases of workplace bullying occurred at SBAB in tomers in seven different languages; Swedish, English, 2013. Farsi, Norwegian, Arabic, Russian and Serbo-Croatian. Age distribution Young adults Percentage distriMany young adults (aged 20-27 years) currently find it bution (%) difficult to establish themselves in the labour market. For Women Men Total SBAB, young adults represent an important asset and 20-29 years 9.0 8.5 17.5 the company is trying in various ways to engage stu30-39 years 12.5 12.9 25.4 dents and trainees in its operations. In 2012 and 2013, 40-49 years 19.4 12.1 31.5 SBAB’s Customer Service unit in Karlstad regularly 50-59 years 11.7 7.9 19.6 worked with students from the University of Karlstad 60-69 years 3.5 2.5 6.0 via a resource pool. The students have been required Total 56.0 44.0 100.0 to undergo a comprehensive introduction programme equivalent to six weeks of full-time activity. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY 11 Length of employment satisfaction on an annual basis using the Swedish Quality Index (SQI) annual survey. For 2013, the result Percentage distribution (%) was a score of 69.5 for SBAB Retail Market, which was Women Men Total lower than the 2012 result but higher than the industry <3 years 19.2 21.0 40.2 average. The result for SBAB Corporate Market was a 4-6 years 7.1 7.7 14.8 score of 68.3, which was an improvement on 2012. 7-9 years 3.3 3.5 6.9 10-12 years 4.0 0.8 4.8 Customer satisfaction – results of confidence surveys 13-15 years 10.6 2.7 13.3 Key figures 2013 2012 2011 2010 >16 years 11.9 8.1 20.0 SQI Retail market1) 69.5 74.0 69.8 71.7 Total 56.0 44.0 100.0 SQI Tenant-owner associations 69.0 71.0 72.2 74.3 Reputation Index 2) 60.9 61.5 63.5 64.3 Fitness and health 1) The objective for Retail Market is first position in SQI by 2014. 2) Index figure in Reputation Index from Nordic Brand Academy (NBA). SBAB is working in various ways to improve employee health. Beyond direct health-promotion initiatives, such as a health-promotion contribution, health-promotion SBAB has also conducted a customer survey regarding hour, free access to a gym, subsidised medical insurNet Promoter Score (NPS) where the question asked ance, free medical care and medication, the company was “How likely are you to recommend SBAB to a friend also appoints health and wellness ambassadors whose or colleague?” SBAB’s result was NPS 15. The cusrole is to inspire employee participation in a range of tomers who recommend SBAB specifically identify the activities. The physical work environment is continuously following reasons: improved through better ergonomics, air, lighting and • It is easy to get in touch with SBAB noise levels. In October 2013, SBAB also carried out • SBAB is a stable and secure actor a health week, during which breakfast lectures were • Good customer service mixed with inspiring fitness activities such as running, yoga and massage. In 2013, four cases of work-related injuries were Sustainable housing reported to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, Sustainable housing is one of three strategically imporcompared with three cases in 2012. tant target areas for SBAB as a sustainable company. Achieving a balance in working life is important. This target area was adopted by SBAB’s Board of SBAB makes this easier by offering flexible working Directors in 2013 against the background of social hours, as well as supplemental parental payments to challenges that are economically, socially or environemployees who are at home with children under 18 mentally linked to housing. Since SBAB has extensive months. The company also works proactively to prevent experience and knowledge in matters relating to houslong-term illness. This is achieved through close contact ing finance, the company perceives an opportunity to with employees, managers, the company healthcare contribute in various ways to a sustainable housing and service and the Swedish National Insurance Office. The the positive development of society. bank also seeks to identify flexible solutions that enable SBAB has identified three areas on which continued employees to return to work on a part-time basis. Over efforts will focus: the year, sickness absence at SBAB was 2.7% (2.1). • Financing of new housing production Read more about sickness absence in SBAB’s Annual • Social commitment to improving the housing environReport, Note 8. ment in exposed areas where SBAB operates • Reduced energy consumption in Swedish homes Reporting irregularities SBAB nurtures a sound, positive culture within the There is substantial demand for homes in Sweden, parcompany and all employees are responsible for acting ticularly in the metropolitan areas. In its Corporate cliethically. SBAB has begun work to establish a process ents & Tenant-owner associations business area, SBAB that provides opportunities for all employees to report contributes to the financing of new housing production any irregularities in a structured manner. This process and the ambition is to extend the venture in this area. will be implemented during the second quarter of 2014. During 2014, SBAB will, in cooperation with partners, conduct activities to improve the social housing enviCustomer satisfaction ronment in particularly exposed areas where SBAB opSBAB’s ambition is to always work in the customer’s best erates. In 2013, SBAB collaborated with the Stockholms interests. Satisfied customers have confidence in SBAB Stadsmission (Stockholm City Mission) and Ny Gemenand confidence is an important prerequisite to SBAB skap (New Community) to help reduce homelessness. being a successful bank. SBAB measures customer SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 12 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Environmental sustainability SBAB’s environmental impact SBAB seeks in various ways to contribute to positive social In 2014, SBAB will revise its environmental work and development that benefits the climate and the enviset new targets for environmental and climate efforts ronment. SBAB primarily seeks to decrease the direct based on the current scale of operations. environmental impact of its operations. This is achieved Furthermore, SBAB is working to impose environmental by, for example, SBAB purchasing green electricity from and energy requirements on its customers. For examrenewable energy sources, structured recycling efforts, ple, the requirements for environmental certification of prioritising rail travel rather than air travel and by SBAB’s buildings in connection with new housing production, are 16 company cars being environmentally classed. increasing. SBAB will also study the possibility of establishSBAB’s ambition is to develop its operations in a manner ing incentives for customers to help them reduce energy that, at the same time, entails reduced carbon emissions. consumption in their homes. For this reason, SBAB has measured the company’s own environmental impact since 2008. The goal is to reduce Total carbon emissions (tonnes CO2) carbon emissions in relation to the extent of the operaSource of emissions 2013 2012 2011 tions by 20% from 2011 to 2014 (an annual reduction of Vehicle fuel 24.1 24.8 27.5 approximately 5%)1). District heating 47.9 37.9 36.9 For 2013, carbon dioxide emissions per adjusted Electricity 139.8 125 98 number of employees increased by 18%. The main Train 9.1 8.3 8.8 explanation why the target was not achieved was Air travel 52.9 40.8 66.8 that floor space increased by about 11% over the Residual waste and paper 2.9 0.5 0.6 year. Moreover, the number of journeys made by air Total 276.7 237.5 238.6 increased compared to 2012, largely due to increased travel associated with reorganisation in the Corporate Business travel clients & Tenant-owner associations business area. No. of trips More than 50% of SBAB’s carbon emissions derive Type of travel 2013 2012 2011 from electricity. Consequently, measures contributing to Train 2,983 2,704 3,654 reduced electricity and energy consumption will be imAir (domestic) 212 117 359 portant for the company in achieving its carbon target. Air (international) 254 253 202 Total 3,449 3,074 4,215 Key environmental figures Green bonds Key figures 2013 2012 2011 It is important that SBAB takes its indirect environmental Total emissions (tonnes CO2) 276.7 237.5 238.7 Adjusted number of employees 554 561 529 impact into account. By purchasing green bonds, SBAB Average number of is offered the opportunity to invest in projects that lead to employees 449 413 419 reduced energy consumption and environmental impact. Consultants (restated as It has been SBAB’s ambition to increase its holdings average number of full-time equivalents) 105 148 110 of green bonds, within the framework of the current Total emissions (tonnes CO2 investment policy. Consequently, during the year, SBAB per adjusted number of invested in an additional Climate Awareness Bond, employees) 0.499 0.423 0.451 issued by the European Investment Bank (EIB). This Percentage change in CO2 emissions2) 17.9%/0.6% -6.2%/-15.7% -10.2%/-10.2% project also finances projects linked to energy effiTotal business travel ciency enhancement (for example district heating and (tonnes CO2) 86 74 103 additional insulation) and the development of renewaBusiness travel, car ble energy (wind power, hydroelectric power and solar (1,000 kms/ tonnes CO2) 185/24.1 205/24.8 223/27.5 energy). Financing these projects contributes to making Business travel, train Europe’s energy supplies more sustainable, safe and (tonnes CO2)3) 86%/9.1 88%/8.3 87%/8.7 Business travel, air competitive, which also contributes to the EU attaining (tonnes CO2)3) 14%/52.9 12%/40.8 13%/66.7 its climate objective for 2020. 1) The scope of operations is measured in terms of the adjusted number of employees, which comprises the total of the average number of employees and SBAB’s holdings of green bonds contracted consultants restated in terms of full-time equivalents. 2) Reduction during the relevant year as well as the total reduction since 2010. Invested capital (SEK million) The measurement is based on CO2 emissions in 2010, which amounted to 240 tonnes or 0.502 tonnes per adjusted number of employees. The CO2 target is set 2013 2012 in relation to the scope of operations and measured per the adjusted number of Climate Awareness Bond (CAB) 215 100 active employees. 3) Percentage of the number of business trips taken, excluding car journeys. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 REPORTING AND GOVERNANCE 13 Reporting and governance of sustainability work Reporting Executive Management SBAB reports its sustainable development work on the The Executive Management bears the overall responbasis of GRI 3.0, level C+. Reports encompass the sibility for sustainability work within the company being Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ), and the wholly run in a manner that results in the accomplishment of owned subsidiary, AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligathe adopted objectives. Effective from 2014, the areas tioner (publ), (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation. of responsibility will be divided between the business “SCBC”). SCBC’s operations are pursued by employarea and department managers, and will be included in ees of the Parent Company and the applicable rules annual business planning. and guidelines encompass both companies. SBAB reports on specific indicators depending on Sustainability Council their relevance and the availability of data and informaSBAB’s Sustainability Council is a body that advises tion. The quality of the reporting is assured by indemanagement on the coordination and implementation pendent auditing and confirmation. More information of sustainability work in operations. The Sustainability about sustainable development and policies is available Council consists of the CEO, the Head of Communicaat sbab.se. tions & HR, Chief Legal Counsel, representatives from the operations and the coordinator of SBAB’s sustainability work. Governance of sustainability work For SBAB to be a sustainable company, sustainability Coordination of sustainability work work must be integrated into its operations. To achieve The function for the coordination of SBAB’s sustainable this, SBAB has the following functions that govern and enterprise work is assigned to Communications & HR. follow up its sustainability work: The coordination of sustainability work entails leading and coordinating SBAB’s efforts to achieve the adopted Board of Directors sustainability goals. SBAB’s Board of Directors determines SBAB’s longterm sustainability targets, as well as the policy for sustainable business and the ethics policy. Furthermore, the Board monitors and assesses SBAB’s sustainability work. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 14 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Business environment The world around us is constantly changing, entailing coming years. Among other reasons, these changes are new challenges to which SBAB must respond. Some of taking place to make the financial system more robust the external factors affecting SBAB are: and resilient to crises. 5. SBAB’s stakeholders are imposing increasingly 1. Economic trends in Sweden and Europe rigorous requirements on the company’s work and 2. Increased importance of responsibility and actions. This is highly important for SBAB, since it is by transparency understanding its stakeholders’ expectations that SBAB can become a better company. A continuous dialogue 3. Climate change with the company’s stakeholders will be an increasingly 4. Regulatory changes affecting banks crucial component in the process of developing SBAB into a successful and long-term sustainable company. 5. Increased expectations and demands from stakeholders The G4 accounting standard 1. Unemployment, stability in the financial market and SBAB currently reports its sustainability work in accordeconomic growth in Sweden and Europe are some ance with GRI 3.0, an accounting standard developed of the key factors that will directly or indirectly affect by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). On 22 May SBAB’s operations. Through financial stability and 2013, GRI launched a new accounting standard, G4, profitability, it is SBAB’s objective to be well-equipped which replaces the earlier standard. One of the key to cope with external changes. differences between GRI 3.0 and G4 is that G4 focuses on sustainability factors that are of significance to the 2. The importance of responsibility and transparency is operations. All companies reporting in accordance with increasing, particularly in the bank sector. SBAB seeks GRI have the opportunity to report in accordance with to contribute through responsible granting of loans, GRI 3.0 for 2013 and 2014. After that, reporting is to marketing and sales. SBAB’s pricing and product terms be conducted in accordance with G4. are to be formulated in such a way that customers can SBAB will decide during 2014 when it will commence easily understand the company’s offering. reporting in accordance with G4. 3. Climate change has a global impact on the planet and the conditions for life. In Sweden, homes and premises accounted for about 34% of total energy consumption in 20111. SBAB has an opportunity to contribute to reduced energy consumption by creating incentives for Swedish property owners to choose energy-smart solutions. Consequently, during 2014, SBAB will examine the possibilities for the company to develop a customer offering of this kind. 4. Several regulatory changes affecting banks are now being implemented at the national and international levels. Increased capital adequacy and liquidity regulations, increased demands on the identification and management of operational risks, increased demands in IT, as well as internal governance and control are among the changes that will affect SBAB over the up1) “Energy Situation in Sweden”, Swedish Energy Agency, 2013. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 AGREEMENTS 15 International and national agreements SBAB has signed the following international and nationECPAT Sweden and the al agreements: Swedish Financial Coalition against Child Pornography UN Global Compact In November 2012, SBAB signed a partnership agreeIn 2009, SBAB signed the UN Global Compact initiative ment with ECPAT Sweden. The partnership serves to which comprises principles concerning human rights, work proactively to counteract the dissemination of aspects of labour law, the environment and corruption. child pornography materials. Among other efforts, The Global Compact comprises ten principles aimed at this involves training for key individuals, external and corporates. These principles are based on the UN Decinternal information and the issue being addressed in laration on Human Rights, the ILO’s basic conventions SBAB’s internal policies, instructions and guidelines. on human rights in working life, the Rio Declaration and SBAB is a member of the Swedish Financial Coalithe UN Convention against Corruption. tion against Child Pornography. Its membership of the Each year, SBAB issues a Communication on Progress Swedish Financial Coalition grants SBAB the opportu(COP) to the UN Global Compact to account for the nity – alongside other actors in the financial company’s efforts regarding the ten principles. sector – to contribute actively to eliminating opportunities to distribute and receive payment for child pornography on the Internet. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 16 GRI INDEX GRI index It is SBAB’s own opinion that this report fulfils the reporting requirements for the C+ application level, according to GRI version 3.0. KPMG AB has reviewed the report and assures that it fulfils the requirements for the C+ application level. Reported Sustainability fully (X) or Indicator Report Annual Report sbab.se partially (/) Comments Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement by the CEO 2 4 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Cover, 2.8 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 6-8 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, 8, 87 including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation Cover, 2, 8 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 8, 87 2.7 Markets served 6-8 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 2.3 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 8, 23 regarding size, structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period SiteVision’s Guldhand (Golden Hand) award 2013 Report profile 3.1 Reporting period 1 January – 31 December 2013 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 27 March 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle SBAB’s Sustainability Report is updated annually as at 31 December. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report X Olof Norberg, Sustainable Enterprise Coordinaor its contents tor. olof.norberg@sbab.se Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report contents 3-4 3.6 Boundary of the report 13 3.7 Specific limitations 13 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 13 subsidiaries, etc. 3.10 Restatement of information No changes have taken place since the previous year. 3.11 Significant changes from No significant changes have taken place since the previous reporting period previous reporting period. 3.12 GRI content index 16-18 Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 13 85-95 4.2 Chairman’s position 88 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance 88 body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4, 9-11 86-87 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 4 with whom to engage SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 GRI INDEX 17 Reported Sustainability fully (X) or Indicator Report Annual Report sbab.se partially (/) Comments Performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 5 X including income, operating costs, employee compensation, gratuities and other public investments, profit carried forward and payments to public sector funders. EC9 Understanding and description of significant 5-7, 11 / indirect economic impacts, including the scope of the impacts Environmental performance indicators1) EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy 12 X X source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 12 X X EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 12 X / improvements EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 12 X X gas emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 12 X X by weight EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method X X Waste is included in the calculation of carbon emissions, see SBAB’s climate report at www.sbab.se Supplement for the financial sector FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines 8-13 X by specific region, size and sector FS16 Initiatives to enhance 8 / financial literacy Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total labour force, divided by employment type, 9-11 54-55 / employment terms and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover, by 9 55 / age, gender and region LA4 Percentage of employees covered by X All SBAB employees, except the CEO, are covered collective bargaining agreements by collective bargaining agreements LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and 9, 11 55 / absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatal In 2013, four cases of work-related injuries were injuries per region reported to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency LA10 Hours of training per employee and year 55 X LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor9-10 X mance and career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 9-10 55, 92-95 / Only gender distribution is reported. breakdown of employees per category according to gender and age group, minority group membership and other diversity indicators Human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 10 X Only gender distribution is reported. actions taken Society performance indicators SO3 Percentage of employees who have undergone 9 X Approximately 14% (65 individuals) of SBAB’s emtraining in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies ployees took part in SBAB’s training in ethics and and procedures anti-money laundering, including anti-corruption in 2013. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number X The organisation does not owe any significant of non-monetary sanctions against the organisation amounts nor have any sanctions been imposed on for non-compliance with laws and regulations it for noncompliance with laws and regulations. 1) A separate climate report and SBAB’s climate action plan are available at www.sbab.se under Sustainable Business. N.B. The indicators are reported in full or in part depending on the relevance and availability of data and information. SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 18 GRI INDEX Reported Sustainability fully (X) or Indicator Report Annual Report sbab.se partially (/) Comments Performance indicators Product responsibility performance indicators PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including 4, 11 X results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-comX No fines of this nature were incurred in 2013. pliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Report application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C, plus: Level B INFORMATION 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 G3 Profile 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 3.9 – 3.13 disclosures 4.1 – 4.4 , 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured Not required Management Approach Management Approach Standard disclosures INFORMATION Disclosures for each Indicator Disclosures for each Indicator G3 Disclosures Category. Category. on sustainability governance Report fully on a minimum of Report fully on a minimum of Respond on each core and any 10 Performance Indicators, INFORMATION any 20 Performance IndicaSector Supplement* 1) indicaG3 Performance including at least one from tors, at least one from each tor in G3 with due regard to the Indicators and each of: social, economic and of: economic, environmental, materiality principle by either Sector Supplement environmental. human rights, labour practices a) reporting on the indicator or Performance Indicators and decent work, b) explaining society and product responthe reason for its omission. sibility. 1) Sector supplement addition in final version SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 AUDITOR’S REVIEW REPORT 19 Auditor’s review report on Sustainability Report 2013 To the readers of the SBAB Bank AB (publ) Sustainability Report Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of SBAB to review the Sustainability Report for the year 2013. The company has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report on page 13. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Executive Management for the Sustainability Report The Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsible for on-going work on sustainable development and for preparing and presenting the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria as stated on page 13 of the Sustainability Report and that consist of those parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.0 issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) that are applicable to the Sustainability Report. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability report based on our review. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The measures undertaken in a review do not permit us to be certain that we have become aware of all significant matters that might have been identified in an audit. Therefore, the conclusion expressed based on a review does not give the same level of assurance as a conclusion expressed based on an audit. The criteria on which our review is based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.0, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Report. These are detailed on pages 13 and 16-18. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we collected during our review is sufficient and appropriate in providing a foundation for our conclusion as expressed below. Conclusion Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria. Stockholm, 13 March 2014 KPMG AB Hans Åkervall Åse Bäckström Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR SBAB Sustainability Report 2013 NARVA Head Office: SBAB Box 27308, SE-102 54 Stockholm, Sweden (Visiting address: Löjtnantsgatan 21) Telephone: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax: +46 8 611 46 00 E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se Reg. 556253-7513 sbab.se SBAB in Karlstad SBAB Box 1012, SE-651 15 Karlstad (Visiting address: Östra Torggatan 9, Arkaden) Telephone: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax: +46 54 17 71 10 E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se SBAB in Gothenburg SBAB Box 53072, SE-400 14 Gothenburg (Visiting address: Södra Larmgatan 13) Telephone Corporate clients: +46 31 743 37 40 Telephone Tenant-owner association: +46 31 743 37 00 Fax: +46 31 743 37 10 E-mail: goteborg@sbab.se SBAB in Malmö SBAB Rundelsgatan 16 SE-211 36 Malmö Telephone Corporate clients: +46 40 664 53 59 Telephone Tenant-owner association: +46 40 664 53 40 Fax: +46 40 664 53 58 E-mail: malmo@sbab.se SBAB in Stockholm SBAB Box 27308, SE-102 54 Stockholm, Sweden (Visiting address: Löjtnantsgatan 21) Telephone Corporate clients: +46 8 614 43 55 Telephone Tenant-owner associations: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax Corporate clients: +46 8 614 38 63 Fax Tenant-owner associations: +46 8 614 38 60 E-mail: stockholm@sbab.se
