UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2014 March STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to confirm that Broste Copenhagen reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Kim Larsen CEO, Broste Copenhagen Broste Copenhagen is more than just interior design. It is a way of life that we are eager to share with the world around us. Therefore, we create our products to reach a wide range of customers, not just the few. Broste Copenhagen is one of Scandinavia’s leading interior brands, based in Copenhagen and originates back to 1955. We have a long tradition of travelling the world for inspiration and materials, as we Scandinavians have always done. HUMAN RIGHTS  PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Aim internationally proclaimed human Broste Copenhagen supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed rights; and human rights and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. It is the company policy to ensure that such rights are assured for everyone at all levels of process PRINCIPLE 2: make sure that they es and activities. By promoting a culture of respect for the law, and consideration of all are not complicit in human rights members within the organization and with others with whom the company come in contact with. abuses. Broste Copenhagen continues to be fully committed to ensuring that the company is not knowingly complacent in any Human Rights abuse. It is the company policy to ensure that it will not associate, or accept commission from anybody, corporate, private or official, where their actions are questionable in respect of Human Rights abuses. Broste Copenhagen complies with Danish legislation, which fulfills international conventions. Progress Broste Copenhagen has continued to review and update policies and procedures to ensure they are suitable and sufficient to meet the needs of the employees and those of the company. Further Broste Copenhagen has incorporated an ethical set of rules for joint commerce within which compliance and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights is a must. If Broste Copenhagen finds that any supplier does not adhere to the principles, co-operation will cease immediately. Broste Copenhagen has made inspections on all large suppliers and a local agent will continue to visit suppliers so that Broste Copenhagen can feel secure that rules are taken seriously. Results There have been no reported incidents during the company’s history. All company procedures are to be effective to protect internationally proclaimed human rights for all, with a zero tolerance of non-compliance. LABOUR  PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should Aim uphold the freedom of association Broste Copenhagen supports the International Labor organization’s Declaration on and the effective recognition of the Fundamental principles and rights at work and complies with Danish work legislation. It right to collective bargaining; is important to Broste Copenhagen that all suppliers adhere to the UN Global Compact and its principles.  PRINCIPLE 4: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Progress In joining the UN Global Compact we make sure, by contract, that all our suppliers  PRINCIPLE 5: the elimination of all understand and follow the principles. Our production takes place in China, India, Viforms of forced and compulsory laetnam, Indonesia, Latvia, Germany and Denmark. We demand that all suppliers abide bor; to national legislation and labor laws. Further we have made visits to selected factories, and encourage management to improve safety procedures.  PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employResults ment and occupation. So far there has been no complaints from employees, local agents, or from other stakeholders concerning adherence to UN Global Compacts principles on labor rights. Furthermore Broste Copenhagen has never been involved in any cases where suppliers has made breach of contract concerning our ethical rules of joint commerce.  PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to ENVIRONMENT environmental challenges; Aim Broste Copenhagen is committed to building a sustainable future, by meeting the  PRINCIPLE 8: undertake initiatives needs of today without compromising the possibility for future generations to to promote greater environmental remeet their needs. We are committed to comply with applicable environmental laws sponsibility; and and regulations, etc. and all suppliers have to sign our code, promising that they follow the rules of Global Compact and its principles.  PRINCIPLE 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmenProgress tally friendly technologies. At Broste Copenhagen we take great responsibility in defining environmental criteria within our line of products and along the entire supply chain. The most important aspect for Broste Copenhagen is the elimination of harmful substances from our products to the end users and our customers. See a list of certifications in the box on the next page. Our mission is to meet the demands and expectations of our customers and the end user. We know that there is more focus than ever for environmental protection and we will try to meet today's needs to ensure that future generations can meet theirs. Results At present, we have obtained the Nordic Ecolabel, GOTS, Oeko-tex and FSC certification on a range of our products and continue to work with the objective that more of our products, over time, will live up to these conditions. We expect to continuously promoting sustainable solutions by focusing on the entire supply chain, we can minimize our environmental impact FSC FSC We actively support the international recognized nonprofit organization FSC™. PROJECTS In an FSC™-certified forest no more trees than the forest can reproduce is felled, and over-exploitation of nature is avoided. In addition, FSC™ guarantees that flora and fauna are protected and that the people who GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) work in the forest are guaranteed education, safety This standard stipulates requirements throughout and a fair pay. The supply chain for both ecology and labor conditions in textile and apparel manufacturing using organically produced raw materials. Organic production is based on a system of farming that maintains and replenishes soil fertility without the use of toxic, persistent pesticides and OEKO-TEX fertilizers. In addition, organic production excludes genetic The OEKO-TEX® Standard 100 is an modification. independent testing and certification system for textile raw materials, intermediate and end products at all stages of production. OEKO-TEX 100 is a health care label, which predominantly ensures the end-user against toxic fumes. Donations We give attention to initiatives that help to improve our local community through acts of charitable giving. This year we chose to make a donation “Mødrehjælpen’ – An initiative that support vulnerable pregnant mothers and families with social, legal and financial advice as well as a variety of Nordic Ecolabel programs and initiatives, for example, young families and The Nordic Ecolabel is a voluntary eco-labeling abused women and children. scheme that evaluates a product's impact on the www.moedrehjaelpen.dk environment throughout the whole life cycle. The label guarantees, among other things that climate reFurther we support the Danish association of families with quirements are taken into account, and that CO2 children with cancer. emissions (and other harmful gasses) are limited www.fmkb.dk where it is most relevant. ANTI-CORRUPTION Aim At Broste Copenhagen we maintain high standards of integrity, honesty and fairness both in relation to our business practices and our behavior. We do not tolerate any form of bribery or other forms of corruption. Furthermore we have defined rules in accordance with Danish law to which we are subject, and is therefore fully integrated into our strategy. Progress Through our international collaborations we constantly work to secure that no corruption or other illegal activities take place. Our Code of Conduct includes an anti-corruption policy. Results We have had no incidents inflicting with our policies, or international guidelines. As the national legislation, as well as the international guidelines and progress in anti-corruption procedures, we will continue to maintain and improve our high standards, and ensure our processes are updated and revised.
