Sustainability Report 2014 Witzenmann GmbH Östliche Karl-Friedrich-Str. 134 75175 Pforzheim, Germany 0104uk/3/12/14/pdf Phone +49 7231 581-0 Fax +49 7231 581-820 wi@witzenmann.com www.witzenmann.de 41 Contents Sustainable growth 4 Interview 22 Good market position strengthened further and reasonable levels of growth achieved Prof. Dr. Mario Schmidt: shaping growth Our products 6 Innovative developments 24 Efficient, durable and reliable Exhaust gas recirculation lines, electromobility, battery technology True to our principles 8 Prevention is better than cleaning 26 The people in charge have always placed a high value on the concept of sustainable busiThe growing importance of technical cleanliness in industrial production ness. Managing sustainability 28 The varied nature of the sustainability steering committee's work Vision 2025 10 The guiding corporate principles are the foundation for our Group's activities as well as its Striking the right balance 30 future development Overview of the targeted and coordinated measures Climate assessment 32 Financial data 12 Study: the carbon footprint for the Pforzheim and Remchingen sites Data: turnover, value creation, investment and equity Environmental protection 36 Responsibility 14 Selected environmental data Witzenmann offers all its employees the same opportunities Technology and ecology 38 Compliant 16 Data: innovation, procurement turnover, waste, water, solvents, energy Guiding principles on the acceptance of benefits Contact/Imprint 39 Global commitment 18 The sites contribute to improving local living conditions Employees and social policy 20 Data: workforce, age distribution, years of service, training and professional development, health management 2 3 Sustainable growth Good market position strengthened further and reasonable levels of growth achieved In 2013, the group increased its turnover by 1 24.2 million Future markets are being opened up in the classic industrial to 1 497.1 million. This represents an increase in turnover of markets. 2013 saw the successful implementation of major 5.1% in relation to the previous year. trendsetting projects which required innovative solutions. The workforce also benefits from our growth in turnover. At One key aspect that Witzenmann is able to profit from is its the end of 2013, more than 3600 people were employed by international locations. Two thirds (66.5%) of its turnover was the Witzenmann Group. In line with the growth in turnover, achieved abroad in 2013. Turnover in Germany continues to the number of employees outside Europe is also increasing remain stable and operations in other European countries significantly. This development has also led to an increase have recorded slight increases. Growth continues to be in coordination and management activities required for the buoyed by the companies in the USA and China. international subsidiaries at the headquarters in Pforzheim. “Over the past year, we have “With our investment rate of more “It is only through high-quality This development is characterised by the continued growth The prerequisites for further growth are being created, achieved a further milestone in than 7%, we are well above the aveproducts, optimised processes and of the automotive sector and positive development in the innot least through planned investment totalling around the development of the Witzenrage for the sector. Key investments innovative solutions to problems dustrial applications sector. Stricter environmental standards, 1 39 million in the current financial year (compared with mann Group which has allowed are being made in expanding our that we are able to achieve our enhanced demands on quality and the need for efficient drive 1 31 million in 2013). 1 16 million is set to go to the headus to strengthen our good market capacity and in further developing targets for growth. concepts mean that a wide range of applications are availaquarters in Pforzheim. position even further. The current our technological competitive edge.” Witzenmann customers value our ble to Witzenmann solutions. financial year is also on track.” engineering expertise.” A range of opportunities are also available to Witzenmann as a result of further globalisation of its business activities and Dr. Hans-Eberhard Koch, Dr. Gerhard Flöck. Dr. Andreas Kämpfe, due to the fact that it is constantly adding new applications Chairman of the Board Managing Director Managing Director for flexible metallic elements. for Human Resources, Finance, for Technology and Quality Controlling, Materials 4 5 Our products Efficient, durable and reliable Use of renewable energy Witzenmann technology is used in systems that use renewable energy sources: in tidal power stations and offshore wind farms, flexible elements provide a high level of reliability, ensuring long intervals between maintenance. Special materials are used that are able to withstand Safe and efficient buildings Medical technology the corrosive salt in the wind and water. In solar thermal energy, solar connectors and expansion Witzenmann components are used in a wide Liquid-tight and gas-tight miniature metal hoses bellows absorb thermally induced movements variety of applications. In heating and hot-water from Witzenmann are, amongst other things, suited within the system. circuits, they guarantee the reliable function for highly specialised applications in medical techof lines and power units. In sprinkler systems nology. Witzenmann is one of just a few companies and gas lines, the high safety requirements for in the world that manufactures hoses with an inside flexible metal hoses are the focus. Flat ducts for diameter of 0.3 mm. The sturdy and durable metal residential building ventilation provide a cosy hoses protect the fibre cables of endoscopic probes, indoor climate. Coiled corrugated hoses are are biocompatible and meet the strictest sterility installed as heat exchangers in stratified storage standards. tanks. They have a much larger surface area than plain tube coils, which facilitates energy exchange and allows them to work effectively. Environmentally friendly engine technology In a variety of passenger and commercial vehicles and in large propulsion systems for ships, aircraft and railway vehicles, Witzenmann products are installed close to the engine and in the exhaust system. Oil and gas recirculation lines increase the efficiency of internal combustion engines and decoupling elements compensate Industrial engineering and plant construction for the structure-borne noise and movements of exhaust systems and turbochargers. Aside In plant engineering and construction, chemistry, from reducing pollutant and noise emissions, petrochemistry, the steel industry and in power they allow fuels and resources to be used more stations, large expansion joints, hangers and efficiently and ensure long, low-wear operating connecting pieces from Witzenmann meet the periods of the power units. most challenging demands. First of all, components need to compensate for thermal expansion in large-scale plants and absorb stress. What's more, the (sometimes aggressive) media to be routed places high demands on the materials used. 6 7 True to our principles Witzenmann is a family-run company where the people in charge have always By joining the United Nations Global Compact, Companies that sign the Global Compact promise to … placed a high value on the concept of Witzenmann is pledging itself to its 10 princip… support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human les, which formulate clear requirements on the rights within their sphere of influence sustainable business. subjects of human rights, labour standards, … make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses environmental protection and fighting corrupti… uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the on. In accordance with the prescribed statutes, right to collective bargaining we have promised to publish an annual report on … uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour our progress with respect to implementing these … uphold the effective abolition of child labour principles and supporting the UN objectives for … uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation sustainable development. The 2014 progress … support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges report documents the current status of our … undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility activities. … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies … work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The aspiration of sustainable business is firmly anchored in the history of the company. Company founder Heinrich Witzenmann considered himself to be in a position of particular responsibility with respect to his employees and his home town of Pforzheim. After more than 150 years ago in business, the fourth and fifth generations of the founder's family still have a majority stake in Witzenmann. Continuity and a long-term perspective are key guiding principles in our corporate strategy. We strive to make a special impact on the community, one that goes beyond our business activities. At a time of globalisation, this responsibility also applies to our corporate sites in different countries and on different continents. 8 9 VISION 2025 “We will secure our global presence through market leadership in America and Asia. The annual turnover will exceed one billion euros by this point.” The guiding corporate principles act as a guide Mission Corporate objectives Corporate guidelines and form the core values for all employees of The Witzenmann Group is a global reference for p Profitable growth p Social responsibility and the Witzenmann Group. The guiding corporate challenging and technical engineering issues p Global supplier responsibility to society principles are the foundation for our Group's relating to vibration decoupling, absorption of p Technology and innovation leadership p Independent family company activities as well as its future development. They expansion, media transport and balancing of p Quality leadership p Reliable partner incorporate our corporate vision and describe assembly inaccuracies in piping systems. As an p Excellence in personnel p Long-term business planning the corporate objectives and strategies that experienced development partner, we offer our p Financial independence p Knowledge and learning we wish to use to achieve our vision. Vision, customers intelligent and superior solutions with p Sustainability p Equal opportunities and cultural diversity strategies and objectives determine our activiour flexible metallic elements. Our corporate ties over long-term periods. These elements are mission manifests itself in our company motto Corporate strategy Leadership principles influenced by social and technical change, as “managing flexibility”. p Growth strategy p Cooperative management style well as by market trends, and must therefore be p Globalisation and Group strategy p Entrepreneurship reviewed and modified on a continuous basis. p Technology strategy p Focus on performance The corporate guidelines are the guiding principp Quality strategy p Responsibility and encouragement les for our activities and the leadership principles p Personnel strategy p Integrity and cooperation are the benchmarks our managers use to carry p Financial strategy p Shaping change out their tasks. p Sustainability strategy p Health-orientated management 10 11 Financial data Turnover development Value creation of the Witzenmann Group 2013 500 Turnover for the Witzenmann Company performance 1 497.0 million 400 Group in millions of 1 Cost of materials 1 211.9 million 300 200 Other expenses 1 52.9 million 100 Depreciations 1 28.1 million 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Value creation 5 203.9 million Financial data for the Witzenmann Group Other shareholders Turnover 2012 2013 1 0.9 million in total millions of 1 472.9 497.1 in Germany % 35.1 33.5 in Europe (excl. Germany) % 34.2 33.1 Lenders 1 3.9 million in America % 18.0 18.4 in Asia % 12.4 14.7 Government 1 11.3 million in Africa % 0.3 0.3 Turnover by sector Shareholders of Witzenmann GmbH Automotive industry % 55.5 53.9 (dividends, retention of profits) Employees 1 165.7 million Industry % 34.9 37.7 1 22.1 million Technical building equipment % 8.4 7.2 Aerospace % 1.2 1.2 Value creation Investment and equity Value creation is produced from the company performance Investments millions of 1 32.6 30.9 minus expenses, depreciations and costs of material. It Depreciations millions of 1 25.4 28.1 quantifies the Witzenmann Group's contribution to private and Equity ratio % 49.9 51.7 public income. The graph above shows how this contribution is distributed among all the parties involved. 12 13 Responsibility Witzenmann offers all its employees the same opportunities regardless of age, sex, religion, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or disability. We strive to provide secure and rewarding jobs processes and standards relating to HR work are harmonised. Human refor our workforce, as well as giving them a stasources forums ensure regular communication between the departments. A good example of the special support offered ble standard of living. Consequently, we shape One of the aspects that is currently being discussed relates to how a global to young people is the support year, which is put working processes and career progression in our qualification system with standardised instruments could be designed and into practice at the headquarters and is based on company so that our workforce enjoy their work, implemented. An international project team has been formed to handle the a employers' association and trade union model. as well as being able to achieve a beneficial coordination of the steps. Disadvantaged young people who have poor work/life balance. All Witzenmann locations are prospects on the jobs market receive targeted designed on the basis of a broad understanding The Witzenmann Academy offers employees of the Witzenmann Group support to broaden their horizons with respect of occupational health and safety. As a family a broad range of training and professional development opportunities. A to training and employment. The young people's company, Witzenmann is particularly committed large proportion of new employees both at the headquarters and the subsiatitude for work and training are developed to continuously improving scope for combining diaries complete basic or advanced training, or take part in subject-specific where possible both within the company and at work and family for men and women alike. We seminars, knowledge or strategy forums, or management training courses school. Particular assistance is provided in terms offer more mature employees working condias they progress through the company. of helping the students get to grips with their tions which enable them to enjoy a satisfying school work and improving their social skills. The working environment even at an advanced The subsidiaries are also encouraged to act on their own initiative when aim is to enable the young people to complete stage of their career. We encourage and support it comes to putting the measures in place that are needed on site. For Witzenmann's standard training programme. non-native staff in their training and professional example, Witzenmann Korea works to raise safety awareness among its Ziver Aktas is one of the participants who has development. Group-wide cooperation between workforce and, in addition to regular health checks, it also runs campaigns made the transition to the standard dual training the Human Resources departments in the subon occupational health and safety and carries out annual employee surveys programme. sidiaries and the headquarters ensures that the on occupational safety. 14 15 COMPLIANT The “Acceptance of Benefits” guiding principles were published with the The guiding principles define the different types letter of the Executive Management on 25 October 2005 and are compulof benefits and specify the criteria for benefits sory for all employees of the Witzenmann Group. that either require or do not require approval. They also express anti-corruption codes of In accordance with these guiding principles, all employees of the Witzenconduct. The “Acceptance of Benefits” guiding mann Group are obliged to discharge their duties in an objective manner. principles are stored on the intranet of the As the acceptance of benefits can jeopardise or completely rescind this Witzenmann Group. objectivity, any suggestion of being susceptible to accepting personal benefits while carrying out their professional duties is to be avoided. In addition, it is made clear that corrupt behaviour is a punishable offence and is contrary to an employee's obligation to discharge his/her professional duties in an objective manner. 16 17 Global commitment The Witzenmann Group has been driving forward internatiWitzenmann Korea onalisation since the 1990s. Their strategy is guided by the p Cooperation with the Shinbang Elementary School. central principle of producing for the local sales markets in Sponsorship and support measures the local sales markets. This means establishing extensive (focal points: intercultural cooperation, know-how at the various sites – with respect to both products globalisation and information technology) and production processes. In the emerging markets in partip Agreement with the neighbouring Shinbang village cular, development of the sites also contributes to improving community to sponsor social projects the living conditions of the people there. In line with the guiding principle of the Witzenmann Group companies regarding Witzenmann do Brasil social responsibility and responsibility to society, the individup Support of the “Legal Apprentice” social project to develop al entities also make a contribution to their communities that the school and education system and the “Organisation goes far beyond their economic activities. Social Opportunity” social project (schooling and vocational training for disadvantaged and disabled young people) In addition to lending its support to purely charitable projects, the Group also puts sponsorship measures in place. Witzenmann Benelux The target group is primarily children and young people who p Cooperation with workshops and companies for receive support or funding for their training and professional disabled people development. Other activities include the promotion of culture p Donations to non-profit organisations and initiatives or focus on environmental conservation. (children's cancer association, Child Focus and diabetics association) The financial backing of regional cultural facilities and support of schools and higher education establishments plays a key Witzenmann China role at the headquarters. It is also worth mentioning emplop Employees encouraged to participate in “No Driving Day” yees' involvement in hands-on projects such as their active to cut down CO2 emissions support of a “duck race” held by trainees or the sale of homep Participation in “Clear your Plate” campaign baked cakes – both of which were in aid of local or national (online campaign by a non-governmental organisation charitable organisations. A whole host of examples can also against food waste) be found at our subsidiaries: p Scholarships for high-achieving students from low-income families p Donation to the Baobei Foundation, which works to help orphans 18 19 Employees & social policy Witzenmann Group workforce 2013 Germany Workforce (as at 31.12.) 28.4% Europe excl. Germany 53.8% Witzenmann Group 2012 2013 Total number of employees People 3485 3617 17.8% America and Asia in Germany People 1895 1946 in Europe excl. Germany People 1029 1026 in America/Asia People 561 645 Age distribution of the workforce at Witzenmann GmbH 2013 Witzenmann Academy Employees on the High Potential programme People 11 12 250 238 Number of employees 212 204 External costs for training and professional 1K 574 571 192 development 200 185 162 158 Number of seminars Number 285 332 150 141 123 Participants in training and professional deveNumber 474 507 lopment seminars 100 64 50 Witzenmann GmbH Total number of employees People 1638 1680 0 Up to 20 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 41 45 46 50 51 55 56 60 over 60 Non-manual workers People 634 658 20 Manual workers People 934 940 Apprentices/trainees People 70 82 Years of service of employees at Witzenmann GmbH 2013 Proportion of women % 19.5 19.6 Proportion of men % 80.5 80.4 100% Number of employees 1679 Number of part-time employees % 5.6 6.7 More than 50% of the Severely disabled persons & persons regarded People 68 67 workforce has been with as such 80% the company for over 10 years Average age In years 41.9 42.2 1146 Average length of service In years 12.3 12.5 60% More than 25% of the Participants in employee activities People 330 365 844 workforce has been with the company for over 25 years 40% 572 Health management at Witzenmann GmbH 2013 441 20% 891 occupational health checks in 2013 183 96 45 14 0% 23 Number of non-reportable accidents where employee was unable Up to 5 6 10 11 15 16 20 21 25 26 30 31 35 36 40 over 40 years to work for fewer than 3 days 45 Number of reportable accidents where employee was unable to work for more than 3 days (incl. accidents travelling to/from work) Meals sold at Witzenmann GmbH 2013 Reportable accidents 2012 2013 A total of more than 400 meals every day! For every 1000 employees Number 25.6 26.9 24,924 Daily specials and takeaway meals 33,815 90,573 Soups, salads, etc. from the counter Hot snacks 20 21 Shaping growth: an interview with from his crops. But there are limits. Forcing unrestrained What do the results of the CliCCC analysis tell us and growth will ultimately lead to failure in the long run. Take the what recommendations can we derive from them? following example: over the last few years, China has expeThe current results reveal that it is predominantly the emissiProf. Dr. Mario Schmidt rienced momentous economic growth of up to 10% per year. But when you analyse China's environmental statistics, you come to the conclusion that the damage to the environment ons associated with the supply of raw materials, for example steel and metal, that have a major impact. As in such cases a company has hardly any scope to influence their suppliers, accounts for around 10% of China's gross domestic product, i.e. in terms of how the suppliers produce their steel, one i.e. the same rate as its annual growth! So, this rapid growth recommendation could be for the company to manufacture Prof. Dr. Mario Schmidt is one of Germany's leading experts has been at the expense of the environment and was more their products in a way that uses the materials more efficion energy and material flow management and operations or less achieved by destroying the earth's natural capital. It is ently. With each kilogram of material it saves, Witzenmann resource efficiency. He has been Professor of Environmental therefore important to strike the right balance. Gluttony and also reduces its CO2 emissions. This is an aspect where it Management at Pforzheim University since 1999 and Digreed are not sustainable virtues. becomes clear that energy efficiency and climate protection rector of the university's Institute of Applied Research (IAF) are closely linked to each other. However, this only becomes since 2002. Prof. Dr. Schmidt serves on numerous commitThe need to act sustainably has been recognised by really clear when we carry out the relevant analyses. By taking tees in an advisory capacity and has been involved with the western industrialised nations. But what is the situation these emissions into consideration, we are also taking responParliamentary Advisory Council on Sustainable Development globally? How can we reconcile emerging economies sibility for the upstream value chain. Because it is important in Baden-Württemberg since 2012. He has been working aspirations for growth with sustainable business practo know where the raw materials and preliminary products closely with Witzenmann as part of a research project that tices? come from and how they are produced. Environmental and sets out to determine greenhouse gas emissions. With the It is always easy to make tough demands of others from the social conditions – and not just the price – have a role to play. aid of the “Climate & Carbon Calculator for Companies” comfort of your sofa! But we all know that it has little effect Witzenmann recognises this, which is great. (CliCCC) method, which was developed by his team, Prof. on our football teams. And when it comes to sustainability, Dr. Schmidt has spent the last few years calculating the these tough demands are directed at everyone. We also need Finally, what is your personal outlook on the future – trend of CO2 emissions generated by our company based on to bear in mind the fact that many of us aren't simply sitting are you concerned or optimistic? preliminary work and preliminary products. on a comfy sofa. The overwhelming majority of people on this Based on his assessment, “environmental and social planet aren't suffering from excess – they are affected by a Neither! I see the future as a challenge, as an organisational conditions – and not just the price – have a role to shortage of material goods. And that determines economic task. I don't agree with the Cassandra complex, as it stops us play. Witzenmann recognises this, which is great!” growth, even material growth! So we need to shape growth, from taking action. But ignorance of environmental problems make it environmentally and socially compatible, and make is also not the right way to go. Yet for decades this was the significant improvements in environmental and resource position held by business, and one that lots of companies and efficiency. We can use our knowledge and our strengths to do certain regions still take – just take a look at China. However, this. With global teamwork. we are also partly responsible for the damage that has been done to the environment there because we love being able Witzenmann is one of the companies that use the to get cheap products from China. Unfortunately, we will Sustainability is the latest buzzword that everyone is interconnected. It is therefore difficult to say how well we CliCCC analysis that you and your team developed to probably have to live with certain environmental problems for talking about. Which aspects do you find particularly are doing right now. The question we should really be asking determine their greenhouse gas emissions. What are a long time to come as we as a human race cannot agree on important? ourselves is as follows: What are our strengths as an industhe advantages of this method, in particular for medisolutions quick enough. We will therefore have to accept that It is a question of ensuring that we as a society are able to retrialised nation in the context of these global challenges? um-sized industrial operations and small companies? some species will become extinct, that a certain amount of main in existence over the long term; first and foremost, that Knowledge, innovations, technological progress – all made CliCCC is a climate assessment tool that allows us not only climate change will take place and that the environment will we protect the environment on which we depend, that we are possible thanks to our highly developed infrastructure and the to look at the greenhouse gas emissions released by Witzenchange as a whole. In many respects that is a very depressing able to create living conditions that are fit for everyone on this social stability in our country. mann, but which also takes into account indirect emissions thought! But, on the other hand, humans are the world's most planet, and that our descendants are not worse off than we (known as climate rucksacks) that are caused by the materials adaptable species. And apparently we are also an intelligent are today. These are demanding goals and ones which we are Companies need to operate with a focus on profit. that are purchased, by suppliers or by what we refer to as the one ... so we need to start acting like it! And the sooner the a long way from achieving. But we are working on it ... Measures for improving sustainability are renowned upstream chain. In the industry, these are known as scope 3 better. for swallowing up a lot of money and for restricting emissions. However, it is not always easy to get hold of the How much work is still to be done in Germany and in growth. Is that really the case? figures for suppliers, particularly for medium-sized compaNote: The results of the CliCCC analysis are presented towards the end of this report. Baden-Württemberg? No, not necessarily. Growth is a natural occurrence and nies who are unable to exert any pressure on them. That's Sustainability is a state that we can actually only assess in doesn't have to be at odds with sustainability. The whole of why we use methods based on national accounts, which we retrospect. And, strictly speaking, it is something that can nature is constantly changing as a result of growth processes. have then methodically enhanced and which provide us with only be evaluated on a global scale, as everything today is When a farmer cultivates his field, he then lives off the growth estimates for the upstream chains. 22 23 innovative development 3 product generations: the first series-production component (left), compact component (centre) and filter element Boasting a broad range of products, Witzenmann offers troubleshooting ted in various customer vehicle series. In addisolutions for vibration decoupling, expansion compensation in pipelines, tion to the space saved with what are still tight flexible mounting and conveying of various fluids. As a development installation conditions, the integrated solution partner for customers ranging from the automotive and industrial sector, is simpler with respect to design, coordination technical building equipment and other markets to the aerospace industry, and assembly with a level of pressure loss that Witzenmann has its own machinery/tool and prototype construction deis lower in functional terms. Using LP EGR offers partments as well as comprehensive testing equipment. Intensive coopeconsumption savings in selected cases of up to ration with customers and in-house development work allows Witzenmann 15% for petrol engines. to make continual, innovative improvements to its products and processes. In the automotive industry, Witzenmann supports its customers in impleElectromobility – battery technology menting environmentally friendly and efficiency enhancing solutions. The flexible corrugated hoses which are installed in the hybrid series of another customer are Exhaust gas recirculation lines already in series production. This hybrid concept The exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) lines are used to remove fractions of requires the installation of high-performance the exhaust gas flow from the exhaust system and to resupply this to the electric accumulators. Generators on the wheels fresh intake air upstream of the combustion process in the cylinder. This convert the kinetic energy generated during results in a significant drop in combustion temperatures, which in turn braking into electricity and store this in these generates a sustainable reduction in NOX and CO2 emissions in compli“additional batteries”. Electric traction is stored ance with the tightened statutory requirements. In modern turbo engines, from these accumulators. If the accumulators particularly diesel engines and increasingly petrol engines too, the exhaust become overloaded, gases are emitted that must gas is removed downstream of the particulate filter in the low-pressure not be allowed to enter the passenger compartsection and routed back to the exhaust gas turbocharger compressor ment. Witzenmann provides elements that admit in a cooled state. This exhaust gas contains soot and can also carry tiny these gases at the battery units and convey ceramic particles along with it, which can cause damage to the blades of them outside underneath the vehicle. the compressor wheel. To prevent this, high-temperature-resistant filter screens have to be installed in what is known as the low-pressure exhaust gas recirculation system (LP EGR). Witzenmann has developed a special component with a filter screen, which has now been successfully integra24 25 Prevention Car and commercial vehicle suppliers in particuEnd-to-end approach lar are being confronted with strict cleanliness Aspects relating to technical cleanliness are also incorporated in project requirements from their customers. This is evaluation and production coordination processes. Even before a tender is primarily due to the increasing use of componsubmitted, these aspects are optimally coordinated with one another along is better ents and systems installed close to the engine with all the parameters relevant to the product and production. Comprewhich are susceptible to contamination as well hensive information is available for this purpose via a knowledge database as longer warranty periods. Beyond looking at and regular training courses. The result of this end-to-end approach is customer requirements, it is also worth considean order processing strategy that is optimised in terms of resources and ring technical cleanliness from the point of view procedures. than cleaning of sustainability. Wherever possible, Witzenmann attempts to ensure the required level of technical Technology transfer throughout the global production network cleanliness based on the concept of prevention Witzenmann produces its “cleanliness” components at its Pforzheim headand process optimisation. In addition to avoiding quarters as well as at Witzenmann sites in Belgium, the Czech Republic, the use of most cleaning agents that are harmful Slovakia, China and the USA. Thanks to the database mentioned above, to the environment, this approach also saves on intensive exchanges of information between company representatives and resources. subject-specific workshops, Witzenmann is able to transfer its technological knowledge right across the Group, including with regard to technical Technical cleanliness is becoming increasingly cleanliness. The installation of western European standards for production important in modern industrial production. processes and manufacturing equipment goes hand in hand with the transfer of technologies and cleanliness requirements. As a result, the company is able to ensure that the right facilities are in place with respect to occupational safety and guarantee a high-quality working environment. Production sites with cleanliness requirements Korea Japan China India Germany Headquarters Poland Czech Republic Sweden Russia United Kingdom Slovakia Belgium Austria ASIA USA France Brazil Spain Italy EUROPE AMERICA 26 27 Managing The varied nature of the steering committee's work ranges from specific projects to higher-level coordination measures. sustainability The sustainability steering committee held its The committee concerns itself with the areas of human rights, labour Material flow accounting This process analysis reveals the added value inaugural meeting on 12 April 2013 and has standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption, discusses One example is the material flow accounting project. This involves carrying that is lost and is therefore highly significant with been meeting on a regular basis since then. The these as a management-level and interdisciplinary team, and formulates out an end-to-end analysis of the material and energy flows within a comrespect to the material, cost and environmencommittee's key tasks include bringing together measures and proposals for action for the Executive Management. The pany. As part of this approach, all of the expenditure required for a productal efficiency of a production process. In close and coordinating the measures, campaigns and topics to be dealt with cover a broad spectrum and are often closely tion process is given a monetary value and potential areas for improvement cooperation with students from the Resource efforts of Witzenmann with respect to doing interrelated in various ways and at a wide range of levels. The members of are determined. Efficiency Management degree programme at business sustainably. The steering committee is the steering committee ensure that all the relevant issues for a subject are In contrast to the standard accounting process, the hidden costs relating to Pforzheim University, Witzenmann has carried led by the company's sustainability officer, Philip taken into account to the greatest extent possible. material loss are also incorporated into the calculation. out a material flow accounting case study based Paschen, and meets to discuss the relevant These are the wage, material and investment costs, etc. that are included on a metal bellows production process – with themes: in the part of the material that is lost as waste (e.g. an offcut of sheet interesting results. Material flow accounting p Klaus Althuon, Electronics Workshop Foreman metal). provides Witzenmann with a new perspective on p Tobias Reisacher, electronics workshop its processes and the efficient structure of the p Ulrike Brandauer, Marketing and P2 Ar/H2 method offers the opportunity to make environPublic Relations mental and economic optimisations. p Alexandra Funk-Suttheimer, Controlling p Sven Luekermann, HR Management, Health P2 argon Management Legend p Ulrich Noeding, Materials Management p Rene Pflittner, Environmental Protection Process input P2 pneumatic systems Officer Process output The thickness of the lines reflects the P20: electricity size of the material flows TWM Tube welding machine T1: Delivery T2.1: TWM set-up T2.2: Tube welding Coil (sheet metal) Material loss: 4 kg Material loss: 11 kg Material loss: 66 kg 28 29 Striking the right balance In addition to making trendsetting, strategic decisions, doing business sustainably also involves taking targeted, coordinated measures. Witzenmann do Brasil, Pinhaís – Paraná Target p Ensuring and promoting environmentally friendly production procedures Implementation p Regular measurement and evaluation of factors affecting the environment (energy use, amounts of waste, emulsions that need to be disposed of) Headquarters, Pforzheim Witzenmann Benelux, Oelegem-Ranst Headquarters, Pforzheim Target end of 2013 Remchingen site Target Target April 2013 p 5% reduction in cardboard boxes compared to 171 t Target February 2013 p Integration of employees with disabilities p Reduction in energy consumed by the cleaning in 2012 p Reduction in annual energy consumption by 75 MWh and Implementation system (around 10% by doubling capacity) Implementation annual electricity consumption by 16 MWh p Integration of two employees with hearing impairments Implementation p Optimisation of supplier packaging through increased use Implementation p Purchase of a state-of-the-art aqueous ultrasonic of mega boxes, circulating pallets, small load carriers – rep Installation and set-up of a centralised Witzenmann Group cleaning system duction not yet achieved. The target is still being pursued. compressed air supply system at the Remchingen site Target p Proof of origin for all conflict minerals: Headquarters, Pforzheim Headquarters, Pforzheim Witzenmann China, Jiangyin City tin (Sn), tantalum (Ta) and tungsten (W) Target May 2013 Target end of 2013 Target Implementation p Reduction in energy consumed by exterior lighting p 5% reduction in paper consumed by photocopiers p Reinforcement of general environmental p Complete check of all materials used. at main plant and printers compared to 2011 protection The analysis revealed around 40 materials containing Implementation (4.7 million sheets) Implementation conflict minerals that are used in Witzenmann products p 20 conventional, 400 W exterior lights replaced by Implementation p Company waste-sorting and collection of used batteries and whose origins can be checked in order to ensure to 60 W LED lights p Absolute consumption reduced by approx. 2% by the end p Raising awareness of how to save water and electricity the greatest extent possible that these do not come from p All exterior lights at the main plant premises now of 2013, despite increased number of employees. The target p Participation in no driving days to reduce “protected countries”. The underlying objective is to protect use LED technology is still being pursued. CO2 emissions mine workers in Central Africa. 30 31 Climate assessment CliCCC – Climate & Carbon Calculator for Companies As in 2010 and 2012, in 2013 Witzenmann Most of the emissions are in the goods category comprising pig iron, steel GmbH has again had its carbon footprint (the and semi-finished iron and steel products, which makes up 36% of all greenhouse gas emissions for the headquarters) recognised emissions with 32,800 t CO2 equivalent. The same applies to measured for its Pforzheim and Remchingen the goods category comprising metal products, which has 22,161 t CO2 sites. The CliCCC analysis is a climate assessequivalent and is therefore also above the total emissions from scope 2. ment tool that not only takes into account the Within scope 2, electricity dominates with 6,624 t CO2 equivalent. Scope greenhouse gases emitted directly by the com1 is of secondary importance with a score of 916 t CO2 equivalent. The pany, but which also considers the emissions detailed results are presented in graph form on pages 32 and 33. caused by the materials that are purchased and the suppliers in what is known as the upstream Compared with the results from 2012, the recognised total emissions have chain. The emissions are divided into three catedecreased by 24%. This improvement is due to a reduction in emissions of gories of observation, scopes 1-3. 27% in scope 3. Emissions from scope 1 and scope 2 have increased by 19% and 8% respectively. Scope 1 Direct emissions caused by production and opeThe main approach for achieving further improvements to the CO2 balance ration of the company. is to investigate whether and at what point the material intensity of the production processes can be reduced. Scope 2 Weighted emissions caused by the generation and supply of energy for the company. 120,000 100,000 Scope 3 t CO2 equivalent CO2 balance of the raw materials and semi-finis80,000 hed products used, but also the emissions gene60,000 rated in the manufacture of tools and machines used in production. From the composition of the 40,000 results for the 2013 reporting year, it is clear that 20,000 most of the emissions come from scope 3. 0 2010 2012 2013 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 32 33 CliCCC – composition of the results 120,000 Scope 1 Natural gas Heating oil Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) Diesel 100,000 Scope 2 Electricity (specific emission factor) District heating 80,000 Scope 3 Pig iron, steel, semi-finished iron and steel products Metal products t CO2 equivalent 60,000 Foundry products P. Electricity, service for electricity, heating and cooling supply from tier 2 Chemical products Rubber and plastic products Other preliminary work (extrapolated on the basis of 91.62% of expected P. 40,000 emissions from preliminary work) P. Machines Other fixed assets (extrapolated on the basis of 91.72% of expected emissions from fixed assets) 20,000 P. = preliminary work F. = fixed assets F. F. F. 0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Not assessed Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 (P. & F.) (P. & F.) (P. & F.) 2010 2011 2012 2013 34 35 Environmental protection As a leading company in the industry of flexible metallic HCI solvent balance elements, we feel a particular degree of responsibility to stand Optimisation of the PER system in the fz-pEGR production proup for the protection and conservation of natural resources. cess has led to a clear reduction in the amount of HCI solvent Early on, we committed to corporate management based on requiring disposal. This was also despite a significant increase the careful use of resources. Since 1997, we have regularly in the operating hours for the system. published an environmental report in which we document our environmental protection system, how we use our resources and other important key data relating to the environment. You 4.0 will find a comprehensive presentation of the current data on 3.7 3.5 pages 32 to 34. 3.0 2.7 2.5 Waste management 2.0 For many years, we have been achieving a high recycling rate. 1.5 Only 0.8% of our waste requires disposal. 1.27 1.0 0.76 0.57 0.47 0.5 99.2% recycled 0.0 2011 Disposal in tons 2012 2013 Emissions in tons Water consumption At Witzenmann, approx. 90% of water is used for sanitary 10,000 9394 purposes. With around 37 litres per employee per day, con8000 6778 sumption is low and thus largely optimised. 6981 6000 4000 37 l of water consumed per employee 2000 2011 Operating hours per year 2012 2013 36 37 Technology and ecology Contact Innovation Witzenmann GmbH 2012 2013 Employee suggestion scheme (ESS) Number of suggestions 159 218 Performance improvement due to ESS 1K 927 604 Continuous improvement process (CIP) Number of suggestions 797 708 Innovative ideas Number 81 167 Innovation campaigns Number 0 2 Innovation projects initiated Number 11 24 Philip Paschen René Pflittner Jochen Geiger Patent applications Number 37 48 The Head of the Corporate Staff DeIn his role as the Environmental The Head of the Marketing and partment at Witzenmann GmbH is Protection Officer, he is the person Public Relations department at Environment/environmental report responsible for strategic planning, to contact with regard to all Witzenmann GmbH is responsible lean management, sustainability internal and external questions for editing the sustainability report. Witzenmann GmbH 2011 2012 2013 and compliance. relating to the environment and Procurement turnover Millions of € 120.3 127.9 127.8 Witzenmann GmbH. Plates/tubes/wire % 17 17 17 Parts/components % 75 74 75 Energy/auxiliary materials % 8 9 8 Waste management Total volume of waste t 2450 2392 2262 Recycling rate % 99.3 99.1 99.2 Water consumption 1000 cbm 35.7 25.4 24.7 HCI solvent balance Disposal t 3.7 2.7 1.27 Emissions t 0.57 0.47 0.76 Imprint Space utilisation % 152 % 152 % 148 % Energy Electricity draw MWh 17,223 16,425 16,275 Electricity draw/1 million € of turnover 1 62.9 58.0 58.9 Building heating Publisher: District heating MWh 9973 9261 9456 Executive Management at Witzenmann GmbH, Postfach 101280, 75112 Pforzheim, Germany Natural gas MWh 1909 1954 1968 Energy requirement/1000 employees MWh 7.8 7.1 7.3 Author of the environmental report: René Pflittner, Environmental Protection Officer Editor: Marketing Witzenmann GmbH, Phone: +49 (0)7231 581-208 Environmentally relevant incidents Design: Schindler Parent Industry GmbH, Eutinger Str. 2, 75175 Pforzheim, Germany Date Incident Action 16 May 2012 Trail of oil from gate 1 to corner of building 2 Covered and absorbed with oil binder 29 May 2012 Hydraulic oil leak during machine set-up work by external Oil covered with binder and absorbed company 13 August 2012 Exhauster fell over in the yard during disposal of Approx. 200 litres of coolant absorbed with 4 sacks bandsaw coolant from the steel bearing of oil binder 25 August 2012 Hydraulic oil leak from hot test stand – significant oil loss Absorbed with oil binder 27 August 2012 Disposal of oil binder General subsequent work 38 39
