BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 1 of 26 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Section A: General Information about the company 1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the company : L24239MH1939PLC002893 2. Name of the company : Tata Chemicals Limited 3. Registered address: Bombay House, 24 Homi Mody Street, Fort, Mumbai400 001 4. Website: www.tatachemicals.com 5. Email id: corporate_communications@tatachemicals.com; sustainability@tatachemicals.com 6. Financial Year reported: April 1, 2013 – March 31, 2014 7. Sector(s) that the company is engaged in (industrial activity code-wise): Group Description 107 Processing of salt into food-grade salt 201 Manufacture of Chemicals and Fertilisers 239 Manufacture of clinkers and cement 089 Salt production by evaporation of sea water 081 Quarrying / mining of Limestone 462 Wholesale of Pulses 477 Retail sale of seeds, Fertilisers, pesticides, machinery equipment and hand tools 360 Water Purifiers As per National Industrial Classification – Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation 8. List three key products / services that the company manufactures / provides (as in balance sheet): • Edible Salt • Chemicals: Soda Ash, Sodium Bicarbonate, Cement • Fertilisers, Urea and Agri inputs 9. Total number of locations where business activity is undertaken by the company: • Number of International Locations : USA, UK, Kenya, Singapore • Number of National Locations: Mithapur, Babrala, Haldia, Chennai 10. Markets served by the company Local / State / National / International: All BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 2 of 26 Section B: Financial Details of the company as on March 31, 2014 FY 14 Standalone Rs. FY 14 Consolidated Rs. Sr. (Crores) (Crores) 1 Paid up capital (INR) 254.82 254.82 2 Total turnover (net of excise) (INR) 8,689.64 15,895.43 Total profit after taxes, share of loss 3 of associate and minority interest 436.07 -1,032.00 (INR) Total spending on Corporate Social 4 Responsibility (CSR) as percentage of 2.93% of Standalone PAT (Rs. 12.76 Crores) profit after tax (%) 5. List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above has been incurred: As per Schedule VII (I) Total Social & Community Development • Eradicating hunger, poverty and malnutrition • Promoting healthcare including preventive healthcare • Sanitation and making available clean drinking water • Promoting education including special education especially amongst children, women, elderly, and the differently abled • Employment enhancing vocation skills especially amongst children, women, elderly, and the differently abled • Livelihood enhancement projects • Promoting gender equality, empowering women, setting up homes and hostels for women and orphans • Setting up old age homes, day care centers and such other facilities for senior citizens • Measures for reducing inequalities faced by socially and economically backward groups • Protection of natural heritage, art and culture including restoration of buildings and sites of historical importance and works of art; setting up public libraries • Promotion and development of traditional arts and handicrafts • Measures for the benefit of armed forces veterans, war widows and their dependents • Training to promote rural sports, nationally recognized sports, Paralympic sports and Olympic sports • Contribution to the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund and any other fund set up by the Central Government for socio-economic development and relief and welfare of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, other backward castes, minorities and women • Contributions of funds provided to technology incubators located within academic institutions which are approved by the Central Government • Rural development projects • Office Salary, miscellaneous expenses, general expenses (II) Environmental & Conservation of Natural Resource projects • Ensuring environmental sustainability, ecological balance, protection of flora and fauna, animal welfare, agroforestry, conservation of natural resources and maintaining quality of soil, air and water (III) Donations exempt under IT section 80G, 35AC in areas other than the above BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 3 of 26 Section C: Other Details 1. Does the company have any Subsidiary company / companies? Yes. The number of subsidiary companies of Tata Chemicals Limited as on March 31, 2014: 43 2. Do the Subsidiary company / companies participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent company? If yes, then indicate the number of such subsidiary company(s) Yes. Tata Chemicals Limited encourages its subsidiary companies to participate in its group wide Business Responsibility (BR) initiatives on a wide range of topics. All subsidiaries are aligned to the activities under the aegis of Tata Group. 3. Do any other entity / entities (e.g. suppliers, distributors etc.), that the company does business with, participate in the BR initiatives of the company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of such entity / entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%] We do not mandate that our suppliers and partners participate in the Company’s BR initiatives; however, they are encouraged to do so. Less than 30% BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 4 of 26 Section D: BR Information 1. Details of Director / Directors responsible for BR: a) Details of the Director / Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy / policies: • DIN Number: 00778253 • Name: Mr. R. Mukundan • Designation: Managing Director b) Details of the BR head: Sr. Particulars Details 1 DIN Number (if applicable) NA 2 Name Ms Alka Talwar 3 Designation HeadSustainability and Corporate Communication 4 Telephone Number 022-66437430 5 e-mail id sustainability@tatachemicals.com; atalwar@tatachemicals.com 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy / policies (Reply in Y / N): The National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVGs) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility. These briefly areas under: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and P1 Accountability. Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability P2 throughout their life cycle. P3 Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees. Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, P4 especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights. P6 Businesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment. Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a P7 responsible manner. P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development. Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a P9 responsible manner. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 5 of 26 Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy / policies (Reply in Y / N): Sr. Question P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Do you have a policy / policies 1 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y for Has the policy been 2 formulated in consultation with Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y the relevant stakeholders? Y Y Y Y Y Does the policy conform to Y Y (UN Y (OHS (UN Y (Tata Code of (UN any national / international (SA(Respon 3 Global (RC/ISO AS – Global (ISOConduct Global standards? If Yes, Specify (50 8000 sible words)* Compact 14001) 1800 Compact 14001) conforms to Compact ) Care) -GRI) 1) _GRI) NVG) -GRI) Has the policy been approved Y Y Y Y Y by the Board? If yes, has it been signed by 4 MD / Owner / CEO / Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a specified committee of the 5 Board/Director / Official to Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y oversee the implementation of the policy? Indicate the link for the policy 6 http://www.tatachemicals.com/Sustainability/sustainability_report.htm to be viewed online? Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant 7 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y internal and external stakeholders? Does the company have in8 house structure to implement Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y the policy/policies? Does the company have a grievance Redressal mechanism related to the 9 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/policies? Has the company carried out independent audit /evaluation 10 of the working of this policy by Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y an internal or external agency? * Note – Our Policies are linked to the following National / International Standards :RC 14001, OHSAS – 18001, GRI, SA-8000, ISO-9001, ISO-14001 and UNGC. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 6 of 26 2a. If answer to Sr. No. 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2 options) Product Human Rights Environment Public Policy Stakeholder Business Wellbeing of Customer Engagement CSR Ethics Sr. Question Relations Responsibility Employees &CSR P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 The company has not 1. understood the Principles The company is not at a stage where it finds itself in 2. a position to formulate and implement the policies on specified Principles The company does not have financial or NA 3. manpower resources available for the task It is planned to be done 4. within next six months It is planned to be done 5. within next one year Any other reason (please 6. specify) 3. Governance related to BR: • Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO assesses the BR performance of the company. Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than 1 year: Within 3 months • Does the company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this report? How frequently it is published? Yes, TCL publishes GRI based Sustainability Report and UN Global Compact COP and Investor CDP report yearly. The Link for viewing this report is: http://www.tatachemicals.com/Sustainability/sustainability_report.htm BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 7 of 26 Section E: Principle-wise Performance Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? No 2. Does it extend to the Group / Joint Ventures / Suppliers / Contractors / NGOs / Others? • Yes, Tata Code of conduct defines the commitment on ethical behavior by the Company. Tata Chemicals has an elaborate system and processes on the ‘management of business ethics’ and all employees sign the Tata Code of Conduct. The Company has a Chief Ethics Counselor located at corporate office. Each site has an Ethics Counselor. Tata Code of conduct provides an opportunity to all employees / stakeholders to communicate any unethical act of any employee or any unethical practice to the ethics counselors. • The Tata Code of Conduct is sent to all suppliers with the contract, for their perusal in respect of relevant clauses. Awareness programmes are conducted on Tata Code of Conduct for all employees across the locations and corporate and marketing offices. 3. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 21 complaints (including 4 of the previous year) were received from various stakeholders in the year 2013-14, 85.72% of these were satisfactorily resolved. Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and / or opportunities. (i) Customized Fertilizer – “Paras Farmoola”: An innovative offering “Paras Farmoola” — Ek Mein Sab — customized fertiliser is an R&D-based offering, area (soil) and cropspecific nutrient which enhances crop productivity, promotes balanced application of nutrients and improves soil health. (ii) Water Purifier – Tata Swach: Safe drinking water is a basic of human needs and its non-availability has been a major concern worldwide. The vision for Tata Swach is to reduce the incidence of water borne diseases by making safe drinking water accessible to all. Tata Swach is an offline household water purification system which purifies water without electricity or running water. Since launch, Tata Swach has been the recipient of many prestigious awards across the world. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 8 of 26 (iii) Agri-Solutions Services – Tata Kisan Sansar & Tata Kisan Parivar: Tata Kisan Sansar (TKS) is one-stop agri input shop to a ‘one-stop farmer’s solution shop’ offering a range of agri products and services and played important role in empowering farmer community. The Tata Kisan Parivar Membership Program is a unique relationship Initiative aimed at the most important stakeholder in the value chain – the end consumer, farmer. This is a bond with selective membership, which attracts the progressive farmer with a positive attitude. TKS provides a range of innovative and unique services to farmers through a dedicated team of Krishi Preraks and Agronomists on the field, giving them that extra edge over traditional farming practices thus empowering farmer community. TKS promotes value added activities like organizing farmer meets, repository of agriculture knowledge, soil, water and plant testing laboratory, demonstration farms etc. thus help improve agriculture yield. Enhance in farm produce positively contribute in national food security, farmer socio-economic improvement and enhance CO2 capture. Through our 681 Tata Kisan Sansars we cover around 22,000 villages and reach out to approx. 2.7 million farmers. (iv) Tata Salt: It is a pioneer in promoting iodized salt in the country. Double fortified salt (with Iron) is a new innovation targeting the social concern of anemia within the country. (v) Pulses: Dal (pulses) is the mainstay of a majority of Indians, cutting across social and economic strata. Tata I-Shakti was launched with the mission to not only bridge the existing gap between demand and supply of pulses in the country; but also provide reliable quality, hygienic pulses to Indian households and pioneer the 'unpolished dals' category. Launched in 2010, it is now available across 21 states in India. Following the Farm-to-Fork model, the pulses are sourced through a strong network of farmer groups of the Company in order to provide quality, healthy, tasty and nutritious product to the consumers. The brand also introduced the Dal on Call initiative to drive direct sales connect with consumers. 2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of product (optional): i. Reduction during sourcing / production / distribution achieved since the previous year throughout the value chain • In one of the improvement exercise we have redesigned our Tata Swach Bulb last year. The earlier design of triangular bulb is replaced with new existing design of spaceship type bulb. • In this exercise we could bring down the plastic consumption from 385 grams to 297 grams. So a total of 88 grams per unit of reduction has been achieved. The plastic resin predominantly being used is ABS (Acrylonitrile Butadiene Styrene). ii. Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the previous year? BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 9 of 26 3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including transportation)? If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Yes, TCL has developed supplier sustainability code and has established process for vendor selection. This includes various factors; like Tata Code of Conduct, SA8000, ISO certification, etc. For sustainable transportation the following interventions have been taken up: efficient fleet access, full load based transportation, reuse of packaging material, Bulker movements – deployment of German designed patented LUPA Bulkers to help reduce carbon footprint. Bulker helps in continuing journey towards pollution prevention, minimization of waste, eliminating the efforts of packaging, loading and unloading. It has an approximate capacity of 25 tonnes and can replace 3 million plastic bags each year. 4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local and small producers, including communities surrounding their place of work? If yes, what steps have been taken to improve the capacity and capability of local and small vendors? Yes, TCL has vendor development program. Over the years TCL has promoted local contractors and service providers and provide them opportunities as and when it arises. Additionally, the Company has also promoted skills and livelihood development in the neighboring community through various training and community development programs. The Company has also established an apprentice training center to improve capacity and skills of more than 100 apprentices every year. TCL provides support to people from socially backward community background. 5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes, what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste? (Separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. At TCL we focus on effective integration with the basic philosophy of resource optimization, use of alternative sources and maximization of “recycle and reuse” by innovation. Our cement plant at Mithapur is unique waste to wealth initiative in which in 2013-14 we have replaced 69% of virgin chemical grade limestone with recycled material like limestone fines, fly ash, effluent solids etc. Our soda ash filtration system is the first of its kind in the world and solids are filtered out of the wastewater using Larox filters. Filtered solids i.e., ESF cake is utilized to make cement. 100% of phospho-gypsum generated during manufacturing of phosphoric acid is sold as by-product. The Sulphur sludge generated in Sulphuric acid manufacturing is used as filler in Single Super Phosphate. It reduces virgin material consumption, silver sand as well as provides additional nutrient to plants as elemental Sulphur. Utilization of molten Sulphur, a neighboring refinery by-product is sourced through specially designed steam jacketed tankers directly. Utilization of molten Sulphur reduces equivalent quantity of imported Sulphur from Middle East countries. Most of our hazardous waste is recyclable and sent to MoEF approved recyclers. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials: Mithapur and Haldia Parameter Unit 2013-14 Limestone replaced % 73.39 Sulphur Sludge % 12.28 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 10 of 26 Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees 1. Please indicate the Total number of employees: 3113 Employees in TCL India operations as on March 31, 2014 2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary / contractual / casual basis: 5027 as on March 31, 2014 3. Please indicate the number of permanent women employees: 128 as on March 31, 2014 4. Please indicate the number of permanent employees with disabilities: 17 as on March 31, 2014 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management?: Yes 6. What percentage of your permanent employees are members of this recognized employee association?: 41% 7. Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. No. of complaints filed No. of complaints pending Sr. Category during the financial as on end of the financial year year Child labour / forced labour / 1 NIL NIL involuntary labour 2 Sexual harassment 1 0 3 Discriminatory employment NIL NIL 8. What percentage of your under mentioned employees were given safety and skill up-gradation training in the last year? a. Permanent Employees: 89% b. Permanent Women Employees: 92% c. Casual / Temporary / Contractual Employees: 89% d. Employees with Disabilities: 72% It is mandatory for all employees to go through the safety training at sites. Refresher on safety is also conducted on regular basis. At Non-sites we conduct safety committee meetings & Drills for all employees. Last year, we conducted programs on road safety for employees in offices. Drivers were also covered in this program Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized 1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes / No Yes. The Company has mapped its stakeholders as a part of its stakeholder engagement strategy development process. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 11 of 26 2. Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders? Yes. We have a defined process for identifying key communities, their need and prioritizing interventions. Our key community consists of areas in and around our plant sites. Criteria for selection of key community are based on our Mission, Vision and Values (MVV), neighborhood of the area where we operate, impact on society and benefit to underprivileged people. The needs are identified through various listening and learning methods, participatory rural appraisal, need assessment etc. The needs are prioritized based on parameters that help balance both the needs of the community and our long term strategic growth. 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Yes. The Company follows an integrated development approach, which specifically targets the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. Through its key programs, it has been making the difference in the lives of haves not since 1980. The details of the key programs are as follows: • Natural resources management: This includes programs on water management and conservation, land improvement / development and rural energy. We have adopted a multifold approach to address water management through water harvesting, water recharging, adopting methods to stop ingress of salinity, roof rain water harvesting, etc. Non-conventional rural energy is promoted in the rural areas with solar lanterns, solar street lighting, and smokeless cooking stoves. To meet the objective of raising the agriculture productivity, land development project was undertaken. Under this, reclaiming the land through gypsum treatment has been the key focus. • Development of Sustainable livelihoods: TCL helps the community, especially in its neighborhood to utilize the available resources to its maximum and develop & enhance their skills to achieve sustainable livelihood. Program target both farm based programs such as agriculture and animal husbandry growth along with nonfarm based programs such as enterprise and skill development training. The projects include SHG formation, rural entrepreneurship program; vocational training, rural BPO and handicraft promotion. Rural entrepreneurship development program have been promoted as a way to create sustainable livelihood. Uday foundation, a Rural BPO helps in providing training and employment to the rural youth at Babrala and Mithapur. • Promoting quality of life through health, education and infrastructure development projects: The organization has initiated several programs to give a boost to the education situation. The projects include promotion of higher education through distance learning course provided by SNDT, scholarships; book bank, adult education, Bal utsav, infrastructure support to primary as well as secondary govt. school, besides supporting a number of schools in the neighborhood which also benefit the community. More than 60% of the students are from the neighboring communities. • The Company also runs a large hospital that provides services to the community at a subsidized rate. Health projects include reproductive and child health program, AIDS awareness program, and eye camp. Other initiative have also been taken up to improve sanitation and hygiene for the local people • Empowerment: Self Help Groups (SHGs) and Community Based Organizations (CBOs) are the backbone of the development program initiated by the organization as it completely believes in sustainable development. It has been promoting the formation of both the SHGs and CBOs and has been working towards building their capacity building through various need based training programs taken up periodically. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 12 of 26 Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights 1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to the Group / Joint Ventures / Suppliers / Contractors / NGOs / others? Company follows Principles of the International Declaration of Human Rights. Its policies support, respect and protect the Human rights of its direct as well as indirect employees. The sustainability Policy addresses these aspects. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the Management? None with respect to Human rights violation Principle 6: Businesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment 1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the Group / Joint Ventures / Suppliers / Contractors / NGOs / Others? • TCL has made Supplier Sustainability Guidelines to extend the reach for capturing the sustainability aspect data from its suppliers. The Company also works with Government, NGOs on different projects for environmental protection. • TCL’s Environmental policy extends support to all stakeholders influencing the entire value chain. This also helps in sustaining environmental impacts beyond the prescribed limits and address social responsibility. 2. Does the company have strategies / initiatives to address global environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc.? Y / N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc. • Yes. Tata Chemicals has adopted Tata Group’s Climate Change Policy which is an integral part of The Company’s strategy to help the organization’s growth in a Carbon conscious manner. • The Company has strategy, which includes: identifying opportunities for carbon abatement, investing in low carbon growth and tapping into opportunities presented by the emerging low carbon technologies. It has identified abatement levers, low carbon growth opportunities and carbon offset opportunities towards that end. The carbon abatement measures are chosen on the basis of the techno-commercial feasibility of implementation, maturity and availability of technologies and the magnitude of emissions reduction. Biodiversity • Tata Chemicals owns about 318 sq. km area and out of which 0.39 sq. km area at Mithapur has been categorized under Marine National Park (MNP) and forests. In Mithapur plant, brine is transferred through pipeline, which passes through MNP, and treated effluent is discharged into sea through an open channel. • We conduct EIA studies to assess the impacts of its operation on nearby biodiversity and surrounding environment. The findings of study illustrates that no significant negative impact has been observed on the native flora and fauna. • While operating in harsh ecological conditions/semi-arid conditions at Mithapur site, highly alkaline soil conditions at Babrala site, TCL has restored the ecological balance in the surroundings habitats by converting waste lands into greenbelt. • Our commitment towards continual improvement is triggering new programs such as grassland development, Mangrove conservation and regeneration at West coast near Mithapur and at East Coast for Aila affected region of Sundarban near Haldia. • For preserving biodiversity of Okhamandal we conducted biodiversity reserve plantation project, implemented with the support of employee volunteers, seeks to preserve indigenous vegetation. Under the project, 90 acres were afforested with 12 native species of vegetation. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 13 of 26 • We have initiated the process for Bio-diversity mapping and improving the same at Babrala township area. We continue to support species conservation efforts through the Dharti Ko Arpan programs detailed in the community support section. • Our salt works provide a safe habitat for a number of migratory aquatic birds, who use this space to roost and breed. We continue to be good hosts to them. Water management, Water Footprinting, Carbon Footprinting • Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Study for key products, Carbon Footprint (CFP) and Water Footprint (WFP) Assessment for all sites were taken up. Based on these assessments we derived targets and strategy for climate change and water management. Our Mission Jal program is the strategy for addressing water footprint outcomes through the value chain. • For more info visit http://www.tatachemicals.com/Sustainability/sustainability_report.htm 3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y / N Yes. We have formal process for Enterprise Risk Management. Through enterprise risk management process and SWOT analysis, potential environmental risks are identified at business level. The identified risks are assessed. Relevant action plans are prepared for the mitigation of risks and it is periodically reviewed. The organization has also adopted ISO 140001 and is a signatory to Responsible care which guides the organization as and when required. Aspect-Impact analysis with rating system is in place for assessing operational environmental impacts at site. The Impact register is periodically reviewed for keeping it updated and for improving environmental performance. Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is in place for mitigating the environmental impacts thus reducing operational environmental risks. The organization has also initiated Life Cycle Assessment for its major products to estimate environmental impact over its life cycle. 4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof in about 50 words or so. Also, if yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed? Yes. CDM is an integral part of The Company’s strategy for carbon conscious growth of the organization. Tata Chemicals got registered 2 CDM projects in 2004 and 1 CDM projects in 2005. As on date, we do not have CDM projects but now it has become an unsaid practice to assess CDM potential in each & every project and to address the same in the feasibility report of the project. Currently we are exploring the opportunities of CDM in a CSR Project Carbon Neutral Village Project. 5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on clean technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy etc.? Y / N. If yes, please give hyperlink to web page etc. Yes. As per Tata Chemicals’ strategy of Carbon conscious growth, taken various initiatives to address clean technology, renewable energy and energy efficiency etc. Abatement levers have been identified during carbon footprint base line study which is an integral part of the Long Term Sustainability Planning (LTSP) to identify key projects in the journey of green operations. Some of the initiatives taken by the organizations are as follows: • Renewable Source of Energy Solar energy to produce solar salt and in turn soda ash at Mithapur Solar light and Solar water geyser at Babrala Residential Complex Hot Air Generator (HAG) (Fuel shift from FO to Biomass and Coal) at Haldia Biomass based power plant (under evaluation) • Waste Management Well integrated mechanism to maximize the waste utilization within the operations Emphasizing to develop value added product out of waste such as developed Green Bricks out of Sulphur rich Flyash Unique set-up of Cement plant to absorb waste generated out of other plants within the Mithapur operations BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 14 of 26 • Green Packaging application Reusing secondary packaging in all products to reduce Carbon Footprint • Organic Produce Promoting Bio-fertilizer to support Organic produce Neem coated Urea to promote pesticides free Agri-produce as well as to mitigate GHG emissions • Green Supply Chain Maximizing Rail transportation Full load basis transportation and preference to bulker movements Besides this, Tata Chemicals also endeavor to reduce indirect energy consumptions. Some of the initiatives are as follows: Preventive & reliability centered maintenance etc. to reduce downtime and smooth operations On – off Timer system have been implanted in all road streets light. Changed florescent bulb instead of mercury light. Low voltage VFD’s for throttled & recirculation applications. Premium efficiency motors to replace rewound motors Thermograph audits & actions for steam distribution network 6. Are the Emissions / Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given by CPCB / SPCB for the financial year being reported? Our emissions / waste generated reports are regularly submitted to CPCB / SPCB and no major nonconformances have been observed for. 7. Number of show cause / legal notices received from CPCB / SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. There are no pending or unresolved show cause / legal notices received from CPCB / SPCB as on end of the Financial Year 2013-14. Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chambers or association? If yes, name only those major ones that your business deals with. Yes. TCL has a stewardship role in chemical and fertilizer industry. It has represented in CII, ICC, FAI, EUCCI, BCCI, ASSOCHAM, AIMA etc. and also member of IFA, AIChE-CCPS, etc. 2. Have you advocated / lobbied through above associations for the advancement or improvement of public good? Yes / No Yes If yes, specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Polices, Energy Security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others) The Company has participated in industry body consultations in the following areas: • Governance and administration • Inclusive development and affirmative action • Principles for Sustainable business • Economic / sector reform • Skill Development and skill building The Tata Code of conduct is the guide that the Company uses for advocacy. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 15 of 26 Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 1. Does the company have specified programmes / initiatives / projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes, details thereof. Yes, the organization follows an integrated approach towards development programs and follows the policy of Sustainable Development, participatory approach and transparency. The key thrust areas are: • Natural resource management programs • Building Sustainable Livelihoods • Improving the Quality of Life through Health, Education and infrastructure development • Empowerment and capacity building • Environment Conservation programs Natural Resource Management include a. Integrated water management program, drinking water program b. Land improvement through Land reclamation c. Rural Energy promotion with a focus on renewable non-conventional energy, along with promotion of efficient cooking stoves. Creating sustainable livelihood (both farm based and non-farm based) a. Non-Farm Vocational Skills Development Enterprise awareness camps Rural Enterprise Development program (REDP) Uday Foundation : Rural BPO Rural and Eco Tourism Okhai: Handicrafts development and promotion b. Farm Integrated agriculture growth program Pond Management and Fisheries Animal Husbandry Community empowerment a. Self Help Groups (SHGs), b. Community based Organizations (CBOs) c. Social Security Improvement in the Quality of life a. Health includes personal hygiene and other health improvement programs b. Formal education through support of schools, informal education such as literacy drives, adult education, sponsorships and scholarships c. Infrastructure Development, Rural approach roads, school buildings etc. Environment Conservation (Dharti Ko Arpan) a. Bio-diversity Conservation b. Rural Eco clubs c. Save the whale shark campaign d. Coral reef conservation e. Mangrove plantations For additional information please visit the website: www.tcsrd.org BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 16 of 26 2. Are the programmes / projects undertaken through in-house team / own foundation / external NGO / government structures / any other organization? The Company’s CSR projects are implemented through the Tata Chemicals Society for Rural Development (TCSRD) which was set up in 1980 to protect and nurture rural populations. Since then the Company has set up other focused organizations such as the Golden Jubilee Foundation, Uday foundation and OkhaiCentre for empowerment. We work with partners who respect and agree to our organizations’ core CSR values. TCSRD has always worked in partnership with government agencies, voluntary bodies and local authorities in implementing CSR initiatives TCL has partnered with various government and non-government organization such as PFI, SRTT, SDTT, WASMO, NABARD and GRIMCO. 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? Yes. Impact of the activities is measured on a regular basis by doing impact assessment, social audit by third party and by assessment as per the Tata Corporate Sustainability Protocol. A community satisfaction survey is carried out yearly to understand the perception of the community, reach of programs and the satisfaction from them. 4. What is the company’s direct contribution to community development projects Amount in INR and the details of the projects undertaken? For the financial year 2013-14 amount spent for community development projects: Rs. 12.76 Crores. Details of projects undertaken: The Company's development interventions are divided into four inter-related components: A. Creating Sustainable resource base through natural resource management, promotion of alternate source of energy and environment conservation programs B. Building sustainable livelihood through both farm and nonfarm based livelihood program C. Empowerment by strengthening Community Based Organizations (CBOs) such as SHGs, User groups, Pani Samities, Bhumisudhar committees, etc. D. Improving quality of life through Health, Education, Infrastructure development & Relief programs A. Creating Sustainable resource base Natural Resource Management To ensure long term sustainability of the natural resource, TCSRD has been implementing natural resource management programs across its three locations. Through these programs, it aims to build the capacity of the local community towards better management of their natural resources, subsequently helping them raise their socio-economic status. At Mithapur, since its inception, TCSRD has identified water as a key natural resource that needs to be conserved and managed, particularly in Okhamandal region where the main concern is the unavailability of water for both drinking and irrigation. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 17 of 26 In the vicinity of Babrala, land development under the Mission Jal program has been the priority as majority of the population is dependent on agriculture and animal husbandry. It is also aligned with the Company’s core Agribusiness. At Haldia, the focus under the NRM program has been on pond management. Several trainings have been provided to women on scientific methods of managing ponds. Ponds have now become a source of earning for the people of Sutahata block. Water management and conservation The Gomati Dam Channel renovated last year under the water management and conservation program has helped irrigate 628 acres of land of 103 farmers. These have now started growing crops in all the three seasons which are monsoon, winter as well as summer season. Till date 20 farmer groups of 11 members each have been formed to provide agriculture development inputs and water saving techniques like sprinklers, drip etc. 93 sprinklers have been provided to both the farmer groups. These groups have also been linked to Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA), a government agency to disseminate technology at the district level under Strategic Research and Extension Plan (SREP). To further conserve water, 61 small and 13 medium size structures were constructed and renovated, which has resulted in harvesting 276 mcft of rain water. Water saving techniques like sprinklers and drip system was installed by 510 farmers, helping to irrigate 465 acres of land in 25 villages of Okhamandal taluka. Land reclamation At Babrala, reclaiming saline (USAR) lands has helped to make the land productive for agriculture use. Till date, 1847.04 acres of the USAR land has successfully been reclaimed. The process of rereclamation which began last year has resulted in making 638.04 acres of land productive. At Mithapur too, till date, 112 acres has been reclaimed through the land reclamation. As part of the Mission Jal project, laser land leveling has helped in reducing the use of water for agriculture purpose and also energy by reducing the consumption of fuel used to pump water. Till date, 355 acres of land has been leveled by using this technique. Promotion of Alternate Source of Energy We promoted 661 efficient cook stoves at Mithapur and Haldia. 6 bio gas plants at Mithapur and two at Haldia have been constructed. In addition to above intervention, 40 solar street lights were also provided in the town area of Babrala in Gunnour tehsil, Sambhal District U.P. with the support of NEDAC. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 18 of 26 Nature Conservation (DHARTI KO ARPAN) TCSRD has been involved in various environmental conservation activities. It continued with the initiatives under the umbrella of creating sustainability for the entire coastal ecosystem in the region. Many of these activities have been very successful; projects such as the “Save the Whale Shark campaign” at Mithapur have helped create awareness for conservation of this endangered fish. This year 4 whale shark pups were recorded along the Sutrapada coast and 50 whale sharks were rescued. Other activities like mangroves plantation continues to play an important role in filtering land run-off and controlling coastal erosion; and also regulate flooding and act as a sink for absorbing pollutants brought down by the rivers. We have planted 30,000 mangroves saplings near Mithapur and at Sundarban (South 24 Pargana). More than 4500 students and 50 teachers from 30 ECO Club schools participated in wide spectrum of environmental education activities including nature education camps, coral reef visits, beach cleaning drives, bird race, tree plantation programs, indigenous flora identification workshop, biodiversity awareness programs, bird watching sessions, model ECO School Workshops etc. during the year. Work on monitoring of the coral reef biodiversity continued with support of Wildlife Trust of India and the Gujarat State Forest Department. B. Creating Sustainable Livelihoods Farm based Livelihood program TCSRD has been facilitating farm based livelihood program in all its three locations. Under the farm based livelihood program it has been promoting dairy farming, agriculture growth programs, animal husbandry and pond management. All these initiatives helped in improving socio economic condition of the community. Agriculture growth program TCSRD has been supporting farmers across its three locations by introducing new and innovative ways to improve their agriculture production. At Babrala, TCSRD continued to provide its full support and advice to the farmers under the agriculture growth program. Promotion of new and modern agricultural systems and technology such as intercropping, laser leveling, and promotion of low cost equipment were the key highlight of the current reporting period. Over 4500 farmers have been benefitted by this program. The farmers are themselves coming forward and are diversifying to various cash crop such as vegetables crops like Toria and Mustard crops, garlic crop, sugarcane crop, mentha crop; pulse crops like bengal gram and arhar, and turmeric crop has helped in increasing the income of farmers. A total of 1288.25 acres of land has been covered by diversification of crop. Intercropping of Arhar+Maize, Wheat+Mentha, Potato+Mentha, Sugarcane+Mentha has also been demonstrated on 548.2 acres. Low cost equipment like, seed storage bins and spray machines were provided to the farmers of core command area at the subsidized rates. In the reporting period, 60 farmers have been supported by this program. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 19 of 26 This year, training was provided to SHG members for the production of good quality seeds. TCSRD helped in providing the transportation of the seeds from the cold storage to the field, in packaging and promotion of their seed. At Mithapur, 13 net houses have been constructed with the support of Horticulture dept. Net house technology, helped farmers to grow vegetables by using less water. It also resulted in increasing their farm income by 20%. Along with Sir Ratan Tata Trust, a project on “Promotion of sustainable and diversified farming system in Gujarat” was initiated by TCSRD in 4 villages of Okhamandal. The 13 Farmer’s production group formed at Mithapur have been linked up to ATMA (Agriculture technology Management Agency) for building their capacity and knowledge about latest agriculture techniques. Pond Management Program Training in scientific method of pond management was provided to 354 women this year. Providing of good variety of fingerlings, lime, potassium permanganate, mustard oil cake etc. along with promotion of ornamental fish culture was taken up. Animal husbandry development Different activities like advisory services, animal health check up at the doorstep by para vets (pashupalak mitra) and vaccination, breed improvement and provision of balance nutrition for animal growth were provided under this program with the aim to increase milk production. Artificial Insemination centre has been a big success as, till date 9590 animals have been treated at Babrala. Seeing the success at Babrala, Haldia too started with this service, 4 animals have been treated this year. Non-Farm based Livelihood program Vocational skill development Program TCSRD continued to provide skill based training according to the interest of its targeted youth. The trades at each of the location were chosen seeing the market demand as well interest of the youth. At Mithapur, in partnership with Rishi Weld Tech, 24 youth were trained in electrical, fitter and welder. At Mini ITI, Rajkot 23 youth were trained in mobile repairing, AC , refrigerator repairing, automobile and two wheeler repairing, fitter, welder and electrical. 31 were trained in beauty parlour, videography and photography and stitching by Dalit Shakti Kendra (DSK) BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 20 of 26 Vocational training centre at Babrala village house continues to provide training in sewing cum stitching, beautician course for girls; typing and shorthand in English and Hindi, mobile repairing, computers, Tally accounting, AC and refrigerator repairing, Laptop repair. During the reporting period, 794 youth got trained. The skill building trainings not only help youth to acquire skill of their interest but also help in boosting their self-esteem. Seeing the demand and need, a mobile charger production/repairing along with mobile repairing training program started this year. During the feasibility study, it was found that there is a huge scope for mobile charger production in the surrounding area of Babrala as around 10000 mobile chargers were required every month as lot of them got spoilt due to voltage fluctuation in the area. At Haldia, in partnership with Jan Shikshan Sansthan, TCSRD started new training programs on trades like AC and refrigerator repairing, electrical repairing, computer hardware and mobile repair started. TCSRD also started training in Two Wheelers repairing in collaboration with Webcon India (Ltd.); 150 have been trained so far at Haldia. Entrepreneurship Awareness Camp (EAC), organised at Babrala, aims to enhance entrepreneurship qualities and skills of the target community, REDP was initiated at all three locations. After getting both the general (theoretical) and technical (practical) training, the community youth either initiate their own productive enterprise or become a part of group/cluster enterprise. At Babrala, to improve the work efficiency of SHG members, TCSRD provided REDP training to SHG members so that they could start their own enterprise or form a cluster/group enterprise. Among the various SHG, some of them formed group enterprises last year and continue to form new enterprises this year as well at Babrala. These groups were engaged in the activities like tie and dye, Incense stick making, Honey production, Paper plates and envelop. A common producer’s group (Sewarthi Sewa Samiti) has been continued to boost their sales and production. Uday Foundation Rural BPO at Babrala and Mithapur continues to provide employment opportunities to 182 youth. Handicraft Promotion program At all our three locations, TCSRD has been promoting rural handicraft under the brand name of Okhai. Okhai continues its march towards fulfilling its vision of being a brand that symbolizes empowerment of rural/semi urban women. The drive behind this program is to uplift the socio-economic status of rural artisans and at the same time recognize & promote the dying handicrafts of each of these regions. Okhai helped to increase earnings of 451 women artisans. Production has steadily increased through sustained efforts & better planning. Sales for the year 2013-14 were Rs. 111.83 lakhs. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 21 of 26 C. Empowerment TCSRD follows participatory approach while facilitating social development programs. It ensures that the community members become the real managers and owners and work towards their own development and that of the society at large. All interventions aimed at the community necessitate the involvement of local community from initiation to ultimate ownership of the initiative as people participation is vital to the success of the programs, and forms the basis of all the project design. It ensures this by establishment and participation of Community based Organization (CBOs) like Pani Samities, village level health and sanitation committee, watershed committees, user groups, Self Help Group (SHGs). The capacity building training programs and exposure visits organized throughout the year at all the three locations helped in filling the gap and in strengthening the CBOs / SHGs. SHG provided financial support to all their members as and when required. At Babrala, more than 224 SHGs have been developed with the support of SGSY schemes and now NABARD; and at Mithapur, 222 have been working actively to provide support (financial as well as non-financial) to women. D. Improving quality of life At all the three location, TCSRD has been working towards improving quality of life through healthcare interventions, promotion of education for all, infrastructure support programs. Social security program at Babrala also falls under this component as it helps to meet the same objective. Health care intervention With the objective to improve the health status of the community, health camps and awareness sessions were held at all the three locations. Along with the community support, TCSRD has been facilitating government run health program in the rural communities like Janani Suraksha Yojna, especially targeting women and child health. Additionally, it also worked on creating awareness about HIV-AIDS, sanitation and hygiene, nutrition and safe drinking water as basic determinants for good health. Blood donation and eye camps were organized at all the three locations. People with vision problems were provided with spectacles and medicines free of cost. Some who required support for cataract operations were also given the same. At Haldia, anemia identification camp was organized in two Government girls’ high schools, in which 106 girls were tested. Post checkup, an awareness camp on the causes of anemia, its treatment and the preventive measures was conducted. Malnourishment project was also taken up by training 181 Anganwadi (ICDS) workers. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 22 of 26 Education Tata Chemicals continues to support formal education through the schools that have been established in the townships. Education for TCSRD is an important tool for the overall development of the community. To improve the quality of education, TCSRD has provided training to teachers on innovative ways of teaching. It has also worked arduously towards the enrolment of children in schools. Under its infrastructure development program, it has been supporting village school infrastructure at Babrala as well as in Mithapur. 2 students out of 15 from the core command area near Babrala cleared the district level written entrance exams of Navodaya Vidhyala through guidance and coaching classes provided by TCSRD. Apart from this, the centre also holds the coaching classes in Maths and Science for the th th Polytechnic Exam for 9 to 12 Std. On the request from the community, coaching classes for the entrance exam for the police has also been started. Awareness about these classes was done through contact programs and through word of mouth. The ‘Desh Ko Arpan’ program has been supporting deserving children of salt workers through scholarships and Learning and Migration Program (LAMP). 3733 salt worker’s and other migrant worker’s children have benefited this year. At Babrala, under Jan Bima Yojana, 144 students (mainly the girl child) availed the scholarship. Education for girls through SNDT distance learning course is in full swing. At present, 305 girls are enrolled in this course. They have also started vocational training in tailoring and beauty culture. Under the joint initiative between TCSRDBabrala and National Program for Education of Girls at Elementary Level (NPEGEL), 5233 girls from 152 government schools, from Sambhal district were provided vocational training in tailoring, beautician, tie & dye, vegetable nursery and incense stick making. This program helped in increasing the attendance of the girls and also equipped them with skills that would help them in their future. Adult Education program has helped 479 women and girls at Babrala in Gunnaur region and 400 women at Mithapur to read, write and calculate. AROHAN, a Bal Utsav was organized in nine schools at Haldia. Various inter-school competitions were organized with the aim to provide a platform for the students to present their talent and skills and improve the same in the process. Infrastructure Development Programs: During the current year construction of brick pavement tracks were completed in 11 villages. Till date, 29907 running meter of brick paved tracks have been constructed in 11 villages at Babrala. Construction of these roads has helped in connecting the rural roads to main roads and has also helped link agriculture produce to the main market. Other infrastructure support was provided for construction of school boundary walls, construction of drainage channel, drinking water tap connections to 8773 households in 34 villages of Okhamandal and 1790 individual toilets for better sanitation in the rural areas. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 23 of 26 Social Security This activity aims to connect the rural poor with different social security schemes of the Govt. like Jan Shree Bima of Life Insurance Corporation. This scheme is for the rural and urban poor who are below the poverty line and for the persons who are marginally above the poverty line belonging to an identified occupational group. Under the same scheme, poor students can get scholarship for education of their children. More than 5577 rural poor and 296 students studying have been covered in this scheme with claims up to Rs. 21, 33,000 through death claims and scholarships. Relief Programs Uttarakhand flood relief Tata Chemicals has always been very responsive to any disaster, which hits our country. During the Uttarakhand floods, TCL was one of the first companies to come forward to support the victims of the disaster. By providing 5000 Tata Swach water purifier manufactured by the Company, it ensured safe drinking water to all those who were affected by the tragedy. Apart from this, the team of six volunteers including a doctor from its Babrala plant assisted the government in relief activities at Rudraprayag, one of the badly hit areas. Materials like food packets, clothes, hygiene kit, etc. were also donated by the families of TCL employees to Goonj an NGO working for the relief and rehabilitation of the victims of disaster. Higher education for science and chemistry Tata Chemicals, in collaboration with Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and the Association of Chemistry Teachers (ACT) felicitates & recognizes exemplary individuals involved in the teaching of chemistry and its allied components at its Nation-wide annual initiative ‘Best Chemistry Teacher Award’. In line with TCL’s leading role in recognizing exceptional individuals from the Chemical engineering teaching fraternity, TCL has donated Rs 3.5 crores as endowment fund to Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT) to help set up an endowment chair Tata Chemicals Darbari Seth Distinguished Professor of Chemical Engineering. TCL also runs an interactive website on chemistry and science – ‘Human Touch of Chemistry’ which makes chemistry learning more fun and interesting for children and chemistry enthusiasts. The site is set up in line with TCL’s mission of Serving Society through Science. For further information on projects and achievement please visit www.tcsrd.org; www.okhai.org BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 24 of 26 5. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so. Yes. Community is our key stakeholder and we believe that development of the community is only possible through engagement and partnership from all the stakeholders. The guiding principles for the engagement with the community are enshrined in the “Community development policy”. These principles are sustainability, participatory approach, transparency, networking and partnership, creating a resource centre and volunteering. The process of engagement with the community starts with identification of the key community, their needs and prioritization intervention. The needs are identified through various listening and learning methods and prioritized based on parameters that help balance both the needs of the community and our long term strategic growth. The participation of the stakeholders is vital to success of all programs and forms the basis of all program designs. The projects are continuously monitored and evaluated to measure impact. Stakeholder Engagement Surveys and Social impact audits are conducted to assess project outcomes; that also help in fostering ownership amongst local communities. Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner 1. What percentages of customer complaints / consumer cases are pending as on the end of financial year? CNAB – Nil Chemicals < 0.3% WAPU ~ 4% CPB (Salt) – 1% 2. Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes / No / N.A. / Remarks (additional information) Yes. Product information about the physical dimensions and / or chemical compositions / nutritional information / nutrient content is provided through our product labels / pack declaration and / or catalogues. Round the clock information of our products is available on Company’s website and at the call centre. All packages retail / bulk contain product information including product manager’s address / CRM contact number to enable consumers to correspond. All of our information is voluntary with various branding elements, with no comment on competitors or regional bias statements. Wherever applicable, specific certification requirements of regulatory authorities and some markets like ISI, FSSAI, Halal, etc. are provided on the product labels and / or catalogues. 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and / or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end of financial year? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. There is no anti-competitive, abuse of dominant position or unfair trade practices case pending against the Company. 4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey / consumer satisfaction trends? Yes. Customer satisfaction survey is carried out by the Company every year. Overall satisfaction for FY13-14 are given below, business wise. SBU Consumer Satisfaction (%) Chemicals 82 WAPU 47 (retailer & distrib) CPB 75.4 (average of all) CNAB 79% BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 25 of 26 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FY 2013-14 Page 26 of 26
