Globa Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Contents p. 03 p. 07 p. 09 p. 13 01 The Executive Vice President’s report 02 About Pressalit 02 Values of Pressalit 03 Special activities 2013 05 Human Rights 05 Diversity 06 Trainees and interns 07 Interns 07 Semester internship 08 Competence Centre Skanderborg and Youth Education Guidance 09 Labour 09 Absence 10 Health check 11 Employment with special conditions 12 Diet 12 Exercise 13 Environment 14 Anti-Corruption 15 Follow-up on goals for 2013 16 Goals for 2014 The Executive Vice President’s report In this report we want to present some of the activities, challenges and results for 2013 which have to do with our commitment to the Global Compact. In 2013, Pressalit has maintained the level we presented in 2012. In spite of the fact that times are challenging, we still aim high. This also applies to our CSR-related initiatives where we strive to maintain momentum in a time of crisis. This year, one of our main focuses has been on developing and increasing our efforts to help young people with special needs get an education. This means, among other things, that we have hired more trainees. The report is built around the ten principles from the Global Compact to give an insight into our intentions, initiatives and actions. With this, we hope that the report is easy-to-read and inviting. With this report, I wish to demonstrate our continued support of the Global Compact. Best regards Executive Vice President Pressalit A/S 01 Global Compact 2013 Communication on Progress 2013 About Pressalit and the Global Compact initiative Pressalit is one of Europe’s leading suppliers of toilet and in connection with knowledge sharing activities seats (Pressalit Seats) and kitchen and bathroom soluoutside of the company. Social responsibility has altions for people with disabilities (Pressalit Care). ways been a part of Pressalit’s agenda. Since its foundOwned by the Boyter family, Pressalit has been heading, the company’s management has been dedicated to quartered in Ry, Denmark since its founding in 1954. taking social responsibility as a partner and member of Pressalit now has 376 employees and 7 subsidiaries. the community in the local town of Ry. Therefore, we were also proud to win the 2011 CSR People Prize, the Pressalit has supported the Global Compact initiative highest CSR distinction of its kind in Denmark, for our since 2002 and has always strived to promote this good efforts in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. message in communications to all Pressalit employees Values of Pressalit The values of Pressalit form the roots of the company’s fied three core areas in our CSR work: Joint Responsiculture and the foundation for the company’s actions bility, Employees and Environment. Within these core and activities. Our values are as follows: We listen. We areas, we seek to take our responsibility in a conscious give. We play. We act. The core of our CSR work is our manner and contribute to a world outside the compainvolvement in the Global Compact and the ethical ny’s internal sphere, we take care of the employees guidelines we have formulated on the basis of the UN who have chosen Pressalit as a workplace, and we act recommendations for responsible behaviour by busiresponsibly in the environmental arena. ness owners and leaders. On this basis, we have identi02 03 Special activities in 2013 2013 was a great year for the Danish disabled athletes. In August, Pressalit had the pleasure of attending the European Championships in jumping, dressage and para-dressage as it took place in Herning, Denmark. For the first time ever, the European Championship in para-dressage was held at the same time and place as the ordinary disciplines. Because of Pressalit’s great interest in disabled sports and our role as a main sponsor of Danish Sports Organisation for the Disabled (DHIF), it was with particular excitement that we watched Stinna Tange Kaastrup, among others. In total, the Danish para-riders took home five bronze medals, including one medal in the team competition. In 2013, Pressalit also had the pleasure of handing out our Keep Living award. The Keep Living award praises disabled athletes who set a good example through their specific sport and show that obstacles are not an option. This year, the Danish national team in wheelchair rugby won the award. The national team brought home an impressive silver medal from the European Championships in Belgium. We look forward to watching their participation in the coming World Championship in Odense in August 2014. 04 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Diversity At Pressalit, the Global Compact’s two principles on Pressalit. In 2011 we implemented a “spectrum of human rights are closely tied to our thoughts and diversity” programme requiring managers at Pressalit views on being a company that believes diversity to consider the composition of employees in each makes us stronger. Thus we assign great importance department. The managers had to choose three pato diversity and we have defined it according to the rameters on which they would achieve diversity. We fan below consisting of eleven parameters. use these parameters in connection with recruitment, which means that the composition of the staff is takBased on our views on diversity, we work to ensure en into consideration when hiring new employees. the most diverse staff possible in every department of 05 Global Compact 2013 Trainees and interns In Denmark there is a strong focus on the fact that to external activities. In addition to this, the trainmany young people have a hard time finding trainees and apprentices participate in the planning and ee positions in connection with their vocational carrying out of events in the company. Examples education, which requires a combination of school include the annual food day, where the network is instruction and practical training in a company. responsible for preparing lunch for the rest of the Pressalit strives to be a responsible company in this company. Every year at Christmas, Pressalit is visitarea. We want to ensure close interaction with the ed by local kindergartens that help decorate Christeducational system and the young people in need mas trees around the company. The trainees and of a trainee position to complete their education. interns are responsible for this event, too. To us, the various tasks that the trainees and apprentices Over the years, Pressalit has seen trainee and intern have to plan and carprogrammes as a natural part of our social responry out are a natural sibility. We have trainees and apprentices in nupart of the trainee’s merous departments, from production and logistics development at Presto finance and sales. salit. First and foreTrainees and apprentices are part of a network in most, we believe that Pressalit that meets once every other month to the achieved learning discuss joint projects. For example, the trainees and from working togethinterns attend to the many requests to visit our er is useful now, but production facilities from associations, schools, this learning will also other companies, etc. The trainees and interns also be useful further into take turns to participate in external activities, the trainee’s career. where they tell others about being a trainee in Pressalit. This could be at Job Dating at Aarhus Business College or other places where we meet students at eye level and try to give the students a picture of Pressalit as a company. In the network in Pressalit, the trainees and interns work together on different tasks, including the composition of a folder about being a trainee in Pressalit that they bring 06 Interns We work with three different types of internships at Pressalit: we offer students from institutions of higher education a semester-long internship at the company and the opportunity to write their thesis with Pressalit as a case company. We offer work experience positions as a part of the vocational education system. Lastly, we offer internships for the unemployed and those seeking to clarify their ability to work following long-term absence from the labour market due to sickness. Semester internship Every year, Pressalit offers opportunities of internships for neering students. Our primary objective by participating in students enrolled in a course of higher education. No salathese events was to find candidates for the spring internry is paid to students in internships, which usually last ships in HR, Communication, Marketing and Sales. We about six months. We strive to ensure that both students want to meet the students face to face and promote Presand Pressalit benefit from these internships. Students are salit as a workplace by talking with them – thus we also expected to contribute with new knowledge, creative idebrought our current trainees and interns with us as Presas and the ability to put theory into practice. In return, we salit ambassadors. Many students took the opportunity to offer challenges, sparring and a good environment for have an informal chat with us about everything from the learning and development. specific internships to our business, products, company culture and values. The many talks with interested stuIn 2013, Pressalit participated in two events at the Aarhus dents have already shown positive results, as we are reSchool of Business and Social Sciences. We were invited to ceiving a steady and strong flow of applications from qualthe event “A Day With Pressalit” in September, and in ified students. October we attended “Company Dating”. Both events are part of the sponsorship agreement we have with Aarhus University to strengthen our external Employer Brand in relation to the relevant target group of business and engi07 Global Compact 2013 Competence Centre Skanderborg and Youth Guidance Centre For the past three years, Pressalit has had an agreement tasks; in return, some of the company’s employees with Competence Center Skanderborg. Under the agreespend some time on a recruitment conversation, task ment, the company makes what corresponds to five full planning, follow up and reporting to the trainee and the time jobs distributed over various short-term internships municipality – in addition to the hours that are spent on available for people who for one reason or another are introducing the employee to the department. An added outside of the labour market. Pressalit seeks to include benefit of meeting these trainees is that we at Pressalit the trainees in every department and at every level of gain an insight into different people and lives that we do the organization to the greatest extent possible. not normally encounter at our workplace. For example, we have had a number of trainees who have been In addition to our agreement with the Competence Centhrough long periods of stress and are now starting to ter Skanderborg, we have also reached an agreement get back on their feet in the labour market through a with the local Youth Guidance Centre. The purpose of trainee position at Pressalit. Such trainees provide us this agreement is to prepare and help young people to with a good understanding of the potential effects of get an education or a job. For example, it could be about stress and how to handle employees returning to the in which direction to go or what it means to be in the labour market. Hereby, leaders in Pressalit build up workplace. This preparation, therefore, is both personal knowledge and an understanding for the problems that and professional. might arise to our employees. From the company’s perspective, we see the trainees as an opportunity to get a helping hand with solving some 08 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Absence In recent years, Pressalit has worked hard to reduce absences among staff employed on conditions similar to those of salaried employees. Pressalit has a goal of a 3 per cent average rate at the company level. In 2013, we have seen a reduction in the level of shortterm absence. 09 Global Compact 2013 Health check From 2011 to 2012, Pressalit participated in a large-scale health project in collaboration with the National Research Centre for the Working Environment. The results from the project’s Health Check 1 and 2 still function as a basis for our work to improve the health and well-being of our employees. In 2013, a follow-up on the health checks was made. Here, focus was on our work environment and the degree to which employees are burdened by their work. The daily work in Pressalit includes heavy lifts and great ergonomic challenges. In relation to this, we invited a physiotherapist to teach us how to handle these challenges in the best possible way. 10 3 focus areas in 2013 Employment with special conditions In 2013, focus has not been on increasing the number of employees with special conditions working in Pressalit. project for the employees, offering them the opportunity Since 2012, this number has been approximately 6 per to get training in cleaning techniques, and in addition the cent. Instead, we have concentrated on enhancing our opportunity to take the further education as a service initiatives regarding the young workforce. In 2012, the assistant through a credit programme. Employees refirst trainee completed his basic vocational training (BVT) ceive full pay during training and the company hires a at Pressalit, and since then we have hired three BVT temporary replacement with full pay while the employee trainees in our kitchen and one in maintenance of buildis attending the course. This scheme is an employment ings. The BVT programmes are typically two years long, tool to help unemployed persons back into the labour involving practical tasks to equip trainees with profesmarket and to train current employees. The job rotation sional skills and experience in being part of a working project is thus without financial costs for Pressalit. In culture, thereby strengthening and expanding the per2013, the first employee in Pressalit completed the trainsonal and social skills of the trainee. The programme is ing in cleaning techniques. Two employees have started individually tailored, with trainees participating in some the training in senior school and they are expected to be courses along the way (e.g. labour market training coursfully trained in March 2014. This opportunity is still availes) or other instruction to supplement their completed able to the employees. The intention with the job rotaprimary education. tion was to give employees on flexible conditions an op19 employees work in Pressalit’s Facility Services, which portunity to earn formal professional competencies and cover the Cafés, Cleaning Services, Reception and certificates of their abilities, while also give unemployed Maintenance. From these 19 employees, only one is persons the opportunity to be a part of the company hired on ordinary conditions. The remaining 18 employduring the time the employee is taking the course. Ultiees are hired on special conditions, which means either mately, we hope that the idea will spread so that more as a BVT trainee or in a flexible job. Thus, our present 4 unskilled employees gain a professional boost in compeBVT trainees and 19 flexible workers make up 8.6 per tencies for the benefit of themselves, the company and cent of the workforce. society as a whole. In the Cleaning Services, we introduced a job rotation 11 Global Compact 2013 Diet It is important to the company to offer its employees a of fruit and vegetables and homemade whole grain variety of healthy, tasty, well-prepared and nutritious bread, as well as the hot dish of the day and various foods every day. The lunch breaks are a natural part of sandwich options. the working hours in Pressalit as we believe that nutrition All employees at Pressalit automatically get enrolled in influences the well-being of our employees. the lunch programme and thus also are deducted the The food offered through the company’s lunch procost charged to employees. Pressalit thereby hopes to gramme is generally very healthy, including large make a healthy impact on dietary habits and generate amounts greater support for the company’s lunch programme. Exercise In addition to our focus on a healthy diet, Pressalit also already in place. focuses on exercise by offering exercise opportunities to With inspiration from a company visit to Midtvask, we our employees. For example, a spinning group meets have implemented a couple of pilot projects with a few once a week, while others attend family swimming or minutes of elastic band training during working hours. relaxation groups. It is also possible to establish new exBased on training from an occupational therapist, a ercise groups by gathering 12-15 employees interested in group of employees were introduced to using elastic participating. Based on the report from the health check bands for short exercises that benefit different muscle in 2012, we know that a larger proportion of employees groups. The background for implementing the training desire more exercise opportunities through their emwith elastic bands is that the National Research Centre ployment with the company. The working group of the for the Working Environment conducted a study showing health project continuously stays updated on wishes and that just 2 minutes of daily training can reduce pain in ideas for specific exercise initiatives, however; so far they the neck and shoulders. have not succeeded in finding more initiatives than those 12 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In 2013, our ambitions within the environmental field tion, e.g. lights. In 2013 we invested 120,000 DKK in have not been lowered. In Pressalit we strive to live in new and more environmentally friendly strip lights – a harmony with our environment and our neighbours as relatively small investment with a payback time of apwell as the nature that surrounds us. Our efforts are proximately 8 months. In addition to the category of not only about complying with legislation in the envibase load, we have worked with the category of idling. ronmental field, but rather about being proactive in This category concerns the consumption of electricity our efforts to reduce our own impact on the environin relation to preparing the production processes ment. (before producing anything). This could be the start-up of ventilation and heating of pressing machines, for In 2013 we have continued working with our ambitious example. In 2013, we examined how to make use of goal of reducing the consumption of energy by 15 per the capacity of our ventilation. As a result, we made a cent by 2015. We have worked to put ideas into actions bypass in a part of the system in order to exploit the so that we reach our goal in time. Our focus has been energy in the remaining part. Our initiatives within on both the consumption of electricity and on the conthese two categories have resulted in a reduction in sumption of district heating and we have examined the consumption of electricity from 1.55 kW/unit to how to reduce these. The total consumption consists of 1.48 kW/unit. Apart from improving our ventilation three main categories of which we decided to work system, we also improved our control of room temperwith two of these in 2013. One of them is the category atures. of base load which is the term for the basic consump13 Global Compact 2013 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery In 2013, Pressalit has continued to strengthen our antiguidelines on appropriate behaviour – even if the indicorruption efforts. Anti-corruption is part of our Code vidual employee does not have job assignments where of Conduct among four other areas. Our Code of Consuch questions come into play. In addition to this, the e duct is a permanent element of employee recruitment -learning programme is a regular part of the introducensuring that the company’s positions on important tion to new employees. issues such as anti-corruption are present from employIn Pressalit, it is not only the employees who have to ees’ first contact with Pressalit. Furthermore, our Code live up to Pressalit’s demands for anti-corruption. The of Conduct is incorporated in an e-learning programme same applies to our suppliers. In 2013, we have inthat is available to all employees. With the e-learning creased our focus on auditing of suppliers to thoroughprogramme we wish to show the different aspects of ly ensure that they comply with our ethical set of rules. the ethical guidelines to give employees an understanding of their personal responsibility to abide by the 14 Follow-up on goals for 2013 In 2013, Pressalit:  Maintained its level of trainees/interns at approx. 1.7 per cent  Increased our efforts regarding employment with special conditions, for instance by working with BVT students and employees in flexible jobs as one group. Thus, the total level of employees with special conditions is 8.6 per cent  Worked with the division of interns in Pressalit to ensure that interns are present in several departments in the organisation, and thereby that more employees will benefit from the interns’ presence  Had 9 semester interns from 2 different educational institutions, in 3 different departments  Managed to maintain the historic satisfactory result in absences – but without reaching the goal of 2 per cent in short-term absences and 1 per cent in long-term absences, unfortunately  For information about environmental results, reference is made to the green accounts at www.pressalit.dk 15 Global Compact 2013 Goals for 2014  Maximum absence rate of 3 per cent (2 per cent in short-term absences and 1 per cent in long-term absences)  Maintain a level of 2 per cent of trainees/interns (1 per cent BVT)  Secure a level of at least 5 per cent employees with special conditions  To have 10 trainees in social trainee programmes  To have 4 people in internships as a part of their basic business training studies  Continued reduction of environmental impact in accordance with the green accounts on our website 16
