11, 'q~)~#l ~ m, ~ oficm -::f. -11041, ~400 020. ~2286 3900•'Q>cm2287 2992 • nTr: 1%-<qaq;i<, • ~82414, 85096 17, Jamshedji Tata Road, P.O. Box No. 11041, Mumbai400 020. Tel. : 2286 3900 • Fax : 2287 2992 • Telegram : Hindpetcor•Telex : 82414, 85096 e-mail : corphqo@hpcl.co.in Communication on Progress Year: 2012-13 Statement of Director Human Resource of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. pledging continued support to Global Compact Programme of United Nations. Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our company. As a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we have summarised the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. ~ P~Joshi Director HR Contact: Sonal Desai Email: sonaldesai@hpcl.co.in Phone: 022 22871325 Fax: 022 22821986 Page 1 of20 Commitment to Global Compact: Communication on Progress Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. About the Corporation HPCL is a Government of India Enterprise with a Navratna Status, and a Fortune 500 and Forbes 2000 company, with an annual turnover of Rs. 1,90,048 Crores and sales/income from operations of Rs 2,15,675 Crores (US$ 39.726 Billions) during FY 2012-13, having about 20% Marketing share in India among PSUs and a strong market infrastructure. HPCL's Crude Thruput and Market Sales (including exports) are 15.78 Million Metric Tonnes (MMT) and 30.32 MMT respectively in the same period. HPCL operates 2 major refineries producing a wide variety of petroleum fuels & specialties, one in Mumbai (West Coast) of 6.5 Million Metric Tonnes Per Annum (MMTPA) capacity and the other in Visakhapatnam, (East Coast) with a capacity of 8.3 MMTPA. HPCL holds an equity stake of 16.95% in Mangalore Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited, a state-of-the-art refinery at Mangalore with a capacity of 15 MMTPA. In addition, HPCL has constructed a 9 MMTPA refinery at Page 2 of20 Bathinda, in Punjab, with Mittal Energy Investments Pte. Ltd. HPCL also owns and operates the largest Lube Refinery in the India producing Lube Base Oils of international standards, with a capacity of 335 TMT. This Lube Refinery accounts for over 40% of the India's total Lube Base Oil production. HPCL's vast marketing network consists of 13 Zonal offices in major cities and 101 Regional Offices facilitated by a Supply & Distribution infrastructure comprising Terminals, Pipeline networks, Aviation Service Stations, LPG Bottling Plants, Inland Relay Depots & Retail Outlets, Lube and LPG Distributorships. HPCL, over the years, has moved from strength to strength on all fronts. The refining capacity steadily increased from 5.5 MMTPA in 1984/85 to 14.8 MMTPA presently. On the financial front, the turnover has grown from Rs. 2687 Crores in 1984-85 to an impressive Rs 1,69,011 Crores in FY 2011-12. Page 3 of20 Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited's VISION To be a World Class Energy Company known for caring and delighting the customers with high quality products and innovative services across domestic and international markets with aggressive growth and delivering superior financial performance. The Company will be a model of excellence in meeting social commitment, environment, health and safety norms and in employee welfare and relations. Global Compact Principles addressed in our MISSION statement: HPCL, along with its joint ventures, will be a fully integrated company in the hydrocarbons sector of exploration and production, refining and marketing; focusing on enhancement of productivity, quality and profitability; caring for customers and employees; caring for environment protection and cultural heritage. It will also attain scale dimensions by diversifying into other energy related fields and by taking up transnational operations. HPCL will always strive: • To foster a culture of participation and innovation for employee growth as an employee caring Organisation • To cultivate high standards of business ethics and Total Quality Management • To protect customer interest as a customer caring organisation • To take all steps for enriching quality of life of the community and protect the environment • To preserve ecological balance. Page4 of20 Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited is committed to the principles of Global Compact. This is demonstrated by the various policies pursued by the Corporation. In fact, our VISION Statement encompasses Principle 7, 8 & 9 of the Global Compact. As signatories of Global Compact we embrace, support and enact, within our sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Principle Statement Businesses should support and respect the protection Prmciple 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 2 abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Principle 3 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle l 0 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 5 of20 The Corporation has deep faith in the principles of UNGC and endeavour to implement the same in letter and spirit in all levels of business operations. The following actions has been taken by HPCL in adherence to the principles of Global Compact. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights The Organization continues and supports respects and ensures no violation of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited conforms to human rights principles and ensures that no violation of the same occurs: • Our Conduct, Discipline & Appeal Rules applicable to Management employees and Standing Orders applicable to Non-Management employees are designed in such a manner that they take care of Human rights compliance across the Corporation. • The organization has an approved policy for handling grievances of employees, Shareholders and customers. Issues raised by other stakeholders such as Contractors, Dealers, Vendors and society are also attended promptly. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Freedom of association is available to all the employees. The Corporation has established policies and practices through which the employees exercise the freedom of collective bargaining on issues of common interest. The issues are resolved through bilateral discussions with the Unions representing the NonManagement employees by way of signing the Long Term Settlements for salaries, wages and perks, and settlements for career progression of employees, etc. At our company, employees are allowed to exercise the freedom of collective bargaining on issues of common interest. Non-management employees are Page6of20 represented by the Union who are responsible for bringing to the attention of the company the issues raised. These problems are then resolved through bilateral discussions and long term settlements for salaries, wages, perks and career progression of our employees. During 2012-13, 53% of our employees are covered by such collective bargaining agreements. None of our current operations have a risk in terms of right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining. Apart from the above, various spot settlements regarding issues on productivity improvement and other working conditions have been signed with the respective unions. Corporation strongly believes and recognizes the right of the employees to know about their organization. Keeping this in mind senior management, from time to time share the details of the prevailing business environment, Organization performance, growth strategies and future business plans with the employees through various meetings with the Office Bearers of the Unions and also through various communications in the form of circulars thru Corporate HP Portal for employees, etc. In fact the Corporation has co-created a vision for the Corporation, where the representatives of the employees were also involved in the entire process. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Adhering to all the labour laws of the country, our Organization does not support forced or compulsory labour in any way. Appropriate systems and protocols (for e.g. wages are only paid in the presence of location in charge) have been put in place to ensure that all contract workers are paid minimum wages and are given all the benefits associated with various laws. Additionally, the 'Public Grievance Redressal Mechanism requires senior management members to be present in their offices between 4:00-5:00 PM on all working Fridays so that they can address all public complaints. None of our operations have been assessed for a risk of forced labour. For FY 2012-2013, no complaints were received regarding forced or compulsory labour. Page 7 of20 5. The effective abolition of child labour Policies abolishing child labour are strongly enforced by HPCL. Adhering to the constitutional law on Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act of 1986, HPCL hires permanent employees and contract workers only above 18 years of age. Certificates of all those working at our plant locations are checked and all security personnel are trained to stop anybody under the age of 18 from entering inside the plant for any employment-related purposes. Periodic audits are carried out by respective functionaries and HR to enforce this. None of our operations have been assessed for a risk of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd., is an equal opportunity employer. Corporation policies are aimed at ensuring equal opportunities to all Indian citizens in its employment and avoid discrimination on any ground. Corporation gives equal opportunities of employment to all citizens of India. Being a Central Govt. of India Undertaking (PSU), it follows the Presidential Directives and Govt. Instructions with regard to its recruitment Policies with regard to reservation for Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes/Other Backward Classes and physically handicapped, scrupulously. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; HPCL is committed to environment protection, as a responsible corporate citizen, and constantly endeavours to ensure its increasing scale of operations does not lead to environment degradation and that the emissions are within the prescribed limits of central and State Pollution Boards. HPCL, in line with its Environment Policy , is committed to conduct all its operations in such a manner as to be compatible with the Environment. HPCL is also committed to Safety and Health of all employees and community living in the vicinity of our installations. It is a constant endeavour to ensure that the highest safety standards maintained in all its operations. In line with Page 8 of20 the Safety, Health & Environment Policy , HPCL is committed to conduct all its operations in a sustainable manner. HPCL is committed to ensure environmentally sustainable and responsible operations to achieve highest standards of environmental excellence. HPCL's major installations are certified with Environmental Management System based on IS0-14001 and all pollution abatement facilities which are maintained and operated in line with the industrial best practices. HPCL has established 'Environmental Audit' surveillance, to ensure continuous environmental performance improvement as well as environmental compliance. This concerted effort has provided opportunities to continuously improve for better environmental management. Energy Conservation HPCL refineries are committed towards conservation of energy and minimization of losses. The energy conservation measures undertaken by both refineries during the year 2012-13 have resulted in a savings of 42,157 SRFT jyear (standard refinery fuel tonnage per year). This translates to savings of Rs.169 Croresfyear approximately. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; HPCL has embarked on regularizing its socio economic activities under 'Sustainable Development' category and has formulated an SD policy and disseminated to all the employees for inclusive action towards achieving the goal during the current financial year. The Corporation is committed to conduct its operations in a manner compatible with the environment and with economic development of the community. HPCL is working towards managing the environmental impacts of our operations and projects where we are involved. The maiden report published 'in-accordance' status with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and externally assured and GRI application level checked 'GRI G3 Checked A+' application level report. The progress of the SD initiatives is monitored by a Board sub-committee periodically. During 201213, HPCL completed sustainable development projects such as 10 locations Electrical Energy audits, 22 Rain water harvesting at POL locations rain water harvesting at Visakh Refinery, improved treated water output at Mumbai Page 9 of20 Refinery, 773 lakh KWH Power generation through Wind Mills and carbon foot assessment at 25 POL locations. In addition, 465 Employees across 15 locations and both the refineries were trained by conducting capacity building workshops. During the year key internal and external stakeholders have been mapped and were engaged thru structured consultation process. During the year 2012-13, HPCL has spent Rs.6.17 Crores on various sustainable development projects. Oil and Gas Conservation Fortnight was observed both at Mumbai and Visakh refineries from15th January to 31st January, 2013 to create awareness among the public for conservation of petroleum products. • Rain Water Harvesting Mumbai R~finery has constructed necessary infrastructure and has harvested about 74,000 litres of rainwater against a plan of 5,30,000 litres of rain water for the year 2012-13. Further augmentation of rain water management facility is in progress as a part of Natural Water Resource Conservation and sustainable development Project including reduction in refinery carbon foot print. • Ground Water Quality Monitoring Ground water aquifers are monitored for quality (IS 10500: 1991) regularly with a network of borewells spread across entire geographical area of the refinery. Roof top rain water harvesting (>31,000 KL) and recharging the ground water aquifer is envisaged in the year 2013-14. • ISO 14001 130-14001 certificates were renewed in May, 2012 for 3 years. Internal audits and surveillance audits were conducted as per annual plan. Page 10 of20 • World Environment Day (June 5) was celebrated and saplings were distributed on the occasion. • Process safety Management -A study on 'Quantitative Risk Assessment' is completed by M/s DNV for identifying and addressing potential process risks. • Green Visakh Program As a part of the initiative 84,965 saplings were planted in the designated locations ofVisakhapatnam. Community Activities HPCL's CSR model has been based on Creating Shared Value . The shared value model is based on the concept that corporate success and social welfare are interdependent. HPCL's approach has been the triple bottom line approach of People, Planet and Profit . Policy on CSR The policy has certain distinctive features, and is geared to help the company in smooth decision making on investment at board level, selection of projects based on need assessment, implementation in partnership with specialized NGOs, monitoring through Project Leaders volunteered from Senior Management, conducting impact assessment by independent agencies etc., so that HPCL can provide utmost and sustained value for the investment made, and contribute effectively to the various causes. CSR Statement of Purpose ./ Serving the community is the purpose of our business. ./ Ensuring sustainable business process financially, environmentally and socially, is our effort. ./ Using core competence, expertise and technology of our business to reach the common people, especially the underprivileged, is our aim . ./ Developing capacity in the community is out strategy. ./ Enhancing human excellence and improving quality of life is our endeavour. Page 11 of20 HPCL has a deep understanding of the impact it can make on society and is committed to social investment to support communities and the broader society in which we operate. All the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) projects identified undergo a pre and post impact assessment. During the year we have spent an amount of Rs.21.76 Crores on CSR. Intervention models which have the potential to sustain its outcomes and create a long-term impact on not only the beneficiary, but also on the root social factors, are given utmost support and encouragement. Our experiences have also convinced us that initiatives that identify the gaps in the existing system and intervention strategies that address these gaps and thereby strengthen the existing systems are more rational than creating an entirely new parallel system. Our focus areas are: Child-Care, Education, Health Care, Skill Development and Community Development. Interventions in these areas make a meaningful and long-term impact on the community. Our CSR Projects CHILD CARE HPCL believes that the society should never ignore the needs and rights of its children and hence has been engaged in interventions for children in difficult circumstances, children with special needs and those groups of children of the society which need a little more attention and support. Children with Special needs (ADAPT) Disability is probably one of the least understood and accepted conditions in the society that believes that everything not normal is abnormal. Guiding ourselves to see the ability beyond the disability and ensure equal opportunities. Dignity to people with disability unfortunately requires effort, awareness and mobilization beyond just addressing their Page 12 of20 medical needs. It is in the spirit of this endevaour that HPCL through this programme supported the Inclusive Education, therapeutic needs and vocational training for such children. Child line 1098 The very popular helpline number for children which has become synonymous with the rescue of children in distress in India. By supporting rescue vans in three major metropolitan cities in the country Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai, we have been able to enhance and ensure the impact of the project in rescuing groups of children in risky situations like trafficking, child labour, dangerous circumstances, etc. Muskan Muskan has been providing rehabilitation of destitute and neglected street children and underprivileged children. The two centres supported by HPCL aims at addressing the fundamental needs of care, protection, clothing, food, education, health etc, along with vocational training and counselling services for these children. HEALTH CARE Health, which is one of the important focus areas of the 12th Five Year Plan, and now being discussed as a matter of right, is still unfortunately inaccessible to many sections of the society due to several reasons like un-affordability, unavailability, lack of awareness etc. Through some of our initiatives we have tried to address these issues through diverse intervention strategies, targeting the most needy and vulnerable groups of the community. Dil without Bill Sai Heart Hospital is one of the very few medical institutions in the country which can boast of heart surgeries being performed every single day. What makes this achievement stand apart even still is the fact that these are conducted free of cost Page 13 of20 for all patients with a monthly family income of less than Rs.10,000, giving preference to children. Awareness and follow-up camps conducted at various cities and towns, during the year is also an initiative to reach out to the neediest patients. Suraksha Long Distance Truckers (LDT) are amongst the high risk category for AIDS as identified by the National Aids Control Organization and this very target group is one of the most vulnerable stakeholders in the supply chain of HPCL. Therefore our interventions through the Khushi Clinics set up at various retail outlets on the highway has been a rational engagement for us. The Khushi Clinics apart from providing basic medical facilities also provide AIDS awareness, STI treatment, social marketing of condoms, counselling, etc. to ensure the health and well-being of the truckers. Sushrut Hospital Sushrut hospital a Multi-specialty hospital and charity institute at Chembur, Mumbai is being supported by HPCL for the past many years. Rural health To address the critical situation of health requirements and to provide basic medical facilities to people in need at remote rural areas and far flung villages, HPCL is partnering with ground-level NGOs which run Mobile Medical Vans in states of Odisha, Bihar and Rajasthan. These vans provide basic medical attention to rural populace in 75 villages. Through this partnership HPCL has ensured medical facilities at the doorsteps of villagers providing basic treatments for common ailments, health awareness and making necessary referrals for major ailments. EDUCATION HPCL's initiatives in the field of education have been manifold with a large impact on various sections of society. The approach of HPCL has been to address the root causes that impends the process of education for all. HPCL in the field of education primarily focuses on girls' education and education for the under privileged section. These projects in the field of education cater from the basic need of students viz. Academic kits, mid-day meals and hygiene kits to the higher need of Page 14 of20 academic and social support. A holistic and long term strategy is in place to address the education needs of various parts of the society. The uniqueness of these projects is the fact that through partners they cover the children from Mid Day Meal Program Hunger and Malnutrition has been considered as one of the prime factor hampering the education process in this country. It is realization of this fact that we have rolled out the Mid-Day Meal Programme. HPCL is bridging the gap by providing hygienic and nutritious food to students from rural areas of Visakhapatnam and Guwahati through specialized agencies. This programme has addressed a vital requirement of young children from rural areas belonging to the economically marginalized sections. The intervention through this programme has resulted in higher enrolments and negligible drop-outs from NanhiKali Encouraging girl child education and building gender equality among communities is one of the challenges of our .. . ,.. society. Our intervention to this , growing issue includes providing i material support to the first generation girl child learners from communities that are educationally and economically backward. The major component of the project is to provide academic and social support to the girl child to ensure that she continues her education and to meet challenges of the modern era of educational setup. Through this planned intervention we have been able to reduce the dropouts of girls, prevent child marriages and promote higher education for girls. Unnati In today's scenario where e-literacy has become as important as literacy itself, HPCL too, has partnered with specialized agencies to provide computer awareness and basic education to first generation computer learners of Class VI to Class IX in semi-urban and rural areas. Beyond just providing classroom-teaching, the project Page 15 of20 also ensures 'Training the Trainer' model wherein the school teachers are also trained. Further, ten computers each are also installed at each of these schools where training is imparted, so as to ensure continued practice for the students. This programme has widened the horizons of education as well as future employability for these underprivileged children. SKILL DEVELOPMENT Skill Development is yet another area which has been given much focus and attention in the 12th Five Year plan. The current demographic status of our country shows that almost 64 per cent of the population is in the working age group. Ensuring the employability and employment opportunities for this population is of prime importance not only for the growth of the nation but also to contain breeding grounds for anti~social ailments and activities. HPCL through various partners has also been exploring diverse options to build the capacity and employability of these youth, especially the underprivileged. Swavalamban Different locations have different and diverse labour demands and needs depending on opportunities like infrastructure and industries available in these locations. It is in line with these demand based needs that a diverse set of training skills like electrical, welding, hospitality, driving, tailoring, beautician course, etc are identified and imparted to the underprivileged youth in these areas through our Swavalamban programme. The module also provides other capacity building and soft skills required for these youth to sustain their employment and earn a livelihood for themselves and their family. STeP(Smile Twine-learning Programme) This programme aims at providing job~oriented skills to the underprivileged youth. Training in IT, Functional English, Personality Development~elements Page 16 of20 which have become important factors for employability are provided, along with career-counselling, placement support and follow-up. Local Area Activities: Even as most of our initiatives and projects follow the model of targeted intervention, we have at the same time realized the importance and inevitability of providing material support, also in certain cases to ensure and enhance the quality of services and facilities already in place. Hence a good portion of our CSR activities under the Welfare Plan for weaker Sections and the Special Component Plan takes care of such needs of the community adjoining our business locations across the country. Such activities are based on an assessment of the needs of the beneficiaries. The most encouraging facet of these activities is that these initiatives are taken on by personnel on the field who are in engaged in the mainstream business of the corporation, and yet are dedicated and socially sensitive to the needs of the community that they are engaged with. Initiatives to engage and sensitize employees: Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon This year HPCL associated with Mumbai's biggest sporting event with many employees of the corporation participating in the event. Toy Distribution among Less-Privileged Children A toy collection drive by employees in Mumbai was conducted and the same was distributed to about 450 less privileged children. Rewards and Recognitions: Our CSR initiatives and activities were also recognized by the following awards that we won during the year 2012-13: ./ CSR Excellence Award honoured by ASSOCHAM and received from Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam ./ PSE Excellence Award honoured by ICC&DPE ./ CRY Child Rights Champion Award Page 17 of20 ./ Subir Raha Centre for Corporate Governance awards for: a) Best Overall CSR Performance, b) Support for Quality Education and c) Community Development ./ World CSR Congress & Blue Dart Global CSR Excellence Awards for: a) Most Caring Company b) Best CSR Practices and c) Improvement in Education ./ Asia Pacific HRM Congress Awards for: a) HR Practices in CSR and b) Outstanding Contribution to the Cause of Education 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Renewable Energy Initiatives At HPCL, we have also taken several initiatives towards production of Biofuels. We have incorporated joint ventures aiming towards the production of ethanol from sugarcane/molasses and Bio-diesel from Jatropha. As concerns about rising fossil fuel prices, energy security, and climate change increase, renewable energy can play a key role in producing local, clean, and inexhaustible energy to meet the nation's growing demand. During FY 2012-13, wind power generation of 77 4 Lakhs KWH was achieved from the first phase of 50.5 MW wind farm project set up in Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Climate Change Policy HPCL has evolved 'Climate Change Policy', highlighting the vision statement and formation of Steering committee with objectives to reduce Carbon Foot Page 18 of20 Print and incorporate a Green Perspective in all the key organizational initiatives and processes. Waste Disposal In line with our E-Waste Policy, the E-waste generated is bought back by the manufacturer. Scrap metal, the primary waste generated at our marketing locations, is disposed of by selling it to the authorized scrap dealers and to certified waste disposal companies to ensure proper handling. Oily wastes are bio-remediated or sold for reprocessing to agencies approved by the State Pollution Control Boards. Spent catalysts are responsibly disposed to authorized agencies. Tree Plantation Tree plantation initiatives have been implemented at refineries, marketing locations and housing colonies. Our locations have been receiving awards for Garden maintenance and Tree plantation from local Municipal Authorities. Green Belt HPCL is meeting all the statutory requirements for tree cover in its operating locations, at the same time HPCL has planned a strategy to increase its green belt area over the years. By this, we aim to contribute to biodiversity while preparing ourselves better for future carbon regulations. Carbon Foot Printing As a way forward to 'Climate Change Policy', a benchmark assessment study of 'Carbon foot print' has been carried out at both Visakh and Mumbai refineries in May 2010 and since then yearly assessments are being carried out. Carbon foot print study has been completed for more than SO POL locations upto March 31, 2013. Page 19 of20 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As per the provisions of Conduct, Discipline and Appeal rules for Management employees and certified Standing Orders for Non-management employees giving or acceptance of bribes is misconduct. An employee violating the code of conduct and ethics is subjected to investigation and appropriate action is initiated against him based on result of investigation. Checks and measures are in-built in the organizational system that helps in preventing corruption. Numerous training programs and workshops are held for disseminating knowledge about organizational system, as also for checking corruption. Corporation has an independent Vigilance Department which is under the jurisdiction of the Chief Vigilance Commissioner and is empowered to initiate investigations on its own. Apart from the above, intensive investigation on major works and contracts are also being carried out by Chief Technical Examiner (CTE), a wing under Central Vigilance Commission. Integrity Pact is executed in all major contracts by the bidders and the Corporation to safeguard public procurement from corruption. The sanctity of the process is being ensured through appointing Independent Monitors. Corporation has a 'Whistle Blower Policy' wherein employees who report corruption are provided safeguards against victimization. Page 20of20
