COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 October 12, 2014 © 2014 KIROYAN PARTNERS. All rights reserved. Passing into the half of decade becoming the signatory of Global Compact, Kiroyan Partners reiterates its commitment to uphold the principles of human rights, ethical business practices, labor protection, and fights against corruption. We are proud to accentuate our continuous support to the principles of the Global Compact. NOKE KIROYAN President Director & Chief Consultant HUMANRIGHTS Kiroyan Partners (KP) is a strategic communication consulting firm with expertise in stakeholder management and public affairs. KP is committed to the fulfillment of human rights principles in the entire aspects of its business operation, both in internal and external interaction. With respect to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, our commitment is also manifested in prioritizing Respect as one of the basic principles of the company. KP stands firm against any form of discrimination. We believe that all human beings are entitled to all rights and freedom without any distinction of sex, race, religion, and political view – particularly in work place. This belief is reflected through the freedom of expression policy, comfortable working environment, and health and safety assurance at work. In endorsing the freedom of speech, KP believes that employees’ inputs are valuable for the company’s improvement; thus KP regularly facilitates the employees to express their concern, opinion, and suggestion through forums, whilst the door is always open for any person to person discussion with the management. We conduct a regular meeting called “Weekly Project Review” that includes all employees and management to discuss recent business progress, office condition, and any topics appear during the week. The session serves opportunities to all KP’s team member to share their view and opinions. Further, KP conducts “Project Lesson Learned” soon as a project is concluded, which enables the team to reflect the project activities, to learn from any challenges foregoing, and to further make improvement for other projects to come. Furthermore, we organize “Annual Team Building” in a joyful and fun session to engage the team in a more intimate relationship. Further, KP always puts effort to provide support for the employees’ safety and health. As an incentive in taking care of employee’s health, all employees are registered in health insurance. KP also shows leniency for those who are physically ill to attain home rest and tolerates illness-related absences excluded from the annual leave. Secondly, KP pays huge attention to the safety working environment. The company’s commitment is portrayed from the various safety facilities provided at the office including the first aid equipment, a fire extinguisher, and an exclusive entrance access to the employees. Moving beyond the internal commitment, KP encourages its clients to uphold the principles of human rights in their business practices – the message has always been communicated to active and prospective clients. In addition, KP always thoroughly assess the work contracts with the clients in a bid to anticipate any potential of human rights violations. Looking back to the past one year, we are confident to admit ourselves comply with the principles of human rights. KP is devoted to continue its support to uphold the Rights for years to come. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC only | Jakarta, October 12, 2014 1 LABOR KP values the employees and management as the determinant factor to the company’s success. As a service industry, our business performance relies on the consultants’ competence and professionalism. At KP, we do not recognize discrimination since the process of recruitment to resignation. The hiring process is conducted transparently, professionally, and merit-based. KP prioritizes building and maintaining good relations among its team members in order to create a sustainable team work. This commitment is reflected in a company regulation, which is developed by the involvement of both management and employee representatives. The document has now been verified and approved by the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration. Annually, KP conducts a performance evaluation for each staff where employees and management sit together and discuss their performance during the year. In the session, employees firstly assess their own performance to further receive feedbacks from the management. The evaluation result, based on the employee’s performance, is likely to endow bonus or promote outstanding employees; which is decided based on the discretion of the management. Currently, KP is developing an evaluation mechanism for the Board of Directors. As the prominent assets to the company, KP also encourages employee’s capability through trainings and literatures provision for employees’ self-development and to improve employees’ quality at work. KP understands that employees will perform better with a competitive remuneration. As a commitment to support employee’s livelihood, KP ensures the right of the employee to receive a fair income, even beyond the payroll standard compared to the companies in the same industry. Employees at KP receive their income based on their work output. Aside from fixed monthly salary, KP also provides incentives through consulting fee for the consulting team and annual bonus for non-consulting staffs. The mechanism of fee and bonus distribution from each project is conducted in an open manner. In sustaining intimate relationship among the Management and Employees, KP initiates series of programs such as birthday celebrations for each employee, break-fasting dinner, and annual retreat with the whole team. During 2013, KP did not experience any employee-related problem. KP dedicates and prioritizes discussion as the main tool for dispute settlement. The company is committed to respect everyone who has been part of the team and maintain a good and professional relation each to other, including with the alumni. KP will always continue its commitment to respect labor rights and maintain good relations between employees and management based on ethics and professionalism principles. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC only | Jakarta, October 12, 2014 2 ENVIRONMENT As a service business, a major number of carbon footprints usages are imminent in our company. However, environmental protection and conservation remain at KP’s top priority. Our environmental policies focus on energy saving and goods recycling. KP team members are aware of energy-saving activities, mainly in efficient electricity and water usage. KP employees are accustomed to making sure that lights and appliances are turned off when they are not in use. In addition, KP’s office layout is dominated by large panes that allow sunlight to support office’s lighting. Our office is also decorated by regularly-maintained plants that improve comfort, aesthetics, and air circulation in the workplace. Furthermore, our passion to conserve the environment is implemented through paper-recycling policy: all used papers are recycled into reused paper. We have proved this to be more efficient to reduce paper usage. Going beyond the traditional practices, we carry out paperless activities by subscribing digital newspapers. The company encourages the employees to keep their files in softcopy rather than printed. As a consulting firm, KP actively promotes the importance of preserving the environment in the clients’ CSR activities. The company also conveys the similar message to its stakeholders. KP believes that every single effort to save the environment will create betterment to the nature. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC only | Jakarta, October 12, 2014 3 ANTICORRUPTION Ethics and Social Responsibility is its main principle at KP. We understand that consulting company might be perceived prone to corruption-related activities, thus the company strictly prohibits any kind of corruption activities in all business practices. The spirit of anti-corruption is embedded in the company’s commitment in providing services to its client. KP’s endeavor to uphold anti-corruption principle is applied in transparent financial activities and reporting. To make sure the accountability, KP hires public accountant to audit the company’s annual financial performance. Since the establishment to the day on, KP is proud to claim that the company is never entangled with any corruption scandal. KP believes that well-managed system and excellent personal integrity of the team is the foremost safeguard from corrupted attitude. For external and business purposes, KP always conducts prior assessment for every potential clients and partners. KP consistently promotes ethical and responsible practices to its clients and partners. To reaffirm its commitment, KP set a principle that losing a project is preferable rather than engaged in corruption activities. Anti-corruption spirit has been internalized as a personal value for all KP employees. KP will stands firm with its support to fight against corruption and uphold the good corporate governance practices within the company. CONFIDENTIAL – Prepared exclusively as a report to UNGC only | Jakarta, October 12, 2014 4 PT KOMUNIKASI KINERJA th Menara Karya, 10 Floor Suite H Jl. HR Rasuna Said Blok X-5 Kav. 1-2 Jakarta 12950 – INDONESIA T/F +6221 5794 4694 / 5794 4696 info@kiroyan-partners.com www.kiroyan-partners.com
