Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact Reporting period: July 2013 to August 2014 Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH 1 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 About Roland Berger Strategy Consultants Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, founded in 1967, is the only leading global consultancy with German heritage and of European origin. With 2,400 employees working in 50 offices in 36 countries worldwide, we have successful operations in all major international markets. The strategy consultancy is an independent partnership exclusively owned by about 220 Partners. We consider corporate responsibility a strategic business approach. From our consulting experience we see that it has gained relevance for international companies in recent years as it reconciles economic, social and environmental success. As a global company, we live up to our social responsibility by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the environment responsibly. We are a social community made up of different people from many nations with diverse backgrounds and outlooks. As a business, we're also a part of a community – namely, the society in which we work. For further information: www.rolandberger.com/company/corporate_responsibility/ About this report This report illustrates how Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH, as the German pillar of our group, is working to bring the Global Compact to life in our consulting operations. This Communication on Progress is our second report after becoming a member of the UN Global Compact in the summer of 2012. The following report describes the current status and past development and what we plan for the future, by setting goals related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Glopal Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. 2 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 HUMAN RIGHTS 5 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment, implementation and goals LABOR STANDARDS 9 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment, implementation and goals ENVIRONMENT 15 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment, implementation and goals ANTI-CORRUPTION 19 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment, implementation and goals Our CEO's declaration 4 The origin of our goals 23 Community interaction 24 3 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Our CEO's declaration of continued support Roland Berger Strategy Consultants is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. In the following report, we describe our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities and beyond, as being a corporate citizen. We take our corporate responsibility seriously and live up to its demands each day by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and environment responsibly. We also give back to the community by way of numerous different activities. We believe that it lies in our own interest to act responsibly and practice good corporate citizenship. Our understanding of ethical behavior toward our stakeholders is reflected in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct. This code applies to every employee in the company and offers guidance for our decisions and professional behavior in our work. The last reporting period was heavily influenced by a potential merger with a global auditing firm, which ultimately did not occur. Therefore, we had to reprioritize some of our operational decisions. As a result, a few goals could not be reached as we intended in the Communication on Progress 2013, but this does not mean that we don't fully back the principles of the Global Compact. We will continue our efforts to move forward in the four areas over the next 12 months. Therefore, I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Charles-Edouard Bouée CEO, Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH 4 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Human Rights 5 Commitment >> P rinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and implementation >> P rinciple 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. goals Our commitment Roland Berger Strategy Consultants explicitly supports the protection of human rights. We emphasize this support in our primary policy document, the Code of Conduct. We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. Current status of implementation Our commitment to protect all human rights is not only anchored in our Code of Conduct, but also enacted in the form of various established processes and control mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS Upon joining Roland Berger, every consultant is introduced to the topic of ethical behavior at the consultants' kick-off seminar. Additionally, an e-training session about the Code of Conduct is compulsory for all employees and freelancers/subcontractors. Designed as a refresher course, these training sessions aim to foster awareness of the issue. Any non-cooperation with this training is reported to the Compliance Officer, who will act accordingly. In the event of a human rights violation, employees can communicate their information to the Compliance Officer through a number of channels. We are proud to say that to date no human rights violations have been reported. In order to encourage our people to report irregularities, abuses and risks, we have set up a totally anonymous internet–based whistle-blowing platform by August 2014. HEALTH AND SAFETY We care about the well-being of all our employees. Thus a comprehensive network of health and safety measures is in place, to address issues such as stress resilience. Roland Berger employees are encouraged to make full use of their annual vacation days. For our managers a trust-based vacation policy has been implemented to ensure sufficient relaxation time. The office Friday policy stipulates that consultants should spend Fridays at their local offices, instead of with the client. In addition, to deal with potential situations of high pressure, a stress management seminar is offered as part of the regular seminar curriculum. On top, we introduced the Team Barometer tool three years ago to monitor any unhealthy team atmosphere as well as situations of extraordinary stress and pressure. To ensure the health and safety of our employees we perform annual workplace inspections. At these occasions we make sure that the rooms and office equipment meet the highest ergonomic standards. Should any employee ever have a concern or special needs we promise to take action to meet their requirements. 6 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Occasionally it is necessary for our employees to travel to high-risk countries. There are several control mechanisms in place to identify these critical countries and assess the risk of traveling there. International SOS constantly provides us with information. In case an employee intends to travel to a high risk country, an internal information system for our Global Head of Human Resources and a de-escalation system for our Executive Committee are implemented. Additionally, the respective Managing Partner is notified. Should travel to a high-risk area be deemed crucial and feasible, we provide all the means necessary to make the trip as safe as possible. Since we are a service provider, our supply chain is usually less confronted with human rights SUPPLY CHAIN issues. Our employees all work for us of their own choosing and are all of legal age. The MANAGEMENT preven­tion of forced or compulsory labor and child labor is not explicitly phrased in our internal guide­lines so far, mainly because German legislation addresses and enforces a respective corporate behavior. The elimination of these issues is of course a very important topic that must not be disregarded. Our Human Resources department and the Compliance Officer are not only designated, but well equipped to deal with any situation regarding human rights at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Achievement of goals In the last Communication on Progress, we defined some objectives that we wanted to achieve in order to continuously improve and expand our actions in the field of human rights protection. Goal Comment By mid-2014 we wanted to increase the rate of successfully With a current rate of 73% (as of May 2014) of successfully completed completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct to 65 %. e-trainings on the Code of Conduct, we have fully reached the goal. We aimed to introduce yearly written confirmations from all Partners So far, we have not yet introduced written confirmations for Roland Berger concerning adherence to the Code of Conduct. Partners. In order to further embed respect for human rights within our The revised version of our Code of Conduct now refers more explicitly to company, we planned to revise the Code of Conduct during the next the protection of human rights. reporting period to better take human rights into account. To ensure the well-being and health of our Partners, we intended to The concept has been developed; but its implementation was postponed develop a concept to check their health status on a regular basis. due to exceptional circumstances. Nevertheless, we continue to provide individual counsel if needed. Goals for the future In the future we will of course remain committed to the protection of human rights within our sphere of influence. Particularly, we will strive to reach the following goals: > We aim to introduce yearly written confirmations from all Partners concerning adherence to the Code of Conduct by June 2015. > We intend to review the implementation of health checkups for our Partners in 2015. 7 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Responsible business Many of the issues that the United Nations Global Compact addresses are explicitly covered by German and EU law, which companies based in Germany must observe. As a German company, Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH does so too. But we go further, proactively taking steps in line with the guidelines set out by the Global Compact. By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2004, Roland Berger established general rules for ethical behavior in our business conduct. This document is a formal element of every employment contract and we expect our employees to comply with it. Our compliance management system encompasses all tools and mechanisms that define and implement the principles and values of our organization, including the guidelines of the Code of Conduct. Thus, it allows us to uphold them in our strategic and operational business. The code was designed to meet the specific demands faced by Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. It provides guidance for behavior in our dealings with clients, colleagues, suppliers and competitors. Our Code of Conduct is built on the pillars of corporate responsibility, professional integrity, confidentiality and safety and personal conduct. It covers issues such as data security, intellectual property rights, insider information, respectful conduct, recruitment standards, health and safety at work, human rights and environmental protection. Our Code of Conduct is a living core document of our firm that undergoes constant amendments. Since the last Communication of Progress we have rephrased our Code of Conduct. Thus, it now covers even more explicitly the four areas that the Global Compact describes. Roland Berger is taking many actions that build on the ten principles set out by the Global Compact, as described in this report. Find the latest version of our Code of Conduct here: > http://www.rolandberger.com/media/ pdf/Roland_Berger_Code_of_conduct_ Employees_20140701.pdf CODE OF CONDUCT LIVING UP TO OUR VALUES 1 8 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 labor Standards 9 Commitment >> P rinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, implementation >> P rinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; >> Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and >> P rinciple 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment goals and occupation. Our commitment We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with German legislation, our Code of Conduct and the Global Compact. Current status of implementation PRODUCT Everyone at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants is dedicated to our three corporate values: RESPONSIBILITY excellence, entrepreneurship and partnership. These values are an imperative for each of us, and they determine our thoughts and actions. As a result, we undertake continuous efforts to improve our personal skills and professional know-how in our consulting teams. EDUCATION AND To provide our clients with best possible consulting services we offer our employees a broad DEVELOPMENT educational program with a vast range of both mandatory and optional seminars. These seminars include topics such as methodology, soft and leadership skills or individual coaching. Currently consultants partake in 5-6 days of compulsory training per year. Support staff typically have 2-3 days of training per year. By sponsoring Master, MBA and doctoral programs we enable our employees to pursue their academic interests. We also offer a sabbatical to enable employees to follow their own interests beyond Roland Berger's day-to-day operations. Our common understanding of quality and performance for our clients and the way we all work together is reflected in a climate of equality, respect, openness and constructive feedback. Sophisticated evaluation mechanisms are installed: regular project assessments (both top-down and bottom-up) allow employees to voice their opinions on all matters. An additional leadership assessment is held annually. The results of this anonymous feedback have a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2013, the participation rate in these bottomup assessments was less than in the previous year: 66% of consultants (-9%) and 49% of the support staff (-3%) participated. DIVERSITY Outstanding management consultants are more than just brilliant analysts and strategists. Above MANAGEMENT all, they are strong and creative personalities from a variety of backgrounds. Diversity and nondiscrimination lie at the heart of our Code of Conduct and is thus part of our business and personal behavior. We acknowledge and value the differences among our workforce, clients and business partners and consider them an opportunity. 10 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 For all employees in Germany, the Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, AGG) is part of their contract. To reiterate the importance of this topic all new employees are required to participate in an e-learning course. Additionally several processes have been installed to ensure equal treatment of all employees. In order to intensify the co-operation, Roland Berger is strategic partner of several international RECRUITING business schools whose students have particularly diverse backgrounds. Thus, these partnerPRACTICES ships also strengthen our diversity approach. Our entire recruiting process of addressing, identifying and selecting new employees is based on talent, performance and potential. Our promotion system is likewise based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. State-of-the-art methodology is applied to ensure an impartial and skill-based decision-making process. The remuneration of our employees is linked strictly according to their rank level within the company. Employees are rewarded for their work performance. Hence, the remuneration process is transparent. Our International Staff Exchange Program was also designed to foster diversity at the workplace. In 2013, 81 employees participated in the exchange program and 22 different countries (+22%) were involved. Cross-country networking beyond the day-to-day work is enhanced by events like our international kick-off-meetings or our development program for high performers: the Challenge Club. This program – made up of the most promising high potentials within the firm – aims at contributing to the individual development of the consultants: The members – up to 60 consultants from 25 countries – meet twice a year for a few days to further develop their personal and business skills and network across borders. The diversity of our employees is also reflected by the array of nationalities represented in our offices. In 2013, Roland Berger in Germany had employees from 32 countries. Currently 25.2% of Roland Berger employees in Germany are female. 13.4% of consultants and 8.7% of consultants in management positions are women. In order to make consulting more attractive for women we conduct special recruiting events, have implemented measures to improve work and family life balance and we have a special mentoring program for female consultants in place. Through our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt we express how much we value diversity. The company's continuous efforts to create a better work-life balance for our employees – men WORK-LIFE and women alike is expressed by the certification berufundfamilie . For instance, in 2013 BALANCE more than 50% of our employees on parental leave were men. We are proud to be ranked among the top 3 employers in our industry in Europe. This reflects how the efforts we undertake to create the best possible work environment bear fruit. 11 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Achievement of goals As expressed in the previous report, we aimed to further live up to internationally accepted labor standards and to build the diversity of our employees by setting the following goals. Goal Comment A key part of this strategy was to increase the number of female We are on a promising path to meeting our goal; by end of the year 2013 consultants in Germany to 15% by the end of 2015. we had 13.4% female consultants in Germany. Regarding the seminar program, we wanted to maintain the current We have fully reached the goal of maintaining the level of training days level of training days per employee and continuously provide up-to(5-6 for consultants, 2-3 for services) in 2013. date and relevant courses, using effective and high-quality teaching Relevance of topics and quality of trainings is guaranteed by a carefully methods. arranged selection and feedback process. Additionally, we planned to increase the total number of e-learning In 2014 we launched a self-learning community on the intranet that courses offered. integrates the audio, video and PowerPoint offerings of several departments, including Graphics, IT, HR and Roland Berger School of Strategy and Economics. New self-learning material such as expert calls on specific consulting know-how or videos about perfect presentation practice have been produced. We aimed to keep the high level of participation rates for the Due to other priorities, our HR department spent significantly less time on leadership assessment constant for the consultants and increase inviting employees to participate in the leadership assessment than in it by 5% for the support staff. previous years. As a consequence, the participation rates for both consultants and support staff decreased slightly compared to the last year. We wanted to maintain or even increase the number of participants In 2013, we succeeded in maintaining the previous number of consultants in the International Staff Exchange Program. participating in our International Staff Exchange Program and we increased the countries involved by more than 20%. By 2014 we wanted to have implemented seminars on intercultural Due to poor demand for this optional seminar we have put it on hold for competence, which will be part of the regular curriculum. the time being. Goals for the future In the months to come, we will continue our efforts to reach the targeted goals regarding our work force. > Thus, increasing the number of female consultants to 15% by the end of next year is still one of our main objectives. > Our recently published self-learning community is only the beginning of a longer process that will establish new training formats. Over the next few months we will further extend our self-learning offerings. > Concerning the leadership assessment, for 2014/15 we plan to bring the response rate back to the 2012 level for consultants and increase the services response rate to 5% above the 2012 level. > For the next reporting period we plan to maintain the high level of International Staff Exchange participants and countries involved and will review the existing exchange conditions to make it even more attractive for our offices involved. > In the months to come we will have a re-audit of the certificate berufundfamilie . 12 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Fostering diversity at Roland Berger We are convinced that businesses stand to profit from a diverse workforce. For Roland Berger Strategy Our people have a variety Consultants, diversity has always been an integral of backgrounds, passions and part of our values and our success. To further emphasize our dedication to promoting employee interests diversity, Roland Berger was among the first signaEach of our employees is unique and as distinctive as their fingerprint. At the tories of the German diversity declaration Charta same time, our diverse workforce stands for the excellent cooperation beyond der Vielfalt in 2007, launched by BP Europa SE, borders, nationalities, gender, social, ethnic or religious background. Roland Deutsche Bank and Deutsche Telekom, under the Berger consultants with different nationalities have usually graduated from interpatronage of German chancellor Angela Merkel. national business schools where they not only gained academic experience and practice in foreign languages, but were also in contact with various cultures and traditions. Thus, they are not only smart and well educated, but open-minded and tolerant. And consulting without human contact does not work! Learn what diversity means to our top-notch mix of people Dr. Wolfgang Mittmann, Senior Consultant, studied Biochemistry and Pharmacology in Tübingen, Washington and London. 'We cannot solve our problems with the same kind of thinking that created them.' Einstein's political statement also applies to business and companies: Different backgrounds, different thinking, new solutions and real innovation. Wenting Zhao, Consultant, studied Mathematical Finance & Actuarial Science in Hamburg, Munich and New Brunswick, New Jersey. During my office transfer to RB China, I experienced colleagues and clients from many different countries, even worked in three languages at one project. Diversity at RB not only inspires us to create innovative solutions and maximize our added-value to the clients, but also drives our personal development. 13 Lothar Rauch, Senior Consultant, studied International Business (Finance & Accounting) in Maastricht and Hong Kong. I was once asked how I see myself compared to the average Roland Berger consultant. Facing this question I took all individuals I met into account. That was when I realized that I actually had no idea what an average RB con-sultant would look like. Diversity with respect to various dimensions is what really gives us the credibility as a global advisor to leading organizations in a global market place. Ina Wietheger, Partner, studied Economics and International Studies in Tübingen and Miami. After more than 15 years in consulting I am deeply convinced that creativity and innovation are based on bringing diverse perspectives, courageous ideas and different backgrounds together. It's part of the DNA of a successful consulting company. Manuel Yoon, Consultant, studied General Business in Oestrich-Winkel and Sao Paulo. At Roland Berger, I have had the pleasure to work in international teams with colleagues from Europe, South America and Asia. I can truthfully state that we achieved maximum impact because we embraced our cultural diversity. Ante Prnjak, Principal, studied Business Administration in Stuttgart, New York, Leipzig and Strasbourg. Being raised and educated in a multinational and multicultural environment, I strived throughout Omar Abdo, Senior Consultant, studied Business my career to work in a profession and Engineering in Darmstadt and Linköping. that is based on diverse educational backgrounds, cultures and Only a truly diverse team can offer nationalities – Roland Berger gives a multi-dimensional and holistic each individual the room to grow view on the complex issues facing and thereby also generates today's business world – A pivotal sustainable value for our clients success factor for a global strategy around the globe. consultancy. 14 ENVIRONMENT 15 Commitment >> P rinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; implementation >> P rinciple 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and >> P rinciple 9: encourage the development and diffusion of goals environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitment Roland Berger Strategy Consultants as a professional services company is certainly less exposed to environmental issues, as our product does not have a direct ecological impact. Nevertheless, we believe that within our corporate responsibility we have an obligation toward the environ­ ment. Hence, in our operations we consider environmental protection part of our duty and are committed to contributing our fair share to this important matter. We strive to minimize our negative ecological influence, even though, compared to other elements of the Global Compact, environmental protection is not as central for us. Current status of implementation ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT The greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling of our consultants. However, we aim to keep our carbon footprint small. Our travel guidelines are intended to encourage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel. As possible modes of transportation our employees can choose between plane, train, lease car, rental car, car-sharing options or public transportation. Despite these varied options employees are encouraged to always select the most cost-effective, time-efficient and environmentally friendly transportation. In addition, the number of weekly flights is limited and travel above that limit requires the supervisor's approval prior to booking. For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. In 2013, we increased our rail kilometers per capita by 8% compared to the previous year. Furthermore, 92% of the total volume of our travel with the train in Germany was realized using environmentally friendly electricity. This has been recognized by the Deutsche Bahn with a special certificate ( Ökostrom-Zertifikat ). In addition, we are encouraging telephone and video conferencing. All German offices utilize state-of-the-art video conferencing devices and our consultants can request an individual equipment set for their laptops. Thus, we have increased the time spent in video conferences in Germany by 16% from 2012 to 2013. To help our employees be as environmentally conscious in their individual behavior as possible, we provide them with Eco Tips via our intranet. To reduce our environmental impact at the German offices a number of processes have been put in place. For instance, in our central purchasing we select products that meet environmental standards or have relevant certificates. We give preference to regional suppliers of food and beverages to reduce the amount of carbon emissions caused by processing, packaging and transport. Furthermore, we separate trash, such as paper, batteries or other electronic waste to facilitate the recycling process. We constantly strive to minimize our paper consumption and use FSC certified paper in all offices in Germany. 16 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 As shown in the table below we have constantly reduced our energy consumption in our German offices. As a matter of fact, the decrease amounts to 13% since 2011. Office buildings 2011 [kWh] 2012 [kWh] 2013 [kWh] Berlin 110,350 90,200 78,370 Dusseldorf 137,339 133,100 110,167 Frankfurt 126,272 120,155 106,266 Hamburg 63,423 63,797 53,210 Munich 1,190,347 1,129,288 1,062,841 Stuttgart 45,524 50,000* 43,000* Total consumption: 1,673,255 1,586,540 1,453,854 Reduction -5.2% -8.4% * Estimate, final figures of -13.1% energy consumption are not yet available. At all our sites environmentally friendly electricity is used and we seek to rent energy efficient offices. Our building in Frankfurt for example is certified with the LEED® Gold standard. Achievement of goals With the goals set in our previous report, we wanted to have a greater positive impact on our environment. Goal Comment In order to decrease the number of flights and encourage the use of In March 2014 we introduced more environmentally friendly travel less environmentally damaging means of transport, we planned to guidelines in Germany with a wide range of car-sharing options, stricter establish further internal guidelines and incentivize environmentally policies for using trains and more public instead of individual transfriendly travel behavior of our employees. portation. By 2014 we wanted to introduce a carbon emissions-related lease Since the last Communication on Progress, we reviewed our existing lease car policy, designed to reduce the carbon emissions produced by our car policy and are about to extend the car portfolio to include electric cars employees' car fleet. and specify a mobility concept for the interim usage of vehicles (instead of constant car lease agreements). Both the new lease car policy and the new mobility concept will be implemented by July 2015. When renting new office buildings in Germany we intend to select In the meantime, we moved two of our German offices (Düsseldorf and real estate certified by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Berlin). In both cases the new buildings comply with the highest ecoloBauen (DGNB e.V.) – the highest standard for green buildings. gical standards and will receive the respective certificates shortly. Additionally, we planned to implement LED lighting in our new Despite our plan to replace our office lighting with LED in our new offices in Munich, Düsseldorf and Berlin in order to create a more locations, for specific reasons we have not realized this so far in Düsselenergy efficient work environment. dorf. In Berlin a major part of our lighting is based on LED and we still aim to implement LED lighting in our future headquarters in Munich. Goals for the future We will continue our efforts to reduce our ecological footprint by setting the following environmental goals: > Reduce travel activities in general in order to save our planet and use even more video and telephone conferencing instead. > We are about to detail an innovative mobility concept (e.g. car-sharing and pooling options) and are committed to further incentivizing environmentally friendly travel behavior of our employees, e.g. use less damaging means of transport such as trains. > We intend to implement the more ecologically friendly lease car policy by June 2015. 17 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Our contribution to saving the planet Scarcity of resources, energy efficiency, carbon footprint and sustainability are becoming increasingly important topics, not only for us, but also for our clients. These ecological challenges affect our clients' operations and processes, and have a huge impact on their business models and future products. We have established a strong position using our consulting know-how in green areas. Some current highlights of our expertise E-mobility: Innovative mobility: Over the next 15 years, the automotive industry will undergo the Not only megacities, but all urban agglomerations are increasingly greatest transformation in its history. E-mobility technologies are confronted with the environmental consequences of rising volumes reshaping the automotive value chain and business models. In of traffic and transportation. As a matter of fact, smart cities that addition, complexity is increasing, putting tremendous pressure on care consciously about sustainable urban growth are no longer a engineering organizations to become more effective, more efficient buzz word. Different transportation providers are affected by this and faster. They must also become more innovative to tackle a trend and need to rethink their services and network for intermodal broader range of technologies. transport options. Thus, we support our automotive clients – manufacturers and OEMs The aim of innovative mobility is to find sustainable solutions for alike – in defining pragmatic strategies that allow them to master the future by these challenges and align product creation and e-mobility with > Developing shared mobility concepts market, regulatory and technology trends. > Intelligently integrating modes of transportation and mobility services (buses, trains, taxis, rental, shared and private cars, parking facilities, rented bicycles, etc.) and making it possible to combine the different options as required Energiewende: > Applying self-organizing technology in which management The energy turnaround is Germany's high-priority economic project in mechanisms optimize traffic flows and/or the years to come. Its success will determine whether Germany will > Leveraging mobile devices as an identification, booking and continue to be a competitive location for industry. Thus far, public payment tool for travelers. discussion about the energy turnaround has centered mainly on reforms to the EEG (Renewable Energy Act). But for a successful Our consultants incorporate their insights from project experience energy turnaround, numerous aspects have to be considered and all and their analyses of trends, markets and technologies into innoparties involved have to agree jointly on the right course of action. vative mobility concepts. We advise various administrations, organizations and companies from different sectors and industries in the These are the findings of our recent study Energy turnaround reloacreation of smart traffic and transportation solutions for a healthy ded! Rethinking the megaproject . Our consultants revealed that the and sustainable future. success of the energy transition in Germany depends on 24 factors. These are just a few consulting examples of our contribution to saving the planet. We are convinced that with our experts and their knowledge, we and our clients will successfully tackle the challenges of reducing environmental impact now and in the future. 18 ANTICORRUPTION 19 Commitment >> P rinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. implementation goals Our commitment As a leading strategy consultancy Roland Berger Strategy Consultants is committed to operating with a clear conscience and speaking out against any and every form of unethical behavior. Thus we assert our opposition to corruption, extortion and bribery within our company or by outsiders. Current status of implementation Our Code of Conduct conveys a clear understanding of ethical behavior and guides us in our day-to-day business decisions. To prevent any abuse all payments to freelancers or Senior Advisors have been always made via bank transfer, without exception. Furthermore, contracts for all Roland Berger freelancers have been standardized and their payment is controlled via proApproval , a newly introduced tool for avoiding disproportionate remuneration. During our annual audit the contracts for Senior Advisors and all related payments are subject to strict scrutiny. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY To avoid potential conflicts of interest amongst clients' teams a steering body and strict guidelines in the form of Chinese walls are in place. All employees must adhere to binding confidentiality rules, in accordance with both their employment contract and our Code of Conduct. Our clean desk policy is regularly checked in our German offices. E-learning courses are compulsory for all employees, to keep them aware of the issue. Just like employees, freelancers also must adhere to our Code of Conduct and partake in the refresher trainings. DATA SECURITY We treat all our clients' non-public information in strict confidentiality and keep proprietary and confidential information secure at all times. To ensure utmost security in all our electronic communications, our information and communication equipment – IT infrastructure, hardand software – fulfills highest security and technology standards. We operate our own IT infrastructure for business communication, using encrypted notebooks and secure Blackberry smartphones allowing for e-mail encryption. Furthermore, all Roland Berger employees have to know and comply with our IT User Policy which is part of the company's Code of Conduct and as such also subject of regular e-trainings. The IT User rules cover issues like password and access control, data protection, installing and using IT-equipment, using e-mail and the Internet, mobile working or the protection against malware. We do not use public cloud programs, such as freeware provided by Yahoo!, Google or Skype for our business communication. 20 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Achievement of goals To demonstrate that the prevention of corruption is very important to us, we set a number of shortand medium-term goals one year ago. Goal Comment We wanted to develop a process for carefully screening the ethical Since our last report we learned that the MLL is not necessarily applicable standards of our (new) clients – in line with the Money Laundering to the acquisition process of new clients. Thus, because of the extraLaw (MLL), and especially in countries with high corruption rates. ordinary situation last year, we postponed our plan of introducing a standard for carefully screening (new) clients, but we will work on this goal in the next 12 months. We planned to expand and professionalize our whistle-blowing By introducing an anonymous internet-based whistle-blowing solution by system. August 2014, we reached this goal. We wanted to establish a detailed policy for giving and This new policy has not yet been implemented due to other priorities over receiving gifts. the past 12 months. Goals for the future In order to prevent corruption, we aim to realize the following: > The introduction of a process of carefully screening of our (new) clients concerning their ethical standards remains one of our utmost concerns for the next 12 months. > Additionally, we intend to implement a detailed policy for giving and receiving gifts by the end of 2015. 21 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Our new whistle-blowing solution An increasing number of conventions and rules (including the UN Global Compact) take whistle blowing as a viable tool into consideration when it comes to the preventing and fighting against corruption, and ensuring compliance with laws and industry or corporate standards. Whistleblower Protection Act (USA) UN Global Compact Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) German Corporate Governance Code UK Bribery Act UN Conventions German Government´s Guideline EuroSOX for Corruption Prevention Companies and OECD Convention German Anti-Corruption Law from 1997 Administrations PACI IFG (Germany) FCPA KonTraG (Germany) Anti-Corruption Register (Germany) Basel II AGG (Germany) DIIR Audit Standard No. 5 (Germany) Source: BKMS Since whistle-blowing systems are the most effective way of disblowing system developed by Business Keeper AG: the Business closing white-collar crimes, Roland Berger Strategy Consultants Keeper Monitoring System (BKMS®). decided to install a professional tool beyond existing hotline/e-mail This solution is a certified platform which guarantees total anonymity: to our Compliance Officer. In order to overcome potential inhibitions the leads cannot be decrypted or interpreted by a third party, including of our employees, we have introduced an anonymous online whistleBusiness Keeper AG. Examiner BKMS® System Whistle blower Source: BKMS encrypted connection encrypted connection (https) (https) • Receives reports • Guarantees technical • Reports risks and • Conducts (anonymous) security irregularities dialogues • Protects reports from • Receives feedback and third party acces answers questions The BKMS® is available 24/7 in almost 50 languages. Via this The whistle blower's availability for further questions can help platform, whistle blowers can report irregularities, abuses and risks accelerate internal investigations and prevent misunderstandings. worldwide. As a result, the corporate examiner (e.g. our Compliance Thus, the BKMS® whistle-blowing system – which is already being Officer) receives the report and can enter into an anonymous dialogue successfully used by numerous international companies and admiwith the whistle blower. In this dialogue the whistle blower is ennistrations – can have a preventive as well as a punitive effect in couraged to make reports and is kept informed on the report's status. our company in the future. 22 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 The origin of our goals Summarizing the implementation status and the achievement of the goals set in the last Communication on Progress, we at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH still strive to constantly improve ourselves in our core business activities with respect to the four areas of the UN Global Compact. Thus, our future objectives are as following: Global Compact area / issue Goal Deadline Page UN Global Compact Introduce yearly written confirmations from all Partners June 2015 p. 7 concerning adherence to the Code of Conduct Human Rights / health and safety Review of implementation of regular health checks December 2015 p. 7 for our Partners Labor Standards / diversity Increase the number of female consultants in December 2015 p. 12 Germany to 15% Labor Standards / education and Further extend our self-learning offerings June 2015 p. 12 development Labor Standards Increase the level of participation for the leadership June 2015 p. 12 assessment concerning consultants to the 2012 level and increase it by 5 % for support staff Labor Standards / education and Maintain the number of participants in the June 2015 p. 12 development / diversity International Staff Exchange Program Labor Standards / diversity Re-audit the certificate berufundfamilie June 2015 p. 12 Environment Reduce travel activities of our employees in general, June 2015 p. 17 and further increase use of telephone and video conferences Environment Establish an innovative mobility concept and June 2015 p. 17 incentivize environmentally conscious travel with our employees Environment Introduce a carbon emission related lease car policy June 2015 p. 17 Anti-corruption Careful screening of our (new) clients' ethical June 2015 p. 21 standards Anti-corruption Establish a detailed policy for giving and receiving gifts December 2015 p. 21 23 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Community interaction As a company Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH is dedicated to fostering the goals of the United Nations Global Compact beyond our core business activities. Accordingly we give back to society at large in several different ways. Our corporate citizenship activities are designed to cultivate the exchange of ideas, provide a catalyst for societal development and promote new perspectives. We believe that we as people do best when we combine our expertise and skills in a common venture. With our support for pro bono projects at nonprofit organizations and our encouragement of our employees' volunteering commitments, we have established a wide range of corporate citizenship formats. For more information visit: > http://www.rolandberger.com/company/corporate_responsibility/ management_and_principles/society.html As an employer, Roland Berger encourages the commitment of our employees to doing good, whether it is during official working hours or in their free time. So we support and offer our staff volunteering opportunities on an individual basis or in groups. Education lies at the heart of our social commitment. As part of the Education by Empowerment volunteering initiative, which was launched in early 2012, our own employees in Germany continue to work with the scholars of the Roland Berger Foundation in diverse formats and activities. For more information visit: > http://www.rolandbergerstiftung.org/index.php?id=3 > http://www.rolandberger.com/company/corporate_responsibility/ education_by_empowerment.html 24 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Christmas messages of hope to needy people Beyond these corporate volunteering activities, for many years now during the Christmas season, our employees support people in need. A long tradition in many Roland Berger offices is to have a Christmas tree with gift wishes from underprivileged children, refugees, elderly persons or other needy people. For example in 2013, all RB offices in Germany spread a bit of Christmas cheer to more than 250 individuals in different organizations: In our headquarters in Munich for the fifth year in a row, Roland Berger employees supported a refugee center in the city. Thus, more than 75 colleagues were eager to brighten things up at the refugee shelter. In order to give our employees a better feel for the cause they would support, Caritas social workers came to our headquarters to provide insight into the refugees' plight. For their Christmas charity in Stuttgart, Roland Berger employees turned their attention to a group of people often forgotten amidst all the Christmas cheer: chronic alcoholics with multiple impairments. Here they find shelter in a therapeutic community and are supported in their attempts to regain stability for a new beginning. These people who very often cannot afford simple everyday items, like a nice bar of soap, a pretty towel, batteries, a sports calendar or a CD, received an individual Christmas present. In Frankfurt, our colleagues provided moments of joy for children from a deprived area of the city. Following the results of an intranet poll among their colleagues, the charity team collected dozens of Christmas wishes from the children and attached the wish cards to a beautifully decorated Christmas tree. On Christmas Eve, all presents found their way to the kids when they visited our office building. Our Düsseldorf employees hosted already the second Christmas quiz with the scholars of the Roland Berger Foundation in North Rhine-Westphalia. Remembering the previous year's happy faces, they relaunched an online questionnaire where the scholars answered tricky questions. In the end, it was not only the three winners who went away with presents: all participating kids received gifts such as backpacks, hoodies or Amazon vouchers, bought with donations from our colleagues. The Hamburg office also turned to their intranet community to decide on the focus for last year's Christmas charity. It soon became clear that our Hamburg staff also wanted to continue giving specifically to children in need. Thus, they chose a local non-profit organization providing emergency support for families in the form of advice, as well as practical and financial help. A Christmas party where the beneficiaries got their presents gave kids and the Santa team alike a lot of joy. In Berlin Roland Berger employees entered new Christmas charity territory: rather than donating money or buying presents, the organizers at the Berlin office decided to go for another kind of good deed, by asking their colleagues to donate their time. Thus, they organized a charity competition in collaboration with the Roland Berger Foundation. The Foundation's young scholars and our colleagues generated ideas for social projects to support. On St Nicholas' Day, 10 scholars and 40 colleagues met for tea and cookies to form teams and discuss collaborative project ideas. A Roland Berger jury finally decided in January. One of the winning ideas was a job application workshop, which our colleagues honored in April 2014 for a class of 10th graders in a secondary school in Berlin-Neukölln. For us as a firm it's good to see the high level of commitment, creativity and initiative Roland Berger employees develop to help less privileged individuals and groups in their communities. Also, in the future, we will remain committed to encouraging our peoples' contribution for a better world. 25 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2013 to June 2014 Point of contact: Dr. Barbara Stahl Manager Corporate Responsibility E-mail: Barbara.Stahl@rolandberger.com Phone: +49 69 29927-6209 Roland Berger Strategy Consultants 2014, all rights reserved www.rolandberger.com 26
