Shanghai HUIJI Industry Co., Ltd. 上海汇集实业有限公司 2014 Communication on Progress We are pleased to submit our Communication on Progress Report for 2013 – 2014. As the following report shows, lots of performance and activities are made to strengthen the Ten Principles in four main aspects in our company. I. Human Rights: We organized our top managers read and learnt part of the terms and conditions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on Dec. 10th 2013. We also asked our top managers to exchange their own thoughts about Human Rights. Such as how to avoid imparity to women and gender in daily work and how to treat persons with disabilities equally. II. Labour： We decided to recruit our new employees from local Labour Bureau to avoid any imparity at first interview. We asked our HR manager to double check the age of new employee to avoid child labour situation. We will also obey the Labour Law of People’s Republic of China and local government labour terms, which performance in minimum payroll, social insurance, industrial injury insurance and so on. III. Environment: In the middle of 2013, we organized an activity called “Improving our Environment” which is about how to minimize the energy used in daily work and how to minimize our contamination to our environment. In our Printing Department, they gather the finished silk-screen halftone together and clean them at the same time to collect as much Page 1 of 2 Shanghai HUIJI Industry Co., Ltd. 上海汇集实业有限公司 contaminated water as they can. In our Cutting Department, they shut down their machines during lunch time. In our Assembly Department, they keep their personal lights off when stopping assembling. Through the activity, our total energy had been saved by approximately 8% which is shown on our electricity bill. IV. Anti-Corruption: Our company has a clear system against corruption and bribery, etc. Any employee who involves in bribery event will be fired. We have an email-address which used for anonymous reporting on corruption or bribery activity(ies) by employees. Page 2 of 2
