ABOUT CR TRADES CARGO VESSELS CAREERS CONTACT MEDIA Health & Safety Employees Environment OUR COMMITTMENT Anti-corruption open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com Anti-corruption There are great changes taking place in the Suppliers world today. Supporting actions Over the next 30 years our planet will have another 2 billion Policies people, and the great majority of the world’s population will be living in cities. About half of the worlds` poorest have been lifted Ethical Guidelines out of extreme poverty over the last two decades, and we are on GRI index track to eliminate extreme poverty and improve the lives of all in UN Global Compact our generation. Chair of Grieg Star, Elisabeth Grieg. Non-financial key figures But there is a flip side to this coin; our common resources are being depleted and the consequences of global warming are requiring us to rethink and reinvent business. Grieg Star’s environmental vision is to have no harmful emissions to air, sea and land. Although we are making solid progress in improving energy efficiency of our fleet, the fleet will still remain dependent on fossil fuel for decades to come. Developing solutions to replace fossil fuel is on top of the agenda in international shipping. Still we do not know the game changing technologies, but the need for sustainable solutions is spurring innovation. Grieg Star wants to be part of the solution and be proactive in seeking better solutions for our industry. Through our engagement with other shipping companies in Norway, we have developed a voluntary reporting system for C02emissions from vessels; the FRAM project. Through this project we want to further develop our platform for sharing best practices on energy efficiency whilst preparing for a future C02-reporting regime for the shipping industry. Grieg Star is committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact, and strive to continuously improve our implementation of the ten principles. Anti-corruption has always been high on our corporate agenda and as members of the business-led Maritime Anti-Corruption Network, we have joined forces to target corruption in high risk ports. As more and more companies see the value in working together to tackle corruption, our chances of making positive impact are also increasing. The challenges ahead are making businesses transition from taking small steps of improvements to making more transformative impact. Opportunities are made not found, and we will continue to strive towards a sustainable business environment where we meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability for future generations to meet their needs. open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com Grieg Star is part of the Grieg Group grieg.no open in browser PRO version Are you a developer? Try out the HTML to PDF API pdfcrowd.com
