Shanghai Vico Precision Mold d & Plastics Co.,Ltd. 2014 2 Communicatio on On Progre P ess Abo out this document All m members off the Global Compact are required to issue an a annual C Communication on Prog gress (COP P), a public disclosure to stakeholders on pro ogress madde in implem menting the ten principlles of the UN U Global C Compact, an nd in suppo orting broadd UN develo opment goaals. Thiss documentt is the 4th COP reporrt of Shanghai Vico. We W invite alll our stakeh holders (emmployees, clients, s suppliers, investors, civil socciety, govvernments, local commmunities… …), to read iti and learn n more abo out our com mmitment inn favour of human righ hts, labour rights, r environmental sstewardship p and anti-c corruption, Although, we w still havve lack of more experie ence in it. As sspecified in the COP po olicy, we inttroduce the document with w a stateement of con ntinued support, which is signed by b our Mana aging director Nelson Tan. T Stattement of continued c support “Sha anghai Vicoo has endo orsed the G Global Comp pact Princip ples since 22008 – to officially o statte its comm mitment reg garding hum man rights,, working conditions, c environment and corrruption. We implementted the 10 P Principles in n our compa any. We also reinfforced our commitmen nt to share e Global Compact C Prrinciples with our suppliers. Sepptember 30, 2014 Nelsson Tan, Managing Dirrector. Shanghai Vico Precision Mold d & Plastics Co.,Ltd. Humman Rights s Implemen ntation Humman rights and labou ur right are e closely re elated. The e descriptioon below reflects r Shaanghai Vico o’s approac ch on the following areas a of hu uman rightss: right to decent stan ndard of living, right to health, righht to education and training, right tto family life e. Thee two Global Compact principles p on human rig o ghts are inc cluded: Prin nciple 1: Businesses B should sup pport and respect r the protection of internattionally procclaimed hum man rights Prin nciple 2: Businesses B should and d make surre that they y are not coomplicit in human righ hts abuses.  We recogn nize and res spect the prrotection of internationa ally proclaimmed human rights. And we wrrite the relatted right in tthe employe ee manual.  We continuous subsidize and b uild the Vic co hope-sch hool (In Chhina “hope-s school” means a school s whicch help chil dren get be etter learnin ng conditionns in poor areas), include settting a foundation to aw ward the sta arveling teacher and sttudents eac ch year. We regularly organize e employee es to particip pate in the school s buildding and activities. For examp ple, In the June 1, 20 C 014 , the Children's Day, D we proovided a pleenty of stationerie es and cloth hes which ccould enhance the overall qualityy of the children's lives. Shanghai Vico Precision Mold d & Plastics Co.,Ltd.  Our labou ur union ha ave a regu ular meeting with employees, annd everyon ne can express hiis/her viewp point freely on this me eeting. And we will havve a feedback for each suggestion and advice. The e meeting will w be hold once o time pper week.  We also haveh a me essage boa ard on the intranet, th he employeee can write any question about a human right on itt without sig gnature. And we will taake action with w the questions.  We also have an employee ssurvey everry year, aim ms at repoorting employees’ satisfactionn and pointss of concern ns.  We have sets a founda ation to helpp the employ yees that he e/her meet a accident in 2013. In 2014, thhe foundatioon have fun ded three employees e more m than 330,000 RMB B. Labbour rights implementation Thiss chapter, dealing d with labour righ ts, describe es Shangha ai Vico freeddom of asso ociation, worrkforce and non-discrim mination. Emp ployee sha are ownership, social dialogue and relatio ons, headccount (by type of contract, geogrraphical zone and cou untry, gende er, professio onal categoory, age, se eniority, funcction), hirin ng, layoffs and resign nations, equ ual employ yment oppoortunity (dis sability, dive ersity of gennder, genera ation and o rigin). Thee four Globa al Compact principles o on labour rig ghts are inc cluded: Prin nciple 3: Businesses B should uph hold the fre eedom of association a and the efffective recoognition of the t right to collective c baargaining, Prin nciple 4: Businesses B should the elimination n of all form ms of forcedd and comp pulsory labo our, nciple 5: Bu Prin s usinesses should the e effective abo olition of child labour Prin nciple 6: Businesses B should an nd the elim mination of discriminattion in resp pect of empployment an nd occupation.  In Shanghai Vico, there are 4 asssociation (b basketball club, footballl club, table e tennis R club and Running b ) which fo und in 2013 club 3. All emplo oyee can joinn it freely. And A the company give g a strong support o on it. In 2014 4, we held a internal S Sport Games s Similar to a Family Da ay, in order to provide employees e with an oppportunity to communicate freely. Shanghai Vico Precision Mold d & Plastics Co.,Ltd.  We have a formal reg gulation of reecruitment. We check the identificcation, pass sport in order to avvoid child labour came in. and in th his regulatio on all peopl e have equal right to compete e one position. Till now w no any child labour be e found in S Shanghai Vico. V  We never force f and compulsory labour. Alth hough, some e workers ssometimes worked w more than the statutory overtime e limit to meet demand from the cuustomers, but claimed that all the exxtra hours w were volunta ary. Shanghai Vico Precision Mold d & Plastics Co.,Ltd.  We provide e same chaance for all eemployees whatever his/her h gendder,age,coloour and etc. Environme ental stew wardship p implem mentation n Thiss chapter de escribes Sh hanghai Vicco’s environ nmental stra ategy, actionns and outccomes. Thee three Glob bal Compac ct principles on environment are in ncluded: Prin nciple 7: Businesse es are as ked to su upport a precautionaary approa ach to envvironmental challenges. Prin nciple 8: Businesses should s und ertake initia atives to pro omote greaater environmental respponsibility. Prin nciple 9: Businesse es should e encourage the deve elopment aand diffusion of envvironmentally friendly teechnologiess.  For princip ple 7,8 andd 9, Shang ghai Vico established Environme ntal manag gement system in march, 201 11. We pub blished a po olicy, and 30 procedure res to regula ate the company’ss behavior in all acttivities. In these proc cedures wee identify the all environme ental factors s in our plan nt and estab blished the related preeventive acttions or corrective actions. For the importtant environ nmental facttors, we alsoo have the special procedure to prevent it happened d.  In 2013, we w passed th he SGS’ sup pervision an nd verification with 0 noon-confirme ed item and the en nvironmentaal key perforrmance hav ve a improv vement.  In 2014, we w passed th he “ISO140 01 Environm mental Man nagement S Systems” Shanghai Vico Precision Mold d & Plastics Co.,Ltd. Antti-corruptio on impleme entation Thiss chapter deescribes Shhanghai Vico o’s approac ch and actio ons against corruption. Thee Global Compact princ ciple on ant i-corruption n is: Prin nciple 10: Businesses should w work agains st corruptio on in all itss forms, inc cluding exto ortion and bribery. b We established a regulation to tell our emplo oyee that any a corrupt ions behav viour is bided and te forb ell them howw to deal witth when the e potential corruption c aappear. Theere is no anyy corruption n case happ pened in 20 014.
