SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 INTRODUCTION BY THE CEO ................................................................................ 1 2 ABOUT SSC ................................................................................................................. 4 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT AND SSC’S SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS...................... 7 4 OUR SUSTAINABILITY VISION ............................................................................. 7 5 THIS IS HOW WE GOVERN OUR SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS......................... 7 6 POLICIES ..................................................................................................................... 8 7 OUR STAKEHOLDERS .............................................................................................. 9 8 OUR PRIORITIZED SUSTAINABILITY AREAS ................................................... 10 9 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY INCLUDING BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI....... 11 CORRUPTION 10 OUR FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ..................................................................... 12 11 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ............................................................................ 13 11.1 Staff ........................................................................................................................ 13 11.2 Customers ............................................................................................................... 23 11.3 Society .................................................................................................................... 25 12 G4-32: GRI G4 INDEX……………………………………………………………..27 1 AAI11-S55 Sustainability Report 2013 ________________ 1 Introduction by the CEO The Swedish Space Corporation (SSC) is a leading global supplier of advanced space services. Space activities have a major political profile in many countries with national added value within security policy and international political influence. For these reasons, an increasing number of countries are acquiring space programmes and this is both an opportunity and a challenge for SSC. Extending the circle of customers and customer countries is, of course, a business interest, but equally, work with new clients also means that the company is active within new geo-political fields that may entail both political and business risks. The company will be working according to a five-year business plan until 2017 and the strategy is to grow within the field of advanced space services, which means that the company must be thoroughly familiar with the challenges that new customers and customer countries bring with them. Because of budget restrictions, national security policy actors are also increasingly becoming customers in the general space industry, which means that military and civilian customers are mixed up in the same system. As a state-owned company, SSC acts in accordance with Swedish political principles and its staff must know and understand the rules existing for its activities and how these are to be applied in an international perspective. They also need to understand the interests and motives constituting the basis of different countries’ space efforts and how to proceed in these force fields as an independent supplier. In view of the fact that SSC supplies services and products to both institutional and commercial customers as well as to defence customers in many different countries, this year the company has clarified and developed its business processes and the company executive has been strengthened with new skills in areas such as strategic security, business intelligence and export controls, in order to ensure that the company can carry out its assignments responsibly and fulfil the expectations that the owner has for the company’s actions. Many of the services supplied by SSC contribute positively to building up knowledge on the environment, climate and the development of society as well as expertise about space. This is part of the positive added value created by the company. Since 2013, SSC has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact, the UN programme for sustainable enterprise and during 2014, it will issue a Communication of progress (COP) in the form of this Sustainability Report. We also comply with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 2 In the field of space, there are several international programmes that SSC actively follows, one of the most important of which is Space Situational Awareness (SSA). The aim of SSA is to promote the ability to observe, understand and predict where natural and man-made objects are to be found in orbit round the Earth so as to avoid collisions. SSA also includes the monitoring of space weather in order to be able to minimise damage to people and property. This is only one of many international forums monitoring developments applying to space and the way in which what happens in space affects the Earth in a global perspective. A company has an impact on its surroundings. It creates values – its products or services have a value on the market, a value that can be measured in monetary terms in the classical manner, but the company also creates other values that affect local, global and national society. In different contexts, the company has a positive impact, but its activities may also cost in terms of environmental pressure or other negative impact. The Sustainability Report places the company in a social perspective with the aid of measures or indicators on which there is international agreement, just as ordinary financial reports follow certain given principles. SSC has presented a Sustainability Report in various forms since 2008. Since then, after analyses, our sustainability efforts have increasingly focused on the areas where SSC in particular has reason to be particularly observant. Our Sustainability Report for 2013 has been compiled in accordance with the most recent model, GRI-G4, of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which is based on the company having made an analysis of the most relevant areas and how they should be reported. Such an analysis was undertaken in 2013 and the Board of Directors has subsequently established a measurable strategic objective for SSCʼs sustainability efforts. SSC’s sustainability efforts must, of course, involve all aspects of the sustainability issue, but a focus is being given to creating awareness among SSC staff globally of how the company creates the positive added value required from the perspective of society. SSC’s vision of how the company is to become a sustainable actor has remained unchanged for several years and the message is that: SSC is to strive for long-term sustainable development, for the benefit and use of the environment, society, our customers and staff. The objective decided by the Board of Directors focusing on activities via the company executive is: All employees at SSC are trained, have understood and work according to the ethical and environmental norms that have been established by the company. During the course of this year, the Board of Directors has also taken a decision on an ethics policy, which is naturally an important part of the framework for creating sustainable activities. 4 2 A About SSC C Thhe Swedishh Space Corpporation (SS SC) is a gloobally activee Group, whhich is respoonsible for opperating and d developinng the space range, the Esrange E Space Center, providing advanced a sppace servicees in the gloobal space market, m carryying out tecchnological development in the fieeld of spacee and managging the opeerations andd developmeent of test systems s at thhe Vidsel teest range on behalf of thhe Swedish Defence Materiel M Admministration (FMV). Thhe coompany wass established in 1972. Thhe Esrange Space Centtre is one off SSC’s coree operationss. Other parrts of its acttivities coonsist of advvanced spacce services anda technollogical deveelopment inn the field off space. Developmentt and a certaain amount of productiion take placce at the offfices in Solnna and in U Uppsala. A At the end off 2013, SSC C had 588 em mployees, 326 3 of whom m are in Sw weden. Operaations are coonducted in ten countriies (Swedenn, Germany,, the Netherrlands, Spain, USA, Chhile, A Australia, Caanada, Chinaa and Thailand) and wiithin four diivisions: Sccience Serviices, Saatellite Mannagement Seervices, Eng gineering Seervices andd Technolog gy. Sccience Servvices Thhe greater part p of Sciennce Servicess’ operationns takes placce at the Esrange Spacee Centre, 455 km north of Kiruna. Internationa I ally speakinng, the base has a uniquue position asa a ciivilian spacee range, throough its exttensive infraastructure and a access too a large lannding rangee foor rockets annd a major air a restrictioon area for launching l and a balloon flights. Thee deevelopment of experim ment payloadds is undertaaken at the division’s department d in Solna. Saatellite Management Services S Thhe division provides grround statioon services forf communnication witth satellites and apart from its Sweddish operatiions, also in ncludes its wholly w owned subsidiarries in the USA U 5 (Universal Space Network Inc.), Chile (SSC Chile SA) and Australia (SSC Space Australia Pty Ltd). Since 2014, PrioraNet Canada is wholly owned by SSC. Engineering Services Engineering Services works with engineering services for satellite control and ground station services, with operations in Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands. Operations in the United Arab Emirates (LSE Space Middle East JTL) were suspended in 2013. Operations include the wholly owned subsidiary LSE Space GmbH, LSE Space Middle East JLT and Aurora Technology B.V. Technology Technology includes Airborne Systems which develops airborne maritime surveillance systems and Aerospace Test Systems which is responsible for operating and developing test systems at the Vidsel test range. The division also includes the subsidiary ECAPS AB, which develops and manufactures green propulsion systems for space applications and NanoSpace AB which undertakes development in the field of micro-electromechanical systems for space applications. The social value of our products and services SSC’s mission is to help our customers gain access to space to benefit Earth. The majority of SSC’s services and products contribute to sustainable development by helping to increase society’s knowledge of the environment and climate. Operation of satellites SSC contributes to the operation of satellites through satellite control, communication of control signals and the reception of satellite data. The satellites are used, among other things, for the mapping of agricultural land, logging and desertification, for weather forecasting, for monitoring the Polar ice caps, natural disasters, the Earth’s atmosphere including the ozone layer and for other climate studies. Engineering services SSC provides engineering services for space organisations such as the European Space Agency (ESA) and the German Aerospace Centre (DLR). SSC’s engineers support customers’ space projects from specification and procurement to operations in orbit. Space projects can involve Earth observations, telecommunications, navigation and space science. Launching rockets and balloons SSC offers launching services for sounding rockets and high-altitude balloons with scientific or technical instruments. These launches are often undertaken for environmental scientific purposes and in international cooperation, which thus provides a global perspective. Payloads for sounding rockets SSC develops experiment equipment for research in near weightlessness for basic research within different scientific disciplines such as materials, fluid physics and biology. 6 Rocket systems SSC develops technical systems for sounding rockets tasked with undertaking studies of the atmosphere on noctilucent clouds, nacreous clouds and water vapour or research into weightlessness. Green propulsion systems for use in space SSC’s Swedish subsidiary, ECAPS, offers green propulsion systems for use in space, High Performance Green Propulsion (HPGP). This system can replace the very poisonous, carcinogenic and reactive substance, hydrazine, which is the satellite fuel that is most used today. Since July 2012, ESA has been operating the CleanSpace initiative, which aims to make Europe’s space activities more environmentally friendly, where HPGP has been introduced. Since June 2012, the European Chemicals Agency through the EU chemical regulation, Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH), has sharpened requirements for companies supplying hydrazine. Hydrazine is found on the REACH list of extremely dangerous substances. Hydrazine is extremely poisonous, both for humans and for aquatic organisms and is extremely inflammable and explosive, which requires rigorous safety routines when handling it while refuelling satellites and when transporting the substance to launch sites. During combustion, hydrazine turns into ammonia, hydrogen and nitrogen. HPGP, which is based on storable Ammonium Dinitramide (ADN) is simple to use and transport, because of its low level of toxicity and sensitivity. The fuel can be transported on board a normal passenger aircraft and when refuelling satellites, only the equipment that is normally used in a chemistry clean room, i.e., a laboratory coat, rubber gloves and goggles is needed. The fuel becomes water vapour on combustion. Miniaturised systems for satellites Microtechnology in a space context reduces costs and enables advanced, small satellites. SSC’s subsidiary NanoSpace’s work includes systems for propulsion and fuel management such as an instrument for measuring the amount of fuel in satellite tanks and a system for the flow control of gas. Maritime surveillance systems MSS 6000 is the SSC airborne system for maritime surveillance. The system is used by coast guard organisations throughout the world for tracking oil spills, monitoring fishing grounds and ice conditions and for maritime rescue services. 7 3 About this report and SSC’s sustainability efforts As can be seen in this report, SSC has undertaken a materiality analysis for its continued sustainability efforts. Through a dialogue with various stakeholders and an internal procedure, the most important sustainability issues have been identified. Environmental issues are naturally an essential part of the daily agenda and the company’s planning is also directed at the “classical” environmental issues, just as is stated in the objective for sustainability efforts established by the Board of Directors. SSC wishes to contribute to sustainable development in accordance with Sweden’s national objectives by developing products and services with an environmental profile, and by taking environmental aspects into account in all its operations and considering them when taking decisions that affect future operations. SSC respects international space conventions and national laws and ordinances within the field of the environment, including the Swedish Environmental Code. SSC does not undertake any activity that requires a permit or application under the Swedish Environmental Code. Since SSC is a knowledge-based enterprise, our staff are an important strategic asset and therefore an important sustainability area for SSC. As we are now moving over to reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI-G4, this report differs from those of previous years, when our reports were in accordance with GRI-G3.0 level C+. The differences are due to the fact that G4 focuses on reporting what is material for the organisation, based on the materiality analysis. 4 Our sustainability vision SSC is to strive for long-term sustainable development, for the benefit and use of the environment, society, our customers and staff. 5 This is how we govern our sustainability efforts Since the autumn of 2012, the company executive has increased its focus on the area of sustainability. During 2013, the Vice President, Public Affairs was appointed to be responsible for sustainability work in the company executive. The Department for Public Affairs is formally responsible, but it cooperates closely with staff within the Strategic Security function. The company executive receives regular reports on how sustainability efforts are progressing and also approves an ongoing annual plan for activities. The Board of Directors has received regular reports on developments in sustainability efforts and the programmes that the company executive initiates in order to give sustainability issues a high profile internally and in a way that can contribute to SSC’s good name. The annual Sustainability Report is always the object of the Board of Directors’ scrutiny. During the year, the Board of Directors has taken a decision on a strategically measurable objective for sustainability efforts to the effect that: 8 All employees at SSC are trained, have understood and work according to the ethical and environmental norms that have been established by the company. A decision was taken to undertake, in 2013, a materiality analysis to identify the most relevant areas for SSC in the field of sustainability, based on the actual economic, social and environmental impacts that SSC has and these areas’ importance for internal and external stakeholders’ deliberations and decisions in relation to SSC. In 2014, efforts will be focused on heightening awareness globally among staff in the organisation of SSC’s sustainability efforts and how they affect the company’s business operations. A decision has been taken on a global training project that includes all our staff. In connection with the fact that the SSC management system is the object of review, sustainability issues will be made more clearly visible in the processes governing the company. All these processes will be brought together in a common portal on the intranet. The policies existing within the fields of ethics, environment, IT-use and recruitment as well as instructions and the regulatory framework will be more easily accessible and will be simpler to see in their context when these changes are made. The Vice President, Public Affairs is the person from the company executive who is responsible for the company's sustainability efforts. 6 Policies The Swedish organisation in the SSC Group has policies for: Policy Ownership Responsibility Alcohol and drugs HR Management Work environment HR Management Site Visits to Esrange Manager, Visitor host, Esrange Esrange Official entertainment Finance Management Ethics CEO Staff Financial risks Legal Chief Financial Officer Salaries HR Management Media Public Affairs Staff Environment CEO Staff Company cars HR HR Recruitment HR Management All policies can be seen on the SSC intranet. Newly appointed staff is urged to read our policies during their introduction. 9 The following policies apply to the entire Group: Policy Ownership Responsibility Certification and authority regulations Finance Management Diversity CEO Staff Travel HR Staff The policy on ethics will be translated into English and implemented in the entire Group during 2014. 7 Our stakeholders SSC is a global Group, working in ten countries. The company is active in a socio-political core area with a high political profile. At the same time, activities are conducted with the mission “We help Earth benefit from space”. In order to maintain good relations, SSC continually provides information to politicians and other decision-makers on the company and its activities. SSC is a joint owner of Kiruna Municipality’s development company, Progressum, and takes part in the local Rymdråd (Space Council), situated in Kiruna. SSC has continuous contact with different sections of the Government’s ministries, the Ministry of Finance’s Local Government and State Enterprise Division and the cooperative group for space issues, led from the Ministry of Education and Research. In the autumn of 2013, SSC took part in a hearing at the parliamentary Committee on Education about Swedish space policy. SSC is also a member organisation of the Swedish space cooperation body, Rymdforum, and Swedish Aerospace Industries, a cooperation group for the civilian air and space industries. At its facilities in Sweden, SSC receives about 3000 visitors per year. These are primarily representatives of customers and government agencies, politicians, representatives of foreign embassies and students. Swedish space activities in general and SSC’s operational areas specifically are presented at these visits. It is in SSC’s special interests to spread knowledge about how space activities are applied in everyday life, and why they are important for the individual and society. SSC applies a generous policy towards the mass media that show an interest in the company and space issues. Dialogue with stakeholders For the company, it is extremely important to have communication with its stakeholders. After an internal discussion in a workshop, the following key stakeholders were able to be identified and these were subsequently contacted in the form of a questionnaire or via telephone interviews for participation in the implementation of the materiality analysis: members of staff, unions, government agencies and cooperation organisations, the Swedish Institute of Space Physics, the Swedish National Space Board, the Government Offices via the Ministry of Education and Research, the owner, via the Ministry of Finance, regional agencies and groups, municipalities, the County Administrative Board in Norrbotten, Sami villages, the general public via the media and business contacts, such as customers and suppliers. 10 Using the stakeholder categories identified, SSC conducted a dialogue during the autumn, focused on identifying the most material sustainability issues. 8 Our prioritized sustainability areas An internal identification workshop was held in the autumn of 2013 when a number of sustainability areas were identified as likely to be material for SSC. The stakeholdersʼ views on these areas were subsequently collected via a web questionnaire and supplementary interviews. Based on these stakeholders’ input, SSC’s actual impact and SSC’s overall strategy and business plan, an internal prioritisation was made concerning material sustainability areas to report. The materiality analysis was approved by SSC’s management. Some of the areas prioritised as important for SSC and/or for our stakeholders are not included as important areas in the GRI guidelines. However, we have chosen to include descriptions of how we work in these areas in the report, because they are regarded as strategically important. The areas that are not linked with a G4 category or G4 material Aspect can be seen in a separate table. Material sustainability areas reported in accordance with GRI: G4 Materiality Materiality Relevance Area G4-category material within the outside the outside the Aspects organisation organisation organisation Strategic importance for Product Products SSC’s owner, Customer satisfaction √ √ responsibility and services customers, suppliers Strategic Business ethics and AntiSociety √ √ importance for anti-corruption corruption SSC’s owner Employment Recruitment Social Gender √ equality and diversity Profile Policies, standards, indicator √ code of conduct Ethics and integrity Strategic Profile importance for Stakeholder indicator SSC’s owner, engagement and social √ √ Stakeholder govt. agencies, commitment engagement local population, customers Gender Strategic Gender equality and Social equality and √ √ importance for diversity diversity owner Safety and Staff health and safety Social √ health Strategic Rights of importance for Rights of indigenous Human rights indigenous √ √ indigenous populations population populations where SSC is active 11 Material sustainability areas that are not included in the GRI guidelines: Materiality Materiality Area within the outside the Relevance outside the organisation organisation organisation Regulatory and legal Strategic importance for SSC’s owner, govt. √ √ challenges agencies Social value of our Strategic importance for SSC’s customers √ √ products and ultimately also for society Cooperation with trade Strategic importance for key trade union √ √ union organisations organisations Choice of customer and Strategic importance for SSC’s owner and √ customer evaluation customers Availability of raw Strategic importance for SSC’s customers √ √ materials and suppliers Long-term financial √ √ Strategic importance for SSC’s owner, stability customers and suppliers Internal training, √ sustainability and security Product quality and √ √ Strategic importance for SSC’s owner, safety customers, suppliers, society Satisfied staff √ 9 Ethics and integrity including business ethics and anti-corruption In recent years, SSC has changed from being a local actor to a global actor in the space industry. SSC’s operational units are now in several continents and SSC’s customers are to be found in countries all over the world. This places demands on SSC to increase our understanding and efforts concerning the business conditions existing in each market and nation. It also places higher demands on SSC to follow up these issues, both in its operational and its strategic work. Having clear guidelines and follow-up with regard to business ethics and integrity is an important goal for SSC. Responsibility for producing policy documents on these issues falls on the Vice President, Public Affairs, who is responsible for sustainability, but it is each manager’s and employee’s responsibility to ensure that the requirements are fulfilled. The aim of SSC’s ethics and integrity work is for each SSC employee to understand and follow the guidelines that the company has in this area, to ensure that those who are staff and SSC as a company do not contravene the internal or legal guidelines in this area. Governance in relation to ethics has varied among the different companies making up the SSC Group. Within SSC, there are policy documents regarding ethics that are to be followed by all employees. However, no control of whether employees have read the information received has been made, apart from some of our subsidiaries, which require that each new employee reads the documents and testifies in writing that they have understood them. 12 Our foreign subsidiaries have their own rules and guidelines which are adapted to their operations and the acts and regulations applying in the country where they are active. Our subsidiary company, LSE, has ethics clauses included in its employment contracts. The Aurora company (subsidiary of LSE) has a special code of ethics which is available for its staff. In 2014, an internal e-course will be launched, where, inter alia, SSC requirements for business ethics and anti-corruption will be addressed. In 2014, sustainability risks such as those related to ethics and anti-corruption will also be included in SSC’s regular risk efforts, which will lead to these issues being addressed, both in strategic and operational work. SSC measures the results of ethics and integrity efforts via the number of incidents occurring. In 2013, no incidents relating to ethics and integrity were reported in any of the SSC Group’s companies. In 2014, a measurable objective will also include the number of employees who have undertaken sustainability training, where the objective will be for 100 per cent of all employees to have undertaken the training. The ethics policy decided upon by the Board of Directors in 2013 will be translated into English and implemented throughout the Group in 2014. 10 Our financial responsibility Financially stable activities are of strategic importance for most of the company’s stakeholders, customers, suppliers, staff and the state, which owns it. Without a stable financial system, the company’s existence and the benefit of its activities are at risk. In order to achieve a stable economy, there is a five year plan that has been approved by the Board of Directors, with estimates of income and investment needs. In a dialogue with the company executive, the owner decides on the required returns, which in the case of SSC also reflect the social mission of the company. During 2013, the owner has reviewed the SSC mission objectives and its financial goals. These will be determined in connection with the Annual General Meeting in April 2014. The business plan is a strategic policy instrument and is realised through annual budget plans and follow-up takes place every month at the Group level within the company executive. External reports are issued every three months. The result for 2012 was the best in a ten-year period, SEK 7.7 million, and this improvement continued in 2013, with a further growth in its results to SEK 10.7 million. The Board of Directors will therefore propose a dividend to the owner at the Annual General Meeting in April 2014. 13 11 Our social responsibility 11.1 Staff Number of employees in the Group, by form of employment and gender, as of 31 December 2013 2012 2011 Permanently employed, full time 545 567 582 of whom women 124 145 134 of whom men 421 422 448 Permanently employed, part time 22 3 19 of whom women 13 1 13 of whom men 9 2 6 Employed on fixed term contract 21 12 21 of whom women 6 3 4 of whom men 15 9 17 Consultants* 16 of whom women 8 of whom men 8 *The number of consultants was not reported for 2012 and 2011. 14 Number of employees in the Group, by gender and region, as of 31 December Sweden Europe USA Chile Australia China Thailand Women 97 34 7 4 0 1 0 Men 229 135 44 31 3 1 2 Total 326 169 51 35 3 2 2 Staff survey A staff survey in the entire Group was undertaken in the autumn of 2013. Eighty two per cent of the Group’s employees took part in the survey. Compared with the survey undertaken in 2012, when 85 per cent participated, the results are better within several areas, but the aggregated results within a number of factors related to management and governance of our operations continue to be weak. Among the positive aspects, it can be seen that staff commitment and motivation has increased since the last measurement. The year 2013, like 2012, was characterised by quite a number of changes in the organisation in order to meet the company’s new direction for being a leading supplier of advanced space services. Work on various activities to deal with the weak factors that were identified was begun in 2012, and has continued during 2013. This includes continued efforts on a new management system, which will clarify and facilitate the governance of operations, further clarification and strengthening of the legitimacy of SSC’s vision, mission and business plan for the period 2013–2017. The results of the survey are dealt with comprehensively in the organisation, divisions and each working team. The next staff survey is planned for 2015. Recruitment SSC is dependent on being able to employ qualified people to achieve success. For this reason, SSC must be an attractive employer with motivated staff who have the right skills for their work tasks. Channels that are used for recruitment include the internet, advertising, recruitment companies and labour market days. Through study visits, primarily to Esrange, contacts are created with students who may represent a future recruitment potential. Apart from the above channels, vacant posts are also advertised internally in the Group on SSCʼs intranet. For the Swedish organisation, there is a recruitment policy that deals with diversity, responsibility and a community of values. 15 Newly employed in the Group, by age group and gender, 1 January – 31 December 2013 Sweden Europe USA Chile Australia China Thailand <30 years 30 7 2 0 0 0 0 of whom women 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 of whom men 20 6 2 0 0 0 0 30-50 years 15 11 2 2 1 0 0 of whom women 10 1 0 0 0 0 0 of whom men 5 10 2 2 1 0 0 >50 years 9 0 3 0 2 0 0 of whom women 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 of whom men 6 0 3 0 2 0 0 Employees who have left the Group, by age group and gender, 1 January – 31 December 2013 Sweden Europe USA Chile Australia China Thailand <30 years 20 0 1 2 0 0 0 of whom women 10 0 1 0 0 0 0 of whom men 10 0 0 2 0 0 0 30-50 years 16 8 5 2 0 0 0 of whom women 10 2 2 0 0 0 0 of whom men 6 6 3 2 0 0 0 >50 years 13 2 4 5 0 0 0 of whom women 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 of whom men 8 2 3 5 0 0 0 16 Skills development A dialogue on goals and personal development must be held with all members of staff once a year. A skills development plan must be drawn up and follow-up must take place after six months. Managers must register that they have held these dialogues and this is also followed up in the staff survey. In 2013, 78 per cent of staff state that they had personal development dialogues. Gender equality and diversity, gender equality plan and objectives Our differences create diversity which provides opportunities and broadens the skills and knowledge of the company, which is seen as a strategic asset in our business development. Diversity must be a self-evident element of our activities and means that everyone has the same rights, opportunities and obligations within all areas, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation or religion. As a result of this, everyone is to be treated equally, both in internal and external recruitment, in staff development and pay settlement. All staff are entitled to be treated with respect and consideration for each person’s just demands for integrity. All forms of discrimination and ethnic harassment are forbidden at the work place. All staff are responsible for the company’s diversity policy being followed, and thus for combating discrimination. Managers are responsible for compliance with the policy. The SSC Board of Directors approves the diversity policy. Diversity is a subject discussed at management training. Active efforts to promote diversity are to be made in the organisation and must be borne in mind when business and operational plans are drawn up. The SSC diversity policy applies to the entire SSC Group. Local action plans with objectives and activities are to be drawn up in 2014, to supplement this policy in each company in the Group, where conditions and needs may vary between companies and countries. 17 7 Sttaff of the Group, G by age and gender as of 31 3 Decemb ber 2013 an nd 31 Decemmber 20012* 1 100% 90% 80% 70% Men >5 50 år 60% Womenn >50 år 50% Men 30 0‐50 år Womenn 30‐50 år 40% Men <3 30 år 30% Womenn <30 år 20% 10% 0% 2013 2012 *NNo consultantts or fixed term m contract em mployees in Euurope are inclluded. Fiigures for 2012 do not incluude the Auroraa subsidiary, with w 32 emplo oyees, nor con nsultants. M Managemen nt in the Grroup, by ag ge group an nd gender, as a of 31 Deecember 2013 201 13 0% 0% 15% 27% Womenn <30 år Men <3 30 år 6% Womenn 30‐50 år Men 30 0‐50 år 52% Womenn >50 år Men >5 50 år 18 In 2012, management was not reported by age group in per cent, but only by gender and number. For a comparison, see the following table. 2013 2012 2011 Women 13 13 14 Men 49 39 45 Total 62 52 59 Company executive in the Group by age group and gender, as of 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 100% 90% 80% 70% Men >50 år 60% Women >50 år 50% Men 30‐50 år Women 30‐50 år 40% Men <30 år 30% Women <30 år 20% 10% 0% 2013 2012 In 2013, the company executive of the Group consisted of a total of 8 people, two of whom were women. In 2012, the company executive of the Group consisted of 6 people, two of whom were women. 19 Gender equality plan in Swedish activities In 2013, a new gender equality plan was drawn up for Swedish activities with regard to the years 2013–2015. The plan contains concrete objectives for greater gender equality in the shortand long-term and activities to achieve these objectives. The overall objectives include: • Retaining the distribution of at least 70 per cent and 30 per cent between men and women at the company level. In 2013, the proportion of women was 29.7 per cent. • The number of female managers must be in proportion to the relation between the total number of women and men in the company. In 2013, the proportion of women managers was 26.5 per cent. • Evening out gender distribution within working groups • Through guidelines and requirements for the organisation, actively working towards greater diversity • Ensuring that the company is free from discrimination and victimisation. The CEO of the parent company has the overall responsibility for approval and implementation of the gender equality plan. Management has the responsibility for ensuring that gender equality efforts become an integrated part of the business and operational planning, and for following up the guidelines and objectives of the plan that have been established. Staff are responsible for acting in accordance with the diversity policy and for ensuring that attention is drawn to any deficiencies/ irregularities in the work environment with regard to gender equality issues. The Human Resources Department, together with employer and employee representatives, is responsible for administering the plan. An evaluation of the 2010–2012 overall objectives shows the following: • The objective for the number of women in SSC in Sweden to be over 30 per cent within three years is almost fulfilled (30 per cent are women) • The objective for the number of female managers to be in proportion to the relation between the total number of women and men in the company is not fulfilled (24 per cent are women) • The objective of eliminating one-gender working groups (units of at least five persons) is not fulfilled • The objective for management to be trained in ways in which they can actively work towards integrated gender equality work is partially fulfilled Training and information meetings have been held but not all managers have taken part. Last year, the fulfilment of objectives for 2012 was reported, but not for the entire period, which the above follow-up shows. 20 Work environment, health and safety SSC complies with the Work Environment Act and has a work environment policy and routines for systematic work environment efforts, as well as a routine for reporting work injuries and incidents. Our foreign subsidiaries comply with the laws and regulations applying to each country. Since the number of work injuries and volume of work-related sick absenteeism are small, we have chosen not to report any indicators relating to them since there is a risk of identifying the persons in question. Work environment issues are dealt with in daily operations in cooperation with staff. Everyone is to actively help to ensure a good work environment, by taking responsibility in their work and showing consideration for each other. Work environment efforts are also reflected in the business and operational plans and in SSC’s work environment policy. It is the employer who is responsible for the work environment and for planning, leading and following up work environment efforts. This responsibility also involves checking that security instructions are followed and that measures are taken to improve the work environment. In 2013, all managers in the Swedish organisation signed contracts to the effect that they had supervisory responsibility for work environment issues within their divisions. Work environment and responsibility is included in SSC management training courses. There is a work environment committee at SSC in Solna and at Esrange, which meet twice a year. Annual safety inspections are conducted at Esrange and in Solna. The launching of sounding rockets and high altitude balloons is the part of SSC’s activities that is most hazardous, since it involves explosives, helium gas, heavy payloads and large amounts of plastic materials which may entail the risk of injury to people and damage to property. For this reason, SSC works actively with safety and security issues and routines related to this. The SSC Esrange facility is classified as a civilian object of protection and an access control system is applied. All visitors have to show ID documents and accept that security routines are followed before they are allowed access to the area. All staff at Esrange undergo courses in first aid and cardiac defibrillators every other year and fire protection every third year. Every so often, 10–12 people are trained in Solna. Every year, a rescue exercise is conducted for the rescue group at Esrange. This rescue exercise, which includes both theory and practical exercises, is implemented over a threeworking day period. Planning and instructions for medical care and rescue services are available for everyone on the intranet. An evacuation exercise was held in Solna last year. Evacuation leaders have been appointed for each floor of the building. The handling of chemicals that takes place in Solna is hazardous. There are routines for preventing injury, improving the work environment and for all handling of dissolvents, other chemicals and poisonous substances. This handling takes place in a special chemistry clean room and in laboratories with ventilated extractor hoods. A review of activities in Sweden is underway to create clear routines of responsibility and to ensure that SSC lives up to the requirements of government agencies. 21 Activities within Aerospace Test Systems, which runs the operation and development of testing systems at the Vidsel test range on behalf of FMV must be regarded as hazardous. FMV’s routines regarding security apply at this facility. Work environment efforts at Vidsel are led by FMV. An employer representative and a safety representative from SSC Vidsel are called to the safety committee meetings. Other activities run within SSC’s area of activities, Satellite Management Services and Engineering Services, are not so hazardous from a human safety perspective. Sickness absentee rate of staff, by region and gender Sweden Europe USA Chile Women 1.4% 0.7% 0.3% 3.3% Men 1.3% 1.7% 1.2% 4.7% 2.7% 2.4% 1.5% 8% In the 2012 report, only the sickness absentee rate for Swedish operations was given. The figures were estimated on the basis of the number of hours, and not days as in the above table. Cooperation with trade unions SSC complies with the applicable laws and collective agreements for the employment conditions existing in the countries where we are active. Some of our foreign subsidiaries do not have local trade union clubs or collective agreements, but all our employees are free to organise themselves in unions under the applicable legislation. We strive to maintain good relations with employees’ trade union organisations where these exist. In Sweden, SSC has a cooperation agreement with the trade union clubs and holds regular meetings, aimed at promoting the company’s development and making it more efficient, thereby increasing its competitiveness. This is done by providing information and involving the trade union organisations at an early stage. This cooperation agreement does not replace the Employment (Co-Determination in the Workplace) Act and the Development Agreement between the Swedish Employers Confederation (SAF) Confederation of Swedish Enterprise (Svensk Näringsliv)–the Swedish Trade Union Confederation (LO) and Unionen PTK (the cooperation union for white collar workers), but rather supplements it. Two representatives from the staff are members of the Board of Directors. 22 2 Number of employees N e c covered by y collective agreementts in the SSC C Group 201 13 39% Covvered by colleective agrreements 61% Noot covered by collective agrreements A wedish organnisation are covered byy collective agreementss, apart All employeees in the Sw from the com mpany execuutive. 23 11.2 Customers Products and services including quality and safety The Swedish organisation’s operational management system is certified in accordance with the ISO 9001:2008 international standard. Each unit is responsible for the quality and security of its services and products and for continual improvement of its procedures. SSC takes a serious view of the global security challenges facing the space industry, not only in terms of security policy but also purely operationally. SSC considers that security efforts at a high level will increase the future quality of products and thus customer satisfaction. For this reason, in 2013, SSC has strengthened its organisation with the area of strategic security to increase the quality of SSC’s work and the products and services that SSC supplies. As early as 2013, the company has initiated several projects aimed at strengthening internal security routines, the capacity for risk and continuity management, export control as well as physical and digital security. This work will continue in 2014. Regulatory and legal challenges SSC’s activities are governed by a number of national and international regulations. During 2013, for example, SSC Chile has faced new demands from the Chilean tax authorities with regard to internal company reports relating to customer contracts and agreements. SSC has transparent and close dialogues with national government agencies, to ensure as good cooperation as possible. In view of the fact that parts of SSC’s activities are unique (such as rocket and balloon launching), stringent demands are placed on SSC to be both transparent and proactive in its contacts with government agencies. Something that all SSC activities have in common are the challenges facing the Group with regard to compliance with the export control legislation. It is primarily US but also Swedish export controls legislation that affect SSC’s activities. In 2013, SSC has lifted over responsibility for export control issues to the Department for Strategic Security and is planning, during 2014, to undertake a number of skills-enhancing measures to raise the quality of our export control work even further. Customer satisfaction In 2013 and 2012, no customer surveys were conducted. In 2011, the Satellite Management Services Division carried out an extensive customer survey. In 2013, work was begun on introducing a common Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system for the entire Group. In connection with a market survey undertaken in the spring of 2013, the consultancy firm, Euroconsult, has made the assessment that SSC’s customers regard the company as a reliable partner in the long term. Customer satisfaction is also a factor in which the owner is interested with regard to the fulfilment of our social role within the framework of running Esrange. A high rate of customer satisfaction is an expression of the mission objectives having been achieved, together with a high rate of usage of the site. In 2014, SSC will therefore develop a system for measuring customer satisfaction that can be applied in more of the divisions. 24 We conduct a continuous dialogue with our customers via discussions and meetings to follow up customer satisfaction, and to identify the investment needs at Esrange, a series of meetings have been held with customers and cooperation partners. Customer satisfaction and procedures for how we work with this Aspect are part of our management system at division level. Customer selection and evaluation SSC works in a market with a limited customer potential. Our activities are markedly business-to-business in character and most of our customers are institutions or companies in a state-owned circle, even if purely private actors also play a role. Strong socio-political interests are to be seen throughout this industrial area. SSC’s selection of customers is normally limited only by legislation on Swedish export controls and otherwise applicable international sanctions. Before a decision to initiate a business relationship, there are special procedures in the different divisions for the way in which customer selection and business procedures are to be dealt with. Both departments, Public Affairs and Strategic Security act in an advisory capacity to the business divisions in connection with customer procedures. This primarily applies to possible business deals with new customers and new countries. In April 2013, the SSC Board of Directors adopted an ethics policy, which includes relations with customers and the requirements placed on staff in their contacts with customers. The chain of suppliers SSC’s main activities involve advanced space services. The procurement procedures that we undertake thus involve operations, services and equipment that come from our facilities throughout the world, and engineering services. The total sum for the five largest SSC suppliers amounted to SEK 94 million in 2013, and was due to an upgrading of power supplies at one of our facilities, pension costs, rents for premises and engineering services. Our largest suppliers in 2013 were from Sweden and Germany, respectively. The factors that have affected SSC’s supplier chain in 2013 are based on the new establishment of a ground station, investments in network and data equipment for ground stations and upgrading of power supplies. In 2013, a property in Ågesta, Stockholm Teleport, was sold. SSC continues to rent part of this property. Availability of raw materials General use of raw materials in SSC is comparatively low. In the area of activities involving the launching of balloons, there is, however, a significant use of the raw material helium, which is used to create aerodynamic lift for the balloons. Helium is a finite resource, purchased from the USA. As stocks decline, costs of the use of helium are expected to increase. Some sources consider that helium reserves in the USA will already be used up by 2016. SSC faces the challenge of finding an alternative for helium and the primary candidate is hydrogen. This, however, is associated with considerably greater risks, since hydrogen is more explosive. 25 11.3 Society Stakeholder engagement and social commitment SSC is a state-owned company with mission objectives that extend beyond pure returns on capital. In 2013, the owner has therefore reviewed the mission objective which will be determined in connection with the Annual General Meeting in April 2014. Space activities are a strategic national asset, where SSC’s role as a supplier of services is essential for other organisations, researchers, government agencies, foreign space companies and space organisations as well as security policy stakeholders. SSC is also active in regions in which employment is concentrated to few activities and where environmental impact in various forms must be avoided as far as possible. Our proximity to the indigenous populations at Esrange and on Easter Island requires particular attention. At Esrange, the use of land is an important issue, both for the local population and SSC. Representatives of Esrange and the Sami villages keep each other regularly informed on their activities in order to coordinate their different interest areas in the best way. Mineral prospecting in Norrbotten has intensified in recent years and Esrange and the reindeer husbandry industry have also been affected by this. There is consensus about this between Esrange and the three nearest Sami villages. Esrange’s need for a large, lit-up area in the rocket launch range coincides with the need for good pastures for the reindeer husbandry industry. At Easter Island, SSC cooperates with the indigenous population by coordinating activities and when building new antennae. Being easily accessible for a dialogue with stakeholders is extremely important and SSC must conduct an open dialogue with those who have an interest in its activities and are also included in organisations linked to its area of activity, which strengthens confidence in the company and thus, its business operations themselves. Through an annually drawn up communication plan, the need for planned dialogue with stakeholders is satisfied. Responsibility for contacts in society lies with the Public Affairs Department. Sustainability initiatives that we have joined SSC takes part regularly in the network meetings on sustainability work arranged by the Ministry of Finance Local Government and State Enterprise Division. SSC has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2013, and aims at issuing a Communication on Progress in 2014. The company donates a sum of money annually to charity, in connection with the Christmas holiday. In 2013, donations were given to the Red Cross and Doctors without Borders, for humanitarian assistance in Syria. Since, to a large extent, SSC has public organisations as customers, the company is very restrictive with gifts and donations. The way in which SSC staff are to handle the issue of gifts and donations is regulated by the SSC ethics policy. The very limited donations that are made are dealt with by the Company’s local units and are directed at programmes supporting culture, education, sport or other proactive social and humanitarian programmes. 26 Membership of organisations SSC has found that membership in the following industrial organisations is strategic for our activities: • Space Foundation • International Astronautical Federation • SpaceOps • National Defense Industrial Association, Space Division • Swedish Aerospace Industries (where SSC is the Chair company in 2014) • Rymdforum (where SSC holds two places on the Board of Directors) SSC is also a joint owner of Kiruna Municipality’s development company, Progressum. 27 12 G4-32: GRI G4 index The SSC Sustainability Report has been drawn up in accordance with version G4 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. These reporting principles aim at ensuring that information on the organisation’s material Aspects are included and that the quality of the information reported fulfils the given criteria. SSC has reported in accordance with the GRI G4 core-level. KPMG has scrutinised the Sustainability Report. Its assignment has included monitoring compliance between the declared application level GRI core and the indicators given in the Sustainability Report. A cross reference list for the general standard disclosures and specific standard disclosures that SSC reports for 2013 is given below. In the cross reference list, reference is made to the place in the documents where the relevant information is to be found. The information is found in the documents under the following: SR – The SSC Sustainability Report, 2013 AR – The SSC Annual Report, 2013 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General standard Page/Link Comment disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the Page 1 SR CEO on the relevance of sustainable development for the organisation and its 28 strategy ORGANISATION PROFILE G4-3 Organisation’s name Page 1, AR Swedish Space Corporation G4-4 The most important Pages 1-4, AR brands, products and/or services G4-5 Location of Page 1, AR, footer Solna strandväg 86, 171 04 Solna organisation’s head office G4-6 Number of countries in Pages 2-4, 6, 12, which the organisation AR is active, and the name of the countries in which major activities take place G4-7 Owner structure and Page 7, AR type of company G4-8 Markets in which the Pages 1-6, AR organisation is active 29 G4-9 Size of the Pages 18, 23, AR organisation Pages 4, 13, SR G4Total number of staff, Pages 13-14, SR 10 by employment type, employment conditions and region G4Proportion of Page 22, SR 11 employees with collective agreements G4Organisation’s supplier Page 24, SR 12 chain G4Changes in the Page 24, SR 13 organisation or supplier chain G4Precautionary Page 13, AR 14 principle’s use in the Page 7, SR organisation G4Membership of Page 25, SR 15 sustainability initiatives 30 G4Involvement in Page 26, SR 16 organisations IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4Organisation structure Pages 1-4, 6, 1117 12, AR Pages 4-5, SR G4Process for materiality Page 10, SR 18 analysis G4Identified material Page 10, SR 19 Aspects G4Boundaries at Aspect Page 10, SR 20 level in the organisation G4Boundaries at Aspect Page 10, SR 21 level outside the organisation G4Explanation of impact Pages 7, 10, SR 31 22 of changes in information of previous reports and the reason for this G4Material changes made Pages 7, 10, SR In previous reports, SSC has reported indicators relating to carbon dioxide emissions, 23 since previous waste management and energy consumption. Based on the stakeholder analysis and the reporting period with fact that SSC’s impact on these areas must be regarded as slight, we have chosen not to regard to boundaries report these indicators. and scope STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE G4Stakeholder groups Pages 9 -10, SR 24 involved by the company G4Principle for Pages 9-10, SR 25 identification and selection of stakeholders G4Procedures when Pages 9-10, SR 26 communicating with stakeholders G4Important areas that Pages 5-6, 10-11, 27 have been raised in 14, 16, 20-21, 23these communications 32 and how the 26 SR organisation has dealt with these areas INFORMATION ON THE REPORT G4Reporting period SR Business year 2013 28 G4Last report issued SR March 2013 29 G4Reporting cycle SR Annual 30 G4Contact person for the SR The contact person for the Sustainability Report is the Vice President Public Affairs, 31 report Anders Jörle, tel: +46 8 627 62 06, anders.jorle@sscspace.com G4GRI Table of contents Pages 27-41, SR 32 G4Policy for external Pages 27, SR Auditor's Review Report (in Swedish) can be found in the Swedish version of the 33 endorsement of report sustainability report. http://www.sscspace.com/about-the-ssc-group/finances GOVERNANCE G4Description of Pages 7-15, AR 33 34 corporate governance ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4Description of Pages 8-9, 11-12 56 fundamental values, SR principles, standards and ethical guidelines and how well these have been integrated into the organisation 34 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES MATERIALITY MATERIAL GOVERNAN Page Comment/Omission AREAS FOR SSC ASPECTS (Such as CE & in G4-19) INDICATOR S SOCIAL Employment conditions and decent work Sustainability Pages Since SSC is a knowledge-based company, its staff are an governance 13-19, important resource for running activities. SSC is dependent (Employment) SR on retaining and employing qualified staff with the right skills. Staff surveys are undertaken at regular intervals and improvement efforts, based on their results, are implemented in the organisation at different levels. A dialogue on objectives and personal development is to be held with all members of staff once a year. During the dialogue, a skills development plan is drawn up and a follow-up dialogue is held after six months. Management must register that they have held these dialogues and this is also measured in the staff survey. 35 Recruitment Employment G4-LA1 Page 15, SR Total number of employees who have left the company, staff turnover, by age, gender and region Sustainability Pages SSC is obliged to follow the Swedish Work Environment Act. governance (Health 20-22, SSC’s subsidiaries are obliged to follow the legislation and and safety) SR regulations applying to each country where they operate. Some of SSC’s operational areas are more hazardous than others, which is why it is important for SSC to work systematically with work environment issues. SSC has a work environment policy, routines for systematic work environment efforts and for reporting work injuries and incidents. Management is responsible for the work environment and for planning, leading and following up risks at work. Training in rescue equipment and fire protection is regularly held, as well as rescue and evacuation exercises. SSC has few cases of work-related injuries and illness. 36 Health and safety Health and safety G4-LA6 Page Since the number of cases of work-related injury and illness 21, SR is so small, we have chosen not to report them because of integrity reasons. Sustainability Pages SSC works in a traditionally male-dominated industry and governance (Diversity 16-19, therefore regards diversity and equal opportunity as strategic and equal SR assets in the company's business development. Gender opportunities) equality and diversity are also included as an important point in the state's owner policy and guidelines for companies owned by the state. SSC has a diversity policy that has been approved by the Board of Directors and applies to the entire Group. Management is ultimately responsible for compliance with the policy and active efforts involving diversity are being made in the organisation. Staff also have a responsibility for ensuring that the policy is followed. Diversity is a subject that is taken up at management training courses and is found in the SSC recruitment policy. The Swedish organisation has a gender equality plan which contains concrete objectives in the shortand long-term and activities to achieve these objectives. The plan also contains a follow-up of the previous gender equality plan’s objectives. The CEO of the parent company has the overall responsibility for approval and implementation of the plan. Management is responsible for integrating gender equality effort into activities and for following up objectives. Management is responsible for integrating gender equality effort into activities and for following up objectives. The Human Resources Department, together with employer and employee representatives, are responsible for administering the plan. 37 Diversity and equal Diversity and equal G4-LA12 Pages We have chosen not to divide employees by minority group opportunities opportunities Composition of 8-9, AR or other diversity indices since this may be prohibited and not Board of always compatible with Swedish legislation. Pages Directors and 14.17company 18, SR executive and distribution of other employees by gender, age group, minority group origin and other indices of diversity Human rights Sustainability Page SSC respects the UN Declaration of Human Rights and governance (rights of 25, SR accepts our responsibility to observe the rights of employees indigenous populations) and the society to the extent that they are affected by our operations. SSC has facilities close to indigenous populations and cooperation with the local inhabitants is strategically important, both for SSC and for them. This applies particularly to Esrange, where SSC and the reindeer husbandry industry share the use of land. Regular information meetings are held between SSC and the Sami villages to coordinate the different areas of interest in the best way. Human rights are part of the SSC ethics policy which will be implemented in the entire Group in 2014. All staff are 38 responsible for compliance with the policy. The policy also clarifies responsibility when there are deviations from the policy, and how these are to be reported. Managers are responsible for reporting deviations. SSC’s certification and authorisation regulations applying to the entire Group deal with how legal disputes are to be reported. Managers are responsible for compliance with these regulations. Rights of indigenous Rights of indigenous G4-SR8 SSC has not had any known cases of violations of populations populations indigenous populations in 2013. Number of cases of violations of indigenous populations and measures taken Society Sustainability Pages For SSC it is important to have clear guidelines and follow up governance (Business 11-12, with regard to business ethics and integrity. It is also of great ethics and antiSR importance for SSC’s owner. SSC has operations in several corruption) countries and our customers are to be found throughout the world, which places demands on understanding and followup with regard to the business conditions existing in these markets and countries and the political and business risks that these can entail. Anti-corruption is dealt with in the SSC ethics policy which all staff are obliged to follow. The policy also clarifies responsibility when there are deviations from the policy, and how these are to be reported. Managers are responsible for reporting deviations. SSC’s certification and 39 authorisation regulations applying to the entire Group deal with how legal disputes are to be reported. Managers are responsible for compliance with these regulations. To further enhance staff awareness of our regulations and guidelines on business ethics, a global training project that includes all staff will be implemented. SSC’s certification and authorisation regulations applying to the entire Group deal with how legal disputes are to be reported. Managers are responsible for compliance with these regulations. Business ethics and Anti-corruption G4-SO5 SSC has not had any known incidents of corruption in 2013. anti-corruption Confirmed corruption incidents and measures taken Sustainability Page SSC’s activities are governed by a number of national and governance 23, SR international regulations. How SSC deals with this is (Regulatory and legal strategically important, even for the owner and the challenges, compliance government agencies it involves. A challenge for SSC is with laws) compliance with export control legislation, primarily Swedish and US. SSC has lifted over responsibility for export control issues to the function for Strategic Security and is working on raising the quality of this work further. SSC’s certification and authorisation regulations applying to the entire Group deal with how legal disputes are to be reported. Managers are responsible for compliance with 40 these regulations. Regulatory and legal Compliance with the G4-SO8 SSC has not been sentenced to any fines or sanctions for challenges legislation offences against legislation or regulations in 2013. Amounts for significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions against the organisation for offences agains the legislation and regulations that apply 41 Products and services Customer satisfaction Sustainability Pages For SSC, customer satisfaction is of great strategic governance (Labelling 23 -24, importance, as it is for its owner. If SSC's customers are of products and SR satisfied, the risk of a change in supplier is reduced. SSC services) holds a continuous dialogue with customers, through discussions and meetings, to follow up customer satisfaction. Procedures for the way in which work on customer satisfaction is to be conducted in business operations are to be found in the SSC management system at division level. SSC has begun work on introducing a common CRM system for the entire Group, which will facilitate the measurement of customer satisfaction. A market survey was made in 2013, which showed that SSC’s customers regard the company as a long-term, reliable partner. Customer satisfaction Labelling of products G4-PR5 Pages and services 23 -24, Result of the SR customer survey implemented
