May 19, 2014 Communication on Progress (COP) The Armored Group, LLC affirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. I believe these Ten Principles, if universally adapted, would positively change the world in many ways. This is our first annual Communication on Progress (COP) to illustrate how The Armored Group, LLC has committed to this initiative and its principles to be utilized in our strategies and operations. We are also dedicated to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Robert Pazderka President The Armored Group, LLC Approach to the 10 Principles Human rights The Armored Group, LLC supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights “whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.” We have distributed this as part of company acknowledgement. Awareness has been conveyed to all staff regarding this declaration of respect for these rights. At this time, there has not been any report or issues regarding Human Rights within our company. If a problem occurs, steps would be taken to address and correct these issues. Labor Employee rights, compensation, and responsibilities are laid out initially in the Employment Agreement so that it is clear what the company expects of the employee and what the employee expects of the company. We provide a comfortable and safe work environment for our employees. A comfortable and safe work environment is implemented several ways. At home working is available for flexibility in schedules as well as a proper ergonomic work desk and computer glasses are accessible at the office setting. All are encouraged to get exercise which reduces stress and promotes healthy living. Our goal is to have healthy employees. This will reduce the amount of sickness and absence. As a small company, it is apparent when someone is absence. We have found that this is very low which can relate to a good work environment. Environment As a smaller company, reducing our carbon footprint is less than in other industries but we have implemented ways in helping the environment, specifically in recycling. We are conscious of paper printing to see if necessary or if can be electronically saved. A “Go Green” approach is taken before anything is printed. There are recycle bins in each office for recyclable items to be placed and therefore recycled through our local pick up process. We look for other ways of reducing our carbon footprint. Our recycle bins are being used on a continued basis. Anti-corruption The Armored Group, LLC is committed to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws. This is implemented by managements responsibly and accountability for where every dollar goes. The Armored Group, LLC has not had any issues of any legal cases, rulings, or other events related to extortion and bribery. Along with our internal checks, we have an outside Certified Public Accountant that reviews the financials.
