UN global compact Communication on Progress 2014 Statement of continued support Beirholms Væverier Beirholm harnesses the full poI am pleased to confirm that Beirholms Væverier A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in tential of the entire value chain the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. network to develop and deliver the most profitable textile soluIn this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its tions in the market. principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Beirholm was founded in 1870 and is a family-owned business with a strong heritage and culKind regards ture. It is an integrated aspect of our culture to work and behave Peter Beirholm responsibly in our dealings with Chief Executive Officer our customers and producers – and produce products that live up to our high standards – products we can be proud of, also with regard to ethical, social and environmental considerations. We continue to develop our work with sustainable textile solutions, which our implementation of DS 49001 (the Danish equivalent of the international ISO 26001 standard on CSR) exemplifies. This certification dedicates the principles, subjects and processes our company works under and will assist our continued advances in this area and supplement our other management standards. Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proAim claimed human rights. Beirholm adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our overall approach to working with business partners is based on our core values: openness, dialogue, commitment, honesty and being pro-active. This underlines the company’s dedication to the Human PRINCIPLE 2 Rights principles. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Implementation abuses. Beirholm continues to review and update policies and procedures to ensure fully compliance with national and international laws. Our CSR strategy, implementing our Code of Conduct and reflecting our membership of BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative), includes a set of rules that ensure compliance with and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Results Beirholm has made inspections at all key producers and does not source from production sites that have not been visited. Our Code of Conduct is implemented by us in cooperation with our key producers. More than 80% of our turnover results from producers who have been in a close relationship with Beirholm for more than 10 years. We prefer producers certified according to international standards such as SA8000 and/or Sedex. In 2013, more than half of our turnover derived from SA8000 certified producers. Labour PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Aim recognition of the right to collective It is important to Beirholm that our products are produced ethically, under safe working and environmental conditions. We base our bargaining. work on our CSR strategy as well as on our Code of Conduct, which our producers commit to following. PRINCIPLE 4 Implementation Businesses should uphold the eliminaIn joining the BSCI, Beirholm makes sure that all our producers are aware of and committed to the code of conduct, which abide to nation of all forms of forced and compultional legislation and labour laws. sory labour. We continue to make visits to all key producers to encourage improvement of health and safety procedures. PRINCIPLE 5 Results Businesses should uphold the effective All producers are committed, by contract, to our Code of Conduct, which assures promotion of continuous improvements within the abolition of child labour. areas of health and safety. PRINCIPLE 6 Beirholm has been certified according to OHSAS 18001 and DS 49001 (equivalent to ISO 26001) which assures continuous advancement in the area of human rights and health and safety. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Aim challenges. Beirholm is focused on bettering the environment in and around its company as well as in the supply network. PRINCIPLE 8 We have taken into consideration the product’s total environmental impact during its life cycle and at the same time focused on the elimination of harmful substances from our products for the end users and our customers. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmenFurthermore, it has been important to secure the best possible environmental conditions at the factories. tal responsibility. Implementation PRINCIPLE 9 We have chosen to produce as many of our products as possible under the EU Ecolabel criteria and with cotton produced according to Businesses should encourage the deBCI (Better Cotton Initiative) principles. velopment and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our mission is to raise the demand for sustainable textile solutions. We expect that by continuously promoting sustainable solutions by focusing on the entire supply chain from cotton field to laundry to end-user, we can minimise our environmental impact. Results More than 95% of all Beirholm’s textiles are currently Oekotex 100 labelled. At present, we have obtained the EU Ecolabel certification on a range of our most important products and continue to work with the objective that the majority of our products, over time, will live up to these conditions. Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extorAim tion and bribery. Our values are the guiding elements intended to regulate our conduct at all times. We maintain high standards of integrity, honesty and openness. We do not tolerate any form of bribery or other forms of corruption. Implementation It is clearly stated in the Beirholm Code of Conduct that no employees or producers will make use of corruption or bribery, whether direct or indirect. Result The values incorporated in Beirholm’s business approach mean that we have not experienced any cases of corruption in recent years. To ensure that no corruption should take place in any form, the company has ensured a steadfast zero-tolerance policy on bribery.
