ocial Responsibility • Celebrate • Fun • Environ Personal Excellence • Empowerment • Continu eamwork • Shared Ownership • Ethics • Safety • Leadership • Total Quality • Social Responsibilit Environmental Stewardship • Personal Excellen Continuous Improvement • Teamwork • Shared Safety • Health and Wellness • Leadership • T esponsibility • Celebrate United • Fun • Environmental St & Empowered xcellence • Empowerment • Continuous Improv 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report hared Ownership • Ethics • Safety • Health and W Total Quality • Social Responsibility • Celebrate • tewardship • Personal Excellence • Empower mprovement • Teamwork • Shared Ownership • Ethic ellness • Leadership • Total Quality • Social Respo un • Environmental Stewardship • Personal Excelle Continuous Improvement • Teamwork • Shared Safety • Health and Wellness • Leadership • T esponsibility • Celebrate • Fun • Environmental St xcellence • Empowerment • Continuous Improv hared Ownership • Ethics • Safety • Health and W Total Quality • Social Responsibility • Celebrate • tewardship • Personal Excellence • Empower mprovement • Teamwork • Shared Ownership • Ethic ellness • Leadership • Total Quality • Social Respo un • Environmental Stewardship • Personal Excelle iii Ethics • S Respons Table of Contents Excelle Letter from Our CEO 2 Shared About Our Report Organization Profile 4 6 • Total Q Who We Are Mission and Principles 7 8 Stewa Governance Partners and Collaboration 8 8 Improve Awards and Recognition Sustainability Strategy 9 10 and Welln Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 10 • Fun • En Stakeholder Engagement 12 2013 Performance 13 • Conti • Safe 2014 BOLD Goals 15 People 16 Exceptional Workplace Ethics and Diversity 16 17 Respons Training and Education Safety 18 19 Excelle Health and Wellness Social Responsibility 20 20 Shared Planet 22 • Total Q Environmental Management 22 Energy and Climate Change 22 Stewa Improve Clean Water 23 Recover, Recycle, Reuse 24 Land Restoration Prosperity 25 26 and Welln Economic Impacts Sustainable Value Chain 26 26 • Fun • En Innovation and Best Practices Conclusion 27 29 • Conti GRI Content Index 30 • Safe Respons Excelle Shared iv • Total Q afety • Health and Wellness • Leadership • Total ibility • Celebrate • Fun • Environmental Stewards nce • Empowerment • Continuous Improvement Ownership • Ethics • Safety • Health and Wellnes uality • Social Responsibility • Celebrate • Fun • E rdship • Personal Excellence • Empowerment • ment • Teamwork • Shared Ownership • Ethics • S ess • Leadership • Total Quality • Social Responsi vironmental Stewardship • Personal Excellence • nuous Improvement • Teamwork • Shared Owner ty • Health and Wellness • Leadership • Total Qua ibility • Celebrate • Fun • Environmental Stewards nce • Empowerment • Continuous Improvement Ownership • Ethics • Safety • Health and Wellnes uality • Social Responsibility • Celebrate • Fun • E rdship • Personal Excellence • Empowerment • ment • Teamwork • Shared Ownership • Ethics • S ess • Leadership • Total Quality • Social Responsi vironmental Stewardship • Personal Excellence • nuous Improvement • Teamwork • Shared Owner ty • Health and Wellness • Leadership • Total Qua ibility • Celebrate • Fun • Environmental Stewards nce • Empowerment • Continuous Improvement Ownership • Ethics • Safety • Health and Wellnes uality • Social Responsibility • Celebrate • Fun • E v Letter from Our CEO Dear Fairmount family members and friends: Welcome to Fairmount Minerals’ eighth annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report—United & Empowered. In a year of significant change, challenge, and opportunity, we are pleased to report and to celebrate the many achievements of our Fairmount family. In 2013, we united our assets and capabilities with those Across the organization, Fairmount family members also from three strategic acquisitions, greatly expanding our continued to raise the bar on our commitment to People, already world class production and distribution network and Planet and Prosperity (3Ps), achieving approximately 92% equipping us with new technologies that will revolutionize of our 2013 BOLD goals. Of particular note, our family the proppant industry. We utilized the principles and process members donated nearly 9,000 hours of paid volunteer time, of Appreciative Inquiry (AI) to welcome more than 300 10 facilities achieved ZERO waste to landfill, over 62,000 talented new members into the Fairmount family and to trees were planted, and the Best Practice team completed unite our expanded organization in our common vision—to projects resulting in over $1.3 million in SD Pays (the exceed all expectations while fulfilling our economic, social economic impact of SD initiatives). and environmental responsibilities. We witnessed Fairmount Our family members are empowered to take action and to family members—existing and new—working together to make a difference, both as individuals and in teams. This is a ensure a smooth transition while laying the foundation for our pivotal factor in our ability to fulfill business objectives, to be shared future. 2 good corporate citizens, and customers, business partners, community leaders, and to support the communities in potential new family members. which we live and work. We Thank you to our family members for helping to drive aim to inspire, encourage and Fairmount Minerals to new heights in 2013, and I look forward recognize engagement and to what we—United & Empowered—will achieve in 2014 action throughout Fairmount and beyond. Minerals. Consequently, action and leadership surface from With best regards, all levels and from all areas within our organization. This Jenniffer Deckard year, we are pleased to recognize Juan Luis Cantu Marroquin from our Santrol de Mexico operation, as the recipient of our Bill Conway Founder’s Award (our Sustainable Development Employee of the Year award). Juan Luis’ active involvement in three SD teams—Quest for Eco-Efficiency (QEE), Recover, Recycle and Reuse (3R), and Clean Water (CW)—and his President and Chief Executive Officer active support of the Fairmount family and community are an example for all of us. I invite you to read more about his efforts on page 17 of this report. While we pause to celebrate these many recent accomplishments, we also recognize that there are many more opportunities and still much work to be done as we pursue our transformational growth strategy. We strive for Fairmount Minerals to be the company of choice for 3 About Our Report We are excited to share with you our eighth Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report, in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Our annual CSR Report provides our stakeholders with accurate, pertinent information about Fairmount Minerals. GRI has verified that the report is prepared according to the GRI Guidelines at Application Level A. This report, published in May 2014, covers Fairmount Balance Minerals’ global operations and impacts for the 2013 We present balanced information in our report as it relates fiscal year. This report is available in hard copy and online to our material issues, sustainability performance and at www.fairmountminerals.com/2013csr. performance on goals. We share with our stakeholders the challenges we are working to address to ensure honest and We apply the GRI principles for defining report content and transparent communications. quality to ensure a balanced and reasonable presentation of our sustainability performance. Comparability We report significant metrics over a minimum of four years Materiality and Stakeholder Inclusiveness (unless information is not available) and include a GRI Content We frequently solicit feedback from our stakeholders and Index to ensure information is comparable year over year. incorporate their ideas and suggestions into our sustainability programs and initiatives. Through our Sustainable Timeliness Development (SD) teams, we set annual goals that take into Our CSR Report is published on an annual basis following account material issues as defined by our stakeholders. evaluation of the previous year’s data, performance metrics and significant highlights. Sustainability Context and Completeness Our annual CSR Report addresses both industry and Accuracy and Reliability company material issues within the broader sustainability The data presented in this report has been reviewed and landscape. We also consider our environmental, social and verified by Fairmount Minerals’ Sustainable Development economic performance related to sustainability goals across Advisory Committee and legal team, and is published with our global footprint. their approval. 5 Organization Profile Minnesota Michigan Wisconsin Ohio Illinois West Virginia Oklahoma Texas CHINA Nanjing Santrol Yixing Proppant Co. LTD D DENMARK MEXICO Shanghai China Santrol Yixing 6 Denmark Proppant Co. LTD Who We Are What began as a small sand-mining operation in Chardon, With several significant acquisitions in 2013, our family has Ohio is now a global organization operating on three grown from approximately 750 to more than 1,000 family continents and in five countries with 33 facilities and an members. We remain committed to employing positive expansive distribution network of more than 50 strategically change management and will hold our fourth Appreciative located terminals. Fairmount Minerals does business in a Inquiry (AI) Summit in summer 2014. The Summit will provide variety of industry sectors, including oil and gas, sports and all family members a unique forum to deepen our culture, recreation, foundry, building products, water solutions, glass, share best practices, engage our external stakeholders and and specialty products. Through our significant investment in reimagine our shared future. technology and innovation, Fairmount Minerals has become a global expert in finding new ways to turn sand into valuable Employees by category solutions for our stakeholders. Hourly Employees Salary Employees Employees by Country LOCATION # of employees United States Canada 981 6 432 627 Denmark 11 China 20 Mexico Total 41 1,059 1,059 total employees mining & PROCESSING coating operations specialty products Administrative offices Chardon Cadereyta Jimenez, Mexico Ottawa Headquarters—Chesterland Beaver Fredericia, Denmark Black Lab—Chardon Benton Harbor Hamilton, ON Yixing, China Black Lab—Fresno Chardon Tech Center Wedron Bridgman Black Lab—Serena Wedron Harrietta Roff Detroit Sugar Land Hager City/Bay City Troy Grove Maiden Rock Wedron Research & development Menomonie Voca Ottawa Innovation Center Voca Cutler Santrol Technology Center Readfield Fresno Shakopee 7 Mission and Principles our 12 principles A united and empowered organization requires a clear mission and strong principles to guide actions. At Fairmount, our mission—to be united in our commitment to exceed expectations while fulfilling our economic, social and Safety environmental responsibilities—can be summed up with Ethics Health our motto of Do Good. Do Well. Our employees bring this & Wellness motto to life daily through their commitment to the three pillars of Sustainable Development (SD): People, Planet and Prosperity, and by adhering to 12 Principles which allow the Total Quality organization to thrive and sustain itself well into the future. Appreciative Inquiry (AI) is truly core to the way we do Leadership Social Responsibility business. It is a change management approach that focuses on identifying, elevating and expanding strengths both internally and externally to create your ideal future environment. It is Personal Excellence especially crucial to the way we interact with our Fairmount family. AI is a way to collaborate and take the best of who we are, and use that to refine and work towards what we want Environmental Celebrate/ to be. In 2013, our Communications and AI team participated Fun Stewardship in a two-day AI training course at the Weatherhead School Teamwork/ of Management at Case Western Reserve University to Shared learn how to use AI more effectively and help fellow family Ownership members do the same. Looking ahead to 2014, the team set a goal to train 260 family members on AI before our Summit Continuous Empowerment Improvement in August—a significant undertaking. At the beginning of 2014, the team will work with the FML YOU team (training and development) and experts from Case to develop curriculum. Governance American Society of Safety Engineers Fairmount Minerals is governed by a seven-person Board of American Water Works Association Directors comprising one executive, two independent directors and four shareholders (two of whom are representatives from Baldwin Wallace Institute for Sustainable Business Practice American Securities, our private equity partner and majority shareholder). Board members are selected based upon an Casting Industry Supplier Association internal review process as well as feedback from independent Conestoga Foundry Association business partners. The Board’s three standing committees— Compensation, Audit and Executive—provide strategic counsel Cleveland State University’s Corporate and oversight to the company. Sustainability Network Partners and Collaboration Ductile Iron Society Our partners and collaborating organizations provide unique perspectives on our company, industry and the markets we Dunn County Economic Development Corporation serve. They help us understand industry trends, discover Foundry Association of Michigan product innovation opportunities, new ways to manage sustainability and more. We continue to work closely with Foundry Educational Foundation our valued partners and look forward to more collaboration Fowler Center for Sustainable Value in the coming year. Golf Course Builders Association of America The following is a sample of our valued partners: Golf Course Superintendents Association of America American Chemistry Council Crystalline Silica Panel Greater Cleveland Partnership American Foundry Society Industrial Energy Consumers Association American Institute of Chemical Engineers Industrial Minerals Association of North America American Petroleum Institute International Society of Mine Safety Professionals American Society for Quality 8 Fairmount family members from our Menomonie, WI facility Family members from our Chardon, OH facility sponsored a team participating in a stream restoration project. (nicknamed the Mad Minerz) in a charity run for Autism research. Marcellus Shale Coalition Awards and Recognition While Sustainable Development is embedded into National Association of Manufacturers our Fairmount Minerals culture, we appreciate the National Freight Transportation Association acknowledgment we received from our peers and are proud to have been recognized for the following awards in 2013: National Industrial Sand Association Greater Menomonie Area Chamber of Commerce National Safety Council Business of the Year (Menomonie, WI facility) North American Rail Shippers Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates, Inc.’s (SOCMA) 2013 Sustainability and 2013 Bronze for Ohio Cast Metals Association Resource Management and Waste Minimization Ohio Parks & Recreation Association (Detroit, MI facility) Pennsylvania Foundry Association Mayo Society of Greater Cleveland’s 2013 Mayo Person of the Year (Founder and Chairman Emeritus, Pennsylvania Parks & Recreation Association Bill Conway) Pierce County Economic Development Corporation Smart Business’s Master Innovator (Sustainable Development—Business Innovation team) Saving Birds Thru Habitat Pierce County Economic Development Corporation Society for Human Resource Management Business of the Year (Wisconsin Industrial Sand facilities) Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration Wisconsin Sustainable Business Council’s Green Master Society for Petroleum Engineers (Wisconsin Industrial Sand facilities) Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources’ Green Tier (Wisconsin Industrial Sand facilities) Synthetic Turf Council Wisconsin Manufacturers and Commerce’s Business Texas Cast Metal Association Friend of the Environment (Wisconsin Industrial United Nations Global Compact Sand facilities) U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development Entrepreneurs EDGE’s 2013 Leading EDGE (Fairmount Minerals) Water Environment Federation 2013 NEO Success (Fairmount Minerals) Wildlife Habitat Council Weatherhead 100—2013 Centurion Wisconsin Industrial Sand Association (Fairmount Minerals) Wisconsin Partners for Clean Air Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers’ (IAAP) 2013 Community Relations Award (Wedron, IL facility) Women’s Energy Network 9 Sustainability Strategy At Fairmount Minerals, we recognize the sustainability landscape is changing every day. We strive to be current on new developments, policies and regulation in order to evaluate how they might apply to Fairmount and to ensure we are competitive in our industry and in the markets we serve. In 2013, we took measured steps in our focus areas of People, Planet and Prosperity to keep our organization at the forefront of Sustainable Development. Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities As we grow and advance as a company, we recognize the People: With the addition of more than 300 new family need for more robust training, education and professional members, our company is growing in exciting ways. It was development to cultivate Fairmount’s next generation important for us to find ways to unite our commitments and of leaders. Our leadership team is evaluating new ways empower family members to take the necessary steps to to identify emerging leaders and provide them with the achieve ambitious goals. experiences and skills they need to advance. Crossfunctional departments are working together to reimagine As our family grows, our responsibility for their safety grows as our Total Rewards and Recognition Program, which includes well. Our goal is to ensure each individual family member leaves the enhancement of our leadership development training. work in the same condition they arrived. Safety must remain our Beyond leadership development, this program also top priority. There are always potential risks from our operations covers compensation and benefits, paid time off and paid due to the nature of our business. Ongoing conversations with volunteer time, and incentives tied to the achievement of our stakeholders ensure we are aware of potential impacts and sustainability goals. We want to continue to be a great place can manage and properly address them. Most importantly, to work with engaged Fairmount family members. we empower our family members to identify and take action to ensure our employees and our communities remain safe. 10 The landscape of our Best Sand facility in Chardon, Ohio. QEE team members and family members from our Bridgman, MI and Benton Harbor, MI facilities planting dune grasses at Fedder’s Alley in Michigan City, IN. Planet: Effectively managing our environmental impacts Prosperity: Our economic prosperity allowed us to grow continues to be at the forefront of our sustainability strategy. both organically and through acquisition in 2013. Through We are well on our way to realizing our goal to reach zero our acquisitions, we dramatically expanded our capacity, waste to landfill through reducing, recycling and recovering distribution network, technological capabilities, and footprint. raw materials and products by 2015. By educating and We have also benefited from organic growth through the partnering with our vendors, suppliers, customers and work of our innovation and technology centers. This growth other external stakeholders, many are now reusing product and expansion allows us to deepen our knowledge of the containers and recycling waste to generate electricity. Within industries and markets we serve and provide us additional our own operations, we are mitigating carbon emissions opportunities for continued economic prosperity. As by reducing our energy consumption and employing other important, we know that Fairmount’s economic prosperity strategies, such as sequestration. Additionally, our Clean also benefits our family members and the communities in Water team has engaged nearly all of our facilities across our which we live and work. footprint to develop water management plans for shortand long-term sustainability, and we look forward to executing on these plans in 2014 and beyond. 11 Family members from our Wedron, IL and Ottawa, IL facilities volunteering at local Marseilles Elementary School after a flood damaged the school. Stakeholder Engagement reflection and strategic planning for the future. This internal Our commitment to Appreciative Inquiry (AI) helps us and external engagement has a significant impact on our understand the benefits of whole system engagement. future focus of SD as it allows us to see our business from Engaging with our stakeholders helps us to identify and many different perspectives. address our impacts, risks and opportunities. In 2013, Beyond the Summit, we have regular engagement with our we continued to use internal and external stakeholder stakeholders through focus groups, surveys, open houses, engagement and feedback to inform our focus, strategies electronic communication and feedback solicitation. We and next steps. We surveyed all family members (prior to our encourage our family members to submit their ideas to the September acquisition) and asked them to provide honest Business Innovation (BI) team through an idea database. feedback on the topics of Sustainable Development (SD), Members of the BI team pose challenges to several engagement and compensation and benefits. We involved business areas. Family members have the opportunity to external partners to help develop the survey to ensure our respond with possible solutions. The team manages the family members felt empowered to provide us their candid database, determines the feasibility of submitted ideas, and thoughts and ideas. External partners also analyzed the works with cross-functional teams to implement ideas that survey results to ensure objectivity. The survey reinforced meet the necessary criteria through a stage gate process. senior leadership’s commitment to listening and responding In 2013, nearly 100 ideas were submitted to the database. to the voice of the Fairmount family. For example, the results One idea put forward was to implement ventilation software of the survey will provide guidance to our leadership team for one of our underground mines. Before executing on as they refresh our Total Rewards and Recognition Program. this idea, we hired a third party engineering firm to help us Changes to the program will be shared with all family evaluate the ventilation system. We concluded that the members after it is solidified in 2014. solution was too expensive and that there was a risk of One of our most important stakeholder engagement designing and implementing a system that might not work. activities is our Appreciative Inquiry (AI) Summit. We are Instead, we decided to purchase the software and have our gearing up for our next AI Summit in summer 2014 where in-house engineers design a ventilation system so that we all Fairmount family members will be invited. We engage could create the right system through our own trial and error. cross-functional departments within our Fairmount family This is a great example of how we empower our Fairmount to determine which valued external partners will join us for family members to evaluate and implement innovative ideas. the Summit. At our past AI Summits external stakeholders We look forward to taking on this exciting safety and health have included suppliers, customers, non-profit organizations, opportunity and will track results in the coming year. consulting partners and more. The Summit is three days of 12 2013 Performance Fairmount Minerals set specific and ambitious SD goals for 2013, challenging us to push the envelope on what is possible in Sustainable Development. Highlights include: PEOPLE PROSPERITY Fairmount Minerals donated nearly 9,000 hours of paid Eleven facilities generated one idea in each area of People, volunteer time. FML YOU launched four courses based on Planet and Prosperity and produced SD Pays (SD Pays is Fairmount Family feedback—Excel, Frac 201, Welding and the monetary value of our SD efforts throughout the year). Financial Planning. The Best Practices team completed more than 10 projects resulting in over $1.3M in SD Pays. PLANET Ten facilities are zero waste to landfill. The Fairmount family planted or donated 62,471 trees and reduced our carbon footprint by 1,620,338 lbs. of CO2 as a result of energy efficiency projects. 2013 Sustainable Development Goal Achievement Communications 140% Best & AI FML YOU Practices Environmentally Sustainable Recover, Mobility 120% Clean Responsible Recycle, Social Products & Health & Reuse Water Processes Wellness Responsibility 100% Quest for Sustainable Eco-Efficiency 91.7% Value Chain 80% Business Average Innovation 60% 40% 125 125 100 Safety 100 100 100 100 100 100 80 20% 61 77 25 0% SD TEAMS 13 We would like to congratulate the entire Fairmount family A couple of years ago we made the strategic decision to ask on achieving approximately 92% of our 2013 goals in the our SD teams to focus on one annual stretch goal in place areas of People, Planet and Prosperity. This is a tribute to our of setting several goals each year. We followed this same family members’ hard work and dedication, and also to our process in 2013 and our BOLD goal results are as follows: valued external stakeholders who collaborated with us to achieve our goals. In Progress Complete Team 2013 Goal Description Status Completion Description Implement four Best Practice productivity projects highlighting organization, Best Practice 10 Best Practice projects completed with $1.3M in SD Pays. standardization, or technology and achieve $75,000 in SD Pays. We will advance innovative strategies, culture, and processes within Fairmount Minerals that ensures 67% of facilities 11 facilities generated one idea in each area of the 3Ps and Business Innovation achieve the goal to generate one produced SD Pays. innovative idea in each area of SD: People, Planet, and Prosperity (3Ps) of which one produces SD Pays. Develop five year water management and Clean Water reduction plan for all Fairmount locations 23 facilities completed water management plans. in North America. Develop and execute an employee Employee engagement survey was completed with a 76% Communications engagement process and reach at response rate (479 family members). We engaged more than & AI minimum 75% of the Fairmount family. 200 new family members in SD activities. We will work across functional groups Environmentally to manage the development and Completed four projects or processes all resulting Responsible Products implementation of four innovative products in SD Pays. and Processes or processes that create value to our stakeholders demonstrated by SD pays. Identify and implement one course offering in each of the following Four courses launched—Excel, Frac 201, Welding and disciplines (Development for YOU, FML YOU Financial Planning. Participation was 84% in one or more Electronic Enhancement, FML Business, courses. Trade Technique) with 50% participation in 2012 and 2013 offerings. Create, support, and sustain a healthy work environment by establishing a Created a wellness enrichment assessment and Health and Wellness baseline wellness enrichment evaluation completed evaluations at each facility with an overall score and improve by 10% at each improvement of 26%. location. Improve our carbon footprint by QUEST for Planted 62,471 trees and reduced lbs. of CO2 by 1,620,338 completing projects that eliminate 3% Eco-Efficiency lbs. CO2 as a result of energy efficiency projects. of 2012 GHG emissions. All facilities will reduce year end average Recover, Recycle, Total solid waste is at 1,618.1 cubic yards and 10 facilities are solid waste volume by 50% from 2012 Reuse at zero waste. baseline. We must first be better than the industry’s Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR), ultimately improving upon the 2012 Fairmount TCIR Achieved an LTIR of 0.4, better than the industry average Safety to achieve 100%. We must first be better of 0.9; achieved a TCIR of 2.6, equal to the industry average. than the industry’s Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), ultimately improving upon the 2012 FML LTIR to achieve 100%. Achieve a Day of Caring at each facility All facilities or regions achieved 60% participation or more. Social Responsibility or region with 60% participation. More than 476 unique volunteers. Created a baseline of carbon emissions—gallons of diesel, # Improve our carbon footprint by of CO2 and tons of CO2. Additionally, generated $8,629,698 Sustainable Mobility completing projects that eliminate 3% by utilizing ‘286 cars’ and an additional $7.2M due to of 2012 greenhouse gas emissions. enhanced conveyor belt system implemented. Research all supplier packaging/ containers delivered to Fairmount Completed analysis for supplier packaging/containers, Sustainable manufacturing facilities and labs; reduce but have an opportunity to reach the 10% reduction. Value Chain disposal, handling, and/or landfill costs Eighty presentations completed. by 10% vs. 2012. Deliver Sustainability 101 presentation to 72 organizations. 14 2014 Bold Goals With the addition of many new family members, we look forward to the Appreciative Inquiry Summit in 2014 to reflect upon our Sustainable Development journey, reaffirm and reimagine our commitments, and move forward united towards and empowered to achieve our future vision. Leading up to the Summit, SD teams will be working hard to accomplish the BOLD goals we set for 2014. sd Team 2014 BOLD Goal Implement six best practice productivity projects highlighting standardization, technology, or organizational and Best Practice achieve a minimum of $100,000 in SD Pays. Achieve three of three tasks: Task One: Media campaign—Publish one new media focusing on Innovation within Business Innovation FML. Task Two: Innovation Toolbox—Create the toolbox of innovative resources for use at facility level by end of 2nd quarter. Task Three: Reach out to facilities to get them excited about Innovation and familiar with the process. Document water management plans for four facilities that currently do not have one by the end of 2014; conduct Clean Water three water workshops; Identify the opportunity of SD pays of $10,000. Communications & AI Train 260 FML family members on the culture of AI, before the August, 2014 AI Summit. Environmentally Work across functional groups to select and manage the development and implementation of one to three projects Responsible that show a collective SD pays value of $300,000. Identify and engage one key supplier to Fairmount Minerals in Products order to enhance the ERPP to all customers in the value chain. and Processes Offer one new course in the following disciplines: Development for YOU (AI), Electronic Enhancement FML YOU (PowerPoint), FML Business (Sand 101). Minimum of 650 Fairmount family Members participate in 2012, 2013 and 2014 course offerings. Create, support, and sustain a healthy work environment by implementing an enhanced Wellness Enrichment Health and Evaluation at all facilities and improving the Wellness Score by 10% to reach and maintain 100% at each location. Wellness Also, conduct two wellness challenges with 40% participation. Quest for Improve our carbon footprint by completing projects that eliminate 1% and sequester 1% of 2013 GHG Eco-Efficiency emissions augmented by three facility energy audits. Recover, Recycle, Achieve percentage reduction against 2009 baseline toward zero waste. All 28 legacy facilities will be zero Reuse waste by the end of 2014. One. We will be better than the industry’s Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR) to achieve 25%. Two. We will be better than our best achieved year FML TCIR to achieve 25%. Three. We will be better than the industry’s Safety Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) to achieve 25%. Four. We will be better than our best achieved year FML LTIR to achieve 25%. Social Increase paid volunteer time average by increasing average hours per facility (using 2013 as baseline). Responsibility New facilities will achieve an average of eight hours. Sustainable Establish historical baseline for utilization of railcars based on car size, route and order size. Track any overloads MOBILITY and associated costs—potential to identify control matters such as rail scales for accuracy. Sustainable VALUE Establish drawings, specifications, and usage patterns for pallets, bulk bags, etc. at all plants, generating CHAIN $50,000 in SD Pays. 15 People Our family members continue to raise the bar on what is possible in Sustainable Development. They are empowered to make a difference—and they do so in a big way. Their commitment to our company and our communities demonstrates the dedication and expertise we possess by providing sustainable solutions to our stakeholders and by making the world a better place. Exceptional Workplace Ottawa Deb Schaefer Fairmount Minerals provides its family members with a range Wedron Lynn Hiser of benefits that make our company a great place to work. Sugar Land Brittney Bailey We are in the process of renewing our Total Rewards and Bridgman Sandy Stemmler Recognition Program, which encompasses everything from Black Lab—Serena Jimmy Harris compensation and benefits to professional development and leadership training to incentives for goal achievement Black Lab—Chardon Jeff Merritt in Sustainable Development (SD). We constantly strive for Black Lab—Fresno Denise Nelson better ways to acknowledge our family members for the Wexford Holly Letizio great work they do every day, and to demonstrate that they Mineral Visions Heather Kolesar are our most valuable asset. Lakeshore Sand Mirsada Cataldo The most notable way we recognize exceptional WISC—Maiden Rock Jason Shingledecker achievement in SD is through the Fairmount Minerals WISC—Menomonie Stan Bonngard Sustainable Development Employee of the Year Award. Any WISC—Hager Bay Mike Murphy family member can nominate their peers for this honor, which WISC—Bay City Scott Passe is awarded to one person at each of our facilities annually. Santrol de Mexico Juan Luis Cantu Marroquin* The Bill Conway Founder’s Award is given to one family member who demonstrates exceptional performance in the Technisand—Wedron Mary Kibilka area of Sustainable Development. Our 2013 winners are: Wedron Melissa Noel Troy Grove Rob Kiefel Alpha Resins Matt LaCombe Roff Keith Huneycutt Best Sand Bill Bennington Santrol Yixing Ken Wu Benton Harbor David Rau Cutler Malinda Kellerman Chardon Tech Center Curtis Petrey Shakopee Wendy Boutell Chesterland Dawn Robinson *Indicates Bill Conway Founder’s Award Winner 16 Bill Conway Founder’s Award Winner Juan Luis Cantu Marroquin Juan Luis thought he was just going to lunch with his coworkers when suddenly his family walked into the restaurant. “When I saw them my first thought was something bad has happened. I never suspected they were there because I had won an award.” Joining in the celebration were Juan Luis’ manager and Plant Manager, Saul Gonzalez; Corporate Sustainable Development Coordinator, Beth Lestock; and Director of Sustainable Development, Beau Daane to present him with the Bill Conway Founder’s Award. The Founder’s Award was established in 2007 by the Corporate Social Responsibility team to honor an outstanding Fairmount Juan Luis with his family after he accepts the Bill Conway Founder’s Award. Minerals’ family member who embraces our ideals and principles of community impact through their personal Ethics and Diversity contribution of time, talent and treasure. Juan Luis explained With the recent addition of nearly 300 new family members he was overwhelmed with happiness not only because he to Fairmount Minerals, we are proud of the diverse cultures never expected to win the award, but because his family was and backgrounds that make up our family. With this diversity there to share in the celebration. comes richer discussion that garners more powerful and Juan Luis is actively involved in three Sustainable meaningful ideas for Fairmount. With operations in the Development teams—Quest for Eco-Efficiency (QEE), United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Denmark, we Recover, Recycle and Reuse (3R), and Clean Water comply with all rules and regulations of these countries and (CW)—helping to achieve his facility’s goals as well as the work to be a model corporate citizen and good neighbor. corporate SD team goals. For the QEE team, he visited local We do not discriminate on the basis of physical, religious, schools and community organizations to speak to them sexual orientation, social or financial characteristics, and about the importance of mitigating carbon emissions by we make hiring decisions based on experience, skills and helping them to plant hundreds of trees. He took the lead expertise needed to meet our shortand long-term business on creating a water consumption baseline at his facility objectives. Our family members make their own decisions for the Clean Water team and worked on a special project with regard to collective bargaining organizations and we to recycle used water back into the facility for irrigation. respect their rights in every capacity. For the 3R team, Juan Luis has been a featured speaker at schools and local organizations to talk about what Our Code of Ethics, which includes expectations for fair Fairmount Minerals is doing to achieve zero waste across labor practices and human rights, is translated into the the organization. Juan Luis also shares what he has learned native languages of the countries where we operate. We about Sustainable Development from Fairmount Minerals also have a Supplier Code of Conduct which we require all with his family, friends, neighbors and church. “I want to of our suppliers to follow in order to do business with us. As thank my family who always supports me, my bosses Saul a member of the UN Global Compact, we adhere to the 10 and Jose Luis because they trust me, and my co-workers Principles for international human rights, labor, environment whose hard work makes all of our Sustainable Development and ethical business practices, and we hold our value chain projects a reality and a success.” accountable to the same high standards. 17 GENDER 900 877 Male Age over/under 40 (domestic only) 800 1,059 700 total employees Under 40 Over 40 600 500 400 300 53% 47% 83% 182 Female 200 100 17% 981 total employees 0 Training and Education In 2012, our FML YOU (Fairmount Minerals Your Opportunity University) team surveyed family members to inquire what professional development courses they were interested in taking in 2013. Based on their feedback, the team developed and rolled out courses in four main areas—Development for YOU, Electronic Enhancement, FML (Fairmount) Business, and Trade Techniques. Within Electronic Enhancement, we offered an Excel course which garnered so much interest we increased the number of sessions offered. For FML Business, we offered Frac 101 and 201 and Sand 101 to educate family members on not only the businesses we operate, but the different markets in our industry and what they entail. Family member Jeff Himes (Hager City/Bay City, WI) speaks to third We are in the process of updating Sand 101 for the 2014 grade students from Prairie View Elementary about how erosion and sedimentation take place. This presentation took place at Trimbelle curriculum. Frac 101 and 201 are 30-minute lunch and learn Recreation Area, where we performed stream restoration work on sessions so family members do not have to take time out of the Trimbelle River. their work day to attend. Further, these courses have been indicated which course they completed. Family members translated into Spanish and Mandarin for our international in our facilities received a lanyard and stickers (or badges) family members to participate. Our welding course (Trade that could be placed on their hard hats to demonstrate their Techniques) and Financial Planning course (Development successful completion of these professional development for YOU) were also well received, and we look forward to courses. This visible recognition has garnered very positive offering these courses again in 2014. feedback and has also encouraged new family members The FML YOU team’s goal was to achieve 62% participation to take courses. We view professional development and in their four course offerings. At the end of 2013, nearly acknowledging participation in these courses as ways to 82% of our family members had participated in these empower our people as they progress in their careers. In courses. The team credits its success to the support and 2014, the FML YOU team has a goal to develop one new encouragement of senior leadership, widespread promotion, course offering in three of the existing focus areas, making and the development of courses that, based upon survey our portfolio of offerings even more robust. responses, met family members’ needs. The FML YOU team acknowledged participation and course completion with a special token of appreciation and achievement. Family members in our corporate facilities received a Zen Garden for their desk. Each time they completed a course, they would receive a different stone to add to the garden that 18 TOTAL employees per category (domestic only) 176 Management 28 Sales 981 total FULL-TIME 15 Technical 613 employees Operations 149 Administrative in our Safety team continues to grow. We are considering additional regional Safety team co-leads to ensure that we hear our family members and incorporate their safety ideas into our daily operations. In 2014, we look forward to celebrating our success as we prepare to hit 1 Million Safe Work Hours for the second time in the company’s history. Our focus on safety is evident. In the coming year, our Safety team plans to further maximize our opportunities for safety training, education and discussion. Tactics include providing training to all family members in Fairmount family members pictured with Wisconsin legislators during a tour of the underground mine. supervisory positions at all of our facilities and producing more safety meeting videos for family members who are not able to Safety attend an in person meeting. We will continue to keep safety Fairmount Minerals prides itself on maintaining a safe and top of mind for the Fairmount family. healthy working environment for all family members. This is of the utmost importance to our organization. Because Total Case Incident Rate we believe our employees are our family, we want to TCIR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 provide them the necessary support needed to be healthy FML 3.5 3.1 2.9 2.1 2.6 both at work and at home. It is common for most meetings Industry 3.1 3.3 3.0 3.1 2.6 and conference calls to begin with a safety message. Family members provide us the same support by actively participating in our peer safety programs such as Find It, Lost Time Incident Rate Fix It and SLAM RISKS (Stop, Look, Analyze, Manage— LTIR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Remember, Identify, Share, Know, and Safety). Each site has FML 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.2 0.4 a safety team that is empowered to take ownership of the Industry 1.7 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.9 safety of their facilities, including making a list of everyday tasks and potential hazards for constant review or by employee Retention Rate creating site specific incentive programs. We also produce 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 site specific training videos based on these identified tasks Retention 76.2% 88.3% 87.4% 85.4% 87.2% and hazards. But safety does not stop at the facility door— Rate we encourage our family members to bring safety home to their families, friends, neighbors and communities. We regularly produce safety calendars and newsletters to help them live a safer life. The topic of safety is a passion for so many of Fairmount’s family members that membership 19 Union Vs. Non-union RACE (domestic only) Non-Union 849 White 6 American Indian/ Alaskan Native 139 Union Hispanic/ Latino 845 136 28 1 13.86% Union employees Black/ Two or More Races African American Health and Wellness IIn 2013, our Health and Wellness team was focused on creating, supporting and sustaining a healthy work environment for all family members. The team’s aim was to improve the wellness evaluation score at each facility through a number of activities. This goal empowered our family members to live healthier lives, and pushed our company to provide our people with additional support to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Beyond our existing offerings of Health Risk Assessments (HRAs) and biometric screenings, we have instituted new programs and processes to encourage more family members to participate in the health and wellness program. Some facilities have united to form a “Board of Wellness” to help disseminate information to Family members from our Ottawa, IL and Wedron, IL facilities participate in Relay For Life in honor of cancer survivors. family members, share healthy exercises or nutrition facts, and communicate important updates on a regular basis. They their health. By engaging more family members and their also serve as a feedback mechanism for family members to loved ones in our health and wellness program, we are provide opportunities for improvement or share new ideas empowering healthy lifestyles both at work and at home. about our programs. Social Responsibility Our external partner, Wellness Corporate Solutions Supporting the local communities where we live and work (Wellness Corp.), works closely with the Health and Wellness brings out our family members’ creative side. Volunteering is team to track our family member participation and provide us one of those creative outlets. Eight of our facilities achieved with site specific recommendations to increase participation. 100% family member participation in volunteer activities If a family member at a facility has not yet taken their Health in 2013. The remaining facilities saw at least 60% of their Risk Assessment (HRA) or biometric screening, we can work family members’ participating. Our Social Responsibility directly with the individual to share success stories and team planned and executed 20 volunteering events during understand the opportunities and benefits associated with the year (17 domestic and three international) to give joining the Wellness program. Wellness Corp. conducts family members ample opportunity to give back to our regular audits of our facilities and provides challenges and communities. We offer family members 40 hours of paid incentives for completing programs such as the Fruit and volunteer time a year, and we empower facilities to choose Veggie Challenge or the Fairmount Cookbook contest. their own activities or local organizations to support. Each of Gift cards to local sports and recreation stores or healthy our facilities or regions organizes an annual Day of Caring, restaurant options are a big hit with participants. and our Social Responsibility team met with each regional SD Coordinator to plan the day so everyone had an opportunity We are always inspired by the stories we hear from family to participate. These activities are driven, and brought to life, members who take the initiative to bring in healthy snacks by family members who are passionate about giving back to for co-workers or who feel empowered to construct a facility the communities in which we operate and reside. walking path to enable exercise during lunch or breaks. In 2014, our goal is for every family member to have a wellness Each region or facility had a unique Day of Caring in 2013. Our ‘baseline’ from which to measure how they are improving Troy Grove, Illinois facility created “thank you” packages for 20 Total Donations by Category 41.3% 44.7% Health and Education Wellness Average Volunteer Hours per Employee 7.5% 2011 2012 15.7 Hours 16.8 Hours Environment 2013 13.7 Hours 6.4% Discretionary Total Volunteer Hours 2011 12,417 Hours $ 3,100,000 total 2012 2013 10,176 Hours 8,951 Hours Family members with “Santa” during their Day of Caring building an ice Family members building teddy bears for children at local hospitals. cream shop at Santa’s Hide-A-Way Hollow. veterans’ homes, delivering them on Veterans Day. Volunteers Director of Leadership Geauga (the county which Fairmount from our Wedron and Ottawa, Illinois facilities restored an Minerals is headquartered) knew that Fairmount cultivates elementary school after it experienced severe damage from a culture of volunteerism and giving back, and approached flooding. The Wedron volunteers also made stuffed teddy our Best Sand facility on behalf of Santa’s Hide-A-Way. Bob bears for patients at Lurie Children’s Hospital of Chicago. asked if we would be interested in volunteering. We began sending volunteers to paint, build fences and help perform In the spirit of collaboration, the Social Responsibility team routine maintenance of the property. is working with the FML YOU team to develop a video to communicate the culture and value of corporate social During a visit last year to Santa’s Hide-A-Way another local responsibility. Sharing our commitment to social responsibility business donated ice cream and the materials to build an ice with all of our family members demonstrates that we are cream shop at Santa’s North Pole. Generous as the donation united on company culture and committed to upholding it. was, there was one thing missing—people to build the shop. This was our chance to contribute to Santa’s Hide-A-Way Santa’s Hide-A-Way Hollow Brings Joy again. Family members from our facilities in Chardon and to Those in Need Chesterland, Ohio worked day and night to build the ice For anyone who thinks Santa Claus only lives at the North cream shop, just in time for ‘Christmas in July’. More than Pole, you do not know Bill Dieterle. Almost 30 years ago, 350 children, families, nurses and doctors visited the North Bill began dressing up as Santa Claus to visit terminally ill Pole for Christmas in July and had a wonderful time. Bill’s children at a local hospital in Cleveland, Ohio. The experience experience 30 years ago and his passion for helping people impacted him so much that he decided to quit his executive are contagious. Our family members have already met with position in corporate America and make visiting children as Santa to plan their next big project at Santa’s Hide-A-Way Santa his vocation. At first, Bill would visit children at local Hollow in 2014! hospitals and at home, whenever they needed him. Then, 15 years ago, Bill decided that Santa needed a home in Ohio where children, their families and their medical caretakers could visit any time. This led to the purchase of almost 100 acres in beautiful Middlefield, Ohio and the building of Santa’s Hide-A-Way Hollow. Dr. Bob Faehnle, Executive 21 Planet Our family members continue to dedicate their time and expertise to finding ways to reduce our environmental footprint and make a positive impact on the communities in which we operate and live. We are making great strides working across facilities ideating and implementing sustainable solutions that are producing both shortand long-term positive environmental opportunities. Environmental Management We are diligently working on adopting ISO standards for environmental management at all Fairmount facilities. Over the past year, our Shakopee, Minnesota facility became certified bringing our total to 11 facilities certified ISO 14001. We believe that in order to effectively manage your environmental impacts, having a framework to follow empowers excellence in environmental management. Some of the benefits of following ISO 14001 standards include reduced costs of waste management, savings in energy Family members giving a site tour to a group of local students. and materials conservation, improved distribution impacts and improved reputation among stakeholders. These are all energy audits across several facilities. The audits included things that Fairmount manages closely and will continue to looking at lighting, motors operating during off times and promote as a company standard. much more. As a result, the QEE team identified a number Energy and Climate Change of opportunities to reduce or eliminate carbon emissions Our Quest for Eco-Efficiency (QEE) team focused on resulting in more than $200,000 in potential savings. Best continuing to reduce Fairmount’s carbon footprint by Sand in Chardon, Ohio diverted 340,000 lbs. of carbon completing projects that eliminate greenhouse gas dioxide by reducing water pump hours. The Roff facility in emissions (GHGs). One significant step taken was performing Roff, Oklahoma eliminated more than one million pounds 22 Absolute Energy Use (gigajoules) 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 Direct Energy 1,427,347 1,709,263 1,902,936 2,280,277 Indirect Energy 338,707 377,315 403,565 434,523 Total Energy 1,766,054 2,086,578 2,306,501 2,714,800 FUEL USE BY TYPE 1% 5% 10% DIESEL #2 ELECTRICITY FUEL #400 gasoline liquid natural gas BIODIESEL BIODIESEL BIODIESEL (GAL) (kW-hr) (GAL) (GAL) propane (Mcf) (GAL) (GAL) (GAL) (GAL) 133,134 112,512 45,590 635,590 120,676,960 180,972 40,441 397,588 1,971,135 Normalized Greenhouse Gas Emissions (lbs. of CO2/ton shipped) 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 51.61 49.04 47.79 53.39 of carbon dioxide through work order revisions and training In our continued Quest for Eco-Efficiency, we also invest in our family members to turn off equipment when not in use. sequestering carbon. In 2013, we planted more than 62,000 These instructions have been added to the documented trees or grasses and 500 of these trees were planted at the work procedures that every family member is trained on so Flight 93 Memorial, which we have supported for the past they know it is part of their everyday job responsibilities. The three years. These investments offset 100% of our Scope 1 Wedron facility in Wedron, Illinois reduced nearly 240,000 and Scope 2 emissions—emissions produced by our facilities lbs. of carbon by retrofitting their lights and installing LED and as a result of the power we purchase. lighting. We will continue to expand these audits in 2014 and Clean Water will be developing an energy policy as well as identifying In 2013, we set a goal to measure our water usage and potential certifications to achieve. develop five-year water management and reduction plans In 2013, we also piloted a Maxsys Fuel System which is a for all Fairmount Minerals locations in North America. In more efficient use of natural gas. A Maxsys Fuel System 2013, 29 facilities began measuring and recording their water realigns molecules to create a higher energy efficiency usage. This is a critical step in determining water reduction system. This system is typically installed in dryers, but can be goals and measuring our progress. The Clean Water team implemented anywhere that natural gas is used. We installed completed water management plans for 23 of our facilities. the system at our Menomonie facility in Menomonie, WI and The remaining facilities were not included because they saved 7.9% in fuel consumption. Based on the pilot results, were either newly acquired late in the year or going through we hope to expand this system to other facilities as another significant changes. We intend to work with these facilities to means of reducing carbon emissions. develop water management plans in 2014. 23 To create water management plans, the team interviewed Recover, Recycle, Reuse (3R) facility family members to discuss water projects already underway and brainstorm new opportunities. Some 10 Fairmount facilities have opportunities identified included reducing water used in mining, cleaning sand, dust control, cooling towers, and reached zero waste to landfill. cleaning processes. In the case of dust control, a significant amount of water is applied to sand in order to keep it from Of the remaining 22 facilities, blowing around. The team is exploring other ways, such most are down to just a few as tarps, to keep sand from blowing instead of consuming water. Another example is in our drying process. We take cubic yards of waste. the moisture in sand and evaporate it off as steam. We Using a cross-functional approach, the 3R team worked with are investigating ways to capture that steam and use it for the Sustainable Value Chain team to create and implement a electricity or reuse the water. database to record all facilities’ waste and recycling activities. The team estimates that if we implemented the opportunities This allows us to track the amount we recycle and is a tool identified, Fairmount could potentially reduce water usage that helps all facilities move toward zero waste to landfill. by 500 million gallons a year—saving $219,000 annually. Plant managers can scroll the database by waste type (for Much of the savings will come from reducing the electricity example, alkaline and lithium batteries) and find out where required to pump water. While this estimate does not include other facilities are recycling their waste. All facilities have the investment to implement the changes, we are confident it been trained to use the database—and facility and regional will pay dividends in the long run. SD Coordinators are responsible for ensuring the database is accurate and up-to-date. In addition to working to reduce the amount of water consumed in our facilities and processes, Fairmount Minerals Shakopee Facility Hits Zero Waste continues to support Aqua Clara International, an organization in Less Than six Months that develops, installs and monitors water filtration systems In June of 2013, the Shakopee, MN facility joined in developing countries. In 2013, we contributed $125,000 Fairmount Minerals. This facility was under construction to enable Aqua Clara to continue doing their good work. In when we purchased it; was operational around Labor Day Kenya, Aqua Clara works with local villagers teaching them and accomplished zero waste by year-end. We started by how to build water filters. They then sell the locally-made locating the recycling, waste-to-energy and composting filters to the people living there; this provides ongoing facilities nearby. We selected the recycling company that revenue supporting Aqua Clara’s work. Further funding is could accommodate the most items in our waste stream, derived from carbon credits. This is due to the fact that water including several hard-to-dispose items. We asked our filtration has reduced the amount of wood burned to boil and vendors to start taking back their own products to reuse clean water, thereby reducing carbon dioxide emissions. or recycle. One of our suppliers did not have a “take back” program. Our request prompted the organization to start Total WASTE to Landfill (cubic Yards) taking back their urethane panels and they now offer this program to other customers. We changed the style and 28,482 size of dumpsters to make recycling cardboard easy for 21,593 everyone, and we implemented composting drums. The 2009 18,624 26 family members at Shakopee were united and empowered to reach the zero waste goal—and they 2010 did it in record time. 2011 We find a variety of ways to recover, recycle and reuse. We 5,194 send resin-coated scrap sand to facilities that use it in their 2,473 cement process. We send old conveyor belts to be used in the creation of indoor tracks or as paths for skaters in ice 2012 2013 hockey rinks. To continue our zero waste efforts, we plan to partner with our Purchasing Department and the Sustainable Value Chain team to focus on buying a greater amount of reusable materials. 24 Family members from our Bridgman, MI facility planting dune grass at Fedder’s Alley in Michigan City, IN. Land Restoration On Earth Day, our Wedron facility hosted several Fairmount family members remain committed to preserving educational experiences and projects at local schools. and restoring the land of our local communities. Several Our Santrol Yixing facility went to the Niansanwan Scenic projects were accomplished this year. In Hager City/Bay Zone on Zhuomu Mountain to clean up waste from the City, WI, we collaborated with Trout Unlimited on their area, which is heavily visited by tourists. Most of the waste Parker Creek Stream restoration project. In Michigan was water bottles, plastic bags and aluminum cans, so City, IN, volunteers from our Michigan Region facilities our family members were able to recycle the waste they harvested 60,000 dune grasses and transplanted 15,000 picked up from the mountain. They even left behind more for the Fedder’s Alley Beach restoration project. At recycling containers so future visitors could do their part to Best Sand, we established a productive honey bee colony keep the area clean. We are proud that our family members and several of our facilities were successfully audited are united in their passion for preserving the environment to maintain our Wildlife Habitat Council certification. and we greatly value that passion. land restoration chart* Total Total Total Permanently Percent FAIRMOUNT Facility Acreage Undisturbed Disturbed Restored Disturbed Best Sand 474 108.8 284 81.2 68% Best SAND Southern 307 262.8 44.2 0 14% Shakopee 265.8 225.8 40 0 15% Wedron Silica 1,911 877 39.6 165 28% Wexford Sand 346 48.3 172.2 125.5 50% wisconsin—bay city 10.2 9.2 1 0 10% wisconsiN—maiden rock 1,047 1,034.9 6.5 15.6 1% wisconsin—menomonie 365 2,41.7 113.2 11 31% VOCA 1,947 1,621 326 0 17% Total 6,673 4,429.5 1,026.7 398.3 15% *Historically we have reported land data for all of our operations. Because only a portion of our operations are mining, in which land may potentially be disturbed and/or restored, we chose to only report those operations this year and will do so going forward. 25 Prosperity Economic Impacts Throughout our proud history we have come to know that economic impacts are not just direct and indirect, they are tangible and intangible. Beyond sales, revenue, charitable donations, taxes and overhead, there is the impact we have on local communities, our competitors, our customers, our suppliers, our industry and the world. Our commitment to People, Planet and Prosperity influences those around us. And with Sustainable Development (SD) as a foundation for how we operate and measure value, we are able to determine some of the impacts of our SD investments. Each of our SD teams is allotted an annual budget to assist them in achieving their goals. Further, their individual goals Landscape of our Wexford Sand facility. are quantifiable, so we are able to calculate how our SD Pays. Sustainable Value Chain calculating sd pays Our Sustainable Value Chain team worked hard in 2013 to 2013 SD Investment tackle two ambitious goals. The first goal was to research all expenses $(5,100,000) supplier packaging and containers delivered to our domestic manufacturing facilities, including finding ways to reduce disposal, handling and landfill costs by 10% from the previous 2013 SD Savings year. The second goal was to deliver a Sustainability 101 facility $1,200,000 presentation to 72 organizations. team $10,300,000 For the first goal, the team identified incoming raw materials Total $11,600,000 and where they ended up in our resin-coating facilities. We found that most of the packaging and containers were already net sd pays $6,500,000 being properly discarded—whether reuse or recycling. 26 In collaboration with the 3R team, we have partnered with Innovation and Best Practices several of our suppliers to have them pick up their packaging While we have a dedicated Business Innovation team we after we have unloaded the raw materials so they can use know that to truly innovate, we depend on all of our family it again. members’ involvement. Nearly 70% of our facilities were expected to submit at least one innovative idea in the areas Nearly seven years later, we are still recycling our bulk of People, Planet and Prosperity, with one of these ideas bag containers, with nearly 125,000 lbs. of bulk bags being resulting in SD Pays. Several of our facilities went above and diverted from landfill in 2013. To date, Fairmount Minerals has beyond to submit double the expected amount of ideas, as diverted more than 1.2 million lbs. of bulk bags from landfill— well as double the amount of ideas resulting in SD Pays. All of with a savings of more than $6 million. We look forward to these ideas came in response to “Corporate Challenges” continuing this great work in the coming year. To date, Fairmount Minerals has diverted more than 1.2 million lbs. of bulk bags from landfill—with a savings of more than $6 million. Our second goal was to deliver the Sustainability 101 we posed to family members. The concept is similar to presentations via webinar to a minimum of 72 family crowdsourcing in that a handful of projects are posed and members, customers, suppliers and other valued everyone is encouraged to design a solution. Because this stakeholders. We also encouraged our newly acquired family was an open forum, ideas were coming from all different job members to participate as a way to get introduced to our SD functions and facilities—allowing the Business Innovation team culture and learn about sustainability in general. We gave to vet solutions from diverse perspectives. This innovation in-person presentations at industry association meetings and process truly empowers our family members to voice their conferences, as well as to potential customers and suppliers. opinions, share their ideas and participate in the planning and We utilized the presentation as an educational vehicle to implementation of their idea. encourage our stakeholders to become more involved in our There was also a sub-team of the Business Innovation team that SD efforts and to start the journey at their own companies. was responsible for identifying aspirational peers with regard to We exceeded our goal and reached 80 organizations! SD, and set up meetings with these companies to learn more 27 Family members from our Maiden Rock, WI facility clean up our stretch of the Mississippi River as part of our Adopt-A-River Mile program through the Living Lands & Waters organization. about their SD initiatives and successes. The sub-team met injury. We came up with the idea of ‘yak tracks’—rubber cleats with seven different companies and exchanged ideas and best that go over your work boots that enable you to walk carefully practices around SD. Further, the Business Innovation team on ice and snow. They can also be worn on dry surfaces to received the Master Innovator Award from Cleveland’s Smart ensure the utmost safety at our facilities. We look forward to Business Magazine for their collective efforts. implementing many more best practices like this in 2014. Our Best Practices team is tasked with identifying potential the results best practices from all facilities to implement across our footprint, where feasible. This team works closely with our Sales Business Innovation team to exchange ideas and ways to EBITDA make all of our facilities or departments more efficient. The Best Practice team prides itself on diversity—there are family members from all levels and functions of the organization to ensure that we are united in our thinking and approach to efficiency, across our facilities and administrative offices. Much of the team’s time is spent at facilities to identify opportunities for improvement. For example, at several facilities we noticed that it was difficult for family members to walk around their 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 respective facilities in bad weather because their work boots did not have the proper traction. This can cause potential 28 Conclusion In 2013, Fairmount Minerals was truly united and empowered in our efforts to grow our company and move further along our Sustainable Development journey. We challenged ourselves by undertaking ambitious goals, and we will continue to do so going forward. We are extremely proud of our family members for their continued hard work and dedication to our organization, our culture. our communities and each other, and we look forward to seeing the potential of our growing family in the coming year. $6.5m 10 in net SD pays facilities zero waste to landfill 9,000 paid volunteer hours donated reduced 62,471 carbon trees planted footprint or donated by over 1.6M lbs of co2 29 GRI CONTENT INDEX* FULLY PARTIALLY NOT profile level of disclosure disclosure reporting location of disclosure STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of From Our CEO the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Sustainability Strategy opportunities. 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Organization Profile Who We Are 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Organization Profile Who We Are 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, including main divisions, operating subsidiaries, and joint ventures. companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Chesterland, Ohio, U.S.A. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Organization Profile Who We Are operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Organization Profile Who We Are 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Organization Profile Who We Are sectors served, and types of customers/ beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Organization Profile Who We Are; Prosperity 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Organization Profile Who We Are; regarding size, structure, or ownership. Sustainability Strategy Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards and Recognition 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for About Our Report information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). May 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or sustainability@fmsand.com its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. The following topics have been deemed material by our stakeholders for this reporting period: Employment; Training and Education; Occupational Health and Safety; Local Communities; Materials Stewardship; Economic Performance; Energy; Water; Biodiversity; Value Chain; Communications; Social Responsibility; Product/Process Innovation; Emissions, Effluents and Waste. These topics are discussed at length throughout the report, and carry equal weight of importance. Our process for identifying and engaging with stakeholders can be found in the Stakeholder Engagement section of the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, This report covers Fairmount Minerals’ subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, global operations and all its subsidiaries suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further in the United States, Mexico, Canada, guidance. Denmark and China. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or There are no specific limitations on the boundary of the report (see completeness scope or boundary of our report. principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, There is no basis for reporting that leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other can significantly affect comparability entities that can significantly affect comparability between reporting periods and/or from period to period and/or between organizations. organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of There are no re-statements of calculations, including assumptions and techniques information from earlier reports. underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of There are no re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the information from earlier reports. reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). *Our full GRI Content Index is available online at www.fairmountminerals.com/2013GRIContentIndex 30 profile level of disclosure disclosure reporting location of disclosure 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Organization Profile Who We Are; Sustainability boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Strategy Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Content Index 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for We choose to review our report content internally as the report. opposed to engaging an external auditor. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Organization Profile Governance highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an The Chair of the highest governance body is not an executive officer. executive officer. Matt LeBaron, Managing Director at American Securities, serves as Fairmount Minerals’ Board Chairman. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number Organization Profile Governance; There are seven and gender of members of the highest governance body that are individuals that comprise the board of directors: six male, independent and/or non-executive members. one female (President and CEO Jenniffer Deckard) 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest All Fairmount Minerals non-union employees, including governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure senior managers and executives, may be eligible for arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and bonus compensation based on business metrics and environmental performance). the completion of annual Bold Goals for Sustainable Development. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of Organization Profile Governance interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise Organization Profile Governance of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Organization Profile Mission and Principles conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Sustainability Strategy organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own 2013 Performance performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Sustainability Strategy Key Impacts, Risks and addressed by the organization. Opportunities 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Global Reporting Initiative and United Nations or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Global Compact 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Organization Profile Partners and Collaboration national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance People Social Responsibility; Prosperity Economic Impacts Aspects Market presence People Exceptional Workforce; Prosperity Economic Impacts Aspects Indirect economic impacts Sustainability Strategy; People; Prosperity Economic Impacts DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Planet Recover, Recycle, Reuse Aspects Energy Planet Energy and Climate Change, Clean Water Aspects Water Clean Water Aspects Biodiversity Land Restoration Aspects Emissions, effluents and waste Planet Energy and Climate Change; Recover, Recycle, Reuse 31 Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Aspects Products and services Sustainability Strategy; Planet Aspects Compliance Environmental Management; We have no fines to report. Aspects Transport Sustainability Strategy Aspects Overall Prosperity Economic Impacts DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects Employment People Exceptional Workplace, Ethics and Diversity Aspects Labor/management relations People Ethics and Diversity Aspects Occupational health and safety People Safety Aspects Training and education People Training and Education Aspects Diversity and equal opportunity People Exceptional Workplace, Ethics and Diversity Aspects Equal remuneration for women and men People Ethics and Diversity; our employees are compensated based on job function, level, skills and experience, not according to gender. DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices People Ethics and Diversity Aspects Non-discrimination People Ethics and Diversity; we do not have any incidents of discrimination. Aspects Freedom of association and collective bargaining People Ethics and Diversity Aspects Child labor People Ethics and Diversity; we do not have operations with significant risk of child labor Aspects Prevention of forced and compulsory labor People Ethics and Diversity; we do not have operations with significant risk of forced and compulsory labor Aspects Security practices — Aspects Indigenous rights — Aspects Assessment People Ethics and Diversity Aspects Remediation People Ethics and Diversity DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local unities Sustainability Strategy; People Social Responsibility Aspects Artisanal and small-scale mining We do not have operations where this type of mining takes place. Aspects Resettlement We had no instances of resettlement Aspects Closure planning All of our mining operations have closure plans Aspects Grievance mechanisms and procedures Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Aspects Emergency Preparedness Sustainability Strategy Key Risks, Impacts and Opportunities Aspects Corruption People Ethics and Diversity Aspects Public policy Our participation in public policy development occurs through our involvement with trade associations, including the Industrial Minerals Association of North America (IMA-NA). Aspects Anti-competitive behavior We have no legal actions to report. Aspects Compliance We have no fines to report. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Materials stewardship Sustainable Strategy; Planet Recover, Recycle, Reuse, Sustainable Value Chain Aspects Customer health and safety Prosperity Innovation and Best Practices Aspects Product and service labelling Sustainability Strategy; we have no incidents of non-compliance to report Aspects Marketing communications Sustainability Strategy; we have no incidents of non-compliance to report Aspects Customer privacy We have no substantiated claims of breaches of customer privacy to report. Aspects Compliance We have no fines to report. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including People Social Responsibility; Prosperity Economic Impacts revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Sustainability Strategy; Planet Energy and Climate Change the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan People Exceptional Workplace obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. We do not receive significant financial assistance from government 32 Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender Our standard entry level wage meets, or exceeds, local minimum compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of wage requirements at all Fairmount Minerals locations operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyProsperity Economic Impacts based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Prosperity Economic Impacts management and workforce hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments People Social Responsibility; Prosperity Economic Impacts and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Sustainability Strategy; Prosperity Economic Impacts impacts, including the extent of impacts. environmenal materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Planet Land Restoration EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Planet Energy and Climate Change EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Planet Energy and Climate Change EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 2013 Performance; Planet Environmental Management; Energy improvements. and Climate Change; Recover, Recycle, Reuse EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Planet Environmental Management; Energy and Climate Change; based products and services, and reductions in energy Recover, Recycle, Reuse requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Planet Environmental Management; Energy and Climate Change; reductions achieved. Recover, Recycle, Reuse water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Planet Clean Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Planet Clean Water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Planet Clean Water biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Planet Land Restoration adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and Sustainability Strategy; Planet Environmental Management, Land services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Restoration biodiversity value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for Planet Land Restoration production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Planet Land Restoration EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Sustainability Strategy; Planet Environmental Management, Land impacts on biodiversity. Restoration MM2 The number and percentage of total facilities identified as Planet Land Restoration; All Fairmount Minerals mining operations requiring biodiversity management plans according to stated have a complete facility restoration plan, which includes invasive criteria, and the number (percentage) of those facilities with species inventories and biodiversity impact asessments. Fairmount plans in place. is a founding sponsor of the Wildlife Habitat Council Conservation Academy. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation Planet Land Restoration list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Planet Energy and Climate Change EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Planet Energy and Climate Change EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Sustainability Strategy; Planet Energy and Climate Change reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. We had no releases in 2013. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and We do not have any HAP emissions to report. weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Planet Recover, Recycle, Reuse MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. 33 Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. We do not have any spills to report. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste We do not deal with hazardous waste in any capacity. deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water Planet Clean Water, Land Restoration bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Sustainability Strategy services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Planet Recover, Recycle, Reuse; Prosperity Sustainable Value that are reclaimed by category. Chain Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonWe comply fully with all environmental laws and regulations and monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental have no fines to report. laws and regulations. transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products We comply fully with all environmental laws and regulations and and other goods and materials used for the organization’s have no fines to report. operations, and transporting members of the workforce. overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments $984,519 by type. Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Organization Profile; People Ethics and Diversity and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee People Ethics and Diversity turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not People Exceptional Workplace provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining People Ethics and Diversity agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational We follow the minimum notice periods specified by the WARN Act changes, including whether it is specified in collective whenever applicable. agreements. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's We do not have any strikes or lockouts to report. duration, by country. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint People Safety management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and People Safety absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control People Training and Education; Safety, Health and Wellness programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with All formal agreements with trade unions cover health and safety trade unions. topics. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, People Training and Education; Safety and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Sustainability Strategy; People Exceptional Workplace, Training support the continued employability of employees and assist and Education them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Organization Profile Governance; There are seven individuals that employees per employee category according to gender, age comprise the board of directors: six male, one female (President group, minority group membership, and other indicators of and CEO Jenniffer Deckard); People Ethics and Diversity diversity. 34 Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment While we do not conduct a specific human rights screening of agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating signficant investment agreements, we do factor social risks into our human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights due diligence process. Further, we review our suppliers based on screening. a voluntary sustainable supplier checklist, which includes criteria pertaining to human rights issues. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other One hundred percent of our suppliers are invited to complete a business partners that have undergone human rights voluntary sustainable supplier checklist, which includes criteria screening, and actions taken. pertaining to human rights issues. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures We do not provide specific training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to concerning aspects of human rights. operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective We do not have any incidents of discrimination to report. actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which We do not have any operations in which the right to exercise the right to exercise freedom of association and collective freedom of association and collective bargaining are at significant bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions risk. taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having We do not have any operations in which child labor presents a significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures significant risk. taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Prevention of forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having We do not have any operations in which forced or compulsory significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, labor presents a significant risk. and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's We do not employ any security personnel. policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to We do not operate on or adjacent to indigenous peoples’ Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of territories. operations or facilities where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of We do not have any incidents to report. indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been We do not currently conduct human rights reviews or impact subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. assessments at our facilities. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, We did not have any grievances related to human rights. addressed and resolved through formal Social: Society Local communities SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and Sustainability Strategy; People Social Responsibility practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO1 (G3.1) Percentage of operations with implemented local community All of our operations are engaged with their respective local engagement, impact assessments, and development communities, regularly monitor their impact and implement programs. community development activities. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating We do not have any disputes related to land use to report. to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used We do not have any disputes related to land use to report. to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. Artisanal and small-scale mining MM8 Number (and percentage) or company operating facilities We do not operate on or adjacent to artisanal or small-scale where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes place mining. on, or adjacent to, the facility; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. 35 Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Resettlement MM9 Facilities where resettlements took place, the number of We do not have any resettlements to report. households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. Closure planning MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. All of our mining operations have closure plans. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative Each Fairmount operation has a unique set of environmental, social impacts on local communities. and economic impacts on the local communities that we strive to proactively address through stakeholder engagement, safety and environmental management plans and Sustainable Development programs. Based on our understanding and assessment of facilityspecific impacts, we do not identify any significant negative issues. Should local stakeholders raise an issue related to our operations, we welcome the opportunity to co-create solutions that meet our stakeholders’ needs and support our broad organizational objectives. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in While we have not identified any operations with significant operations with significant potential or actual negative negative impacts on local communities, we frequently engage with impacts on local communities. local stakeholders through community meetings, open houses and individual conversations to understand emerging issues and design relevant prevention and mitigation plans. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for While we do not conduct business unit analysis related specifically risks related to corruption. to corruption risks, we do incorporate compliance risk assessment as part of our broad risk management processes. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiWe do not currently conduct anti-corruption training, but we do corruption policies and procedures. provide all Fairmount Minerals family members with a copy of our Code of Ethics, which outlines our expectations relative to ethical behavior. Our suppliers have a separate code of conduct that they must adhere to in order to do business with us. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. We do not have any incidents to report. Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Our participation in public policy development occurs through development and lobbying. our involvement with trade associations, including the Industrial Minerals Association of North America (IMA-NA). SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political We do not have any political contributions to report. parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, We do not have any legal issues of this nature to report. anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of We comply with all relevant laws and regulations and have no non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and fines to report. regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Materials Stewardship MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. Our Environmentally Responsible Products and Processes Team focuses their effort on assessing the sustainability and ecoefficiency of our products and processes, both existing and new. Our innovation and technology centers conduct the necessary research to support and verify these efforts. Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Our significant products are assessed for improvement, health and products and services are assessed for improvement, and safety percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations We comply with all product regulations and voluntary codes. and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by We require and provide Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) to procedures, and percentage of significant products and ensure employees, customers and emergency personnel have the services subject to such information requirements. information and procedures necessary for handling or working with substances in a safe manner. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations We comply with all regulations and voluntary codes concerning and voluntary codes concerning product and service product and service information and labeling. information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Our Customer Service, Sales and Tech Service departments surveys measuring customer satisfaction. conduct annual customer satisfaction surveys, asking customers to rate Fairmount’s customer service, product quality, and responsiveness to concerns. Based on survey results our customers rated us at 97% satisfaction for these three categories. Our overall customer satisfaction index rates us at a 99.9%. 36 Level of G3.1 DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary While we do not have a specific program, we ensure that our codes related to marketing communications, including marketing communications meet all laws, standards and voluntary advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. codes, especially as it pertains to sustainability claims. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations We comply with all regulations and voluntary codes concerning and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, marketing communications. including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding We do not have any breaches of customer privacy or data to breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. report. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with We comply with all laws and regulations concerning the provision laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of and use of products and services, and have no fines to report. products and services. Fairmount Minerals, Ltd. 8834 Mayfield Road Chesterland, Ohio 44026 THIS REPORT IS PRINTED ON Domtar Cougar Super Smooth Double Thick 130C AND super smooth 80T and features 10% post-consumer recycled content and certified fiber. THESE PAPERS ARE FSC® Certified, SFI® Certified Sourcing and Rainforest Alliance Certified™. 38
