United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 The United Nations Global Compact The Global Compact is a purely (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to voluntary initiative with two harness the power of collective action objectives: in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that To mainstream the ten are committed to aligning their principles in business activities around the world; operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in To catalyse action in support the areas of human rights, labour, the of broader UN objectives, environment and anti-corruption. such as the Millennium Development Goals. As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with This is the Company’s fifth demonstrating and building the social Communication on Progress and legitimacy of business and markets. outlines how Marshalls is aligned Marshalls plc became a signatory with the ten principles and how, of the UNGC in January 2009 and a throughout 2014, the plc intends to member of the UK Network later the develop its activities in support of the same year. framework laid out by the UNGC. 3 UNGC Ten Principles Contents Statement of Support for the UNGC by Martin Coffey, Marshalls CEO 6 Human Rights Environment Statement by UNGC Chairman, Chris Harrop 7 Principle 1: Principle 7: Foreword and Focus for 2014 by Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director Businesses should support Businesses should support a Responsible for Sustainability 8 and respect the protection precautionary approach to Mega Trends 12 of internationally proclaimed environmental challenges; human rights; Scope of Operations 16 Principle 8: Achievement Indicators 18 Principle 2: Undertake initiatives to Make sure that they are not promote greater environmental Third Party Assurances 19 complicit in human rights responsibility; and Marshalls’ Brand Manifesto 19 abuses. Principle 9: Marshalls the Superbrand 20 Encourage the development Product Innovation 22 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Leadership Blueprint 34 Labour Millennium Development Goals; how Marshalls is contributing 40 Principle 3: Business, the Post 2015 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals 41 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Anti-Corruption Fairstone & UNICEF 44 effective recognition of the right Human Rights 48 to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Labour 56 Businesses should work against Principle 4: all forms of corruption, including Environment 60 The elimination of all forms of extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption 68 forced and compulsory labour; Third Party Recognition & Awards 72 Principle 5: COP Feedback 73 The effective abolition of child labour; GRI Performance Indicators 74 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4 5 Statement of Support for the UNGC Statement by UNGC UK Network Chair Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO Director, (Responsible for Sustainability), Driving business growth UNGC UK Network Chair, ETI Nonthrough Sustainability executive Director Marshalls’ long-term Marshalls’ long-term commitment in Business leaders across the globe, “The Global Compact has helped Attending the United Nations Global education – at unprecedented levels. aligning the values of business with those including myself and my team here at generate a major shift in corporate Compact Leaders Summit 2013: Architects It is with renewed vigour that I begin the commitment in aligning the of a Better World, held in New York on second year of my tenure as Chair of the of society is exemplary and I’m proud to Marshalls, have to think long term, not mindset in just one decade. values of business with those be taking up the reigns of an organistion just from one quarter to the next, and in 19-20 September, I was among 1200 UNGC UK Network and a firm belief that Enlightened leaders are making of society is exemplary and I’m which has been part of the UNGC since order to do that sustainability and all of its sustainability a core part of business participants including business leaders, that corporates will continue to lead the proud to be taking up the reigns leaders from civil society, Government way regarding sustainability. With the 2009 and which is so actively engaged in complexities comes sharply into focus. strategy. Today, I ask you to be and the United Nations to witness the support of the secretariat and the energy of an organistion which has all areas; from our work on human rights, architects of a better world. What unveiling of the Business Engagement of the active network members we will been part of the UNGC since children’s rights and business principles, For Marshalls, I can see that the UNGC was once a call to the founding Architecture which aims to align and continue to; 2009 and which is so actively engagement with global authority acts as both a framework and driver members of the United Nations is scale up business action in support of engaged in all areas; from our UNICEF, upholding and promoting labour for sustainability performance. For us now a rallying cry to business and sustainable development priorities. • Focus upon increasing the number rights and working against corruption. society-based and market-based drivers civil society leaders everywhere. Help of organisations engaging with the work on human rights, children’s are aligned which has created a virtuous us to respond to the urgency of our The approaching Millennium UNGC framework and the UK network; rights and business principles, Critically, Marshalls approach to circle and strengthened the already robust global challenges and build a better Development Goals 2015 deadline • Seek to forge links with other UN engagement with global sustainability is rooted in demonstrating business case for corporate sustainability. tomorrow”. provided an acute focus and through entities & initiatives which have the the lens of commerce we looked to the authority UNICEF, upholding the deep seated values of the business vision and aspirations of the first United potential to support corporates in the and promoting labour rights and across the sustainability agenda and As we see what we believe to be the H.E. Ban Ki-Moon, United Nations effective delivery of UNGC principles; Nations members in 1945, as they set • as a result driving tangible commercial shoots of economic recovery pushing Secretary-General working against corruption. business benefits. through, Marshalls is well placed to out to be “architects of a better world”. Focus network educational activities There was consensus that the post 2015 on the key issues of; women capitalise upon the benefits of its period presents a historic opportunity for empowerment, children’s rights & The UNGC’s growth to over 12,000 sustainability activity. I look forward to the international business community to business principles, water, climate participants is a clear indication that an working alongside my colleagues to this contribute to the attainment of worldwide change & biodiversity. increasing number of companies are end and to supporting the organisation sustainability and development building sustainability into the fabric of in its sustainable development journey objectives. I look forward to 2014 and to serving their organisations. I concur with the guided by the UNGC framework and the UNGC UK Network to the best of findings of the most recent UN Global principles. I have no doubt that by aligning my ability and demonstrating, through Compact CEO Study 2013 ‘... that business and scaling up corporate Marshalls plc, how organisations can and society are interdependent, and sustainability efforts, the contribute to sustainable development Business Engagement sustainable development priorities are and reap the rewards. Architecture will help closely linked with long-term business business to contribute goals.’ * * Source: UN Global Compact CEO Study 2013 to global priorities – http://www.accenture.com/microsites/ungcsuch as climate change, ceo-study/Pages/home.aspx water, food, women’s empowerment, children’s rights, decent jobs and 6 7 Forward Chris Harrop Forward Chris Harrop Our newly appoint Chief Executive Martin organisation and how they are active on TAINABLE SUS ILABLE SPECIFICBUSIN Coffee, takes up the mantle of engaging a daily basis. Simply put it is how we do FTSE4G with and championing Marshalls’ strategic business. S LL LIC AVA BS EN ISO 14001 ATION 9 ESS HA PUB approach to issues of sustainability. 9 The three pillars of ATIONS GLOBAL C Previous readers of our COP’s will be sustainability; economic, MA ITED N OM RATE SUSTAINA PACT EL OD UN CORPO RS TF OR BILI TY LE familiar with our sustainability model environmental and social PRIN AD M which incorporates our membership continue to provide the BLUE Environmental ER SH IP Water use of the UNGC and FTSE4GOOD, and our focus for our activity. CO2 and CO2e continued commitment to Integrated Underpinned by the UNGC Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Biodiversity Waste to Director, Responsible for Sustainability, Management Systems. It also continues principles regarding the landfill UNGC UK Network Advisory Committee, to reflect our active engage in and environment, labour, Legal Social Economic ETI Non-executive Director response to the Blueprint for Corporate human rights and antiEthical sourcing Safety Total shareholder return Community Sustainability Leadership framework laid corruption. 1 BS E 800 responsibility Customer N IS S1 service index out by the UNCG. SA E O9 00 OH TIV SE 1 Marshalls remains focused IA IT FT 4G IN OO G IN DM RT Driven by myself, Group Marketing on being a successful and EMB ER S HIP L RE PO GLOBA Director, responsible for sustainability, profitable business whilst “We are delighted to be able to Welcome to all readers of Marshalls’ fifth of Marshalls’ involvement in the UNGC and embraced by all employees, I’m proud minimising our impact on the recognise some of the brightest Communication on Progress (COP). We and the businesses absolute commitment to be able to say that sustainability is environment, looking after the stars in corporate responsibility share with you here details of the exciting not only to sustainable business practice now simply part of Marshalls’ corporate people and communities, striving to work that we have done throughout 2013, but also to demonstrating sustainability DNA. Our approach is a demonstration be innovative and to respond to market through our Game Changers lessons that we have learned and applied, leadership. of how Marshalls’ values of trust, honesty challenges and opportunities and to award. As a campaigning and integrity are part of the fabric of our taking the lead in our sector. and the advances that we plan to make membership organisation we during 2014 and beyond. Understanding of how sustainability are dependent on individuals relates to all areas of the business and from business to help us drive the Marshalls became a UNGC signatory in why this is so important, especially as agenda. Without the energy and 2009 and during that time under my the Leadership Blueprint continues to passion of Game Changers like guidance, as UNGC UK Network Chair, be rolled out across all operations and Chris I doubt very much if the UK the UNGC UK Network continues to divisions, continues to grow and I see on a All Marshalls employees work alongside Employees throughout the business continue to be actively involved: In alphabetical order: responsible business movement deliver high level networking, discussion, daily basis members of our team engaging those with special responsibilities including; Group Head of Sustainability would be quite so mature. They dialogue and peer support, excellent with enthusiasm and understanding. educational opportunities, specialised David Morrell and Group Procurement truly deserve this recognition Director Jon Isherwood. which I hope will act as an work streams and working groups and Work towards our sustainability goals frank and honest lines of communication has continued this year with some of inspiration to others.” Marshalls’ progress is monitored Andy Ackroyd Richard Capper Gemma Chappell, Jon Isherwood Claire Edwards David Morrell directly the the UNGC office in New York. the highlights including: a programme thoroughly and on an ongoing basis Commercial Energy Head of Domestic Group Procurement Head of PR Group Head of All-in-all the UK Network continues to supporting the Groups’ Timber & Paper against both internal and external Controller Management Marketing Director Sustainability Stephen Howard, Engineer be an important resource for Marshalls policy which involved the reduction of measures. As a matter of course Chief Executive at BITC, December 2012 as we carefully engineer our business to impact upon timber; 20% of employees Marshalls seeks verification from third face the on-going challenges and to take undertaking Marshalls new anti-bribery party organisations which include advantage of the emerging opportunities. e-learning training module; the launch non-governmental organisations and As I have said before, and will continue of a collaborative programme between independent auditors; The Carbon Trust, to reiterate, the UNGC framework is a local and international stakeholders in BSI, Wild Life Trust, ETI & BITC. Chris Frankland Graham Holden Kevin Hull Steve Reddington, David Sarti Pete Stevens International Chief Executive Human Resources Head of Commercial Chief Operating Group Carbon & fundamental part of Marshalls’ long-term India to improve standards and welfare Product Manager Officer 2013 Director Marketing Officer Energy Manager We continue to work closely with Indira business strategy. for workers in the quarrying industry; Saxena regarding social issues in India a new partnership with the Woodland and Sterling Smith of Just Solutions Ltd. It will also provide even greater Throughout this, our fifth Communication Through a steady process of Trust Carbon project; and the launch of Our on-going programme of Human transparency regarding the Company’s on Progress, we want to share with you communication, the engagement of an education programme with World Rights Impact Assessments also provides activities. the endeavours that we have made to individuals and department in various Association of Girl Guides & Girl Scouts invaluable information and insights. uphold the UNGC principles during 2013 projects and programmes, and also key in India to develop life and work skills for I’m delighted to be able to report that and our enduring commitment to these strategic partnerships, such as the one girls and young women. GRI is the preferred reporting during 2013 Marshalls again retained its principles as we move throughout 2014. launched in January 2014 with UNICEF, methodology for UNGC participants Superbrand status for the fourth year the majority of employees are now aware and will allow Marshalls to chart its running; a feat which we are particularly progress and benchmark against other proud of given the challenging climate. international organistations. 8 9 Focus for 2014 Focus for 2014 Marshalls Partnership “I am pleased that we are partnering Human Rights within with UNICEF with Marshalls to tackle the shameful Marshalls Operations practice of child labour in the quarrying I’m delighted to tell you that towards the sector in India. This new partnership will A plethora of work was undertaken during end of 2013 Marshalls agreed a longenable us to work together for change, 2013 building upon our commitment to term strategic partnership with UNICEF human rights and our ongoing Human so that children in Rajasthan can be AN RIGHT to eliminate child labour in India’s stone Rights Impact Assessment process. A series HUM Human S helped to leave behind a life of hard CTI ON quarrying sector. This is the first such of educational and informational booklets IN A partnership in the sector and builds upon and hazardous work and focus on their has been developed which clarifies for all H UM HT A N RI S G Rights Guidance THE TRUTH the work that Marshalls has been doing educational prospects.” of our stakeholders our position and what ABOUT IMPORTED RIGHT AN since 2005. The partnership will launch David Bull, Executive Director of UNICEF UK is expected of our employees, suppliers HUM CTI ON S Indian in the spring of 2014. The details of this exciting partnership are documented later and wider supply chain. IN A H UM HT A N RI S G Sandstone in this report. 01 RIGHT AN Marshalls Response to... HUM S David Bull, Executive Director AN RIGHT CTI ON HUM The Ruggie IN A S of UNICEF UK ON S CTI H HT IN A UM G Framework A N RI S H HT UM G A N RI BEHAVING ETHICALLY Marshalls Response to... Marshalls in India HUM AN RIGHT ON S Children’s Rights and Business CTI IN A S Principles H HT UM G A N RI Children’s Rights & Business Principles (CRBP) 1 Deepening our commitment to Children’s Rights & Business RIGHT RIGHT AN AN Principles following our involvement in UNICEF’s pilot Human Rights Human Rights Human Rights HUM S HUM S RIGHT RIGHT AN ON ON AN ACT I CTI Impact HUM Impact Impact IN A HUM S S ON IN S ON programme during 2013 Marshalls undertook its first CRBP audit S ACT I H HT H HT CTI Assessment UM A N RI G UM A N RI G IN A IN Assessment Assessment S S H HT H HT UM G report against the CRBP framework; one of the first organisations Programme UM A N RI G Programme Programme A N RI #2 THE TRUTH ABOUT IMPORTED to go through this process. China. Vietnam. India. Indian Sandstone We also attended a CRBP conference in New York which took place during the Leaders Summit. This gave us the opportunity to hear from other leading organisations and to discuss the challenges and successes that are being experienced more widely in the implementation of the framework. There is much work for us to do in terms of ensuring children’s rights within the marketplace, workplace, community & environment. But we can safely say Please read on and find out more about that this work is well underway and that we are the details of our sustainability drive and focused upon key areas of activity as a result of our how this is helping to build competitive initial audit report process. advantage for our business. Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director, Responsible for Sustainability Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director, Responsible for Sustainibility, Marshalls plc 10 11 Global Megatrends Global Megatrends In our 2012 COP we looked in detail at global megatrends, what Three Main Trends in Urbanization: Development of Mega Cities, they are, why they are important and why Marshalls’ tracks them. Mega Regions and Mega Corridors (You can access this information at http://www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/publications/ pdfs/32821%20COP_FINAL-4.9.pdf) In business foresight involves crafting evidence based narratives about the future in order to help us make wiser choices. We know that Megatrends are connected and intertwined, like an ‘eco-system’, and that it is important for us to monitor and track these in order to: identify new market places, maximise, growth opportunities, exploit opportunities, identify new business models, sustain a continuous flow of innovative new ideas, build contingency plans, be aware of new competition from non-traditional sources, MEGA CITY MEGA REGIONS MEGA CORRIDORS and to identify future customers. City With A Minimum Cities Combining With The Corridors Population Of 5 Million Suburbs To Form Connecting Two Major Regions. (Population Cities or Mega Regions EXAMPLE: Greater over 10 Million) London EXAMPLE: Hong KongEXAMPLE: Shenzhen-Guangzhou Johannesburg and in China (Population Pretoria (forming “Jo120 Million) Toria”) Rapid Changes Require Rapid Response It is important for us to understand the these opportunities Marshalls now has a 4 eco-system of these, and other, megateam of ‘Mega Trend’ champions within trend and the elements of the value the organisation working to best exploit chain which offer most profitability. The the opportunities. forces inherent within these trends and Trends including the development of Smart Cities – “Green” Replaced by “SMART” Concepts megatrends are changing more rapidly mega cities, mega regions and mega than ever and bringing new competencies corridors, smart cities and innovoating into play at half the life-cycle speed of the to zero are all of great interest, and past decade. Smart Diamond to define Smart city opportunity to Marshalls. Megatrends are global and therefore have ‘S” global ramifications which offer scalable Governance opportunities. In order to best exploit ‘S’ Citizen ‘S’ Business Source: Frost & Sullivan ‘S’ City ‘S’ Buildings Planning ‘S’ ICT ‘S’ Mobility ‘S’ Energy ‘S’ Information Technology 6 12 13 Global Megatrends Global Megatrends “Innovating To ZERO”: Snapshot of a “Zero Concept” World in 2020 Emerging Technologies Innovating to Zero Breaches of Security, Zero Accidents, Zero Fatalities and Zero Emissions in 2020 Zero Waste/ Emissions from Factories Zero Debts Zero Defects Complete Recyclability Zero from Breaches of Households Security (Cradle to Cradle Concept) Zero Emissions from Cars Zero Accidents Zero Crime Rates M65B-18 27 Overview of Next Top 10 Trends INFRASTRUCTURE Women Women Empowerment Empowerment and and Women Women CEOs CEOs SOCIAL Future Investment Future Investment in in Power to Power Middle Class the Middle to the Class Infrastructure :: Power, Reverse Brain Brain Drain and CXO Drain and CXO Positions in Positions in Infrastructure Power, Reverse Water and and Transport Transport Developing Economies Economies Water Developing ECONOMY Beyond Beyond BRIC: Next Game The Next BRIC: The Game Changers Changers BUSINESS New Shores: New Shores: Emerging Emerging Outsourcing Outsourcing Hotspots Hotspots Future Global Future 500 Companies Global 500 by Region Companies by Region New Business Models New Business Models New Trade New Trade Zones Zones HEALTH & From Fat From Fat to to Fit: Fit: Health, Health, WELLNESS SMART SMART Clouds: Next in The Next Clouds: The in Cloud Cloud Wellness and and Well Wellness Well Being Being TECHNOLOGY Computing Computing Future of Consumer Electronics Future of Consumer Electronics Wireless Intelligence Wireless Intelligence Future Broadband Future Broadband Applications Applications Innovative Technologies Innovative Technologies of of the the SMART Future: Future: of the Factory of Factory Future: SMART the Future: SMART FACTORY and GREEN and GREEN Healthcare, Healthcare, Chemicals, Chemicals, Energy Energy Environment, Automotive Environment, Automotive INDUSTRY Aerospace and Aerospace and Defence Defence ENERGY Global Power Generation Global Power Generation Trends Trends ICT, ICT, Building Building Technologies Technologies Measurement Measurement andand Instrumentation Instrumentation Electronics and Electronics and Security Security 35 Source: http://digital.edition-on.net/links/6012_forces_for_change.asp?page=2 14 15 Scope of Operations Worldwide Scope of Operations Worldwide UK BELGIUM TURKEY CHINA INDIA VIETNAM NORTH AMERIC 16 17 Achievement Indicators Third Party Assurances Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice Once this report is submitted to 79% the UNGC and published online, it will be volunteered for peerreview by a randomly selected group of corporate members and observers of the UK Network of the Reviewing Feedback Delivering Best Legal Compliance & Developing Our Approach Practice UNGC. Any suggested changes will be made and the report will be re-submitted, if required, to the UNCG following the peer review process. // Collaborating & Sharing Best Practice Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework of concepts, consistent // Delivering Best Practice language, and metrics is required. It As indicated in the 2010 COP is the GRI’s mission to fulfil this need Marshalls has sought to extend // Achieving Good Results The GRI is a by providing a trusted and credible stakeholders engagement in the // Reviewing Feedback & Developing framework for framework for sustainability reporting COP process by inviting feedback // Piloting New Initiatives reporting on an that can be used by organisations of any of its COP by inviting employees, // Legal Compliance organisations size, sector, or location’. (2) customers, suppliers, partners, economic, environmental and social NGOs, third parties and peers to performance. Key executives, managers and individuals assess the company’s progress. Throughout this and all other Marshalls The goal of sustainable development is have undergone GRI accredited Communication on Progress you will find a Marshalls looks forward to to ‘meet the needs of the present without training and have formed a working self assessment indication which represents receiving comments from its wide compromising the ability of future party responsible for the delivery of what Marshalls believes it is achieving in range of stakeholders. Details generations to meet their own needs.’ (1) GRI monitoring and reporting moving relation to each of the principles. Marshalls of where to give feedback via a forward. Marshalls 2014 COP will contain will strive to improve its achievements yeardedicated survey can be found at As key forces in society, organisations of futher GRI disclosure regarding economic, on-year. the end of this report. all kinds have an important role to play in environmental, social – labour practices achieving this goal. and decent work – human rights, society Marshalls initially developed its own and product responsibility. indicators for its COP reporting rather than use an existing one, such as the Ethos ‘The urgency and magnitude of the risks and threats to our collective sustainability, (1) World Commission on Environment Indicators and Global Reporting Initiative alongside increasing choice and and Development. Our Common Future. (GRI) methodology. Whilst it is Marshalls opportunities, will make transparency Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1987, p.43 intention to introduce GRI methodology in about economic, environmental, and (2) GRI Sustainability Reporting subsequent COP reports it has left its own social impacts a fundamental component Guidelines, 2011, p.2 indicators in place for this 2013 report. in effective stakeholder relations, Each indicator is broken down in investment decision, and other market percentage terms, which allows any relations. To support this expectation, progress made to be identified by all and to communicate clearly and openly readers of this report with ease. It is about sustainability, a globally shared also intended to make any year-on-year comparisons clear, uncomplicated and informative. Marshalls constantly monitors best practice in its sector, as well as in the field of corporate responsibility and sustainability reporting. Any informative developments and advancements in this area will be introduced into subsequent COP reports. 18 19 Marshalls the Super Brand Marshalls the Super Brand Marshalls is proud to have retained its For clarity it is worth stating that brands The 2014 Superbrand book provides Superbrand status. Published annually can not apply or pay to be considered insights into Marshalls’ branding strategy since 1995 the Superbrands Annual for Superbrand status. Only following and business success. Further information documents some of the strongest a rigorous and independent selection can be found at www.superbrand.uk.com consumer and business-to-business process is the accolade awarded on an 2014 brands in Britain today. The book annual basis. establishes how Superbrands manage to achieve outstanding success. SUPERBRANDS ANNUAL 2014 MARSHALLS the UK, ensures high standards of training Promotion Brand Values and installation, giving homeowners the Marshalls’ marketing campaigns focus on Marshalls believes that we all need places peace of mind they need. the company’s mission to create better that make us feel safer, happier and more marshalls.co.uk landscapes for all. sociable; places to be ourselves where The new patented Marshalls Drivesys we can live, play, create and grow. Its range offers domestic customers a realistic, Best known as an external product core brand values are based on trust, antique cobbled look, but is quicker and supplier, in 2013 Marshalls launched a honesty and integrity. Marshalls aims easier to install making it a more affordable stunning range of internal stone flooring to be the supplier of choice for every option for homeowners wanting a premium products aimed at the commercial market. landscape architect, contractor and and unique look for their driveway. consumer, and for the brand to remain In 2013, Marshalls used Ecobuild to DID YOU Other products launched by the Marshalls such Marshalls is committed to Global showcase the company’s Ferrocast street synonymous with quality, innovation KNOW? domestic team in 2013 include additions Reporting Initiative (GRI) monitoring and furniture range. As the largest event in the and superior customer service. , Marshalls reporting. This is the UNGC’s preferred Market Product Since 2009 to the Fairstone range of ethically sourced world for sustainable construction, it was the its relative reporting methodology which covers The UK’s leading hard Marshalls is the market-leading supplier Marshalls is committed to has reduced by almost natural stone products and Weatherpoint ideal platform for promoting this product, print carbon foot cent. economic, environmental, social, human Brand History of hard landscaping products to both the producing new products that better r 365, a jointing compound which can be which is Marshalls’ own brand of corrosionlandscaping manufacturer, domestic and commercial markets. any existing market offering; to 16 pe laid all year round, in any weather. rights, society and product responsibility. 1890 Solomon Marshall starts to quarry in resistant, impact resistant, abrasion resistant, Marshalls has been supplying In 2013, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Southowram, Halifax and, in 1904, make them from the best materials it lightweight and highly durable polyurethane establishes S. Marshall & Sons Ltd in For its commercial customers – ranging Achievements Director was appointed as Chair of the some of the most prestigious from local authorities to the construction can source and to care about the impact Sustainability remains at the heart of UNGC UK network. street furniture material. 1947 West Yorkshire. A second production site is opened, on society and the environment. landmarks in the UK with market and landscape architects – Marshalls everything Marshalls does. As the first In addition, The Carbon Trust has For the fourth year Marshalls was the manufacturing lintels, steps and fence posts. In 1948 an engineering division is offers products and services that create In the public sector and commercial end company in the hard landscaping industry landscaping solutions since the fully integrated landscapes. These include to belong to the Ethical Trading Initiative reaccredited Marshalls three times. Since official sponsor of the Sustain Awards established. market, Marshalls satisfies the needs 2009, Marshalls has reduced its relative for Sustainability, Business and the Built 1964 Marshalls becomes a plc with shares 1890s. Marshalls prides itself superior natural stone, innovative concrete of a diverse customer base that spans (ETI), Marshalls is committed to the Environment, which celebrate the hard quoted on the London Stock Exchange. hard landscaping products, street furniture, carbon footprint by almost 16 per cent on conducting sustainable local authorities, commercial architects, implementation of the ETI Base Code, and has made a commitment to reduce its work and commitment of all those 1972 New product development sees the introduction of block paving and the water management solutions, anti-terrorist specifiers, contractors and house builders. pioneering the ethical sourcing of natural achieving distinction and success in the business, demonstrating a products, design services and logistics. stone paving from India and China. carbon emissions by 3.1 per cent per year famous ‘Beany Block’, which combines drain and kerb. until 2020. field of sustainability. high degree of social and Marshalls offers a range of anti-terrorist Marshalls’ Fairstone range of ethically 1988 Brick manufacturer George Armitage Marshalls’ domestic customers range from products, which demonstrate that it is & Sons is acquired, becoming Marshalls sourced natural stone continues to be Marshalls remains the only organisation Marshalls has also continued to invest in environmental responsibility DIY enthusiasts to professional landscapers, possible to have street furniture that popular with its domestic customers. its online presence with a focus on social Clay Products. driveway installers and garden designers. in the world to have carbon labelled its 2004 Marshalls acquires Woodhouse, whilst maintaining and protects people and buildings, and is also entire domestic range. It continues to be a media activity through Twitter, Facebook, expanding its product offering to Following moves into Northern Europe beautiful. In 2013, Marshalls’ commercial Following its acceptance in 2009, include design-led street furniture, developing its market position. team also launched a range of new Marshalls remains a signatory of the constituent member of the FTSE4Good UK YouTube and Pinterest. In 2013, Marshalls’ lighting and signage. and Asia, in 2013 Marshalls continued its Index and an active member of Business in Group Marketing Director was listed in the 2009 Marshalls believes that the international expansion with the opening products, including Metrolinia block paving United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Community (BITC). world’s top 250 Tweeters on #sustainability. More than 2,000 of Marshalls’ commercial products now have a better our environment, the of an office in North America. and Celestia flag paving. IN 2012, ENOUGH a framework for businesses that are Carbon Trust Carbon Reduction Label. RAINFALL PASSED committed to aligning their operations and 2011 Marshalls announces a European better we can be, and strives to For homeowners, Marshalls offers the THROUGH MARSHALLS’ strategies with the 10 universally accepted Recent Developments venture, Marshalls NV. inspiration and product ranges to create In September 2013, Marshalls announced a three-year partnership with UNICEF 2012 Marshalls is an official supplier to the create products that improve gardens and driveways that integrate PRIORA PERMEABLE principles in the areas of human rights, London 2012 Olympic Park. An office PAVEMENT SYSTEMS TO FILL labour, the environment and anti-corruption. UK. With funding from Marshalls, UNICEF will, in particular, carry out research into opens in Xiamen, China to service the landscapes and create happier effortlessly with people’s lifestyles. quarrying in the Indian state of Rajasthan and will use the findings to develop longAsian market. and healthier communities. The Marshalls Register of Approved 3,744 OLYMPIC SIZED SWIMMING POOLS. The UNGC is firmly established as the term interventions to tackle child labour within the stone quarrying industry. Other 2013 Marshalls opens an office in North America and announces a three-year Landscapers and Driveway Installers, with international standard for corporate work will see Marshalls funding UNICEF activities in China and Vietnam. partnership with UNICEF. over 1,700 teams of professionals across responsibility and sustainability, and as superbrands.uk.com 47848_SB_2014_Brand_p090-091_Marshalls.indd 90 18/12/2013 16:03 47848_SB_2014_Brand_p090-091_Marshalls.indd 91 13/01/2014 10:20 20 21 Product Innovation Product Innovation Marshalls Response to Countryside What’s the Solution? Water Challenges Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems (SUDs) provide an alternative approach to SUDs treatment train follows a sequence of SUDs measures ensuring potentially 5% traditional piped systems. This approach contaminated surface water run-off passes mitigates many of the adverse impacts of through an appropriate series of SUDs What’s the issue? 95% In completely natural environments, the majority of rainwater storm water run-off on the environment in terms of both volume and pollutants. The measures before being discharged into the receiving watercourse. Many developed areas across the world are now Of the 57,000 homes permeates naturally into the ground at source and only a small entering a state of ‘water stress’ – not because amount runs off into waterways. affected in the 2007 summer there’s less water available, but because we’re SuDS Treatment Train mismanaging this essential resource. floods, over two thirds were the result of surface water Precipitation Precipitation As we continue to develop over green land, we are fundamentally altering the way rainwater run-off not swollen rivers. Towns & Cities (Rainfall) (Rainfall) maintains our landscapes. Increased levels of Conveyance impermeable hard standing areas (such as roads, (Natural flow of water) Conveyance roofs and paved surfaces) intercept and redirect Evapotranspiration (Natural flow of water) surface water run-off before it has a chance to Evapotranspiration infiltrate naturally into the ground. This creates a number of problems, which are likely to get 95% Source Control Evapotranspiration worse as global development continues. 5% Site Control Regional Control In developed areas, the majority of rainwater falls onto impermeable surfaces, where it is diverted away from its natural course into storm drains and waterways. Discharge to watercourse or groundwater Flooding Drought Pollution (Control at Source) (Several sub-catchments) In the UK, surface water run-off is typically An additional and often overlooked In addition to the risk of flooding, large diverted into piped networks. The problem created by our increased volumes of surface water run-off can consequence of this is that when heavy urban development is that of increased cause water quality problems. Surface rainstorms create high peak flow rates drought risk. By diverting water away water run-off from impermeable urban and high volumes of run-off, the piped from its intended course, it is prevented surfaces can potentially transport networks become overloaded and at risk of creating an external flood. from entering the water table (‘deep infiltration’). Even after a heavy and pollutants resulting in contamination of surrounding watercourses. Pollutants such Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems prolonged period of rain, water is quickly as hydrocarbons, nitrates, phosphates and SUDs stands for Sustainable Urban • It should improve Quality by filtering Climate change means that the UK’s heavy metals can be contained within channelled away from its natural path Drainage Systems. Essentially, the term pollutants from the water that flows weather patterns are changing; we urban run-off. and prevented from soaking deep into refers to a combination of drainage through it. now encounter more frequent bursts of the ground where it would naturally techniques which deal with surface water much heavier rainfall than ever before. The increased frequency and cost • It should provide Biodiversity benefits by have maintained our aquifers, artificially run-off in an environmentally friendly way. The SUDs Triangle The increased severity of these events, of rainfall related external flooding maintaining the local water table, helping creating a drought situation. This has the SUDs provide an alternative approach combined with inadequate piped drainage events, has rightly focussed public to maintain lush, green spaces effect of choking our natural landscape to traditional piped systems. The SUDs infrastructure, only serve to compound the and government attention on the which encourage the growth of flora by reducing the amount of groundwater philosophy is known as the SUDs Triangle levels of flooding now experienced. development of policies and associated and fauna. available to maintain the lush, green and addresses three areas of concern: guidance documents promoting the spaces which would normally provide us use of sustainable water management Water Quantity with a wide variety of biodiversity benefits. methodologies. By considering these three factors Water Water Water Quality Quantity QuaLITY during the design stage of a project, Biodiversity it is possible to create drainage SuDS A successful SUDs design mimics natural systems that provide natural water processes to deal with excess water, quality treatment, encourage providing control at (or adjacent to) the infiltration, reduce the impact of source: peak flows and minimise impact • It should deal with Quantity by keeping BIODIVERSITY surfaces clear of standing water, and releasing it into the ground or into traditional systems at a controlled rate. 22 23 Product Innovation Product Innovation Examples of SUDS Techniques Adopting wider use of these features clean, sleek looks with the minimum of will make a marked difference to our maintenance. Even taking into account landscapes, improving habitats for wildlife the growing awareness of green issues, we Utilising green areas to provide natural filtration is known and flora and reducing the risk of flooding. have to accept that we all want to go about as ‘soft SUDs’. Using man-made materials to achieve the However, we cannot ignore the growing our modern lives with the least amount of need for hardstanding. People need to mess and difficulty; hard standing is here same result is referred to as ‘hard SUDs’. drive and park vehicles, ride bikes, and to stay. So, the question is: how do we The following are examples of both hard and soft SUDs techniques: push prams and wheelchairs comfortably satisfy these modern requirements whilst and easily. We all enjoy aesthetically mitigating the effects of water stress? appealing public spaces which retain their Filter strips – wide gently sloping area of Filter Drains – trenches filled with grass or dense vegetation that filters storm permeable material water run-off from impermeable areas. Soakaways – buried storage point for Swales – wide shallow grass lines storm water run-off where it will infiltrate channels intended to transport or store into the ground Marshalls linear channel storm water run-off and allow infiltration into an attenuation pond Green Roofs – planted roofs which Infiltration Basin – surface depressions slow and reduce the amount of run-off in the landscape intended to store storm whilst also providing a host of biodiversity water and allow infiltration benefits Wet Ponds – used to store storm water Rills – open surface channels which run-off and are permanently wet and transport water cleanly and safely from provide amenity features one point to another. Detention Basins – used to store storm Permeable Paving – hard surfaced areas water run-off but are only wet following a which allow water to permeate through storm event the surface and into the ground at source Marshalls linear drainage directed Wetlands – shallow ponds with vegetation intended to reduce pollutants to a tree pit in storm water run-off Marshalls linear drainage into open drainage canal Marshalls Beany combined kerb Marshalls permeable paving and drainage into a swale 24 25 Product Innovation Product Innovation Traditional Pavements vs Benefits of a Concrete Block Permeable Pavements Permeable Paved System Permeable paving is not a new concept, but has started to gain Quantity – Helps to reduce the impact of Quantity – Improves the quality of the water Legislation – Complies with current SUDs storm water on the river systems by attenuation in two ways: legislation and planning regulations. wide acceptance with the construction industry only in recent years. and infiltration thus reducing the risk of a. The stones within the sub-base act as a filter Cost – Frequently less expensive than It marries the requirement of durable and attractive hardstanding downstream flash flooding. medium which remove heavy particles such as equivalent conventional impermeable surfaces with all three elements of the SUDs triangle. Simplicity – A form of source control ie silt and heavy metals. plus drainage and storage. deals with the water where it lands. Source b. Over time microbial organisms begin to Practicality – A low land take option. All new control is the preferred method of treatment cultivate in the pavement which break down developments will require some form of hard Traditional Paving A traditional of impermeable surfacing is increasing the near to where the raindrop lands – so from the SUDs hierarchy. hydrocarbon leaks such as exhaust fumes and landscaping; permeable paving combines hard pavement construction includes integral extra burden placed on the river systems surface ponding is completely eradicated sump oil drips. landscaping with a SUDs drainage solution. cross falls which direct surface water into can have disastrous consequences. In without the need for an additional channel a drainage system, such as a road gulley other circumstances, where there is no drainage system. The water flows into a or linear drainage channel. This ensures opportunity to outfall to a water course, specially prepared sub-base, where the that during a storm, rainwater is removed swiftly and efficiently – preventing unsafe, unhygienic and potentially damaging the storm water is frequently directed to a combined sewer where it will be treated (at great expense and environmental impact) voids between the stones which make up the structure act as a temporary reservoir. During a rainstorm, the water is collected PERMEABLE PAVING: THE FACTS. standing water from ponding on the despite it being fresh water. in the sub-base (‘attenuated‘) before it is Is Permeable Paving expensive to install? . . . NO! Is permeable paving difficult to maintain? Compared to alternative surfacing virtually the same – and in many examples, . . . NO! surface. The problem with this type of released slowly either by natural infiltration Permeable Paving Combines (eg asphalt plus an associated drainage is actually less expensive. In conjunction Independent tests have demonstrated that over a 10 year drainage is what happens next. Rainwater into the ground beneath the pavement, system) Marshalls can demonstrate that the with our new rationalised sub-base designs, period, even with zero maintenance, a permeable pavement hardstanding with SUDs and works combined catchment, storage and drainage this can also result in a smaller carbon will still be porous enough to cope with any rainfall event continues to flow through the system into into the main sewer at a controlled rate via facilities of a Priora permeable system costs footprint and less time spent on your job! that’s likely to occur in the UK. A simple annual process of in a very different way to a traditional agitating or hoovering the jointing aggregate is, in most the main sewers, culverts and eventually a flow restrictor, or a combination of both. Residential Driveway situations, all that’s required to maintain a Priora system at the pavement. It is designed to allow rainfall to peak of its efficiency. streams and rivers. The time it takes for this 3% Saving percolate immediately through the surface Vs Compare this to rodding, cleaning and maintaining a point journey is relatively short, and as the area drainage system and the decision is clear. Are Local Authorities reluctant to adopt Permeable Pavements? Car Park . . . NOT ANY MORE! 1% Saving 10 years ago permeable paving was still considered to be Most importantly, to the untrained eye, there is no “new” technology, and as such some Local Authorities (LA’s) were concerned that it wouldn’t perform structurally. Vs discernable difference between a traditional concrete However, now that the technology has been tested and proven over more than 10 years on a vast range of installations, many LA’s now agree that permeable paving is block paved surface and a permeable pavement! * assuming a Type A system, adequate linear drainage, and a 5% CBR. the most effective method of marrying an effective SuDS measure with durable, attractive hard standing. For those LA’s who have yet to widely adopt CBPP, we can provide an excellent portfolio of case studies featuring permeable PLUS you get all of these benefits: • Permeable systems are quicker, simpler pavements of every scale that have been installed for many and easier to design and install than years and still perform both structurally and hydraulically. • Water storage – a residential permeable linear systems. pavement stores 48 litres of rainwater per square metre! • No standing water means cleaner, safer Is permeable only suitable for light • SuDS compliance – permeable paving surfaces that stay looking good for years. loading? . . . NO! improves water QUALITY as well as • Save time and money by eliminating Following Marshalls in depth study with Professor John removing volume. linear drainage. Knapton in 2012, we can now create permeable paving designs for ANY loading requirement, from domestic Don’t believe our figures? Speak to your Marshalls contact driveways to ports and docks. Find out more at www.marshalls.co.uk/wm to see how we put the numbers together! …in addition to the existing benefits of a standard Concrete Block Pavement, including: Aesthetics – The varied combinations with an exceptionally long lifespan. prepared sub-base, where the voids of texture, form and colour provide between the stones which make up the Slip-Skid resistance – Excellent rich visual appeal to a huge range of structure act as a temporary reservoir. performance for pedestrian and landscape projects. During a rainstorm, the water is vehicular traffic alike, due to the joint collected in the sub-base (‘attenuated‘) Strength – In addition to the inherent profile and surface finish. before it is released slowly either by strength of each unit, the interlocking Reinstatement – Underlying surfaces natural infiltration into the ground design of the pavement dissipates loads can be accessed by the removal of a beneath the pavement, into the main evenly over the surface. small number of blocks, which can be sewer at a controlled rate via a flow Durability – Resistant to frost easily replaced for immediate trafficking restrictor, or a combination of both. damage and most chemicals, fuels and with no visible effect.drainage system. Marshalls Tegula Concrete Block Paving (CBP), Marshalls Mistral Priora Concrete Block Permeable oils, CBP forms a hardwearing surface The water flows into a specially Huddersfield University Paving, Woodberry Down, London 26 27 Product Innovation Product Innovation Marshalls Priora – Marshalls Bioverse® Permeable Paving Made Easy Marshalls Bioverse® is the world’s first carbon neutral paving system. Special Marshalls grass seed mix sequesters additional CO2 over normal grasses equal Marshalls Priora, the best selling permeable levels in terms of cost, performance and to perform structurally (by supporting the to the carbon footprint of the paving. paving system in the UK, is an ideal SUDs aesthetics. It is important to acknowledge load on the pavement) and hydraulically solution. The designs of both the sub-base that a permeable pavement is a system (by storing the required amount of run-off and the block itself have been continually and not just a paving block; the design of water). developed over the past 10 years to the sub-base is essential to the system’s How does it work? provide a solution which delivers on all performance, and allows the pavement The Bioverse system consists of Carbon stored vegetation reduced-carbon concrete modules, Carbon released into specially formulated Bioverse Grass atmosphere 25mm Bedding/ Soil filled pockets Seed and a carefully designed sub Regulating Layer Rainwater falls onto the base. The elements of the system 150mm Sub base Marshalls Priora deals with Bioverse grass (Compacted quarry waste or similar surface… water Quantity issues by together create a hardstanding unwashed material of 75mm down size eliminating pooling. area which is not only attractive Bioverse modules containing fine soil or loam) Where it seeps immediately and hardwearing, but is also a through the specially Biosphere which takes carbon from Carbon Stored in Bioverse System created voids between the the atmosphere. blocks… Into the specially designed The Bioverse Paving System sub-base… becomes carbon neutral over the Carbon stored in life of the driveway, providing the fossil fuels The system improves water Where it is stored… Quality by filtering the water as grass is maintained. it falls through the sub-base. Until it permeates into the ground… It also provides Biodiversity benefits by replenishing the The Bioverse System …or is released into water water table at source, which will courses at a controlled rate. maximise ecosystem services in the area. Each block features a series of The sub-base is composed of two Bioverse: Bioverse: Optimised Grass Seed Bioverse Seed mixtures are; six patented Priora nibs around different grades of aggregate. Interlocking Modules its edge, which interlock on These are specially selected Bioverse seed mixtures are designed to • Environmentally responsible, with high to provide maximum internal create a dense, attractive appearance CO2 lock up. eight separate faces in three friction (offering enhanced • Interlocking Bioverse modules allow different directions. These nibs stability) whilst also providing a and are individually matched to different void ratio of over 32% (offering water to travel between the blocks whilst • Are low growing, reducing surface also create the voids through growing conditions throughout the UK. adequate water storage). ensuring structural stability. wear and making them ideal for Bioverse which water run-off percolates All mixtures have the ability to absorb into the sub-base. driveways. • Each pack contains two different pebble CO2 helping you create a landscape which designs, allowing a wide variety of laying becomes carbon neutral over the life of • Have a slow growth pattern so that the possibilities. your driveway. grass requires less cutting. • Have a high plant density, to restrict A Patented Nib Design for Superior Interlock • The modules can be used for a wide variety of applications from driveways and invasion of weeds and alien grasses. A key factor in the way a block paved surface behaves is the way in which each block interlocks with its additional car parking areas to pathways and soak away areas. neighbours. Interlock helps to spread the load evenly across the area of the paved surface, improving surface stiffness and reducing pressure on the laying course immediately beneath the blocks. There are three different kinds of interlock: horizontal, vertical and rotational. Vertical interlock refers to the Horizontal interlock refers Rotational interlock refers to Bioverse ability of each block to move to the ability to move the ability of each block to Module 2, against its neighbours on a against its neighbours on rotate against its neighbours Beechwood Area of UK Seed type vertical plane. If the sub-base a horizontal plane. In all on a horizontal plane. has been designed and CBP installations, horizontal This is where the unique North Bioverse GN installed to our specifications, interlock is maximised by patented Priora nib has a South Bioverse GS it is unlikely that this will be the geometric shape of the proven advantage; in laboratory tests at Newcastle’s a factor in a Priora surface. block. The interlocking nature of the Priora nib reduces Rolling Load Facility (NUROLF), Professor John Knapton East Bioverse GE However, the unique patented Priora nib improves the ability of a block to move horizontally against its discovered that the Priora nib maximises rotational vertical interlock by increasing the amount of ‘brick to neighbours. This feature can also be enhanced by the interlock between blocks, and can therefore reduce West Bioverse GW Bioverse brick’ contact. The 6mm aggregate between the blocks laying pattern. A herringbone laying pattern has been pressure on the laying course by up to 40% compared to Module 1, further improves vertical interlock by bridging the gap proven to provide the best possible horizontal interlock other surfacing options. Beechwood between blocks. which makes it the recommended style for heavy loading applications. 28 29 Product Innovation Product Innovation Priora System Linear Drainage Priora has a specific design methodology and sub-base specification. Priora Marshalls’ unique linear drainage systems combine the clear-cut advantages Machine Lay allows surface water to be controlled at source. Water can be of linear drainage over traditional point drainage, with the benefits of a high drained directly into the ground, recharging the ground water whilst also quality, robust precast concrete product. controlling the surface water runoff at source. The Priora System Priora: Sub base Permeable joint filled with 6mm clean crushed stone Priora: Permeable Paving Surface water interception Significant cost savings by Aesthetics Manages rain water run-off on • More efficient at intercepting running water reducing carrier pipes • Wide choice of decorative metal gratings or hardstanding areas without adding • Ponding is reduced or eliminated as is • Many schemes can utilise the inherent ability textured and coloured top blocks to enhance Priora concrete the aesthetics of a scheme to local drainage problems or gaining block paving streaming water across a site of a channel or combined kerb and drainage planning permission. system to act not just as the traditional gully in • Straight lines of linear drainage can be point drainage, but also as the carrier pipe in incorporated into the overall design Can help recharge the water table by Shallow depth of construction storing and transporting surface water. Laying course 50mm depth rehydrating the ground in areas which are of 6mm clean crushed stone • Inherently shallow construction required • Any carrier pipes will be at a shallower depth Control of spillage prone to droughts. • Savings due to reduced excavation with resultant cost savings • Allows total control of unwanted liquids in an No need for linear drainage, tanking • Reduces construction time, offering further • Fewer expensive manholes required emergency systems or membranes. savings • Less spoil to be removed from site Sub base 200mm depth of 20mm clean crushed stone with well defined edges • Less conflict with existing underground • Improved health and safety on site through End user comfort services reduced need for deep excavation work • Reduced quantities of spoil to be disposed of • Eliminates false falls and consequent ‘roller coaster’ effect for vehicular traffic associated The Bioverse System Ease of design • Performs more efficiently with just the use of Storage of surface water • Linear drainage can utilise the storage capability of its channels to good effect where with point drainage • Level surface offers greater comfort to pedestrians concrete channels, grates, outfalls and reduced there are limitations placed on the total Priora Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems amounts of pipework. outflow of the scheme. This temporary storage • Only requires shallow depth construction facility has been utilised to: Marshalls Priora permeable paving How does it work? As an urban drainage solution the • Limited number of components required • Attenuate peak flows solutions allow infiltration of rainfall product benefits include; • Does not require complex crossfalls to be • Avoid or reduce costs of balancing ponds or Marshalls Priora allows rainfall to travel into the sub soil where it can drain between the blocks, through the sub • High load bearing capacity due to the unique incorporated reservoirs harmlessly away. base and into the watercourse in a slow interlocking characteristics. The system can • Design of crossfalls and longitudinal falls of • Reduce pipework sizes at outfalls and measured way, as close as possible withstand the dynamic stresses offered by adjacent hard landscaping is straightforward Featuring a patented nib design, to the natural process of rain falling on vehicular trafficking and point loads. • Improved end user performance Reduced maintenance Priora allows surface water to pass undisturbed ground. • Large drainage openings allowing the efficient • Easier and less costly to maintain than other between blocks into a specially infiltration of surface water runoff. calculated sub base without Ease of installation forms of surface water drainage systems • Lasting surface water infiltration capacity due • Easy to access along the whole length of the compromising the structural • Channel line and level can be set out with ease Typical point drainage system, illustrating the to the unique layout of the interlocking spacer linear drainage system via removable gratings performance of the driveway profiles. • Crossfalls are less complex to set out or need for complex crossfalls with attendant or regular access points implications for design, installation and cost Marshalls Priora is available in a wide Transpiration construct compared with point drainage • Conservation of space on the site, allowing the • Blockages will not completely disrupt the variety of finishes and colours. needs and requirements of both PPG3 and PPG25 • Expensive construction time saved due to whole system and can be dealt with easily to be achieved. shallow construction Rain • Inherently strong and robust precast concrete • Reduction of surface water runoff by as much as • On-site errors are easier to avoid systems resistant to the effects of freeze thaw 100% for infiltration sites. • Unlike other options, Marshalls’ systems do and de-icing salts Priora • Increased recharge of groundwater. not require temporary ballast (e.g. Sand) during installation Water Table • Allowing new developments in areas restricted by current surface water drainage constraints. • Inherently strong and robust precast Recharge concrete reduces on-site damage • Reduced overall project development costs owing to a reduction in storm sewers and drainage Typical equivalent linear drainage system accessories. • The filtering and removal of metals and suspended solids in any surface water. • The development of naturally occurring bacteriological breakdown. 30 31 Smart Design Drives Down Cost Marshalls Priora Design Service Marshalls recently undertook a major to installation. Our permeable paving *Example used: Cars & Light Vans (or equivalent), 5% CBR project with Professor John Knapton, one British Standard Design* NEW Marshalls Design* designs consider both the structural of the world’s leading structural engineers, 31% shallower than the BS and hydraulic requirements for the Benefits: to develop & refine the high calibre design pavement during its intended design Project-specific structural design advice that we offer our customers. life using methodologies developed Benefits Project-specific hydraulic from a combination of laboratory The result is Marshalls’ Nine New Design testing, desktop analysis and market calculations Models, ranging from light domestic to leading experience. Crucially, Potential cost savings a heavy duty ‘ports and docks’ option, Marshalls’ team never loses sight of Schedule of components which eclipse the six offered by the British the requirement to create the most Standard. Installation advice. welcoming, visually appealing open Environmental: Less energy used in spaces imaginable. They will use excavation, less waste to dispose of and less the wide range of textures, colours imported aggregate all add up to reduce Marshalls fully qualified and and sizes from the Priora portfolio, project carbon footprint. experienced team utilises a proven along with the full suite of Marshalls system to provide comprehensive landscaping product range, to create Practical: In areas where excavation is limited (to avoid services, for example), support for your project from concept the perfect landscape for your project. our new designs frequently make a Priora surface a prefered option. Build Up: Build Up: 80mm Block 80mm Block Same as BS Financial: Crucially, our new design 50mm Laying Course 50mm Laying Course Same as BS models combined with our rationalised Marshalls Services 350mm Sub-base (OGCR) 200mm Sub-base (OGCR) sub-base designs drive cost from the Priora Total Depth = 480mm 43% shallower than BS structure, making permeable paving a more Total Depth = 330mm cost effective option than ever before. Samples Marshalls operate a comprehensive, free of charge samples service. Marshalls always recommend that samples are obtained Priora Sub-Base Construction to ascertain actual colours and textures; because our products are made with natural aggregates, slight variation from photographs should be anticipated. Where multiple colours are a feature of the The aggregate installed beneath a Marshalls Priora product more than one sample will be sent. For larger units such surface is an essential element of the Marshalls as flags, kerbs and drainage channels, a section or slip may be Priora system. The aggregate must provide sufficient supplied to meet guidelines regarding manual handling. porosity to store water in the voids between the granular elements. It must also be of sufficient structural strength to withstand the loads to which 6mm Jointing the structure will be subjected. Technical Support: Continuous Professional Web Assistance: Marshalls dedicated Technical Hotline Development Seminars: Marshalls’ website offers the best way Team is available at the end of the phone Marshalls provide a full range of CPD to keep up to date with the full range of 6mm Laying Course for any technical queries. They will be able seminars, many of which are RIBA Marshalls products, services and research. to supply: Product Data Sheets, COSHH accredited, which cover a comprehensive It is an invaluable resource from which 20mm Sub-base Data Sheets, Specification Clauses. range of landscaping topics. Our customers are free to download the They will also be happy to answer any expert team share their knowledge and following information: questions you may have prior to or during experience to ensure that our customers • Product Information installation of Marshalls Products. receive presentations featuring the • Technical Information most up to date thinking and the most To contact our Technical Support Team, • Brochures respected opinion in the industry. please call 08704 112233 or visit our • NBS Plus Documents These sessions can be delivered at your website to use our new ‘live chat’ online • DWG Files convenience in your offices. 20mm Aggregate 6mm Aggregate support system. • Case Studies To arrange a CPD, simply call 0845 302 Full specification of suitable aggregate is set out in EN 13242: 2002 Visit www.marshalls.co.uk 3131 or book online. 32 33 4 Blueprint 5 Leadership Blueprint Leadership Blueprint Leadership Blueprint Understanding the Blueprint Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Key Results Dimensions and Components Sharingof BestLeadership Practice 42% The Blueprint offers UN Global Compact The Blueprint encompasses three Implementing the Taking Action participants a model for achieving higher levels distinct but overlapping and synergistic Ten Principles into in Support of Broader of performance and generating enhanced value dimensions. They are: through the UN Global Compact. It allows Strategies and Operations UN Goals and Issues* companies and their stakeholder to assess 1. Implementing the Ten Principles into progress with respect to their commitment, Strategies and Operations 1. Full Coverage and 1. Core Business Contributions Reviewing Feedback strategy and implementation and to communiIntegration Across Principles to UN Goals and Issues & Developing Our cate effectively as they ascend Delivering the learningBest 2. Taking Action in Support of Broader Approach and performance curve. Practice UN Goals and Issues 2. Robust Management 2. Strategic Social Investments Legal Compliance Policies and Procedures and Philanthropy In the context of the Blueprint, corporate sus3. Engaging with the UN Global Compact 3. Mainstreaming into CEO Commitment tainability is defined as a company’s delivery of 3. Advocacy and Public long-term value in financial, social, environmenEach dimension contains a number of key Corporate Functions and and Leadership Policy Engagement tal and ethical terms. It thus covers all princiComponents. In addition, several cross-cutting Business Units Board Adoption and ples and issue areas of the UN Global Compact. Components of leadership were identified as 4. Partnerships and Oversight a crucial overlay to the three dimensions. 4. Value Chain Collective Action The Blueprint is grounded in the two core Implementation Stakeholder Engagement Marshalls continues to demonstrate Engaging commitments made by participating in the Blueprint companies. process The opposite page contains the visual represenIt includes aspects of leadership that are tation of the Blueprint, encompassing the three Transparency that it is a leader in its fieldconsidered and stated has allowed key to maximizing results with Marshalls to effectively key dimensions as well as, at the centre, the and Disclosure in 2010 that it recognised respect that Blueprint assess progress active with respect to its Blue rint to these commitments, including cross-cutting Components. Each of the Compoengagement with the UN Global Compact nents within the Blueprint contain associated for Corporate Sustainability Leadership commitment, strategy, implementation Key Dimensions and Components of locally and globally. Action Items. These are fully detailed in the Engaging with For Corporate Sustainability Leadership offered a model for achieving even higher and communications as theAction Corporate organisation Plan on pages 10 and 11. the UN Global Compact Leadership – taken from the UNGC levels of performance and generating ascends the learning performance curve. Blueprint document. enhanced value through the UNGC. 1. Local Networks and Subsidiary Engagement The Blueprint has been developed: 2. Global and Local Working Groups “Broader UN Goals and Issues” refers to an array of global issues – based on the most acute The 2010 COP detailed the elements of or chronic global challenges • To– including challenge Peaceand inspirethe & Security; companies Millennium Development Goals; the Blueprint together with Human why and how Rights; Children’s toRights; achieveGender higher levels Equality; Health; sustainability of Education; Humanitarian Assis3. Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives tance; Migration; Food Security; Sustainable Ecosystems and Biodiversity; Climate Change Marshalls has engaged. YouMitigation can view all performance within the UNGC; and Moving forward Marshalls will work and Adaptation; Water Security and Sanitation; Employment and Decent Working 4. Promotion and Support of of Marshalls previous COP reports at and Conditions; www. • To evolve the UNGC and its Anti-Corruption. the UN Global Compact towards realising elements within the Blueprint as identified in the targets for This is an illustrative list engagement marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/publications opportunities of issues covered “Broader UN Goals toanddeliver Issues”, and there are obviously considerable overlaps more value between to leading individual participants. elements. The order of this list does not indicate 2014. any prioritization of issues. For a list of further Global Issues that are relevant to the work of the UN as well as business, please refer to http://business.un.org/en/browse/global_issues. Marshalls will continue to work towards In order that readers have a full realising the elements within the Blueprint understanding of this commitment as identified in the targets for 2014. The we have reproduced on the following organisation remains realistic that this will pages the Corporate Action Plan from be a long term commitment. within the UNGC Blueprint for Corporate The UNGC Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Sustainability Leadership (to be found Leadership document can be found at http:// overleaf on pages 36 and 37). www.unglobalcompact.org/docs/news_ events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf Marshalls target position to 2020 and beyond demonstrates the long term nature of its commitment. 34 35 Realising the Blueprint: Corporate Action Plan Realising the Blueprint: Corporate Action Plan Implementing the Ten Principles • Align strategies, goals and incentive • Coordinate efforts with other • Publish sustainability information The Cross-Cutting Components • Establish channels to engage with into Strategies and Operations structures of all business units and organizations and initiatives to amplify – related to each individual subsidiary employees and other stakeholders to hear subsidiaries with corporate sustainability and not negate or unnecessarily duplicate separately or reference it explicitly in the CEO Commitment and Leadership their ideas and address their concerns, Full Coverage and Integration strategy. – the efforts of other contributors. Communication on Progress of Corporate and protect ‘whistle-blowers’. • CEO publicly delivers explicit statements Across Principles Headquarters. • Assign responsibility for corporate • Take responsibility for the intentional and and demonstrates personal leadership on • Implement all the ten UN Global sustainability implementation to an unintentional effects of funding and have sustainability and commitment to the UN Transparency and Disclosure Compact principles into strategies and individual or group within each business due regard for local customs, traditions, Global Compact. Global and Local Working Groups operations. unit and subsidiary. religions, and priorities of pertinent • Share sustainability information with • CEO promotes initiatives to enhance individuals and groups. • Participate in relevant global or local all interested parties and respond to • Design corporate sustainability strategy sustainability of the company’s sector and working groups and share experiences, stakeholder inquiries and concerns. to leverage synergies between and among leads development of industry standards. Value Chain Implementation networks, tools and good practices with issue areas and to deal adequately with • Ensure that Communication on Progress Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement other UN Global Compact participants. • CEO leads executive management team trade-offs. • Analyze each segment of the value chain covers all aspects of the Leadership in development of corporate sustainability carefully, both upstream and downstream, • Publicly advocate the importance of • Take active part in defining scope and Blueprint and utilize, where appropriate, • Ensure that different corporate strategy, defining goals and overseeing when mapping risks, opportunities and action in relation to one or more UN goals objectives of new working groups when the Global Reporting Initiative framework. functions coordinate closely to maximize implementation. impacts. / issues. relevant. performance and avoid unintended • Integrate Communication on Progress • Make sustainability criteria and UN negative impacts. • Communicate policies and expectations • Commit company leaders to participate into annual financial report or publish Global Compact principles part of goals to suppliers and other relevant business in key summits, conferences, and other them together. Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives and incentive schemes for CEO and partners. important public policy interactions in executive management team. • Secure external verification of Robust Management Policies relation to one or more UN goals / issues. • Join and help advance one or more • Implement monitoring and assurance Communication on Progress or seek other and Procedures existing UN Global Compact initiatives, mechanisms within the company’s sphere methods for legitimization by external e.g. Caring for Climate, CEO Water • Assess risks and opportunities on an of influence. Board Adoption and Oversight stakeholders. Partnerships and Collective Action Mandate, Women’s Empowerment ongoing basis at both enterprise and • Undertake awareness-raising, training Principles, and Global Business Initiative • Board of Directors (or equivalent**) product level and undertake due diligence • Develop and implement partnership and other types of capability building with on Human Rights. assumes responsibility and oversight for to ensure that the company identifies any projects with public or private ** For companies without a formal Board, suppliers and other business partners. long term corporate sustainability strategy negative impacts caused by its operations organizations (UN entities, government, • Spearhead need-driven development other governance or ownership body and performance. and activities. NGOs, or other groups) on core business, of new issue-based or sector initiatives assumes these responsibilities social investments and/or advocacy. within the UN Global Compact and the • Board establishes, where permissible, a • Develop strategies and policies specific wider United Nations. committee or assigns an individual Board to the company’s operating context – as • Join industry peers, UN entities and/ Taking Action in Support member with responsibility for corporate well as scenarios for the future and or other stakeholders in initiatives that of Broader UN Goals and Issues sustainability. establish measurable short, medium, and contribute to solving common challenges Promotion and Support of the UN long term goals. and dilemmas at the global and/or local • Board (or committee), where Global Compact Core Business Contributions to UN levels with an emphasis on initiatives that permissible, approves formal reporting on • Engage and educate employees through Goals and Issues extend the company’s positive impact on • Advocate the UN Global Compact to corporate sustainability (Communication training activities, the development and its value chain. business partners, peers and the general on Progress). adjustment of business processes, and • Align core business strategy with one or public. sound incentive schemes. more relevant UN goals / issues*. NOTE: Reproduced from the UNGC Blueprint • Encourage suppliers and other business document http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ • Implement a system to track and • Develop relevant products and services Stakeholder Engagement partners to join the UN Global Compact, docs/news_events/8.1/Blueprint.pdf measure performance based on or design business models that contribute Engaging with the UN Global and take on mentoring role on issues • Publicly recognize responsibility for standardized performance metrics. to UN goals / issues. Compact related to the initiative. the company’s impacts on internal and • Adopt and modify operating procedures external stakeholders. • Participate in activities to further develop to maximize contribution to UN goals / Local Networks and Subsidiary Mainstreaming into Corporate and strengthen the UN Global Compact. • Define sustainability strategies, goals issues. Engagement Functions and Business Units and policies in consultation with key • Contribute to the building and operating stakeholders. • Place responsibility for execution Strategic Social Investments and of at least one UN Global Compact Local of sustainability strategy in relevant • Consult stakeholders in dealing with Philanthropy Network and help elevate performance corporate functions (procurement, implementation dilemmas and challenges of other companies through training, government affairs, human resources, and invite them to take active part in • Pursue social investments and mentoring, COP peer review, etc. legal, etc.) and ensure that no function is reviewing performance. philanthropic contributions that tie in operating in conflict with sustainability with the core competences or operating • Encourage subsidiaries to engage with commitments and objectives of the context of the company as an integrated UN Global Compact Local Networks company. part of its sustainability strategy. and to participate actively in events and activities. 36 37 Leadership Blueprint : Targets 2014 Leadership Blueprint : Targets 2014 Achievements 2013 Targets 2014 Achievements 2013 Targets 2014 Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and issues: Core Business Contribution to UN Goals and issues: Global & Local Working Groups; Global & Local Working Groups; Aligning core business strategy with one or more relevant Continue to align core business strategy with one or more Participate in relevant global or local working groups and Continue to participate in relevant global or local working UN goals/issues. relevant UN goals/issues. share experiences, networks, tools and good practice with works and share experiences, networks, tools and good other UNGC participants. practice with other UNGC participants. Developing relevant products and services that contribute Continue to develop relevant products and services that to UN goals/issues. contribute to UN goals/issues. Take active part in defining scope and objectives of new Continue to take active part in defining scope and working groups when relevant. objectives of new working groups when relevant. Adopt and modify operating procedures to maximize ✔ contributions to UN goals/issues.. Issues-Based and Sector Initiatives; Issues-Based and Sector Initiatives; Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Strategic Social Investments & Philanthropy: Join and help advance one or more existing UNGC initiative; Advance one or more existing UNGC initiative – Children’s Pursuing social investments and philanthropic contributions Continue to pursue social investments and philanthropic e.g. Caring for Climate, CEO Water Mandate, Women’s Rights & Business Principles, Women’s Empowerment that tie in with the core competencies or operating context contributions that tie in with the core competences or Empowerment Principles, and Global Business Initiatives Principles. of the company as an integrated part of its sustainability operating context of the company as an integrated part of its on Human Rights. strategy. sustainability strategy. Promotion and Support of the UNGC; Promotion and Support of the UNGC; Taking responsibility for the intentional and unintentional Continue to take responsibility for the intentional and effects of funding and having due regard for local customs, unintentional effect for funding and having due regard for Advocate the UNGC to business partners, peers and the Advocate the UNGC to business partners, peers and the traditions, religions, and priorities of pertinent individuals local customs, traditions, religions and priorities of pertinent general public. general public. and groups. in dividuals or groups. Encourage suppliers and other business partners to join the Encourage suppliers and other business partners to join Co-ordinate efforts with other organisations and initiatives UNGC, and take on mentoring role on issues related to the the UNGC, and take on mentoring role on issues related to to amplify – and not negate or unnecessarily duplicate – the initiative. the initiative. ✔ efforts of other contributors. Participate in activities to further develop and strengthen Participate in activities to further develop and strengthen the UNGC. the UNGC. Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement; Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement; Publically advocating the importance of action in relation to Continue to publicly advocate the importance of action in Stakeholder Engagement; Stakeholder Engagement; one or more UN goals/issues. relation to one or more of the UN goals/issues. Establish channels to engage with employees and other Establish channels to engage with employees and other Committing company leaders to partiticipate in key Continue to commit company leaders to participate in key stakeholders to hear their ideas and address their concerns, stakeholders to hear their ideas and address their concerns, summits, conferences, and other important public policy summits, conferences, and other important public policy and protect whistle blowing. and protect whistle blowing. interactions in relation to one or more UN goal/issue. ✔ interactions in relation to one or more UN goals/issues. Transparency and Disclosure; Transparency and Disclosure; Partnerships and Collective Action; Partnerships and Collective Action; Share sustainability information with all interested parties Integrate the COP within the financial reporting or publish Developing and implementation partnership projects with Continue to develop and implement partnership projects and respond to stakeholder inquiries and concerns. them together. public or private sector organisations on core business, with public or private sector organisation on core business, social investments and/or advocacy. social investments and/or advocacy. Ensure that COP covers all aspects of the Leadership Blueprint and utilize, where appropriate, the Global Joining industry peers, UN entities and/or other stakeholders Continue to join with industry peers, UN entities and/or the Reporting Initiative framework. in initiatives that contribute to solving common challenges stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to solving common and dilemmas at the global and/or local levels with challenges and dilemmas at the global and/or local levels Integrate the COP within the financial reporting or publish emphasis on initiatives that extend the company’s positive with emphasis on initiatives that extend the company’s then together after consultaion with stakeholders. impact on its value chain. ✔ positive impact on its value chain. CEO Commitment and Leadership: CEO Commitment and Leadership: Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: Local Networks & Subsidiary Engagement: CEO publicly delivers explicit statements and demonstrates CEO publicly delivers explicit statements and demonstrates Active participation in events and activities. Active participation in events and activities. personal leadership on sustainability and commitment to personal leadership on sustainability and commitment to Encourage subsidiary to engage with Un Global Compact Encourage subsidiary to engage with UNGC Local Networks the UNGC. the UNGC. Local Networks and to participate actively in events and and to participate in actively in events and initiatives. initiatives. Board Adoptions and Oversight: Contribute to the building and operating of at least one local Actively participate in events and activities network and help elevate performance of other companies Board approves formal reporting on corporate ✔ through training, mentoring, COP peer review, etc. sustainability. 38 39 Millennium Development Goals Millennium Development Goals How Marshalls is GOAL 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty & Hunger GOAL 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability Business, the Post 2015 Agenda and Contributing • Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people whose income is less than $1 a day • Integrate the principles of sustainable development into country policies and the Sustainable Development Goals programmes and reverse the loss of The Millennium Development Goals are • Achieve full and productive employment and decent work for all, including women and young people environmental resources Emerging in the twenty-first century, and recognized a set of time-bound targets, by which • Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of • Reduce biodiversity loss, achieving, by implicitly in the year-2000 Millennium Declaration, is the progress in reducing income poverty, 2010, a significant reduction in the rate people who suffer from hunger historic convergence between incorporation of social and hunger, disease, lack of adequate shelter of loss GOAL 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education environmental dimensions into business models, and the and exclusion — while promoting • Halve, by 2015, the proportion of the population without sustainable access to enterprise-oriented development thinking of Governments gender equality, health, education and • Ensure that, by 2015, children everywhere, boys safe drinking water and basic sanitation and multilateral institutions. Engaged companies environmental sustainability — is being and girls alike, will be able to complete a full • By 2020, to have achieved a significant are taking part in the global development agenda measured. They embody basic human course of primary schooling improvement in the lives of at least 100 through their business models and practices, and rights — the rights of each person on the GOAL 3: Promote Gender Equality and million slum dwellers Empower Women more Governments now advance corporate planet to health, education, shelter and GOAL 8: Develop a Global Partnership for sustainability as a complementary solution. security. The Goals are ambitious and • Eliminate gender disparity in primary and Development secondary education, preferably by 2005, and in (Source: Corporate Sustainability and United Nations together with the comprehensive United all levels of education no later than 2015 • Develop further an open, rule-based, Post-2015 Development Agenda http://www. Nations development agenda, set the predictable, non-discriminatory trading stakeholderforum.org/fileadmin/files//UNGC_Post2015 course for the world’s efforts to alleviate GOAL 4: Reduce Child Mortality and financial system. Report.pdf) extreme poverty by 2015. • Address the special needs of least • Reduce by two thirds, between 1990 and 2015, developed countries. the under-five mortality rate • Address the special needs of landlocked developing countries and small island GOAL 5: Improve Maternal Health developing States. • Reduce by three quarters the maternal mortality ratio • Deal comprehensively with the debt • Achieve universal access to reproductive health problems of developing countries. The diagram above is a visualisation a level of worldwide prosperity. The next and all are integrally tied to the causes GOAL 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and • In cooperation with pharmaceutical of recommendations by business on level addresses social and human-need and effects of climate change. At the Other Diseases companies, provide access to affordable issue prioritisation, organised into four factors that are also closely related to base of the pyramid, the issues include a • Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the essential drugs in developing countries. spread of HIV/AIDS overarching areas: Poverty; Human Needs poverty and its eradication. Together, broader array of enabling factors that set • In cooperation with the private • Achieve, by 2010, universal access to treatment for sector, make available benefits of new and Capacities; The Resource Triad; these four incorporate the heart of the foundation for successful action in the HIV/AIDS for all those who need it technologies, especially information and Enabling Environment. the current MDG programme. The levels above; conversely, without a solid • Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the communications. incidence of malaria and other major diseases resource triad expands on MDG 7, to base, the entire structure will crumble. At the apex is the overarching vision of include resource areas which are highly moving away from poverty and toward connected, meet primal human needs – GOAL 1: Eradicate Extreme Poverty & Hunger GOAL 4: Reduce Child Mortality Urgency of Sustainability • • Workers rights education in India. Fairstone® product in India, China & Vietnam. • Vacination programmes for children in India. Challenges and Potential for Urgency of Sustainability Challenges and Potential for Business Impact • Community school development in India. GOAL 5: Improve Maternal Health Business Impact • Collaboration with quarry owners, local govern• Maternal health camps in India. Marshalls position is one of actively ment and NGO’s in India regarding labour rights and fair pay In the 2012 UN Global Compact Annual engaging and maximising benefit; both in GOAL 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, Malaria and Other Diseases Implementation Survey, companies were terms of business performance, upholding GOAL 2: Achieve Universal Primary Education • AIDS/HIV education programme as part of health asked to identify which global priority the ten UNGC principles and supporting • Foundation and continued funding for schools in camps in India. issues they believe to be the most the delivery of the MDG’s. Marshalls is Kota region of Rajasthan. GOAL 7: Ensure Environmental Sustainability urgent, as well as which issues their working in international partnerships • Informal community education programme. • Women’s literacy programme. company could have the greatest positive in India, China and Vietnam to tackle • CEO Water Mandate. • Biodiversity benchmark activity. impact on in the future. 1,712 companies issues of labour rights, human rights, GOAL 3: Promote Gender Equality and Empower Women • Water management programme. from over 100 countries responded to the child labour, child education, women’s survey. empowerment and health. Marshalls GOAL 8: Develop a Global Partnership for • Girls education drive resulting in equal number of Development Source: UN Global Compact Annual Implementation will actively seek to make a positive girls in education in Marshalls funded schools. Survey 2012 • Product development contribution towards achieving the MDG’s • Women’s literacy programme. • Extending Fairstone® to China and • Development of ‘Fit for Life; Fit for Work’ informal operating within its areas of influence to education programme. Vietnam. maximise impact. • Strategic partnership with UNICEF In the 2012 UN Global Compact Annual Implementation Survey, companies were asked to identify which global priority issues they believe to be the most urgent, as well as which issues their company could have the greatest positive impact on in the future. 1,712 companies from over 100 countries responded to the survey. Source: UN Global Compact Annual Implementation Survey 2012 40 41 A Design for Sustainable Development Goals A Design for Sustainable Development Goals Goal 1: End poverty and Goal 3: Achieve women and Goal 5: Good nutrition for all Goal 7: Sustainable energy for · Universal and affordable access to the The opportunities to develop new increase prosperity via inclusive Internet and computing technology. girls’ empowerment, targets through sustainable food and all, targets include: products services and business models that help solve global economic growth, targets include: agricultural systems, targets · Effective use of e-governance at national · Universal access to modern energy challenges are clear – particularly include: include: services. and state/provincial level in all countries, · Increase the proportion of leadership to increase managerial capacity as well as associated with green growth and “base of the pyramid” endeavours. As · Eliminate extreme poverty ($1.25/day per positions held by women in public and · Eradicate calorie-deficient hunger and transparency. · Double the global rate of improvement a result, there is enormous potential capita in 2005 real US dollars). private sectors to 40 per cent or better. halt increase of rates of obesity and of in energy efficiency in production, for the private sector to help advance malnutrition. · Double the share of the population with · Create jobs through decent work · Universally recognized and enforced distribution and consumption. sustainable development on a broad easy and affordable access to public scale, in line with the post-2015 sufficient to keep unemployment below equal pay for equal work. · Eliminate stunting of children under two transportation systems. · Double the share of renewable sources in agenda. There are two fundamental 5 per cent, including for women as a years of age through appropriate micro· Full and equal access of women to the energy mix. ways by which companies contribute group, and below 10 per cent for youth. nutrients. · Step up R&D in both public and private to sustainable development. One is ownership, property rights and land sectors. · Reduce by at least 50 per cent the by upholding respect for universal · Eliminate child labour. titles. · Double the productivity of LDC particulate concentration in urban air, sustainability principles in their agriculture. · Reduce carbon emissions from the · Ensure full access to private finance, · Reduce rates of violent acts committed not to exclude achievement of more operations, thus making sure to do construction and operation of buildings. including basic savings, loans and against women and girls by at least 50 stringent regional targets. no harm. The other is through taking · Stop and turn back annual increases actions that support advances on growth capital products, on fair terms per cent. in greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable development, such as including for women and marginalized deforestation resulting from farming and new products, services and business groups. livestock production by 2020. Goal 8: Build peaceful and Goal 10: Good governance and models. · Reduce by 30 per cent the Gini Goal 4: Universal health · Bring down the share of over exploited stable societies, targets include: realization of human rights, Marshalls will actively engage co-efficient rating in each country. coverage, targets include: ocean fish stocks by 20 per cent. targets include: throughout 2014 through UNGC · Improve access for diverse ethnic, participation and the UNGC UK Network · Affordable access to quality (meets · Reduce amount of food lost through religious and social groups to justice, · Raise awareness and implementation of in activity regarding the setting of patient needs) treatment and care for all, poor storage and waste by 1/3. services and economic opportunity. all UN human rights conventions and sustainable development goals. Goal 2: Quality education for or to 80 per cent where such access was instruments among all people and at all · Improve mediation, dispute resolution all, targets include: less than half in 2010. and dialogue mechanisms to prevent levels of governance. · Every child completes primary education · Continue to reduce the reach of TB, Goal 6: Water and sanitation and resolve conflict and to build peace · Achieve competitive and transparent with basic literacy and numeracy, in malaria and HIV/AIDS, and contain the procurement processes through public for all, targets include: · Reduce incidence of violent deaths per schools with grade divisions, books, light, spread of new drug resistant strains. advertising of all government 100,000 by at least 20 per cent. procurement cases. meals and sanitation. · Universal access to affordable fresh · Halt the rise in non-communicable water. · Prevent, combat and reduce the illicit · Develop further an open, rule-based, · All secondary schools to facilitate diseases. trade in small arms, light weapons and nondiscriminatory international trading computing skills, and a 50 per cent · Universal access to basic sanitation · Universal reproductive health services ammunition. and financial system. availability of digital facilities among facilities by 2020 and improved primary schools without them. including access to birth control and to a sanitation facilities by 2030. · Reduce the reach and extent of · Establish a climate supportive of business qualified attendant at birth. organized crime, especially through and investment at home and from · Increase the percentage of young adults · Fresh water use brought in line with · Cut maternal mortality rate by at least ¾. the provisions of the United Nations overseas, including incentives in favour with the skills needed for work. supply. Convention against Transnational of sustainability. · Achieve parity in enrollment and · Reduce the under-five mortality rate by · Ensure establishment and full Organized Crime. educational opportunities at primary, at least 2/3. implementation of national water secondary and tertiary levels for girls and effluent standards. Source: Global Compact LEAD consultations women. Goal 9: Modernize · Curricula at primary level and at all infrastructure and technology, levels above to include sustainable targets include: development concepts, with special emphasis on business schools. · Deploy investment sufficient to meet requirements for “green” transport, energy and water systems in the developing world, and for upgrading or replacing old and “brown” infrastructure in the developed world. 42 43 Fairstone® Fairstone® Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced range of Natural Stone that has been Fairstone UNICEF Partnership quarried and produced in line with a clear set of ethical values and commitments. We have entered into a strategic working in quarries in several regions partnership with UNICEF to eliminate child in India and assess the best practice labour in India’s stone quarrying sector inventions to prevent and combat child which is underpinned by the work that labour. UNICEF will then use the study Fairstone® Fairstone® Fairstone® Marshalls had done to date regarding its Fairstone ethical standards and product results to advocate with government, business and other relevant stakeholders INDIA Defined CHINA Defined Vietnam Defined range. to adapt policies and create a regulatory framework to ensure child labour is The partnership involves extensive by eliminated within the quarrying industry. Marshalls knows where its quarried Marshalls knows where its quarried Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced research, action for systemic change and The partnership will also see Marshalls stone comes from. It knows how it stone comes from. It knows how it range of Natural Stone. the promotion of education and will be is manufactured and that it has been is manufactured and that it has been and UNICEF supporting education Fairstone® means that Marshalls knows funded through Fairstone sales across the interventions in Rajasthan, focusing on produced in accordance with a clear and produced in accordance with a clear and where its quarried Vietnamese stone comes globe. the key long-term preventative measure unequivocal set of ethical values and unequivocal set of ethical values and from, how it is manufactured and that it has and essential components for the commitments . Specifically in the India commitments : been produced in accordance with a clear Research will focus upon a comprehensive supply chain: rehabilitation of children involved in child Specifically in the Chinese supply chain; and unequivocal set of ethical values and analysis of the sustainability of quarrying labour. ✔ No child labour is used commitments based on the ETI Base Code and scrutinise the situation of children ✔ Chinese workers receive living and UNGC Principles; ✔ Indian workers receive living Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ group marketing wages for a normal working director and also children’s rights wages ✔ Bonded labour is not used, i.e. period ambassador within the organisation, said, ✔ Health & safety practices are prison labour ✔ Working hours are not forced in place ✔ Living Wages are paid for a economically or physically “This partnership builds upon the pioneering normal working period work that Marshalls has been doing since Marshalls employ a full time, field-based, ✔ Health & Safety practices are in Social Auditor in India who works with ✔ Working hours are not forced 2006 regarding child labour and more place quarry owners and workers on a daily basis economically or recently the extensive embedding of the to ensure the ongoing implementation Through its local office in Xiamen Marshalls physically Children’s Rights & Business Principles of the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code employees regularly visit quarries and ✔ No child labour is used across the business. Together UNICEF and and to monitor progress. Daily contact, factories to work alongside workers and Marshalls will work as strategic partners ✔ Health & safety practices are in weekly reporting, annual third party managers to ensure that these three place contributing to eliminating child labour in auditing and regular quarry inspections commitments are implemented. In India’s stone quarrying sector, promoting by Company employees allow Marshalls addition a dedicated member of Marshalls to ensure that Fairstone commitments are a more responsible business model across Chinese team takes the lead on all ethical The Fairstone® Manager takes the lead on upheld. supply chain matters. Quality Controllers the entire industry. This activity further all ethical supply chain matters and the coalso play a critical role in improving worker strengthens Marshalls’ market leading ordination of the in-field Quality Controllers Marshalls is committed to working in conditions. who play a critical role in monitoring and approach to social responsibility within the partnership with its sole supplier Stone Indian supply chain.” improving worker conditions. Shippers India to achieve continuous Marshalls is committed to working in improvement in supply chain conditions partnership with its suppliers in China Marshalls works with a small number of and to help deliver tangible benefits to to achieve continuous improvement in supply chain conditions and to help deliver suppliers in Vietnam and is committed If you think your paving is ethical all workers involved in stone production, to building relationships which promote tangible benefits to all workers involved their families and the wider community. in stone production, their families and the shared learning, best practice and the continuous improvement of conditions you need to dig a little deeper. “We are delighted to be working in Partnership with Marshalls. Since early 2007, and following wider community. throughout the supply chain for workers. community consultation, Marshalls has Marshalls ensures that every quarry Marshalls has ensured that every quarry Marshalls is putting child rights at the worked with local NGO Hadoti Hast Shilp and factory in its supply chain has an and production facility in its supply forefront of its business practice and the Sansthan in partnership to: appropriate first aid kit. chain has the appropriate first aid kit and Fairstone paving stone is a fantastic way Develop and fund 6 Free Schools giving Marshalls has also specifically funded the has specifically funded the training of a of enabling their customers to play a part the children of migrant workers and local nominated worker in first aid practices. in tackling the reprehensible practice of training of a nominated worker at each workers an education that they would quarry and production facility in first aid children labouring in quarries. not otherwise have had. practices. By combining our skills, resources and Develop 6 free Health Centres and Marshalls funds regular cultural Our ethics are set in stone. Are yours? expertise with those of Marshalls, UNICEF deliver monthly community health community events for workers, their Most paving companies aren’t as ethical can create change for children in India.” as they say they are. Marshalls is different. camps in the heart of the quarrying families and the wider community. We don’t turn a blind eye to child labour. area in Bundhi. These services offer In fact, we’re the only hard landscaping company actively working with UNICEF David Bull, Executive Director, UNICEF UK consultation, treatment, free medicines to end it. We’ve partnered with them and will donate £1 to their work for every and referral pathways all of which would square metre of Fairstone paving we sell*. To find out more about our ethical *Marshalls will pay £1 (+VAT) per square metre of Fairstone paving sold to UNICEF UK Enterprise Limited, which pays all its taxable profits to UNICEF UK, a registered charity in England and Wales (1072612) and Scotland (SC043677). UNICEF does not otherwise be available. paving, visit marshalls.co.uk/fairstone not endorse any brand or product. Marshalls supports UNICEF. 44 45 Fairstone® Fairstone® 47 // Marshalls has been actively working to As a leader in its field with a proven implementation of the Children’s Rights UNICEF has been working in India since issues, implement new and innovative The results of the research will inform the eliminate child labour in the quarrying commitment to protecting the rights & Business Principles, launched in early 1949 and is the largest UN organisation interventions that address the situation of approach to working with our suppliers, sector in Rajasthan since 2005; providing of children and working on the ground 2012. The results of this pilot programme in the country. UNICEF is fully committed children, and works with partners to bring partners and the community in India, free primary education, advocating to implement change, Marshalls was were shared at a UNICEF CRBP event in to working with the Government of India those innovations to fruition. China and Vietnam and all activities will regarding children’s rights and offering invited by UNICEF to take part in its New York in September at the time of the to ensure that each child born in this vast be driven through this partnership with Marshalls is excited by the scale and scope practical support in terms of fair pay, global pilot programme through 2012/13 UNGC Leaders Summit. and complex country gets the best start in UNICEF. of the partnership and the opportunity insurance, health care, literacy and using and assessing a range of corporate life, thrives and develops o his or her full to further engage and collaborate with workers’ rights education all of which are social responsibility tools developed potential. The challenge is enormous but other actors including the wider quarrying factors involved in issues of child labour. by the organisation to assist with the UNICEF is well placed to meet it. It uses sector and to bring about positive and quality research and data to understand lasting change. “UNICEF’s ability to bring together players, including the Government of India, to ensure the implementation of the study’s recommendations produces long-term systemic change for children and their communities was fundamental for Marshalls.” Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director, Responsible for Sustainability 46 47 Human Rights Impact Assessment Programme Human Rights Impact Assessment Programme Piloting New Initiatives Achieving Good Results Collaborating & Sharing Best Human Rights Information and Education Practice 80% During 2013 Marshalls produced a range All of these publications are available of booklets to educate and inform its in the publications section of the stakeholders including employees, sustainability website and can be accessed customers, suppliers, NGO partners at www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best regarding it approach to human rights publications Legal Compliance Approach Practice and its work in this area. Marshalls is committed to human RIGHT AN Marshalls Response to... HUM S RIGHT AN ON CTI rights and to its Human Rights HUM The Ruggie IN A S ON S CTI H HT IN A UM G Framework A N RI S Impact Assessment (HRIA) H UM HT A N RI G programme. Marshalls made a commitment at the end of 2009 to undertake an initial four year BEHAVING ETHICALLY THE TRUTH ABOUT IMPORTED programme of human rights impact Marshalls AN RIGHT Indian in India HUM S ON CTI assessments. This programme is IN A H UM HT AN R S IG Sandstone on-track and has proved so valuable 1 that it has now become an ongoing part of Marshalls human rights work. Efforts in 2010 were focused RIGHT RIGHT AN AN Human Rights HUM Human Rights Human Rights S HUM S RIGHT ION CTI ON AN ACT upon undertaking a HRIA in Kota Impact Impact IN A Impact HUM S IN S S ON H H CTI HT HT in the state of Rajasthan, India. In Assessment UM A N RI G Assessment UM A N RI G Assessment IN A H HT S Programme Programme Programme UM A N RI G 2011 Marshalls concentrated upon India. Vietnam. China. the manufacturing process in China. Year three saw Vietnam as the focus. During this year an assessment will be undertaken in the UK. In addition annual monitoring in relation to all existing HRIA’s is undertaken together with the implementation of recommendations. AN RIGHT HUM S ON CTI IN A S H HT UM G A N RI #2 THE TRUTH ABOUT IMPORTED Indian HUM AN RIGHT ON S Human Sandstone IN A H CTI UM HT S GRights A N RI Guidance Marshalls Response to... AN RIGHT Children’s Rights HUM S CTI ON and Business IN A S Principles H HT UM G A N RI 01 48 49 Human Rights Impact Assessment Programme Human Rights Impact Assessment Programme The process has been a challenging The Secretary General’s Special Marshalls recognises that along with one and is very much a journey for Representative, Professor John Ruggie, globalisation and instantaneous Marshalls, building upon our social presented his recommendations for the communications via the internet, and environmental impact assessment implementation of the Respect, Protect opportunities come hand-in-hand process. In many ways the process has and Remedy Framework to the UN in with increased levels of threat and inspired as many questions as answers April 2011. This process further assisted the potential for companies to find and has highlighted the need for the in Marshall’s own development of the themselves caught up in situations of organisation’s on-going commitment organisations approach to human rights. conflict and human rights violations. The to undertake assessment of the risks in HRIA process focuses the organisations relation to human rights. attention on human rights issues. In 2011, the UN Human Rights Council unanimously endorsed the ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations Protect, Respect & Remedy Framework’, proposed by the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General on Business and Human Rights, Professor John Ruggie. The Guiding Principles outline how states and businesses should implement the UN Framework in order to better manage the human rights challenges to business. They provide a roadmap for companies to demonstrate that they are respecting human rights. The corporate responsibility to respect human rights, including children’s rights, does not replace a states’ duty to protect human rights; it exists independently of states’ abilities and willingness to fulfil their obligations. Ruggie Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework In order to meet their responsibilities including: UNGC principles, Global Both ISO2600 and the Guiding Principles to respect human rights, the Guiding Reporting Initiative Guidance (GRI), Ethical highlight the need for special attention Principles require business to have in Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code, Children’s to vulnerable groups, including women, Protect Respect Remedy place policies and processes appropriate Rights & Business Principles (CRBP) and the people with disabilities, children, The first pillar of the Framework is the states The corporate responsibility to respect human Even where institutions operate optimally, to their size and circumstances. These Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPS). indigenous peoples and migrant workers. duty to protect against human rights abuses rights means acting with due diligence to avoid adverse human rights impacts may still result include; a policy commitment, a human In relation to a company’s impact on committed by third parties, including business, infringing on the rights of others, and addressing from a company’s activities and victims must Underlying these guidance standards through appropriate policies, regulation and harms that do occur. The Framework is a global be able to seek redress. Effective grievance rights due diligence process to identify, children, these guidelines highlight the prevent, mitigate and account for how they for business are key international need to actively address the full range adjudication. It highlights that states have the standard of expected conduct acknowledged in mechanisms play an important role in both primary role in preventing and addressing virtually every voluntary and soft-law instrument the state duty to protect and the corporate address their impact on human rights; and declarations and agreements that enjoy of the company’s impacts, rather than corporate related human rights abuses related to corporate responsibility, and now responsibility to respect. processes to enable the remediation of any widespread consensus, such as the limiting its attention to just one issue. This affirmed by the Human Rights Council itself. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the As part of their duty to protect against businessadverse impacts they cause or to which approach is fully consistent with that of A company’s responsibility to respect applies related human rights abuse, states must take they contribute (Guiding Principles 15). International Labour Organisation (ILO) the Children’s Rights & Business Principles across its business activities and through its appropriate steps within their territory and/or Declaration on Fundamental Principles and (CRBP) and the Convention on the Rights of relationships with third parties connected with jurisdiction to ensure that when such abuses In addition to the Guiding Principles and Rights at Work, which covers child labour those activities such as business partners, entities occur, those affected have access to effective the Child (CRC). in its value chain, and other non-State actors and remedy through judicial, administrative, Marshalls programme of annual Human issues, the Rio Declaration on Environment State agents. In addition, companies need to legislative or other appropriate means. Rights Impact Assessments the Company and Development and the United Nations consider the country and local contexts for any also uses critical standards and guidance on Convention Against Corruption. particular challenges they may pose and how Source: http://www.reports-and-materials.org/ Ruggie-protect-respect-remedy-framework.pdf corporate responsibility and sustainability those might shape the human rights impacts of company activities and relationships. 50 51 Human Rights Impact Assessment Programme Human Rights Impact Assessment Programme Children’s Rights & Business Principle Engagement Recognising a need for explicit guidance about what it means to respect and support children’s rights – Marshalls Human Rights Policy and in response to the Ruggie Framework a joint initiative by the UNGC, UNICEF and Save the Children developed a set of 10 principles on Children’s Rights and Business Principles (‘The Principles’). The Principles set the standards for Marshalls is committed to being a childchild-friendly business everywhere friendly business. As such it complies and guide companies on a full range of with the law and seeks to respect and Marshalls supports human rights Where human rights are under threat Marshalls’ works actions to respect and support children’s support children’s rights wherever it to uphold local laws, promote international standards consistent with the Universal Declaration and strives to have international standards upheld rights in the workplace, marketplace and operates. It also seeks to create value of Human Rights. In conducting its by the appropriate governments, institutions and community. The Principles are proactive, through its policies and operations, business activities across the globe agencies. not reactive, and call upon business products and services, and initiatives everywhere to respect and support and influences that promote the best Marshalls respects these rights and seeks Marshalls embraces opportunities to promote a children’s rights. interests of children. Marshalls recognised to uphold, preserve and promote them. broader understanding of human rights values that by incorporating children’s rights working within its sphere of influence. As a leader in its field with a proven firmly within its sustainability agenda Marshalls works to ensure that its presence cultivates commitment to protecting the rights Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate with appropriate the organisation can work to achieve fair and sustainable relationships. of children and working on the ground organisations to promote respect for human rights in a long-term positive outcomes for children to implement change, Marshalls was Marshalls respects and values the dignity, well-being manner which is consistent with the role of business. through its core business activities, invited by UNICEF to take part in its global and rights of employees, their families and the strategic social investments and public pilot programme using and assessing wider community. The Company actively works and policy engagement. a range of CRS tools developed by the collaborates with employees, communities, nonDecember 2010 organisation. During 2013 Marshalls governmental and other appropriate stakeholders to undertook its first childrens rights and uphold and promote these rights. business principls audit and was one of the first globally to do this. Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement Marshalls understands that During this year Marshalls is undertaking empowering women to participate its first audit report regarding women’s fully in economic life across all empowerment using the Women’s sectors and throughout all levels Empowerment Principles as its of economic activity is essential to; framework. The organisation will share build strong economies; establish an executive summary of its findings and more stable and just societies’ will begin the process of implementing achieve internationally agreed goals recommendations. Marshalls is engaged for development, sustainability and with UN Women UK National Committee human rights’ improve quality of and intends to become a WEPS signatory life for women, men, families and during 2014. communities; and propel business’ operations and goals. 52 53 Strategic Human Rights Partnerships Human Rights Targets Targets 2013 Targets 2014 Strategic Human Rights Partnerships: UNICEF Partnership: Market-leading Partnership • Continue to ensure that ETI base • Continue to ensure that ETI base Promoting Responsible Business Practices in the Indian code is adhered to and that no child code is adhered to and that no child Mining Sector. is employed in the supply chain. is employed in the supply chain. This partnership aims to strengthen Marshalls’ market-leading approach to • Continue to gather weekly reports • Develop the reporting process social responsibility within the Indian supply chain. Together, UNICEF and from the social auditor in India. undertaken by the social auditor in Marshalls will become strategic partners contributing to eliminating child labour in India’s mining sector, promoting a more responsible business • Develop, together with Chinese India. model across the entire industry. partners, a suitable reporting process • Continue to receive social auditor which seeks to uphold human rights reporting from China. in the manufacturing context. • Develop social auditor reporting in Vietnam. The partnership comprises of: • Research Study: A comprehensive analysis • Systemic Change: UNICEF will use the • Promoting Education: Marshalls will also • Continue to receive monthly reports • Develop the reporting and of the sustainability of mining, scrutinise study’s results to advocate with government, support education interventions in Rajasthan, from NGO in Kota. monitoring provided by the NGO the situation of children working in mines business and other relevant stakeholders focussing on the key long-term preventive in India. in several regions in India and assess the to adopt policies and create a regulatory measures and essential components for the best practice interventions to prevent and framework to ensure child labour is rehabilitation of children involved in child combat child labour; eliminated within the industry. labour. • Ongoing monitoring and evaluation • Ongoing monitoring and of HR in India. evaluation of all HR activity. • Ongoing monitoring and evaluation • Annual review of HRIA in India, of HR in China. China and Vietnam. • Ongoing monitoring and evaluation • Undertake HRIA for ROW in relation Worldwide Association of Girl Guides & Girl Scouts: of HR in Vietnam. to Marshalls activities. Fit for Work/Fit for Life Youth Unemployment, • Undertake HRIA in UK. Gender Inequality and Poverty. • Process of embedding human rights • Further develop the process of There is a renewed interest in addressing youth unemployment in developing within the organisation; achieving embedding human rights within countries as a means to intensify the fight against extreme poverty, achieving the the goals set out within the HRGD. the organisations; achieving the MDGs, and meeting equity and development goals. goals set out within the HRGD. In partnership with Marshalls WAGGGS • Undertake a report which clarifies is developing a ‘Fit for Work; Fit for The UNICEF report card on Chinese laws regarding employment, Life’ training programme which will be adolescents 2012 report states human rights and environmental delivered by Member Organisations onthat adolescent girls in India who rights. the-groud in India. are married and have children at The programme has the following elements: an early age fail to get education, • Entrepreneurship skills education employment or have an income generating activity and are at risk • Engage with UN Women in • Undertake WEPS audit. • Income generation activity exposure preparation for WEPS audit and micro-finance access of poverty, exploitation, violence, • Financial literacy education and not fulfilling their potential. In addition they have fewer chances to • Undertake CRBP audit. • Implement priority aspects of • Employability skills training CRBPrecommendations. be able to correctly take care of their • Self-Esteem • Consult with young people babies once they are born therefore • Assess the impact of the WAGGGS • Health and well-being education (including immunization) creating increased rates of child programme. morbidity and mortality. • Monitor the impact of the UNICEF • Optional introduction to Girl Guiding programme. (for beneficiaries not already in membership) 54 55 Labour Labour Marshalls’ approach to labour rights continues to be driven by the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Social Auditors Indira Saxena, monitoring social issues in India. Code, the UNGC Labour principles and the organisations commitment to sustainable business. Central to ensuring that the ETI base code Marshalls head office has daily contact with is implemented and embedded within its the social auditors who provide weekly supply chain and operations are Marshalls reporting on all aspects of the Base Code; Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & social auditor in both India, China & for example the amount workers are paid, Initiatives Results Sharing Best Vietnam. the hours that they work, the conditions Practice 71% Social auditors works on a daily basis with they work in, health and safety measures quarry owners, factory owners, managers that no child labour is used and that there and workers to ensure the ongoing is no harsh or inhumane treatment of implementation of the ETI Base Code. workers. Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice The ETI Base Code states that: 1. Employment is freely chosen 4. Child labour shall not be used. 7. No discrimination is practiced. 1.1 There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison 4.1 There shall be no new recruitment of child 7.1 There is no discrimination in hiring, labour. labour. compensation, access to training, promotion, 1.2 Workers are not required to lodge “deposits” or 4.2 Companies shall develop or participate in termination or retirement based on race, caste, their identity papers with their employer and are free and contribute to policies and programmes which national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, to leave their employer after reasonable notice. provide for the transition of any child found to be marital status, sexual orientation, union membership performing child labour to enable her or him to or political affiliation. 2. Freedom of association and the right to attend and remain in quality education until no collective bargaining are respected. longer a child; “child” and “child labour” being defined 8. Regular employment is provided. in the appendices. Stirling Smith, Just Solutions Ltd, auditing and Satya and Hitesh in India, undertaking social audits. Mr Que, Fairstone Manager in Vietnam. 2.1 Workers, without distinction, have the right to 8.1 To every extent possible work performed 4.3 Children and young persons under 18 shall not verifying activity on the ground. join or form trade unions of their own choosing and must be on the basis of recognised employment to bargain collectively. be employed at night or in hazardous conditions. relationship established through national law and 2.2 The employer adopts an open attitude towards 4.4 These policies and procedures shall conform to practice. the activities of trade the provisions of the relevant ILO standards. 8.2 Obligations to employees under labour or unions and their organisational activities. social security laws and regulations arising from 2.3 Workers representatives are not discriminated 5. Living wages are paid. the regular employment relationship shall not be against and have access to carry out their 5.1 Wages and benefits paid for a standard working avoided through the use of labour-only contracting, representative functions in the workplace. week meet, at a minimum, national legal standards subcontracting, or home-working arrangements, 2.4 Where the right to freedom of association or industry benchmark standards, whichever or through apprenticeship schemes where there and collective bargaining is restricted under law, is higher. In any event wages should always be is no real intent to impart skills or provide regular the employer facilitates, and does not hinder, the enough to meet basic needs and to provide some employment, nor shall any such obligations be development of parallel means for independent and discretionary income. avoided through the excessive use of fixed-term free association and bargaining. 5.2 All workers shall be provided with written and contracts of employment. understandable information about their employment 3. Working conditions are safe and hygienic. conditions in respect to wages before they enter 9. No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed 3.1 A safe and hygienic working environment employment and about the particulars of their 9.1 Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of shall be provided, bearing in mind the prevailing wages for the pay period concerned each time that physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and knowledge of the industry and of any specific they are paid. verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation shall be hazards. Adequate steps shall be taken to prevent 5.3 Deductions from wages as a disciplinary prohibited. accidents and injury to health arising out of, measure shall not be permitted nor shall any associated with, or occurring in the course of work, deductions from wages not provided for by national The provisions of this code constitute minimum by minimising, so far as is reasonably practicable, law be permitted without the expressed permission and not maximum standards, and this code should the causes of hazards inherent in the working of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures not be used to prevent companies from exceeding environment. should be recorded. these standards. Companies applying this code 3.2 Workers shall receive regular and recorded are expected to comply with national and other health and safety training, and such training shall be 6. Working hours are not excessive applicable law and, where the provisions of law and repeated for new or reassigned workers. 6.1 Working hours comply with national laws and this Base Code address the same subject, to apply 3.3 Access to clean toilet facilities and to potable benchmark industry standards, whichever affords that provision which affords the greater protection. water, and, if appropriate, sanitary facilities for food greater protection. storage shall be provided. 6.2 In any event, workers shall not on a regular basis 3.4 Accommodation, where provided, shall be be required to work in excess of 48 hours per week clean, safe, and meet the basic needs of the workers. and shall be provided with at least one day off for 3.5 The company observing the code shall assign every 7 day period on average. Overtime shall be responsibility for health and safety to a senior voluntary, shall not exceed 12 hours per week, shall management representative. not be demanded on a regular basis and shall always be compensated at a premium rate. 56 57 Labour Labour Marshalls’ sole supplier in India is Stone Shippers Ltd. The long term relationship has enabled Marshalls to share its knowledge with the organisation and to work closely to Targets 2013 Targets 2014 embed sustainable practices, and to monitor these on an ongoing basis. • Maintain accreditation to Integrated • Maintain accreditation to IMS. Management Systems. • Continue researching, reporting and • Continue researching, reporting and embedding relevant information embedding relevant information regarding labour laws and their regarding labour laws and their implications; both in India, China implications; both in India, China and Vietnam. and Vietnam. The development and co-ordination of the work to bring Marshalls Fairstone to market represents a great deal of work India India between the two organisations. It has • Maintain funding for NGO. • Continue the ETI/FCBO programme meant a substantial commitment, not • Develop the NGO monthly only in terms of money, but of time and reporting process. effort. The progress made should be • Continue schools programme and acknowledged as brave and forward seek collaborative partners. looking. Marshalls pioneering work • Continue workers rights education. has often been met with resistance and • Seek partners for social security disbelief by the sector both in India programme. and the UK. However, the benefits • Continue the community health to business are clear to see. Indian camps with a sharp focus on sandstone is among the best in the maternal health. world and the fact that Fairstone • Pilot a women’s empowerment can now be purchased with a clear project in Kota. conscience brings peace of mind to consumers in the UK and Europe who • Seek engagement with UNICEF. care enough to use their purchasing • Annual review of HRIA. power to benefit communities across • Undertake research regarding slave/ the globe. bonded labour. Rajiv Bazas, Managing Director, Stone Shippers Ltd China China • Put in place a social auditing • Continue to embed social auditing. process in China Vietnam • Embed Fairstone programme. Stone Shippers undertakes social responsibility activity including: • Devlop social auditing programme. Safety education workshops for employees and subcontractors. Awareness raising about issues of child labour and establishing crèche facilities. Building schools and donating computers. Provision of uniforms, books and mid-day meals for children at local schools. Free medial health checks and visits by the Doctor. Supporting local hospitals by providing blankets, bed linen and air conditioning units. 58 59 Environment Environment Due to Marshalls plc status the environmental key performance indicators standards including ISO14001 for environmental management. large internal resource. Systems, which represent a significant investment, are The key environmental issues for Marshalls are will be published alongside the annual in place throughout the business and Key environmental targets and drivers for report in April. This will be available allow the real time monitoring of energy our business are determined by legislative online in due course. consumption and how this relates to climate change, water requirement and also the Company’s carbon reduction measures. At the heart of Marshalls’ sustainable commitment to sustainability, cost business model, shown earlier in this efficiency and shareholder value. Marshalls Environment & Climate Change report, is an approach which combines key business issues and KPIs with third part verification, legislation and industry Marshalls environmental targets relate to strategic plans which are driven by Policy documents the related key performance indicators: and biodiversity. board executives and implemented by a These are particularly significant because Biodiversity is also key because of Marshalls is aware of its contributions to the activities Marshalls carries out – Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & man-made climate change (as detailed by extracting material has an impact on the Initiatives Results Sharing Best the Inter-Government Panel on Climate environment and it’s only by working Practice 75% Change) and as such is committed to with the land that we can manage our helping reduce it. impact on the land. Water as a resource is becoming scarce and Marshalls has identified clean water Reviewing Feedback shortage as one of the biggest challenges & Developing Our Delivering Best of the future. Legal Compliance Approach Practice Environmental Policy Statement Energy and Climate Change Policy Statement Marshalls is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, preventing pollution and minimising the impact of our operations. The Group’s aim is to minimise The use of energy is vital in the supply and manufacture of our products and represents a the environmental damage that occurs as a result of our activities and policies are being significant proportion of our operating costs. Rising energy costs for us and in our supply implemented to ensure that all our operations meet or exceed the requirements of legislation and chain, growing concerns over the security of supply and of climate change mean that the applicable best practice. importance of controlling our energy use and reducing our reliance on fossil fuels has never been so high. This policy document is consistent with our sustainability strategy and supports Marshalls regards compliance with relevant environmental laws, and the adoption of responsible our vision by helping us to operate our business, as market leaders, in a sustainable and standards where no legislation exists, as an integral part of our business strategy and we are responsible manner. committed to considering the environmental impacts associated with our products throughout At Marshalls, we believe that sustainability must be at the heart of our business and it must their life cycle. The Group aims to make most efficient use of raw materials and to maximise use balance our environmental, social and economic impacts. In essence, achieving our goal of of recycled and secondary raw materials, and production residues, where appropriate. The sustainability involves judging the long-term merits of our business against this triple bottom environmental stewardship of our major raw material suppliers is reviewed as part of the Group’s line. ongoing commitment to Responsible Sourcing. Marshalls recognises that sound energy management is vital to the future of our business and it must be fully integrated into our management and operational procedures so that it is an Marshalls is committed to monitoring and measuring our environmental performance, using every day part of what we all do. Marshalls commits to ensuring that appropriate energy appropriate external guidelines wherever practicable. We uphold the objectives defined by the management systems are developed and maintained, and that sufficient resources are made Sustainable Concrete Forum. Each operating site has assessed the environmental aspects of its available to achieve the objectives of this policy in a sustainable manner. activities and objectives and targets have been set with a view to improving the overall This policy applies to all Marshalls businesses and covers our direct and indirect emissions, environmental impact of those activities. These will be reviewed on at least an annual basis. including our supply chain. The policy requires Marshalls to: • Reduce our corporate Green House Gas (GHG) emissions by at least 15% by 2012, This policy applies to all Marshalls businesses and requires Marshalls to: 34% by 2020 and 80% by 2050. These reductions are measured against a 1990 baseline. • Reduce the volume of mains and extracted borehole water to 0.05m3 per tonne of • Our target for absolute GHG emissions until 2020 requires an annual reduction of production by 2015 3.1% in GHG emissions. • Manage Biodiversity where appropriate against site specific Action Plans • Achieve a relative GHG emission target (excluding transport) of 7kgCO2e/tonne of • Reduce the weight of packaging per tonne of production by 2% per annum over a 3 year production by 2015 and then reduce by 3% pa thereafter. cycle to a level where pack and product safety is not compromised • Develop renewable projects that ensure we use 20% renewable energy in our • Reduce the % of total waste to landfill per production output by 3% per annum on a 3 year manufacturing operations by 2020. rolling average • Develop an adaptation and mitigation strategy for Climate Change and fossil fuel depletion. Marshalls will continue to raise environmental awareness within the Group through the • Extend the coverage of the Energy Management System to include product carbon development and training of our employees and will communicate openly and consult with footprints, supply chain emissions and GHG gasses other than CO2. customers, suppliers and other stakeholders on relevant environmental matters. • Comply with our legal obligation in the UK Government’s mandatory GHG reporting for publicly listed Companies Marshalls strives to protect and enhance biodiversity and natural habitats within our landholdings Marshalls’ Energy Strategy details group wide projects and investments; this includes a plan where possible. We also recognise the need for sympathetic restoration and after-use of quarry of actions, timescales and resources up to 2020 to help us achieve our goals. Every and other operational sites and consider the character of the local environment and the concerns operational site has an energy action plan, which is maintained by the site and details a of the local community and other stakeholders when planning such matters. practical schedule of actions and investments. Signed by: Signed by: Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive January 2014 January 2014 60 61 Environment Environment Carbon Reduction Energy Water Marshalls has already Climate change is one of Marshalls’ KPIs In 2009, Marshalls announced carbon Marshalls is on track to reduce its water 1. Direct Operations demonstrated good energy from the sustainable business model. footprints for all its commercial products, consumption of 0.053m3 per tonne of 2. Supply Chain management by achieving Marshalls has made a commitment to bringing the total carbon labelled product by 2012. 3. Watershed Management The Carbon Trust Standard and reduce emission of greenhouse gases products to over 2,000 commercial and Marshalls has committed to The 4. Collective Action is now well equipped for the by 80% by 2050 by employing energy domestic hard landscaping products – the CEO Water Mandate, an initiative by Government’s Carbon Reduction 5. Public Policy management systems, reviewing most of any company in the world at the business leaders in partnership with the Commitment Energy Efficiency processes and keeping abreast of new time. Since then, Marshalls has continued international community. Its structure 6. Community Engagement Scheme (CRC), which was technologies, reporting progress, and to work to reduce those product covers six key areas in a comprehensive & Transparency launched in April 2010. developing carbon tools to allow our footprints approach to water management Marshalls already voluntarily customers to measure their impact. will develop Marshalls current water discloses information on its management approach to flooding, greenhouse gas emissions, risks, water quality and drought management. opportunities and plans via the Carbon Disclosure Project and The Prince’s May Day Network. The company is also addressing alternatives such as renewables, Now in its fifth year, the Energy Management Steering Group promotes Marshalls’ as well as committing to carbon reduction policy throughout the organisation. Chaired by the Board Director reducing consumption through a Landscape House, Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, Elland, who reports on sustainability, the group meets quarterly to: West Yorkshire HX5 9HT T 01422 312000 number of energy management F 01422 312999 www.marshalls.co.uk programmes. • Identify current inefficiencies Marshalls Mono Limited Registered Office: Birkby Grange, Birkby Hall Road Huddersfield HD2 2YA Registered in England No. 509579 • Advise on setting of company and site specific targets A subsidiary of Marshalls plc 31st December 2012 • Oversee training practices relevant to energy Dear UN Global Compact Office • Summarise progress for annual report and investors THE CEO WATER MANDATE: MARSHALLS PLC Marshalls plc has been a UNGC signatory since early 2009. During the last four years the • Review energy management procedures oganisation has very tangibly experienced the positive impact of UNGC engagement in a plethora of ways. Of key importance has been the development of our business strategy regarding the environmental principles, and also the resulting product development as we seek to contribute positively to the issues regarding water; namely drainage particularly in relation to the challenges posed by increasing urbanization. As a result I believe that the time is right for us to engage fully with The CEO Water Mandate. I From the group, ideas and projects get filtered through sites and corporate teams to recognize that the private sector has an important stake in helping to address the water challenges faced by the globe. Both myself, Marshalls board and senior management team, as well a great number of our employees, recognise that water stress is set to worsen in many parts of the world as a team of 60+ energy champions who are based on site. a result of numerous factors including; urbanization, population growth, increasing food production, changes in consumption patterns, continued industrialization, water pollution and climate change. I understand that strategic frame work presented in The CEO Water Mandate is voluntary and aspirational and that it represents an excellent opportunity for Marshalls to engage, excel and make a positive contribution to the water challenges which are very real and set to worsen. With my full backing and commitment Marshalls is ready to embrace The CEO Water Mandate and to work in the six areas identified within the Mandate; Direct Operations; Supply Chain and Watershed management; Collective Action; Public Policy, Community Engagement; and Transparency. I look forward to sharing our progress in this area in our 2013 Communication on Progress. Management Board Yours faithfully, Chief Operating Officer Board Members Graham Holden CEO Marshalls plc Biodiversity Waste Reduction & Marshalls has drafted a biodiversity Packaging ENERGY MANAGEMENT STEERING GROUP ChAIR strategy, in consultation with external During 2013 Marshalls continued to Energy Management Coordinator stakeholders, documenting a systematic measure the amount of waste leaving Site/Regional/Business Managers Corporate Team Members approach to our legal, protection and site and is ontrack to achieve its aim enhancement commitment to the of reducing wate by 3% per annum biodiversity on its sites. This strategy avearged over a three year period. The includes a priority approach to defining target for packaging is to reduce by 2% appropriate sites together with evaluation SITES/REGIONS per annum over a three year period. Energy working groups of the biodiversity ecosystem services SITE/Regional energy champions The Company continues to carefully Site Staff delivered. monitor the sourcing of timber by pallet suppliers having worked with them to achieve Forestry Stewardship Counsel accreditation at the end of 2009. 62 63 Environment Environment 65 //65 // Sustainable Marshalls achieves Carbon Paving the way to Procurement Marshalls sustainable procurement Trust Standard for third time! a better education approach and its procurement policy and proceedures guard against In September this year Marshalls Eaglescliffe the organisation procuring from suppliers that ‘willfully and avoidably undertook the huge job of creating essential damange the environment’. Though dedicated access for the Eaglescliffe Forest School. its sustainable procurement journey Marshalls continues to engage and collaborate with suppliers on environmental issues, expectations, shared learning and the potential for innovation. Opened in 2011, The Forest School Maxine Reid, Forest School Practitioner is located in an area of woodland on and Manager, said: “The new road and During 2013 Marshalls sucessfully the edge of our Eaglescliffe site. It entrance to Eaglescliffe Forest School retained its registration to the is a very special facility which offers has given us a safe, easy access to the Responsible Sourcing framework an innovative educational approach forest without disturbing Marshalls standard BES6001 at a ‘very good’ to outdoor play and learning and an level for all commercial concrete Operations through the yard. inspirational process that offers children manufacturing sites. The BES6001 rich opportunities to promote their “The new entrance makes it easier for Framework Standards for the well-being and confidence in a natural our visitors to get to forest school. All Responsible Sourcing of Construction Products, along with an associated environment. of our visitors since September have independent third-party certification Marshalls has been involved in energy reduction across commented on the difference the road scheme, was developed by BRE awarded the Carbon the company for doing what they do, if The school is incredibly popular with makes and Marshalls’ generosity. Global to certify sustainable products Trust Standard for the it weren’t for them we would not have children from mainstream schools and services. Marshalls achieved third time in a row, gained the award.” “Myself and the volunteers at Forest as well as children with behavioural, higher than average performance showing our ongoing School are always very grateful for the The assessor also stated “Marshalls emotional and learning difficulties as rating is each of the categories commitment to reducing carbon it provides an environment where they continued support we receive from of organisational management, leads the way in carbon management emissions. and energy reductions. The willingness can succeed and develop at their own Marshalls, as a Not for Profit Making supply chain Organisation we value Marshalls management We have good reason to be proud to improve is perceptible at all levels speed, increasing their skills and selfof this achievement. Marshalls as and the expectations are high. esteem. support in helping us to be able to and a business has reduced its total Marshalls deserves to keep the continue to offer forest school sessions environmental Formally the only access to the school & social issues. carbon emissions by 6.1% in just two standard.” for the local community.” years. Not only that but it scored an was via our site, which has obvious The assessor also visited several sites health and safety risks, and so it was impressive 96% on the qualitative and was impressed by staff culture, decided that dedicated access was assessment which examines how we innovation, and a general “can do” needed and this was created with help manage energy within the business. attitude. from Tarmac, Tinsley Special Products, Pete Stevens, Group Carbon and Tyne Tees Demolition with help from Pete Stevens concluded by saying; Energy Manager, said; “I’m delighted Potters Plant Hire, Preston’s Transport. “Marshalls has continued to set that we’ve achieved this standard challenging targets on energy for the third time. The qualitative reduction, so we remain competitive assessment score shows the massive and tackle climate change. If we can effort made by the energy champions continue to build on what we are and teams on our manufacturing already doing I’m confident we can sites over the last two years. It is great meet our targets and score 100% next to be recognised externally by the time.” UK’s number one carbon reduction award, and I’d like to thank everyone Eaglescliffe Site Manager, Eddie Trainer, said: “I am constantly inspired by the work that takes place at Eaglescliffe Forest School and all of us at the site are incredibly proud to be able to help them out in any small way.” 64 65 Environment Environment Targets Marshalls Falkirk are ECO Stars Targets 2013 Targets 2014 To reduce emissions of CO2 in line with To reduce emissions of CO2 in line The Marshalls Falkirk fleet has recently attained the top 5-Star rating for the Government targets; 80% by 2050 and with Government targets; 80% by ECO Stars fleet operating in and around the Falkirk Area. 34% by 2020. 2050 and 34% by 2020. The ECO Stars fleet recognition scheme It is through the implementation of Ian Moir, Logistics Manager for gives recognition, guidance and advice these measures and others that has led Scotland, said: “We’re extremely proud Carbon footprinting of 500 consumer Carbon footprinting of 500 consumer to operators of goods vehicles and rates to Falkirk achieving the top 5-Star rating. to have been awarded the 5-Star rating products and 1565 commercial paving products and 1565 commercial a fleet’s overall transport operation using The ECO Stars auditors were impressed by ECO Stars. At Marshalls we take products paving products a star rating criteria to recognise levels of by the scope of the fuel management sustainability very seriously and we operation and environmental performance. strategy implemented by Marshalls have invested a lot of time and energy Uphold the BITC May Day Network Uphold the BITC May Day Network and the approach of target setting, Marshalls carried out a major review of measuring results and developing optimal into making our transport operations pledges pledges its transport operations with the aim of as efficient as possible, it is fantastic to performance measures. developing a more sustainable approach. receive recognition of this hard work.” The review has achieved substantial results Marshalls Energy Savings Week Marshalls Energy Savings Week through activities including investment in new cleaner and more efficient vehicles 6 This Environmental KPI report 2013 is an extract from the Marshalls plc Annual Report 2012 and realising a reduction in 4,000 journeys by better utilisation of vehicles and the use Reduce use of water from mains and Reduce use of water from mains and of larger payloads. Strategic alliances with licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per other companies have provided back loads Environmental Report (continued) tonne of production by 2015 tonne of production by 2015 for some of our night trunking operations and the appointment of a full time Driver Develop biodiversity plans for all Implement biodiversity plans at Trainer to enhance driver behaviour has appropriate sites selected sites shown that a further 10% improvement in fuel efficiency is possible. production. The reduction is a combination of The chart below illustrates the Group’s water product mix, energy efficiency measures and the performance between 2008 and 2012. decision to manage its reduction of base load Reduce by 3% the total waste-toReduce by 3% the total waste-tolandfill Mains & licensed water usedperper tonne output per production landfill per production output per energy usage. annum of production on 3 year rolling average. output annum on 3 year rolling average. Reduce by 2% per tonne of production Reduce by 2% per tonne of The chart below illustrates the Group’s CO2e 0.067 output per annum over a 3 year cycle production output per annum over a 0.063 M3 Water used per 0.055 to a level where pack and product 3 year cycle to a level where pack and (measured as direct GHG from 2012) intensity 0.052 safety is not compromised. product safety is not compromised. emissions as a proportion of production output, 0.043 production tonne excluding transport activities, between 2008 and 2012. 'Relative CO2 per production Relative CO2 e per production tonnage, excluding transport (kg CO2 e per tonne) tonnage excluding transport' 11.2 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 9.8 10.3 10.4 10.6 9.2 KG CO2 e per Tonne of 7.9 7.6 The reduction in water intensity has been helped 7.3 by Marshalls’ previous and continued investment in water management projects, particularly water production output harvesting which has continued to be developed during 2012. The UK rainfall in 2012 was the second wettest year on record at 1,330.7mm (Y2000: 1,337.3mm) and 115 per cent of the 19812008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 average. Greater volumes of rainfall have a Defra CO2 emission factors (previous reported figures) positive impact on the Group’s reported figures as Defra current GHG emission factors the business prioritises the use of harvested While the Group must report its carbon footprint rainwater or quarry water before mains or as part of CRC legislation, which excludes borehole water. During the year a rainwater 66 transport, it will continue to report voluntarily to harvesting system was introduced at the 67 Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption During 2013 Marshalls employees continued to undertake an online workshop focusing Piloting New Initiatives Achieving Good Results Collaborating & Sharing Best Practice specifically on anti-corruption and anti-bribery 67% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force Throughout 2011 there was great focus by on the 1st of July 2011. It amends and the UNGC UK Network on Anti-Corruption reforms UK criminal law and provides with a number of events and speakers a modern legal framework to combat attending education events open to bribery in the UK and internationally. UK Network members. Marshalls took advantage of these opportunities with a range of individuals from within the The Bribery Act creates the organisation attending and reporting back. following offences: The UNGC tenth principle commits Active bribery: promising signatories not only to actively avoid or giving a financial or bribery, extortion and other forms of other advantage. corruption but to develop policies and concrete programmes to address Passive bribery: agreeing corruption and related risks. to receive or accepting a financial or other Marshalls understands that bribery is not advantage. a victimless crime and that it discourages developmentally effective trade and Bribery of foreign public siphons off funds away from projects officials. designed to help the most disadvantaged. It tarnishes reputations, drains corporate motivation and distorts competition. The failure of commercial Marshalls procurement organisations to prevent policy can be viewed at: bribery by an associated www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability person (corporate offence). 68 69 Anti Bribery Code Anti-Corruption Targets 1. In this Code, “Marshalls” means Marshalls any employee involved. Any activity or bribery and corruption. It will select business plc and its subsidiary companies. behaviour by an employee that is unlawful partners who have adopted similar policies Targets 2013 Targets 2014 or prohibited by this Code will constitute and objectives and will avoid doing business 2. Marshalls is committed to conducting its gross misconduct and may result in with those who act unlawfully or in a way Make the Procurement Policy Develop procurement for business with the utmost integrity and in dismissal. Employees may be suspended that is not consistent with ethical business Statement available online sustainability strategy which has accordance with the principles set out in the while investigations are carried out. principles. anti-corruption measures woven UK Bribery Act 2010. • Employees who engage or do business throughout. Marshalls plc is a signatory of the UN Global with third parties who act on behalf of 6. Monitoring and Compliance Compact, which informs and governs the Marshalls or represent Marshalls should Brief the procurement department on Develop and publish sustainable way in which we do business. Marshalls • The Board of Marshalls plc has approved ensure that this Code is drawn to their the UNGC and specifically the Antiprocurement guidance. expects its employees and business partners this Anti-Bribery Code and will set standards attention. Marshalls expects such third Corruption principles. to respect and support our core values of in relation to its principles and their parties to comply with this Code and with trust, honesty and integrity and to recognise application across the Marshalls Group. the applicable law relating to bribery. and implement this Code. • The Audit Committee of the Board will Engage procurement personnel in Ensure that this guidance is circulated • Marshalls reserves the right to terminate 3. Marshalls does not tolerate the offering, review procedures across the Group and will UNGC activities. to all suppliers. immediately any contract or business giving, requesting, receiving or acceptance monitor their effectiveness. relationship with any agent, consultant, or of bribes in any form. other business intermediary where bribery • Designated individuals within each Produce an Anti-Corruption Guidance Ensure that this guidance is made A bribe is a financial payment or other form has occurred. business area, together with the Company Document for multiple stakeholders. publicly available for all stakeholders. of reward that is intended to induce or Secretary (who oversees day to day influence an individual, company or public compliance) have responsibility for the body to perform their functions improperly. 4. Our Policies and Procedures Make the Anti-Corruption Guidance Continue to undertake a series faceimplementation and development of such This may include showing partiality, acting Document available online. to-face briefing and workshops with Marshalls has adopted policies and procedures. in bad faith or acting in a way that is key suppliers. procedures intended to address the • All employees have an obligation to inconsistent with a position of trust. potential risk of bribery and corruption. comply with this Code and support and Bribes, for the purpose of this Policy, include These include:promote its principles in their business Ensure the Anti-Corruption Guidance Communicate Marshalls Anti-bribary facilitation payments, kickbacks and any • The Group Procurement Policy Statement; function. Document is part of the procurement policy internally and externally. other reward, favour or payment designed to policy process. induce or influence the recipient to perform • The Code of Ethics; 7. Any employee having a question or his or her functions improperly. concern in relation to this Code, the • Guidance on hospitality and gifts, and the maintenance of a hospitality and gifts administration of Marshalls policies and Communicate with all existing Continue to review and develop antiIn the case of a foreign public official, it is procedures designed to prevent bribery, suppliers regarding the Antibribary processes and procedures. not permitted to offer a payment or other register; or any issue where guidance is sought on Corruption Guidance Document. reward to a foreign public official that may • The Serious Concerns Policy. a particular set of circumstances may raise influence that official to give an advantage it with their line manager or the Company These are regularly reviewed and updated, to our business, whether or not intended to Secretary (Cathy Baxandall, Birkby Grange, Identify key overseas partners/suppliers and should be read together with this induce improper performance. Birkby Hall Road, Huddersfield HD2 2YA: and undertake face-to-face briefing/ Code. This Code and these policies can be Hospitality designed to improve business Tel: 01484 438930: email cathy.baxandall@ working sessions to identify areas of risk accessed via the Marshalls intranet. The relations which is proportionate to the marshalls.co.uk) and to develop appropriate plans. hospitality and gifts register is maintained circumstances and which is not for an at Birkby Grange (contact Gillian Harley/Jill 8. Any employee who suspects that bribery improper purpose is not usually regarded as Bedford). has occurred or that there has been any a bribe. Further guidance can be found in other breach of this Code should report it Review and develop anti corruption Among our procedures to mitigate risk are the Procurement Policy Statement and the in accordance with the procedure in the processes and procedures the following:Hospitality Guidelines. Serious Concerns Policy so that it can be • Supplier and customer risk assessments; No employee, agent, consultant or business formally investigated. intermediary acting for Marshalls may offer, • Training for employees and those working Adopted by the Board on 5 October 2011. give, request, receive or accept any bribes, for Marshalls or representing Marshalls in a Graham Holden whether directly or indirectly. business capacity ; Chief Executive Chairman • Written commitments from those we work with to engage with the principles in this What does this mean for me? Code. • Any alleged or suspected incident of 5. Marshalls will work with its business bribery will result in a formal investigation, partners worldwide to develop and improve and may result in disciplinary action for good practice and to seek to eliminate 70 71 Third Party Recognition & Awards Third Party Recognition & Awards Independent third party scrutiny and verification is a key component to Auditing Audits are carried out at least annually, by a two-person team over two days. signatories. We will make this 2013 COP’s available for UNGC UK Network peer Marshalls’ approach to business, as is award recognition from external bodies. In the past, Marshalls has worked with It is of great importance to Marshalls that the awards entered both showcase A qualified Marshalls assessor goes to review again this year. generally recognised auditors for its work and challenge the company’s pioneering approach. India and China five to six times a year We are particularly keen to gain frank in India. Whilst working in India however, to audit informally. If non-compliance feedback from a range of our stakeholders Marshalls found it really needed to work is found, an action plan is agreed to as we further engage in a drive for with auditors with specialist knowledge ensure rectification takes place and this is corporate sustainability leadership of trade unions and ILO (International followed up by an external audit. throughout 2014 and beyond. Labour Organisation) standards. The auditing process for Marshalls is not just If you wish to take part in our about hitting the baseline and doing the minimum, it’s about going the extra mile Accreditation COP feedback survey please and ensuring the process is as thorough Marshalls only works with reputable and email: elaine@marshalls.co.uk PRECAST SECTOR SUSTAINABILITY CHARTER We congratulate and rigorous as possible. Marshalls’ reliable suppliers in terms of accreditation. Marshalls plc supply chain strategy follows the ETI Base MARSHALLS PLC Code, which is based on the International For meeting the requirements of the PRECAST SUSTAINABILITY CHARTER and being awarded the status of Labour Organisations Conventions. In embedding the Base Ongoing Stakeholder CHARTER MEMBER Code in the supply chain Marshalls Consultation: Valid until JULY 2014 has implemented processes to ensure Marshalls would like to thank all of its compliance and improvement. stakeholders who had input into this .................................................. Andy Dix ................................................... Martin Clarke third UNGC Communication on Progress, President Chief Executive Marshalls employs full time social auditors namely Marshalls employees, customers, .................................................. Norman Richards in both India and China. Working on suppliers, partners, NGOs. Sustainability Charter Auditor/Administrator DATE: 26th June 2013 the ground alongside quarry & factory owners, managers, workers, unions and BITC CR Index non-governmental organisations, the auditor ensures all areas of the ETI Base 2013 COP Feedback British PreCast BITC Environment Index Marshalls Going for Gold For the second year running Marshalls has Code are upheld. Survey achieved a Gold ranking in the BITC CR As a valued stakeholder Marshalls would Index. The BITC CR Index is the UK’s leading Marshalls’ works with Just Solutions in very much appreciate your feedback and and most in-depth voluntary benchmark of corporate responsibility. Developed order to gain a consistent approach to comments on its 2013 Communication in consultation with business leaders auditing its supplier network and ensure on Progress (COP.) You may be aware that the first CR Index survey was launched supply chains remain ethical and best Marshalls became a signatory of the UNGC in 2002. In addition to it being a public exercise in transparency the Index was practice is shared where possible. Led by in January 2009. Our commitment to the created as a robust tool to help companies expert supply chain auditing specialist UNGC requires that we submit an annual systematically measure, manage and Stirling Smith, Just Solutions, is an SAI COP to the UN office in New York. This and integrate responsible business practice. It was Marshalls’ goal to attain a CR Index listed consultant who works to develop all other COP’s can be found in at Gold by 2012 which was achieved a and extend the SA8000 standard and the www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ year early and it is a real achievement to ETI BasenCode. The company relies upon publications maintain this high ranking the hard core of convinced companies to engage stakeholders and professionals Our 2009 COP received a ‘notable’ status together in an agreed programme. from the UNGC, an acknowledgement made to only a small percentage of BES 6001 Reponsible Sourcing 72 73 GRI Performance Indicators GRI Performance Indicators GRI Indicator Indicator Description UNGC COP Element GRI 3.1 Disclosure Addressed EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and Governance, Profile Disclosure 4.1 – Governance structure of the organization, including committees Actions Taken to Implement other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Commitments under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Principles 1-10 EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined benefits plan obligations. and Engagement organizational oversight Profile Disclosure 4.2 – Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. executive officer Profile Disclosure 4.3 – For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Profile Disclosure 4.4 – Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Governance, Profile Disclosure 4.14 – List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Sharing the COP with the Commitments Profile Disclosure 4.15 – Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Company’s Stakeholders LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. and Engagement engage HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Economic Disclosure on Management Approach – Economic Actions Taken to Implement contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles performance; policy; additional contextual information. 1, 4, 6 and 7 HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. EC1 – Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, No Specific COP Requirement HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subjected to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 – Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations No Specific COP Requirement UNGC Commitment Indicators Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach – Environmental Actions Taken to Implement Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles UNGC COP Element performance; policy; organizational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and 7, 8 and 9 GRI 3.1 Disclosure follow-up; additional contextual information. Addressed Strategy and Profile Disclosure 1.1 – Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, Statement of Continuing EN8 – Total water withdrawal by source Outcomes from Implementing Analysis chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its Support Principle 8 strategy EN18 – Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Actions Taken and Outcomes from Organisational Profile Disclosure 2.1 – Name of the organization No Specific COP Implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 Profile Profile Disclosure 2.2 – Primary brands, products, and/or services Requirement EN22 – Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Outcomes from Implementing Profile Disclosure 2.3 – Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating Principle 8 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Profile Disclosure 2.4 – Location of organization’s headquarters Labor Practices and Disclosure on Management Approach – Labor Practices and Decent Work Actions Taken to Implement Profile Disclosure 2.5 – Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries Decent Work Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the performance; policy; organizational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and 1, 3 and 6 report follow-up; additional contextual information. Profile Disclosure 2.6 – Nature of ownership and legal form Profile Disclosure 2.7 – Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of LA1 – Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region No Specific COP Requirement customers/beneficiaries) Profile Disclosure 2.8 – Scale of the reporting organization LA4 – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Outcomes from Implementing Profile Disclosure 2.9 – Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or Principles 1 and 3 ownership Profile Disclosure 2.10 – Awards received in the reporting period Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach – Human Rights Actions Taken to Implement Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 No Specific COP performance; policy; organizational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and Profile Disclosure 3.1 – Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided Requirement follow-up; additional contextual information. Profile Disclosure 3.2 – Date of most recent previous report (if any) Profile Disclosure 3.3 – Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) HR6 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures Actions Taken to Implement Profile Disclosure 3.4 – Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents to contribute to eliminate child labor Principles 1, 2 and 5 Profile Disclosure 3.5 – Process for defining report content Profile Disclosure 3.6 – Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint HR7 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Actions Taken to Implement ventures, suppliers) labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Principles 1, 2 and 4 Profile Disclosure 3.7 – State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Profile Disclosure 3.8 – Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subjected to human rights Actions Taken to Implement operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or reviews and/or impact assessments. Principles 1, 2, 4 and 5. between organizations Profile Disclosure 3.10 – Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement Profile Disclosure 3.11 – Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report Marshalls has endeavoured to ensure that all images contained within this publication adhere to its CRBP Universal Marketing & Advertising Policy and Code of Conduct. 74 75 For more information on Marshalls, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Marshalls plc, Birkby Grange, Birkby Hall Road, Birkby, Huddersfield, HD2 2YA Telephone: 01484 438900 www.marshalls.co.uk ©COPYRIGHT MARSHALLS FEBRUARY 2011
