kt Integrated Report 2014 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report is our 9th Sustainability Report and 2nd Integrated Report. Through this report, we have combined our sustainability and financial reporting. Reporting Time Frame and Boundary • Reporting Time Frame This report outlines kt’s achievements, initiatives and data that span from January 2013 to December 2013. This scope extends to April 2014 for major business activities, and in cases of quantifiable achievements, three year’s worth of data is presented to help readers identify relevant track records. • Reporting Boundary This report primarily covers 488 worksites, including nationwide branches, including the full scope of kt’s operational boundary. Our business boundary for each material issue was presented on page 21 of this report, in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Reporting Principles and Assurance • Reporting Principles To communicate our achievements with stakeholders more transparently and to further advance our sustainability management, this report was prepared in accordance with the Comprehensive option of the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines. • Assurance To ensure the reliability and transparentness of reporting processes, data and report content, this report was assured by an independent external assurance service provider. Characteristics of This Report Unlike conventional reporting structures that are classified by stakeholder group, this year’s integrated report is structured around the impact our business conduct has upon the economy, the environment and society, as well as the shared social value created from our business operations. This report presents issues of interest for stakeholders and key performance indicators in each material area, while offering in-depth ‘Special Reports’ on issues of high materiality and interest in sustainability management. Furthermore, this report contains interviews of representatives from major stakeholder groups to reflect a wide array of stakeholder feedback and expectations, to strengthen stakeholder engagement and communication. For More Information For additional information or inquiries on this report, please contact us at Address : kt CSV Center, Public Relations Office, 100 Sejong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul • Tel +82-2-732-5055 2 kt Integrated Report 2014 CONTENTS 04 Message from the BOD Chairman 05 Message from the CEO I. Overview of kt’s Sustainability 06 Company Overview 11 Governance 14 Ethics Management 16 Risk Management 17 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Materiality Test 22 Special Issues II. Company Value Creation 29 Innovation and Growth Drivers 34 Brand Value Creation 38 Broader Global Presence III. Creating Social Value 43 Shared Growth 48 Strategic Social Contribution IV. Customer Engagement 61 CS Management 62 Service Value Creation 71 IT Security Enhancement V. Human Resources 75 Talent Management 80 Great Work Place VI. Environmental Impact 89 Environmental Management Strategy 91 Response to Climate Change Appendix Cover Story 103 Sustainability Indicators kt is a company that embodies value 106 Third-Party Assurance Statement created through ‘communication’. As a client oriented company, we ceaselessly challenge 108 GRI Content Index ourselves to reach new frontiers in sharing information and knowledge and in bringing people closer together. The diffusing dots represent communication activities and kt’s commitment to a brighter, clearer and flourishing future. kt Integrated Report 2014 3 Message from the BOD Chairman kt’s success will be instrumental in defining the future success of our nation and people. It is critical that we advance sustainability to every area of our business conduct. Always standing at the forefront of the IT revolution, kt has pioneered innovations that assure kt’s economic growth through sustainability the history of Korea’s information and communications technology by management. Therefore, we are dedicated to creating shared value by implementing technology and innovation. IT has transformed our way offering innovative solutions and conducting our business ethically, of living and our very culture, and now it is changing how we work and transparently and fairly to fulfill our mission as a robust corporate citizen. operate the economy. This scope extends its influence beyond the fields of education, culture, health care, finance, logistics, and into broader Economic performance alone will no longer guarantee a company’s success. concepts such as cities and governments. As we continue to progress, we should adhere firmly to our ‘back to basic’ approach. We must fully comply with regulations and standards, establish Today, kt’s innovative technology plays an integral role in wide-ranging fair and transparent business practices, protect client information, and areas within our society by improving and addressing such issues as climate facilitate the social responsibility of our supply chain. By so doing, kt would change, income disparity, and labor innovation. maintain trust and be on par with expectations of stakeholders. At kt, our commitment to green IT helps us move one step closer to realizing As a people’s company responsible for the operation of our nation’s eco-friendly smart cities. Smart Grid, a convergence of power and IT communications network, we vow to deliver a healthier and safer workplace systems, enables green homes and services through the implementation that respects human rights and employee diversity. Our employees would of efficient power generation and consumption. We envision a near in turn, feel proud and responsible in knowing they are an essential part of future where zero carbon buildings and cities are built on the basis of kt’s the company. smartgrid operational platforms. I sincerely hope that kt’s dedication to fulfilling social responsibility, creating Targeting a wide range of people such as multi-cultural families, retirees, shared value, and reflecting the voice of its wide-ranging stakeholders and the IT isolated, kt’s digital classes help narrow the informational gap regarding business conduct translates into a company trusted and beloved among various groups of age, culture, and society. Our social contributions by everyone. Every BOD member, including myself, vows to fully assist in also aid in the creation of jobs, community restoration, and social cohesion. kt’s efforts for sustainable growth and development. Furthermore, we support SMBs(Small and Medium sized Businesses) by aiding in software production by means of various resource funding. Such actions help facilitate the local software industry’s ecosystem, ultimately propelling SMBs into new markets and continued growth. Sharing through technology, carbon footprint reduction, simultaneous Do-Kyun Song growth with partners, and enhancement of productivity are key social Chairman of the Board of Directors 4 kt Integrated Report 2014 Message from the CEO As a company that embodies Korean telecommunications history, kt aims to become a global No.1 company that puts the customers at the highest priority. Since the first installation of the telephone in Korea in 1896, kt has served For shareholders, kt endeavors to become a shareholder value No. 1 the Korean citizens with the state-of-the-art and the best-quality network company with greater future prospects, and for community, kt strives to be service in every step of the way of Korean telecommunications history. kt a catalyst to drive the Creative Economy* together with small and medium has always been the first and the best in connecting people, and we take enterprises by creating a global market based on ICT convergence services. great pride in the stories that are embedded in our customers’ lives. ICT is a key driver of the national competitive edge. kt has been building kt has always been at the forefront of IT industry. kt has led the “Powerful IT and maintaining the most extensive national telecommunications network. Korea” through connecting the homes with broadband networks, opened We will leverage the vast network infrastructure and lead convergence with the “Smart Era” with the introduction of smartphones, and spearheaded other industries to realize the massive potential of the cutting-edge ICT the new mobile broadband paradigm by launching the world’s first convergence services. wideband LTE-A service. It became the first service provider to serve over 5 million IPTV subscribers. For its service excellence, kt was bestowed various Having been at the core of telecommunications industry over a century, global accolades for three consecutive years, winning the most desired kt’s history resonates with Korean telecommunications history. We can global mobile awards at the Mobile World Congress, known as the Olympics assure you that kt will move forward with unwavering confidence and of global telecommunications community, and being selected as the Global determination as the No. 1 company. Supersector Leader in telecommunications by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Dear valued customers and shareholders, We thrive on your on-going support and warmest encouragement. Based on the foundation of trust and support of the customers, kt aspires to become the No. 1 company in providing the best customer value. With Everyone at kt will continue to put in the best efforts to provide the most a firm belief that customer value creation is the path to kt’s growth, we are memorable experiences. realigning ourselves in all areas such as products, services, marketing, and R&D to provide best-quality and differentiated services for our customers. Thank you. With ‘Challenge, Convergence, and Communication’ as our shared values, all of kt Group companies will work together to become a ‘Single kt’. * Creative Economy: Creating a national growth model that generates new opportunities by converging information, communication, technology, and culture with varioChang-Gyu Hwang us industries CEO, kt Corporation kt Integrated Report 2014 5 Company Overview Company History and Overview Since our establishment as Korea Electrical Communication Corporation in 1981, kt has been evolving and merged with ktF, its mobile communication service subsidiary, in 2009, to become Korea’s first to launch smartphones instigating the Smart Era. kt is making significant strides to offer wide-ranging convergence services that combine communication, IT, media and content. In doing so, we deliver Smart Life where people and things intersect to communicate while also reaching new frontiers as a ‘Global ICT* Convergence Leader’. kt will create a ubiquitous environment that provides connectivity regardless of location, time or terminal type. This will generate customer-friendly solutions that will enrich and simplify the human experience, while providing business solutions that contribute to improving corporate efficiency and competitive edge. * ICT : Information, Communication, Transaction No. of kt Service Subscribers between 2011 and 2013 (Unit: 1,000 persons) Company Name kt Category Wireless* Telephony BroadIPTV Total Date of Establishment December 10, 1981 band PSTN VoIP CEO Chang-Gyu Hwang 2011 16,563 15,929 3,230 7,823 3,076 46,622 Head Office 90, Buljeong-ro, Bundang-gu, 2012 16,502 15,318 3,348 8,037 4,030 47,234 Seongnam City, Gyeonggi Province 2013 16,454 14,513 3,505 8,067 4,968 47,507 * Wireless: CDMA + WCDMA+LTE ** PSTN: The data combines general calls (excluding enterprise calls), internal communication, ISDN and DID Subsidiaries As a listed holding company, kt offers fixed-line/wireless phones, ultra-high speed broadband and other communication services. To solidify our market leadership, we also launch innovative services in line with emerging industrial trends—such as our extended scope of communication services to other industries, communication-broadcasting convergences, and fixed-wireless convergences. Our subsidiaries are engaged in such operations as electrical communication, credit card services, satellite broadcasting, lease and corporate loans, construction of undersea cable construction, and public phone facility. Our major subsidiaries are as follows: (As of the end of 2013, Unit: KRW 100 million) Subsidiary Type of Business Sales Total Capital No. of Employees BCcard Credit card business 30,733 7,562 818 kt rental Rental business 8,484 2,737 1,064 kt skylife Satellite broadcasting services 6,003 4,003 307 kt ens Electrical communication, special category telecommunications services, and value5,726 775 404 added common carrier business kt telecop Facility and machinery security services 2,380 538 2,384 kt capital Financial services 2,202 3,872 135 kt estate Real estate development/supply and lease & management 2,498 13,219 422 kt media hub IPTV, Mobile TV business 3,047 1,028 253 kt sat Broadcasting communication and others 1,460 4,573 130 kt powertel Electrical communication 1,127 1,231 208 kt submarine Construction/maintenance and repair of undersea communication/power cables 826 883 73 kth Data home shopping, Contents distribution, SI/SM business 1,303 1,788 356 kt music Music services and music distribution on the wired/wireless internet platform 508 347 163 kt mhows Online marketing and advertising 480 115 71 nasmedia Advertising 248 562 199 kt cs Operation and construction of call centers 3,962 1,229 10,167 kt is Operation and construction of call centers 3,877 1,316 9,648 kt m&s Wholesale of machinery equipment and related supplies 8,840 579 2,251 kt ds Integration of compute systems, Design and Development of software 5,734 648 1,286 kt linkus Public phone facility maintenance and services 1,026 76 712 kt commerce Non-store wholesale/retail business 4,513 179 127 kt sports Sports team management (professional baseball & basketball teams etc) 217 89 48 kt innoedu Enterprise training business 216 42 131 6 kt Integrated Report 2014 Business Philosophy and Company Value Vision Strategy Mission and Vision kt's mission is to provide the world’s fastest revolutionary ICT driven telecommunication and convergence services, and expand on benefits for people’s lives by regarding the customer as the highest priority. Additionally, our vision is to achieve ‘Global No.1 kt’ status during the next decade. Core Values To achieve ‘Global No.1 kt’ status, our employees operate on the basis of three core values : ①No.1 kt, ②Single kt, ③Customer as our highest priority, ④rightpath management. kt will strive to achieve global leading status by providing differentiated high quality services, and become a ‘Single kt’ by maximizing synergy between business divisions based on cooperation and open communication. Additionally, we will focus all of our corporate resources on our customers, and regard them as our company’s highest priority. Our employees will operate on the basis of smart decision making and moral ethics, ultimately leading to a brighter corporate future. The core values are applied to our HR policy to ensure that our employees practice such values. Vision Structure Provide the fastest and most revolutionary ICT driven telecommunication and convergence services, and create Mission benefits for people’s lives by putting the customer at the highest priority Vision Global No.1 No.1 kt Aim at global top with highest quality and differentiated services Right-path Management Operate on smart Single kt Core Values decision making and moral ethics Core Values Create synergy by means of open for a brighter communication future and cooperation Customer as our highest priority Focus all of our resources and regard our customers as highest priority kt Integrated Report 2014 7 Management Strategy “Create a Convergence-Driven GiGA-Era based on GiGA Infrastructure and ICT Convergence Services, and Achieve Global Top Status as a Leader of Future GiGAtopia” Lead a Convergencedriven GiGA era First Priority Expand ICT on Customers Convergence • First Class Customer Services Service Smart Energy, Integrated • Differentiated Products Security, Health Care, & Services Intelligent Traffic Control, etc. * Converge ICT with other industries Lead Wired/Wireless GiGAtopia • GiGA Network • GiGA Media • GiGA IoT Contribute to the Creative Economy of Korea through realization of GiGAtopia. • Improve the quality of life and gain industrial competitive edge through future oriented network and ICT convergence services • Tap global markets by means of local convergence-driven GiGA business models • Develop Korea’s hidden champions and outstanding venture businesses/SMEs, create an open business ecosystem Over the past century, kt has led the history of the local telecommunications Our business strategy includes kt’s commitment to realizing a ‘GiGAtopia industry. We have been there every step of the way; from the nation’s first where every citizen is offered a convenient exceeding comfortable lifestyle. mobile telecommunications services that revolutionized the life of local kt will strive to pioneer the Creative Economy of Korea by strengthening citizens(1984), Wibro services that deliver ultra-high speed connectivity national competitiveness of the whole ICT industry. In particular, kt will on-the-go(2006), and the launching of the iPhone, a small yet powerful cooperate with leading local manufacturers, contents developers and revolution that helped realize ‘smart life’(2009). solution providers to disseminate Korea’s success stories in advancing convergence-driven GiGA into the wider global markets. Additionally, we On the basis of our network platforms that were responsible for pioneering will strategically share our patents and technology while offering financial new paradigms within the telecommunications industry, we will strive to support, management, consulting, and Econovation Center initiatives to lead a convergence-driven GiGA era. We will think from the customers’ nurture outstanding ventures and SMEs into globally-competitive hidden perspective and be the first to offer services that exceed the expectations champions. Our ICT-based social contribution initiatives will also help of our customers and society: we are determined to provide customized narrow the digital divide, create jobs for retirees and support hearingservices which are easily accessible and convenient, enable users to access impaired children, ultimately improving the quality of life of our local devices around-the-clock, and resolve any customer inconveniences in community. the most expedient manner possible. We will also focus our capabilities in building a GiGA wired/wireless network on the basis of our core technology, With the experience and strength that have driven Korea’s telecommunias well as differentiated media/IoT platforms. Furthermore, we will discover cations industry for the past 100 years, kt will evolve into a global No.1 and foster future oriented ICT convergence services within diverse industrial telecommunication company and create paradigms within the ICT industry sectors such as smart energy, integrated security, next-generation media, for next century. health care and intelligent traffic control on the basis of our core wired/ wireless GiGA, cloud and big data infrastructure. 8 kt Integrated Report 2014 Business Portfolio kt’s business portfolio covers a broad range of services from wireless communication, broadband IPTV dedicated lines, fixed-line communication and enterprise solutions. The value chain of the telecommunications industry consisting of contents, platforms, networks and terminals is based on transmission over a fixed/wireless transmission infrastructure. But expansion and relocation within multi-dimensional industries is now common due to convergence trends and the technological development of the telecom industry. The Korean telecom industry is also experiencing similar transformation; rapid technological developments in conventional fixed-line telecommunications, high speed broadband and mobile telcoms segments. Our business portfolio is adjusting to evolving customer needs which are repositioning the value chain towards the fixed-wireless convergence and merging of telcoms with other industries. While the advancement of communication technology results in the replacement of conventional telecom services by non-telecom companies, telecom services are diversifying their scope into VoIP(Voice over IP), VPN(Virtual Private Network), IPTV and specifically the 4G wideband LTE-A(Long Term Evolution-Advanced). As such, we are faced with both opportunities and risks. Mainstream Individual/Home Customer Services Mainstream Enterprise Services (http://www.kt.com/biz/biz_02.jsp) In line with emerging convergence trends between voice & data, wired It is by sustained innovation that results from ‘think outside the box’ & wireless, and telecoms & broadcasting within the telecom industry, approach and ceaseless communication, that we deliver smarter and multiranging from fixed line calls and wireless calls to internet connectivity, dimensional business services. kt’s business services ensure that our we deliver customer satisfaction through our leading service quality and customers experience a more agile and efficient business environment. technology. Specifically, our olleh tv set a new world record in gaining 5 Dedicated Data Lines million subscribers in the shortest time span and is serving as a main driver Connect two locations directly for dedicated use Dedicated olleh biz – Security/reliability line of content distribution and the facilitation within the media industry. In Offer security, traffic analysis, and QOS services at affordable olleh biz kornet addition, being our nation’s telcom provider with the nation’s largest bundle prices premium subscriber base, we offer a family-friendly bundle service as a way to relieve Use the MPLS network dedicated to enterprise applications olleh biz VPN premium the burden of telecom bills on households. Enterprise Communication Remote conferencing services based on phones, web and olleh biz conferencing conferencing equipment call service olleh Services (http://www.kt.com/biz/biz_01.jsp) Offer affordable rates and wide-ranging additional services olleh biz internet calls (internet calls) Category Description Flagship Services Free-of-charge call Enterprises pay for the calls made by their customers number 080 Mobile Offer communication services that are most LTE unlimited closely related to our daily lives: voice, video LTE WARP Send a large quantity of messages easily, quickly and reliably olleh biz messaging text-messaging and data, through the latest Mobile smartphones and pads on the wideband LTE-A Mobile-based business operations – Offer a mobile business Enterprise Mobility network environment TV Subscribers enjoy the nation’s largest number of olleh tv skylife In-houseFree-of-charge extension calls/off-site – Offer mobile olleh biz FMC group solutions TV channels with high-resolution picture quality olleh tv live Wired-wireless integrated environment, unlimited free extension calls olleh biz freezone on demand; they can choose from up to 150,000 olleh tv smart episodes of daytime dramas, movies, educational olleh tv mobile Representative Internet Hub IDC content and documentaries, and even access Direct access to the kt IDC internet backbone network/increased olleh biz colocation concerts, sports games, games, karaoke, speed, savings in time/costs shopping and educational content through the Lease IT systems at affordable prices/Stable server operation and olleh biz server hosting management services smart olleh tv Enterprise SaaS Internet Offer up to 100 mega-speed safe, ultra-high Internet Alright Open a marketplace to buy and sell diverse enterprise IT products Oaasys speed and reliable internet connectivity across Internet Special Collaboration services available at affordable prices without a olleh bizmeka groupware the nation complex deployment (e-mail, e-payment, messenger, bulletin 4G WiBro Offer convenient and fast ultra-high speed 4G WiBro board, etc.) / WiFi wireless communication services anywhere in WiFi Multi/Single Call center services available monthly in a cost-effective olleh bizmeka call center manner without initial deployment Korea (and even overseas) in a premium wireless internet space that is based in an environment Space Solution with the highest-level security possible Network-enabled customized video/broadcasting services olleh biz digital signage Home Deliver top-notch quality and affordable rates as Home Calls Manage social infrastructure facilities through kt’s network olleh biz MOS Calls the nation’s most widely-used call service Internet Calls Network-enabled real-time CCTV video monitoring service olleh biz i-cam International Offer exceptional call quality in 246 countries International Call Calls as well as in 82 countries where direct lines are 001 established (the largest in Korea) Global Operations (http://www.kt.com/biz/global_01.jsp) Bundle kt’s differentiated convergence services that LTE olleh Together On the basis of our success within the local market, we are fully expanding Products deliver convergence services (internet, home Internet olleh our global presence and delivering globalized customer value. We calls, internet calls, TV, and mobile) on diverse Together strengthen our competitive edge in the global market by expanding our devices, while even offering ucloud, that allows cooperation with leading global companies and advancing into the global users to manage their files conveniently from any market with outstanding SME partners. Furthermore, we are expanding place at anytime our global presence in our key overseas locations, including our overseas ucloud ‘Personal Cloud Storage’ service that stores ucloud customers’ data in real time (automated ucloud office subsidiaries and offices positioned in each continent of the world. synchronization) and allows free access from Our portfolio of global ICT services that target governmental agencies and wide-ranging terminals global enterprises across the world includes infrastructure development, Smart Home Smart total home service that bundles all kinds Kibot 2 public infrastructure services, smart solutions, and managed services. of services-from education, video calls and Smart Home Pad To deliver high-quality internet and international call services at more intelligent robots to multimedia and daily life tipsSmart Home HD affordable prices, we are also strengthening our global dedicated data line that are available anytime, anywhere remotely mini & IP services as well as traffic wholesale services. kt Integrated Report 2014 9 Economic Performance Business Performance Total Revenue Our revenue on a K-IFRS consolidated basis are as follows. (Unit: KRW billion) 23,810.6 23,856.4 21,272.0 19,266.6 19,663.0 16,832.4  Service Provided 4,439.7 4,589.8 4,147.6  Products Sold* 2011 2012 2013 * Based on the consolidated K-IRFS basis (*) and including revenue-recognition real estate construction contracts Revenue from Wireless Data Operation (Unit: KRW billion) Category Wireless Fixed-line Media Content Financial Rental Product Other 2011 6,969.4 6,950.7 803.0 996.6 4,325.1 1,227.2 2012 6,913.4 6,392.3 1,067.9 3,574.3 4,600.9 1,307.6 2013 6,976.5 5,965.5 1,354.5 3,859.9 3,966.5 1,687.7 * Other sales in 2012 were adjusted due to the incorporation of kt submarine on a consolidated basis ** Based on our IR documents Distribution of Value by Stakeholder Group (Unit: KRW 100 million) Total Dividends Paid Employee Cash Payment to Social Contribution to Shareholders Remuneration Suppliers Expenditures* 4,866 4,874 29,800 28,024 24,811 25,524 23,801 635.3 18,023 511 421.9 1,951 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 * Total sum of investments in local communities, financial and in-kind donations, support and sponsorship 10 kt Integrated Report 2014 Governance Transparent Governance Our Governance Charter defines the qualifications, obligations, responsibilities and roles of board directors to strike the right balance in Transparent Governance our BOD operations in terms of competency, experience, independence Since privatization in 2002, kt aggressively adopted best practice and expertise. To ensure the efficient operation of the BOD and the recommendations for corporate governance in accordance with global accountability of the directors, our BOD evaluates their members on their standards that emphasize professional executive management systems BOD activities and individual performance each year and the results are and an independent board of directors (BOD). This resulted in a corporate voluntarily disclosed in our business reports. Any decision made by the governance system that befit kt’s status as a global company. BOD requires more than a majority of the current directors with voting rights Leadership of management (CEO) and BOD is isolated to establish to be in attendance, along with the consent of a majority of the attending a governance structure that is objective of and independent from directors, if not stated otherwise in the Korean Commercial Law or the Article management. Furthermore, the ‘kt Governance Charter’ was introduced of Association. to establish the Corporate Governance Committee as a way to improve its governance structure by reviewing the size, composition and roles of Composition of the BOD, As of March 21, 2014 the BOD. This policy paid off as we were honored with the Leading Award Category Name Major Career Responsibility (2010) at the Corporate Governance Review, supervised by the Korean (Gender) (Attending Committee) Corporate Governance and Sustainability Center (CGS). Additionally, we NonChang(Current) CEO CEO & President, Independent Gyu Hwang (Former) President & National CTO, Executive have maintained the highest rating (A+) in corporate governance, according Director (Male) Office of Strategic R&D Planning Committee(Chairman) to the EGS(Environmental Social Governance) evaluation made in 2013. (Former) President & CTO, Samsung Electronics Hoon Han (Current) Head of Corporate Planning Member of the Corporate Structure and Operation of the BOD (Male) Group Governance Committee, (Former) Head of kt Strategy & Member of the Executive kt’s board of directors (BOD) consists of a total of 11 directors, including Planning Office Committee eight outside directors and three non-independent directors (as of Mar. 31, Heon-Moon (Current) Head of Customer Business Member of the Executive Lim Group (Former) Chief Operating Officer Committee 2014), to assist with transparent decision-making through efficient checking, (Male) of kt Telecom & Convergence Group monitoring and expert advice. To guarantee the right balance among the Independent Do-Kyun (Current) Advisor, BKL (law firm) Chairman of the BOD, responsibility, experience, independence and knowledge of the BOD, the Outside Song (Former) Standing Commissioner, Member of the Evaluation Director (Male) Korea Communications commission and Compensation Corporate Governance Committee under the BOD is commissioned to review the Committee, Member of size, composition and role of the board, to improve efficiency of board-related the Corporate Governance operations. Keuk-Je Sung (Current) Professor, Graduate School Chairman of the RelatedOur CEO & Chairman is appointed through a voting process at the general (Male) of International Studies, Kyung Hee Party Transactions University (Former) Chief negotiator to Committee shareholder meeting from the pool of candidates recommended by the CEO the WTO service negotiations Member of the Audit Nominating Committee, and the current CEO & Chairman Chang-Gyu Hwang, Committee was appointed at the general shareholder meeting on January 27, 2014. NonSang-Kyun (Current) Professor of Electrical Member of the Audit Cha Engineering & Computer Science, Committee, independent directors (aside from the Chairman), are appointed at the general (Male) Seoul National University Member of the Corporate shareholder meeting from the candidates recommended by the Chairman with Governance Committee the consent of the BOD: the general shareholder meeting on March 21, 2014 Jong-Goo Kim (Current) Corporation lawyer, New Chairman of the Audit appointed Hoon Han as the Head of the Corporate Planning Group and Heon(Male) Dimension Law Group Committee, Member (Former) The 6th Minister of Justice of the Related-Party Moon Lim as the Head of the Customer Business Group. The Outside Director Transactions Committee Candidate Nominating Committee, which consists of all outside directors (aside Chu-Hwan (Current) Member, Presidential Chairman of the Evaluation from those whose term is nearing completion) and one non-independent Yim Advisory Council on Science & and Compensation (Male) Technology Committee, Member of the director, recommends outside director candidates to the general shareholder (Former) President, Korea Digital Cable Related-Party Transactions meetings. This committee ensures that experts in diverse fields—who are Laboratories Committee capable of offering professional advice to help kt advance even further—are Pil-Hwa Yoo (Current) Dean and professor, SKK Member of the Audit recommended to the general shareholder meeting. The general shareholder (Male) Graduate School of Business at Committee, Sungkyunkwan University Member of the Evaluation meeting on March 21, 2014 appointed five outside directors including Jong(Former) Vice-Chairman, Korean and Compensation Goo Kim, a former Minister of Ministry of Justice. In recommending outside Academic Society of Business Committee, Administration director candidates, the committee strives to secure the BOD diversity and the Suk-Gwon (Current) Professor of MIS and Chairman of the Corporate complementary skills of BOD members. Chang Telecommunications, School of Governance Committee, To enhance the independence of the BOD, the chairman is appointed through (Male) Business Hanyang University Member of the Evaluation the BOD vote from the pool of outside directors and serves for a period of one (Former) President, Korea Association and Compensation for Telecommunications Policy Committee, year. As of March 2014, our BOD has been chaired by Do-Kyun Song, an outside Dae-Keun (Current) Professor of the College of Member of the Corporate director. Park Economics and Finance, Hanyang Governance Committee To improve the expertise and agility in decision-making, our BOD operates five (Male) University Member of the Related(Former) Committee Member, Korea Party Transactions standing subcommittees (Corporate Governance Committee, Audit Committee, Finance Corporations Committee Evaluation and Compensation Committee, Executive Committee, and RelatedParty Transactions Committee) and two temporary subcommittees (CEO Nominating Committee and Outside Director Candidate Nominating Committee). Status of BOD Operations The three subcommittees: Audit Committee, Evaluation and Compensation Category 2011 2012 2013 Committee and Related-Party Transactions Committee consist solely of outside No. of BOE Meetings 12 11 14 directors to ensure their independent operations. Our BOD has the authority to Average Attendance (%) 98 97 98 establish additional subcommittees on an as-needed basis. BOD Performance 4.6 4.5 4.2 * For further details, please refer to the Investor Relations section of our website Evaluation Outcomes (www.kt.com). (On a scale of one to five) kt Integrated Report 2014 11 Status of BOD Activities CEO All Outside Directors, Matters concerning the examination and review BOD No. of Attending Nominating One Nonof CEO candidates and their recommendation Date of Committee Independent Director to the general shareholder meeting Mee Agenda Details Outside Directors Meeting ting (Maximum Number) Outside Director All Outside Directors, Matters concerning the examination and Approving the 31st non-consolidated financial Candidate One Nonreview of outside director candidates and their 1 Jan. 31, 2013. 7(7) statements (draft) and seven others Nominating Independent Director recommendation to the general shareholder Limit on the remuneration of the BOD members in Committee meeting 2 Feb. 14, 2013 7(7) 2013 (draft) and 11 others 3 Mar. 15, 2013 Building new data centers (draft) and five others 7(7) Remuneration of Management Based on Accountability and 4 Apr. 28, 2013 2013 sustainability management plans (draft) and six others 8(8) Performance Establishing and investing in LTE Infra Co., a joint 5 Jun. 7, 2013 7(8) To establish a management system where the CEO—as a professional venture in Rwanda (draft) and one more Approving auction prices paid to secure new spectrum manager—is held accountable for business operations, our BOD establishes 6 Jul. 26, 2013 7(7) bands (draft) contractual management terms for the CEO. To fairly evaluate the CEO’s Changing the composition of BOD subcommittees performance, the Evaluation and Compensation Committee (which consists 7 Aug. 8, 2013 6(7) (draft) and eight others of only outside directors) sets the CEO management goals on the basis of the Modifying a portion of the plan to establish and invest annual goals set by the BOD, makes quantifiable and qualitative evaluations 8 Sep. 13, 2013 in the Rwandan joint venture LTE Infra Co. (draft) and 7(7) one more at the end of the each business year, and reports the outcomes at the general Reporting the 2013 Q3 financial statements (both shareholder meeting. In 2013, our CEO remuneration was 15.96 times* 9 Oct. 25, 2013 7(7) consolidated and non-consolidated) and one more the median value of all kt employees, as a result of the 2013 performance Reporting follow-up measures after the announcement evaluation. The remuneration criteria and methods for the CEO and other 10 Nov. 12, 2013 7(7) of the current CEO to resign CEO non-independent directors are determined by the BOD, in accordance with 11 Nov. 18, 2013. Management contract (draft) and one more 7(7) business results, and are reported at the general shareholder meeting 12 Nov. 29, 2013 Reporting in relation to dividends in 2013 and one more 7(7) each year. To improve the fairness in the BOD decisions concerning the 13 Dec. 12, 2013 Undertaking the Project C (draft) and one more 7(7) remuneration of the CEO and non-independent directors, the CEO and nonConvening an ad-hoc general shareholder meeting independent directors are prohibited from participating in the decision14 Dec. 18, 2013 7(7) (draft) and one more making process as stipulated by the Article of Association. * kt held a total of 14 BOD meetings in 2013 to deliberate and decide on a total of * To prevent any data distortion from the unusual severance pay made to a resigning 58 agendas items including ‘2013 sustainability management plans (draft)’. outside director in 2013, the number was calculated on the basis of actual ** Sang-Kyun Cha was re-appointed as an outside director and Do-Kyun Song was newly remuneration. appointed as an outside director at the general shareholder meeting on March 15, 2013. ***Jong-Hwan Song resigned (midway) as an outside director on June 13, 2013. Sustainability Management Limit and Status of the Remuneration of BOD Members (Including the Outside Director) (As of Dec. 31, 2013) (Unit: KRW 100 million) kt’s Strategy for Sustainability Management Limit Approved by the Total Average Due to kt’s commitment to sustainability management, we were recognized Category General Shareholder Remuneration as ‘Industry Group Leader’ of the global telecommunication sector by DJSI Remuneration Meeting in 2013 per Person for three consecutive years(2011~2013). We vow to take advantage of the Non-Independent Directors (three Directors) 18.68 6.23 network and IT technology that we possess to undertake social contribution Outside Directors Who Serve initiatives. We will mitigate social conflicts by placing top priority on on the Audit Committee 3.4 0.8 ensuring that children from low-income families, disabled individuals and 65 (four Directors) multi-cultural families are not marginalized in this information-driven smart Outside Directors Who society. We will also plan ways to put the MDGs (Millennium Development Do Not Serve on the Audit 3.0 0.8 Goal) into practice and abide by the ten principles of the UN Global Compact Committee (four Directors) to fulfill our role as a global CSR leader. * The number of directors is based on the number of current directors as of December 31, 2013. The total remuneration for outside directors, and the average total remuneration per director in 2013, include the remuneration paid to Jong-Hwan Song Sustainability Committee an outside director who resigned in the middle of his appointment on June 13, 2013. The goal of our sustainability management is to reach the level of global companies by advancing sustainability management. Thus, we engage our Status of the BOD Subcommittees (As of March. 31, 2014) customers and stakeholders in improving our sustainability management Category Composition Purpose and Responsibility outcomes. To reflect material issues in our business conduct, we set five Audit Four Outside Audits on accounting and business operations top priorities: ethics management, customer management, environmental Committee Directors management, win-win management and social contribution. Meanwhile, Evaluation and Four Outside Management contract with the CEO and Compensation Directors evaluation we operate the Sustainability Committee chaired by the head of Public Committee Relations Office and served by executives of related divisions. Since 2011, Related-Party Four Outside Related-party transactions stipulated as our sustainability management outcomes and plans are regularly reported Transactions Directors requiring the approval of the BOD in the ‘Act to the BOD as stipulated by relevant corporate policies. The attendees Committee on Anti-Monopoly and Fair Trade’ and the at the BOD meeting (held in March 2014) voted for 2013 sustainability ‘Commercial Law’ management plans (draft). The Corporate Governance Committee (under Corporate Four Outside Improvement of corporate governance the BOD) receives progress reports and functions as a bridge between Governance Directors, One NonCommittee Independent Director the operational system of the Sustainability Committee and the official Executive Three NonMatters commissioned by the BOD on general sustainability management system. This ensures that our top management Committee Independent Directors business operations is in charge of sustainability management decision making. 12 kt Integrated Report 2014 Recognized as 『Industry Group Leader』 in the DJSI TelecommuniTop Five Main Roles Responsible StakeTasks Departments holders cation Service Sector Transparent Ethics management, improvement of Strategy & Planning Shareholders Since being listed by DJSI* 「as an Asia Pacific group member in 2009」, we Management corporate governance, risk management Office, Ethics have also been recognized as one of the 318 members of the world index Management Office, Financing Office in 2010. Following these achievements, kt has successfully maintained Customer Service development, product Customer Business, Customers its position of top ranker within the telecommunications industry by being Management responsibility, information security, Marketing named super sector leader in 2011~2012 and industry group leader in customer management, innovation Business, IT 2013. management (product/social Business innovation), brand management * The DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index), created jointly by Dow Jones, Environmental Environmental policy and management Networks Business, Environment the world’s largest financial information provider, and SAM, a Swiss-based Management system, climate change strategy, kt estate, Office of (Future sustainability assessment agency, measures the level of sustainability environmental innovation and efficiency, Communication Generations) management of 2,500 companies around the world and honors top-performers. energy saving Once listed on the DJSI, these companies take precedence as investment Win-Win Fair HR operations (HR development, Human Resources, Employees/ destinations in the Socially Responsible Investment Fund and secure reliable Cooperation talent recruitment and retention), General Affairs, Suppliers and long-term investors. employment and labor (labor practice Procurement indicator, workplace health & safety), Strategy fair trade Social Social contribution, public projects Office of Local Contribution (narrowing the digital divide), social Communication Communities cooperation (investment in and (Governments) cooperation with local communities) Board of Directors Reporting Feedback CEO Sustainability Committee Executive Office (Public Relations office) Environmental Transparent Management Customer Management Win-Win Cooperation Social Contribution Management Governance improvement Service innovation Green IT Fair HR operations Social volunteering Ethics management Product responsibility Energy saving Employment and labor Public projects Transparent management Information security Response to Fair Trade Social cooperation environmental regulations Customer Business, Synergy Management Executive Office Strategy & Planning Office Networks Business, Marketing Business, Human Resources (Public Relations office) Ethics Management Office, kt estate, IT Business General Affairs Financing Office Executive Office (Public Relations office) Procurement Strategy kt Integrated Report 2014 13 Ethics Management kt embeds ethics management into daily business conduct by operating and expanding ethics management systems and infrastructure. To ensure top priority is placed on our customers in accordance with the ‘Right-Way’ principle, our 『New Ethics Management Principles』 were established in March 2014 to strengthen our commitment and execution under goals to becoming a society serving company that fulfills social responsibility. Our ‘Ethics Management FAQ’ and ‘Clean-365 Center’ offer appropriate solutions to various ethical dilemmas our employees face in doing business. The ‘HotLine to the Audit Committee Chairman’ and the ‘Ethics Violation Report Center’ serve as whistle-blower programs to help kt take sustained self-initiated action to improve its business ethics. Each year, employees who emulate the virtues of our ethics management principles are selected and rewarded as part of our wide-ranging corporate culture policies for ethics management. No. 1 kt’s 『New Ethics Management Principles』 『We lead the future of the company—through making the right decisions and practicing ethical judgments—so that kt evolves into a global No. 1 company』 . To this end, we define 『Customer First, Compliance, Back to the Basics, Ownership, and Social Responsibility』 as the five behavior principles for ethics management that all kt employees share, live by and vow to practice in their everyday work lives. Principle 1. Customers are our top priority. 01 1-1. We respect and thoroughly protect the value and information of our customers. 1-2. We ceaselessly create differentiated value that assists our customers. Principle 2. We fully comply with all regulations and standards. 2-1. We act fairly and transparently, in accordance with the law and business ethics. 2-2. We secure and maintain management transparency and strictly protect trade secrets. Principle 3. We stick to the basics and principles. 3-1. We value the interest of the entire company in making reasonable and objective decisions and in responsibly representing the company. 3-2. We separate private matters from those of work life activities and take the lead in creating a sound and ethical corporate culture. Principle 4. We believe in our own solidarity and in a company with a self-initiated sense of ownership. 4-1. We do not fear failure; we continuously push ourselves to reach higher. 4-2. We seek efficiency gains through autonomy and empowerment. Principle 5. We fulfill our social responsibility and obligation as a people’s company. 5-1. We protect the rights and interests of shareholders and improve the 「quality of life」 for our employees. 5-2. We value and respect the environment, safety and human rights. 5-3. We commit ourselves to social contribution initiatives and forge shared-growth partnerships with business partners. Ethics Management Initiatives Undertaken Hosted the Progress Rally through the Ethics Management Office to help reach the goal of becoming Global No. 1 kt Established and Announced the New Ethics Management Principles Signed the Pledge to Abide by the New Ethics Management Principles Launched the Clean kt national holiday campaign – Clean 365 Center Launched year-round and special initiatives to monitor ethical practices Offered ethics training, delivered directly by department heads (executives) to employees (direct lecturing on business ethics) Operated diverse ethics management Preventive Channels Ethics Management FAQ communication channels for each scenario Clean 365 Center Post reporting channels Reports of violations of business ethics Hot-Line to the Audit Committee Chairman 14 kt Integrated Report 2014 Business Ethics Awards Tax Compliance Our Ethics Management Office initiated the Business Ethics Incentive Policy kt is in full compliance with tax laws and relevant regulations within in 2013 to identify best practices in ethics management and disseminate operational jurisdictions. We strive to pay our taxes efficiently within the ethics awareness across the board. This year the Ethics Management Office legally-permissible boundary in order to effectively operate our financial/ rewarded a total of 15 best practices made by employees and departments operational spending programs and customer service operations. We are in complying with the four basic principles of ethics management (honesty, in an open, honest and positive business relationship with the National Tax transparency, integrity and fairness). Our Ethics Management Office vows Service(NTS) of Korea and transparently disclose all tax-related issues. kt has to reward top-performers in ethics management and to remain steadfastly always been a faithful taxpayer in accordance with the corporate tax policy committed to business ethics. of the NTS. Our income tax expenses, deferred income taxes and effective tax rates are disclosed in audit reports and disclosed externally through the governmental electronic disclosure system (dart.fss.or.kr). Code of conduct kt’s effective tax rate for 2013 was 25.2%, which is above the highest Personal Ethics Standards guide our employees in making judgments, corporate tax rate of 24.2% (including local income tax rates). This fulfilling one’s job properly and take actions to restrain from any negligence, discrepancy in tax rate is due to the adjustment of differences between indifference or complacency—that may arise in business conduct. These profits and losses in the account book and those in relation to tax standards were developed based on the past actual substandard practices operations. As a responsible corporate citizen, we vow to pay our taxes and categorized into four phases: responsible employees, their department, transparently and faithfully. job and job position—while self inspections were made in September 2013. These standards motivate manager-level employees to become good role models by voluntarily breaking away from unethical practices, developing Compliance an ethical awareness and spreading such awareness across the board. To advance and supervise our ethics management practices, we strive to abide by anti-monopoly and fair trade regulations, unfair competition prevention regulations and information network regulations. In 2013, Lectures on Ethics Management kt was imposed with a total of KRW 52 billion in penalties by the Korea Our Ethics Management Office prepares monthly documents that introduce Communications Commission for eight legal violations including general ethics management (including its concept and systems) as well ‘infringement on user interest concerning the payment of handset as kt’s ethical management practices. Documents were distributed to subsidies’ and took corrective action in compliance with the corrective 720 locations across the nation while directors of those locations gave order given by the commission. kt will fully abide by relevant regulations a lecture to 32,000 employees on ethics management. This encouraged and faithfully fulfill our duties through complete preliminary reviews while employees to develop ethics awareness and the ethical attitudes required striving to prevent the recurrence of such violations. in conducting business. Status of Trial Decisions Made by Regulatory Authorities 2013 Topics for Monthly Ethics Management Training (Unit: KRW million) Time Topic Category Date of Penalty Corrective DecisionMeasure Apr. Information leaks (Part 1) Making May Information leaks (Part 2) Infringement of user interest concerning the Mar. 14, 1,610 Jun. Win-Win growth with suppliers payment of handset subsidies by kt Co., Ltd. 2013 Jul.~Aug. Gifts and bribes Corrective order on the infringement of user Jul. 18, 20,240 Suspension of interest concerning the payment of handset 2013 sales activity Sep. Self-administered reviews of Personal Ethics Standards subsidies by kt Co., Ltd. for seven days Oct. Four basic principles of ethics management Corrective order on the violation of the Nov. 15, 520 Telecommunications Business Act concerning 2013 Nov. Prevention of workplace sexual harassment the restrictions on terminating mobile phone service contracts by kt Co., Ltd. Corrective order on the infringement of user Dec. 27, 29,700 Conveyance of Ethics Management to Affiliates interest concerning the payment of handset 2013 subsidies by kt Co., Ltd. To align kt and its affiliates in ethics management through sharing of goals and directions of ethics management, we offered quarterly training and When the ‘Terminal Distribution Structure Improvement Act’ takes effect in workshops for ethics management officials at affiliates to help introduce October 2014, the current competition landscape will shift from amount of best practices in ethics management between kt and its affiliates. subsidy payment to fundamental sectors such as service quality, service Synovation, the bulletin board of affiliates, is constantly uploaded with rates, and lowered factory prices of handsets. This would help solve market postings of educational materials and reference cases so that affiliates trends previously dominated and distorted by financially-superior carriers, can realign their ethics management strategy, and properly convey such and reduce the burden imposed on households due to communication bills guidelines. caused by the frequent replacement of handsets and help carriers secure investment capabilities. As a telecoms operator, kt will fully comply with this Actions Taken against Violations of Ethics Management Standards act by playing a leading role of stabilizing the telecommunications market. 2011 2012 2013 Dismissals 13 14 12 Disciplinary Measures 184 243 116 kt Integrated Report 2014 15 Risk Management Risk Management Risk Prevention Initiatives The occurrence of risks is bound to increase due to rapidly changing Risk Prevention Process business and technological conditions: an intense competition from the saturated telecommunications market, the blurring boundary of Identify Evaluate Diagnoses Identify Response telecommunications value chains and the evolution of wired/wireless Risks Risks Risks Directions network technology. At kt, our risk management system is designed to Self risk diagnoses, Identify key Conduct the inImplement place top priority on our customers and improve our corporate value by preliminary review risks after the depth analyses improvement responding to all types of risk situations that concern strategy, operation of risks in launching materiality test of the causal tasks and regulations, as well as financial risks. services relationship and diagnose problems Risk Management System Boundary of Risk Management and Risk Response Principles Company-wide Risk Evaluation Boundary of Risk Management At kt, our self-initiated regular risk diagnoses system covers risks that Losses caused by inappropriate decision-making or concern general business conduct issues (business risks, unreasonable Strategic systems or processes) as well as service launches. This enables each of changing business conditions our business divisions to identify risks within their scope of responsibility Financial losses caused by fluctuating market prices and promptly respond to such risks so as to minimize their occurrence and Finance or deteriorating credibility of business partners spreading. The number of risks identified over the years is 227 in 2010, Process targets unmet due to substandard/delayed 235 in 2011, 190 in 2012 and 489 in 2013. Company-wide key risks were Operation business operations or unclear job roles selected by evaluation on the basis of possibility of occurrence and impact, while appropriate response strategies and improvement measures are Losses caused by violations of governmental Compliance identified through the in-depth analysis of the diagnosis outcomes. In so regulations, social standards or internal policies doing, we prevent our corporate value from being compromised due to risk Losses caused by natural disasters or other occurance. Event unexpected or uncontrollable incidents Preliminary Review of Service Risks Risk Response Principles Our ‘pre-review of services in relation to service launch’ policy was initiated in 2010 to prevent incomplete services from causing any harm—either to R apid & Resolute Report immediately and take resolute action our customers or the company. From the perspective of operational risks/ legal risks/fair competition/information security, in-depth risk reviews I ntegrity & Initiative Disclose with integrity and take the initiative are made by specialized departments, so as to deliver the differentiated customer value of defect-free services. Such preliminary reviews amounted S pecific & Supportive Set and support specific response directions to 417 in 2010, 602 in 2011, 362 in 2012 and 212 in 2013. These reviews minimized risk factors, such as customer complaint caused by launching K nowledge & Accumulative Prevent through accumulated knowledge substandard services. Furthermore, the sustained operation of this review system over the last four years has contributed to improving employees’ Respond to and minimize any present or future uncertainties that self-initiated risk diagnostic capabilities, as well as risk awareness. may negatively affect corporate value in business conduct Cultural Expansion of Risk Management In addition to the ‘preliminary review of risks in launching services’ and ‘self Deployment of the ERM System risk diagnoses’, we also offer offline training every year to share business With the recognition of the importance of integrated company-wide risk division-specific risks and their prevention/management measures management, we have been operating a dedicated company-wide ERM with employees in charge of risk management in business and field (Enterprise Risk Management) unit since 2004. Since 2010, the ERM team departments, to proliferate a risk management culture. has been taking on a more strengthened role as a dedicated ERM unit within the Ethics Management Office and risk management units were set up in each business division to complete an organically-aligned cooperation system that boosts execution of risk management. We also implement risk prevention initiatives through the preliminary review of risks in launching services, self risk diagnoses on business/system/process related risks. 16 kt Integrated Report 2014 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement List of Participating Stakeholder Groups Category Details kt strives to forge and maintain comprehensive, honest and mutuallybeneficial relationships with stakeholders. We define our stakeholders Customers Current/potential customers in accordance with widely-accepted stakeholder mapping that contains Shareholders Investors, analysts, etc. business and functional areas. Every year, we review our stakeholder map Suppliers Suppliers who provide materials, ICT construction and widen the circle of our care to include even future generations and/or services and other services, etc. the environment whose voice cannot be directly heard. Employees All Group employees We define our major stakeholder groups as customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities and communicate with them Local Communities Central/local governments, media, NGO, etc. through meetings with respective stakeholder groups or surveys. Environment Nature (flora and fauna), environment, organizations, future generations We believe that our relationships with stakeholders are valuable assets that have a tremendous impact on our business success. Our business guidelines clearly state that we do our utmost to reflect the value, Status of Stakeholder Engagement by Stakeholder Type and Frequency requirements and concerns of our stakeholders in all of our business Category Type and Frequency of Engagement plans so that they are integrated into our internal decision-making and Customers • Pool of customers (200 customers, three regular surveys per year, implementation process. four to five special surveys per year) • Regular online surveys (10,000 respondents, twice a year) • Product Trial Student Team (60 members, six months) For example, our ‘Customer Product Evaluation Panel’ that directly engages • Household Panel customers, enables us to verify the quality of our wired handsets (from the • Customer Product Evaluation Panel (100 customers, one year) customers’ perspective) before they are actually launched. This is performed Shareholders • General shareholders’ meeting (Once a year) through the pilot installation and experience program and it has served to • CEO Management Information Session (Once a year) identify and improve a total of 332 issues, including handset quality issues. • Earnings announcement (Quarterly disclosures, conference calls) Furthermore, our ‘Student Volunteers’ that engage local communities as • IR News (1-2 times a month)) stakeholders, launched a wide array of initiatives from the ‘Dokdo is Our • Domestic / Overseas NDR (Year-round) • IR website Territory’ campaign and painting murals in the neighborhood to the ‘Joyful Sports Day with disabled people’. These initiates greatly help us connect to Suppliers • Supplier CEO Meeting (Once a year) • Satisfaction Survey, Supplier Conference (Twice a year) the pulse of local communities. • SCM Council (Monthly) • Product Meeting (Year-round) • Technology Exchange Meeting (Monthly) • Online/Offline Win-Win Growth Center (Permanent) • Supplier Comment Forum (Year-round) • IT CEO Forum (Five times a year) Employees • Labor-Management Council (Quarterly) • Local LM Council, Unit LM Council, LM Policy Council (permanent, year-round) • Management Conference (held in various formats for regular and contractual employees respectively) • Grievance Handling Center kt 119 (Offline) • Company newspaper / in-house news / in-house online forum /ongoing messaging Local • Discussions with local communities (Year-round) Communities • Sharing love (Sisterhood ties with local child care centers) • Sharing IT (phone, website) • Sharing culture (surveys, social network services, website) • Student Volunteers (105 students, one year) Environment • Environmental Management Committee (Year-round) • Verification of GHG emissions (Twice a year, Scope 1,2 and Scope 3) Customer Product Evaluation Panel kt Integrated Report 2014 17 STAKEHOLDER INTERVIEW kt defines our stakeholder engagement policy and builds stakeholder-specific communication channels so that there is bidirectional communication yearround. kt (together with our partners), emphatically acknowledges that it’s our stakeholders who are at the center of our sustainability management activities and that they are who we share our values with. To closely understand their demands and concerns, we conducted one-on-one interviews for each group of major stakeholders. Our aim is to reflect sustainability management issues that are material to respective stakeholder groups into our business operations. Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning | Government To advance sustainability management, kt should be able to discover new sources of profit and develop capabilities to execute these new businesses. Due to its transformation from a wired phone company into an IT company, kt needs to restructure its workforce and business operations so as to build stronger organization and personnel capabilities. kt also needs to find the right business opportunities that generate synergistic effects to use its existing capabilities more efficiently. For this to happen, the vision and direction proposed by its top management play a crucial role. Furthermore, kt can improve its brand value as a society oriented company that is warm-hearted and friendly by fully fulfilling its social responsibility in addition to pursuing profits. Simon Kim, Team Leader | Hyundai AutoEver Co., Ltd. | Customers As the nation’s No. 1 telecommunications company, kt is positioned to offer services on the basis of its infrastructure, unlike other IT companies in the manufacturing or service sectors. This means that kt is capable of leading national IT projects. If kt maintains its leadership in cloud services, big data and other emerging sectors—while transferring its advanced technology to developing nations—it will not only generate economic outcomes, but also improve its corporate value. From the customer’s perspective, kt’s sales organization (by means of close cooperation), proves to be highly instrumental in conducting business by designating sales representatives for each client company to swiftly identify and cater to customer needs. 18 kt Integrated Report 2014 Sunjoo Lee, Head of center | kt CSV Center | Employees kt takes it upon ourselves to operate businesses that serve to benefit the public. Since ICT became an indispensable part of people’s lives, kt, an ICT leader, should be able to fulfill its social and economic roles for diverse stakeholders. kt will become instrumental in pursuing a win-win business approach with numerous manufacturers, suppliers and business partners to grow the overall industry and develop new technology to create new jobs. Specifically, we focus our capabilities on more than merely narrowing the digital divide for the ICT-marginalized; we go the extra mile to make ICT an instrument to overcome challenges. We believe that this commitment is meaningful in that it helps create new shared value. Jong-O Lee, General Manager | Korea Sustainability Investing Forum | Investors To become a sustainable company, kt should secure market leadership in the social, economic and environmental arenas. As communication is a public need, kt shoulders a tremendous role in our society and specifically needs to give it its all in forging win-win partnerships with sales stores and in narrowing the digital divide. Economically, kt will be able to expand its business and discover growth opportunities by securing presence in the overseas telecommunications industry and by tapping into the telecommunications market of developing countries from the CSV(Creating Shared Value) perspective. Environmentally, kt is the nation’s first company to fully introduce the measurement and dedicated verification of scope 3 carbon emissions and is leading environmental management through proactive investment and management practices. These are just a few of kt’s strengths that can be used as benchmarking targets for other companies. We expect kt to expand its best practices into the wider industries and societies. Sungchul Jung, Manager | Samsung Electronics | Suppliers As a company capable of leading the development of telecommunications technology, kt should take the lead in securing the nation’s technological competitive edge over the long haul. As a consumer of technology, kt needs to consider security solutions, technological capabilities and advanced networks, while forging cooperative relationships with companies that can supply services that satisfy Korea’s unique needs. Furthermore, if kt allows its suppliers to freely suggest ideas or technology for commercialization, this will elevate mutually-beneficial cooperation between kt and its suppliers to an even higher degree. As a significant contributor to the development of Korea’s telecommunications industry, we expect kt to be fully engaged in nurturing domestic technology. Chang-Jun Lee, Division Director | kt group Hope Sharing Foundation | Local Communities Given kt’s overall influence on our life through telecommunications services, the company has great potential to contribute to narrowing the social gap through the development of ICT. To this end, it is critical that kt properly responds to internal/external market conditions while setting consistent directions and strategies for its social contribution initiatives. kt’s social-giving program (which uses ICT to bridge the educational divide), is a best practice business model that has sustained for many years. With its nationwide networks and a staff dedicated to social contribution initiatives, kt will be able to generate positive rippling effects in our society through the creation of economic and social value. However, for this to happen, kt must remain focused on using its information technology to fuel its social contribution agenda—an agenda that transcends both time and space. kt Integrated Report 2014 19 Materiality Test To focus our communication on the major issues of interest to stakeholders and material issues that impact our sustainability management, we analyzed internal and external environments and engaged our stakeholders in selecting issues to be contained in this report. The identification and prioritization of material issues followed the materiality test standards proposed by international norms and standards so as to ensure the objectivity of this report, and used such standards as the basis to create this report. Materiality Test Process Report STEP 3 kt abided by the four principles: VALIDATION Sustainability Context, Materiality, STEP 2 Completeness and Stakeholder PRIORITIZATION Inclusiveness, in conducting the STEP 1 analyses of internal/external IDENTIFICATION environments, as well as the materiality test, so as to identify material issues of sustainability management. Sustainability Context Materiality Completeness •Trend & Impact analysis •Materiality test •Verification of the •Benchmarking •Relevance valuation suitability of reporting boundary, scope and •Media analysis •Significance period evaluation Stakeholder Inclusiveness Stakeholder interview and on-line survey STEP 1 Identify issues related to sustainability management through the analyses of internal/external environments We created a pool of issues in consideration of sustainability trends that are highly relevant to kt, GRI-proposed sustainability management Aspects, and IIRCproposed Capitals while conducting various analyses to identify 30 internal/external sustainability management issues that affect kt. Trend & Impact Analysis Industry Peer Analysis Media Analysis Stakeholder Interviews Conducting employee Identifying overall issues Identifying major issues Conducting in-depth interviews surveys on a Trend, Impact that are considered material through the analyses of 2,986 with six representative and internal capacity level in related industries by valid articles published by stakeholders in accordance to identify sustainability understanding issues reported domestic media outlets in with ISO 26000’s stakeholder management issues that are in the sustainability reports 2013 to understand and identification criteria and kt’s considered material within kt published by domestic and respond to social demands own definition of stakeholders overseas industry peers for kt’s sustainability so as to identify major and management additional issues STEP 2 Prioritize material issues through the materiality test STEP 3 Verification In accordance with the outcomes of the relevance test conducted through We verified whether the 30 key issues are material to kt, through internal the analyses of internal/external environments, we conducted online reporting, while determining the level of reporting on such key issues as surveys of 4,138 kt stakeholders and prioritized issues in terms of their reporting scope, boundary, and period and reflecting these decisions in materiality to finalize 30 key issues (15 Trend issues and 15 Impact issues). preparing this report. 20 kt Integrated Report 2014 Outcomes of the Materiality Test Out of the material issues identified through the materiality test process, customer issues concerning personal information security and services, economic issues related to an intensifying market competition and an accelerating technological development, demand for transparency, and governance & risk management issues, the need to respond to governmental regulations were found highly material with scores 4.2 points or above on a scale from one to five. Trend Impact 4.80 Significance to Stakeholders Impact &Trend Issues 01 Growing demand for customer information 16 Hyper-connection society 01 security (Network advancement) 4.60 02 Growing demand for corporate transparency 17 Increasing number of consumers 03 Customer privacy who value health, eco-friendliness 02 and social-friendliness 4.40 04 Intensifying market competition 03 18 Market presence 05 Increasing need to respond to governmental regulations and policies 19 Anti-corruption 08 07 06 05 04 4.20 06 Increasing sensitivity to products and services 20 Marketing communication 10 07 Accelerating technological development 21 Economic performance 13 09 12 08 Growing demand for the safety of products 22 Energy 4.00 and services 23 Customer health & safety 19 18 14 11 (compliance with standards on 22 17 16 09 Growing importance of talent recruitment electromagnetic waves standards) 23 20 10 Indirect economic impacts 3.80 15 21 24 Growing importance of governance 25 11 Increasing threats from substitutes caused 24 25 General environmental issues (Green IT) by technological convergence 26 12 Expanding social responsibility along the 26 Employment 3.60 30 28 27 supply chain 27 Local communities 29 13 Robust demand for shared growth 28 Non-discrimination 3.40 14 Product and service labeling 29 Occupational health & safety (customer satisfaction) 30 Compliance(Environmental) 중대이슈 보고서 반영 (Issues -> Aspect -> Topic ->Contents) 15 Increasing demand for employee welfare and rights 3.20 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 Significance of Impact on kt Reflecting Material Issues in the Report Contents Topic GRI Aspect Issues Boundary Overview of Company Overview, Strategy and Analysis* 02 Growing demand for corporate transparency, Within kt's Sustainability Governance, Organizational Profile*, 05 Increasing need to respond to governmental regulations and Ethics Management, Stakeholder Engagement*, policies, Risk Management, Report Profile*, Governance*, 19 Anti-corruption 24 Governance (Decision-making structure) Stakeholder Engagement Ethics and Integrity*, Anti-corruption Company Innovation and Indirect Economic Impacts, 04 Intensifying market competition, Within Value Creation Growth Drivers, Economic Performance 07 Accelerating technological development, Brand Value Creation, 10 Indirect economic impacts Broader Global Presence 11 Increasing threats from substitutes caused by technological convergence, 21 Economic performance Creating Shared Growth, Market Presence, 12 Expanding social responsibility along the supply chain, Within Social Value Strategic Social Local Community 13 Robust demand for shared growth, Contribution 18 Market presence, 27 Local communities(Social contribution) Customer CS Management, Customer Privacy, 01 Growing demand for customer information security, Within Engagement Service Value Creation, Product and Service Labeling, 03 Customer privacy, IT Security Enhancement Marketing Communications, 06 Increasing sensitivity to products and services, Customer Health & Safety 08 Growing demand for the safety of products and services, 14 Product and service labeling(customer satisfaction), 16 Hyper-connection society(Network advancement) 17 Increasing number of consumers who value health, eco-friendliness and social-friendliness, 20 Marketing communication Human Talent Management, Employment, 09 Growing importance of talent recruitment, Within Resource Great Work Place Non-discrimination, 15 Increasing demand for employee welfare and rights Occupational health & safety 26 Employment 28 Non-discrimination 29 Occupational health & safety Environmental Environmental Energy, 22 Energy, 23 Customer health & safety(compliance with standards on Within & Impact Management Strategy, Customer health & safety, electromagnetic waves standards) Outside Response to Climate Compliance (Environmental) 25 General environmental issues(Green IT) Change 30 Compliance(Environmental) * All reporting organizations should mandatorily report on these General Standard Disclosure Aspects. kt Integrated Report 2014 21 Future Strategy 01 Special Issue Why this is a special issue? Central to our sustainable growth is the strategy to secure future growth engines and build a robust competitive edge within the rapidly-growing ICT ecosystem. As smartphones and internet connectivity become the main driver for social and economic activities and demand for new business models increases, we believe it is imperative that we discover customer value-driven services to generate expected profits and to deliver the public aspect of the communication services. kt’s approach New Growth Engines Through ICT-based convergence, and stable networks, we aim to create with aims to create a ‘Safe Society’ within homes, buildings, and SOCs. future growth engines of varying areas. In so doing, we fulfill an important We already possess integrated monitoring platform technology and— role in bringing convenience, safety, efficiency, enjoyment and health to our through our group affiliates, specialized in security and building customers’ lives—all in an innovative way. Our future convergence business management (kt telecop, kt estate). covers five areas; Smart Energy, Next Generation Media, Integrated Safety, Our goal is to deliver safer and more convenient living spaces to our Networked Transportation, and Life-Enhancing Care. We plan to combine consumers and reduce social expenditures through the prevention of crime our group-wide capabilities and innovative ICT technology (big data, IoT, and strengthen recovery capabilities from natural disasters. Cloud, etc.) to deliver differentiated value. Additionally, these five areas will form the basis upon which we will continually launch and operate new Networked Transportation convergence businesses. Our Networked Transportation business aims at building an intelligent traffic infrastructure to improve driver safety and convenience, offer a Smart Energy customized navigation platform and enable users to enjoy a multitude of Based on our ICT capabilities, we are advancing into the Smart Energy infotainment services. market where energy is efficiently generated, consumed and distributed Our mobility support platforms and service capabilities that are based through real-time energy consumption and control while moving away from on intelligent communications infrastructure, namely big data analysis traditional high-cost, centralized energy consumption. capabilities, demonstrated significant feats in improving the efficiency of We have already launched relevant solution operations in Jeju and Sejong late-night bus routes in Seoul. This was made possible through vehicle-toCity, capitalizing on our strength of more than 950,000 public-sector and infrastructure (V2I)/vehicle-to-vehicle communications technology (V2V), enterprise customers. Through collaboration with relevant domestic and through the independently-developed olleh navi platforms that boast more international business partners, we will aim to establish Smart Energy than 10 million subscribers, and 90,000 kt rental vehicles. paradigm in energy efficiency, renewable energy and power trading sectors. This business model will allow individuals to get to their destinations This will help individual consumers to cut down on their energy costs at safely and conveniently, for businesses to profit through efficiency gains in homes and in buildings, while preventing national-level power shortages logistics costs and time, and for the whole nation to reduce overhead due to that frequently occur each year. traffic congestion prevention. Next-Generation Media Life-Enhancing Care Our Next-Generation Media business is not simply about viewing contents Our Life-Enhancing Care business that combines wearables, the Genome on TV; but about offering a customized user experience in such varying Cloud and other ICT technology, would realize personalized health checkareas as content, commerce, and education through the interconnection of ups, health program designs and health diagnosis programs that focus on TVs, PCs, smart phones, tablets and other smart devices. preventive care, even before it escalates to the point of requiring medical As Korea’s No. 1 media company, we will use our accumulated media care. business capabilities to usher in a new era of personalized, forward-looking Our goal is to introduce a whole new concept in the health care industry. media convergence services and to aid Hallyu content in advancing into the Based on technology such as cloud-based genetic analysis services global media market. (Genome-Cloud), IoT-based bio-metric data platforms, wearablesThis will afford individuals easier access to a variety of customized and synchronization technology and personal health care record management optimized media services, while enabling content providers to go global solutions, such visions are now more realistic. through production support and export of contents. These technologies will provide a whole host of efficient solutions for individuals all around the nation. They can effectively cut down on medical Integrated Safety bills by attending to symptoms in the prevention stage rather than treatment stage. Our clients would gain access to the latest medical and health care We plan to launch a new Integrated Safety business that offers integrated services, ranging from basic care to nutrition to clinical health check-up data services such as security, building management and daily conveniences and genetic analysis. 22 kt Integrated Report 2014 CUSTOMER INFORMATION SECURITY 02 Special Issue Why this is a special issue? As an IT and telecommunication service provider that electronically possesses the personal information of customers, kt is obliged to protect the rights of customers by protecting the confidentiality of their personal information. Yet, the official announcement of the law enforcement on March 6, 2014 confirmed the arrest of a culprit who secretly breached and leaked confidential personal information from kt’s website for personal purposes. The cyber attacks by professional hackers through malicious programs led to approximately 9.81 million cases of information leaks. kt is painfully aware of our responsibility for these tangible and intangible losses (including the infringement of customers’ rights) and vows to transparently report on its countermeasures for this incident, including the measures it is presently undertaking. We are strengthening our security systems to protect the invaluable information and confidentiality of our customers. kt’s approach Preventing the Spread of Damages from Information Leaks Immediately following the discovery of the arrest, we swiftly acted in cooperation with relevant govermental departments to prevent any further circulation or misuse of the customer information. Additionally, we conducted mock cyber/hacking attacks and extensive inspections to quickly identify and correct any defects or loopholes in our website. Announcing the Information Leaks and Expanding Counseling Support After we became aware of this incident, we posted information regarding the information leaks and essential items for customers to check in order to prevent further damage. We provided an information leak inquiry functionality on our ‘olleh.com(www.olleh.com)’ and ‘kt websites(www.kt.com)’ so that customers could independently verify whether or not their information had been leaked. In addition, letters and e-mails were sent out to notify our customers security breach and we took swift action to ensure that seamless counseling services would be available through our customer centers. To ensure that office workers, who could find it difficult to receive such counseling during the day due to their tight schedules, could receive support, our customer centers were operated around-the-clock and plazas located in major downtown areas extended their business hours till 8 p.m. Examining and Reinforcing Our Information Security System We are conducting all-out examinations and reinforcing our customer information protection mechanisms within the sales operation system with the help of internal/external experts in mock hacking. We will strengthen our security workforce and organization and mobilize all available resources (including our global experts) to innovate our customer information handling system and security system. We vow to go back to square one, take a second look and start anew, so that such an incident will never occur again. We will develop fundamental and comprehensive measures, and do everything in our power as a company, to prevent the reoccurance of such issues. kt Integrated Report 2014 23 Evaluation of Suppliers’ Sustainability Management 03 Special Issue Why this is a special issue? In this rapidly-shifting telecommunications market, the competitive landscape is centered on the supply chain and basically, one network of related companies is competing against another network of related companies. Thus, supply chain management is gaining importance as a way to reduce loss and maintain business continuity while there is an increasing demand to move beyond supporting suppliers to implementing diverse programs that jointly establish sustainability management for long-term bilateral cooperation and shared growth. kt’s approach To assist our suppliers in fulfilling their social responsibility in business conduct, prevent risks within the supply chain and pave the way to seek shared growth with our suppliers as sustainable companies, we are building a sustainability management evaluation system. ESG-Environment(environment), Social(social; labor, human rights, social contribution) and Governance(management; ethics, risk management) -serve as central pillars in conducting evaluations to manage wide-ranging sustainability components along the supply chain. Sustainability Management Evaluation Indicators (ESG) Suppliers of Materials Suppliers of ICT Category Manufacturers Non-Manufacturers (Software Development) Construction Services Evaluation Indicators (ESG) 40 indicators 23 indicators 32 indicators Integration into Supplier Evaluation Mandatory requirements to be selected as top-performing suppliers Supplier re-selection evaluation (70 points or above) (One point) Sustainability Supply Chain Evaluation System Introduce an Evaluation System Evaluate Analyze Evaluation Outcomes Feedback on Evaluation Outcomes Environmen Perform on-site inspections Analyze risks by evaluation Reflect outcomes in reby evaluation indicator on item selecting suppliers or selecting the basis of performance top-performing suppliers Social data submitted by suppliers Governance Categorize suppliers into Offer in-house consulting to Suppliers of materials High, Medium-to-High, help ‘high-risk’ suppliers gain (Procurement Office) Medium, Low and No-Risk risk-free status Product Suppliers of ICT construction groups Construction services (regional headquarters) Supplier Sustainability Management Evaluation Outcomes Future Strategy The supplier sustainability management evaluation has been conducted for To build a more advanced supply chain with well-established sustainability 423 suppliers since December 2013: 93% of these suppliers established management systems, we will review the eight evaluation indicators—that relative sustainability management systems, while 7% of the suppliers were are currently mere recommendations, so that they become mandatory. found to have risks. Meanwhile, we will offer transformative management training to supplier employees so that they fully understand and recognize the importance of sustainability management. 7% Suppliers with sustainability management risks Evaluation Outcomes Suppliers with their own sustainability 97% management systems 24 kt Integrated Report 2014 Creating shared value by ict 04 Special Issue Why this is a special issue? While IT devices and inter connectivity have become an indispensable part of our lives, there are still people who lack a proficient use of these devices and connectivity in our society. According to the ‘2013 information gap index and status survey’ published by the National Information Society Agency, the PCbased informatization of underprivileged populations was 75.2% of that of the general public while their mobile informatization level was 42.9% of the total population, as of 2013. This means that these marginalized individuals have relatively less opportunity to learn information or express their opinions, which in turn may cause a rupture among members of our society and incur social cost. Now that our life has become more digitalized than ever before, it is increasingly important that we undertake initiatives to narrow the digital divide while reducing social cost. kt’s approach To bridge the digital divide and improve the quality of life in our society, our IT Supporters consisting of approximately 200 employees was launched back in 2007. Since then, these supporters have conducted Sharing IT initiatives for the information-marginalized in our society including people with disabilities, residents in island regions, low-income wage-earners, elderly people and multi-cultural families over the past eight years. IT Supporters operates the ‘kt Smart Academy’ to help narrow the information gap caused by the expansion of smart devices while offering training to prevent smartphone addiction and excessive online gaming immersion. Specifically, IT Supporters, in alignment with the CSV(Creating Shared Value) initiative, is fully engaged in spreading an ICT culture and creating economic value in our society. Social jobs were created through the use of ICT for the elderly and women between jobs while immigrant women from multicultural families received IT training to adapt to their new life in Korea. We even offered employment programs for these women to help them obtain necessary qualitifcations. We vow to play a leading role in creating social value on the basis of information and communication technology. History of IT Supporter Program Launching IT Supporters Launching Student Promoting Korean culture Using IT to support Offering IT support for the on-site Differentiated IT knowledge Volunteers through IT multicultural families in inspections by IOC for the 2018 sharing initiatives settling down in Korea Pyeongchang Winter Olympics 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 IT Supporters volunteering in Video-based mentoring at Dream Smartphone user training Youth IT Employment / Rwanda School Start-up Festival 2013 2013 2013 2012 Distributing smartphone user materials for the Supporting store owners in traditional markets in Creating social contribution jobs for retirees visually-impaired opening online stores 2013 2013 2013 kt Integrated Report 2014 25 COMPANY Value Creation 26 kt Integrated kt Integrated Report Report 20142014 Future Convergence Strategy Office | Sangki Hong kt Integrated Report COMPANY 2014Value creation 27 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers COMPANY Value Creation Innovation and Growth Drivers Brand Value Creation Broader Global Presence Vision and Strategic Direction Results of the Materiality Test Impact Trend Issues kt discovers its growth drivers through ICT-based convergence services Significance to Stakeholders (On a scale from zero to five) and advances sustained innovation initiatives and brand management 4.60 to create economic value. Specifically, in 2014, we will focus our capabilities on expanding our operations in a way to generate more 4.40 robust synergistic effects on a group-wide level. Furthermore, based on B A 4.20 our success stories, we will lead the global market—so as to become a C company that holds an even greater potential for tomorrow. 4.00 D Major Achievements in 2013 3.80 Innovation • 40 total cases of improved products, eco3.60 E friendly and social services • 99 consulting projects undertaken to promote 3.40 innovation within the group 3.20 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 Patent Registrations 284 patents in Korea, 65 overseas Significance of Impact on kt (On a scale from zero to five) Brand Value* $4.9 billion in total, Ranked 1st in brand value Impact & Trend Issues Creation of Economic Value among Korean telecom operators A Intensifying market competition • Innovation management B Accelerating technological • R&D outcomes and strategy Sales from Global development • Creation of brand value KRW 305.9 billion C Indirect economic impacts • Advancement into the global market Operations D Increasing threats from substitutes caused by technological convergence * According to the evaluation outcomes by Brand Finance Global (one of the world’s E Economic performance top three brand value evaluators) 28 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Innovation Management Context Recent business conditions have been increasingly challenging due to the prolonged economic downturn and intensified competition from competitors. To deliver customer satisfaction and gain competitive edge, companies are required to adopt an innovative manner to change their status quo. Thus, kt is conducting business with an innovative mindset to navigate beyond the constant rapid changes, uncertainties and emerge as the new No. 1 within the ICT market. Progress Innovation through Group-wide Consulting wireless data communication on a single handset. In addition, premium Our dedicated project consulting unit PEG(Project Expert Group) was launched collocation and smart biz services were released for corporate customers. in 2011. PEG experts offer solutions for cross-functional issues and for projectPremium collocation services allow corporate customers to operate server based work at the request of other departments. In 2013, the scope of their systems on kt’s premium networks and smart biz services help SMEs access operations extended to group affiliates (kt ens, kt rental, etc.) resulting in a diverse management solutions at affordable prices. total of 99 projects in four domains. Our product innovation paves the way to prepare for the future. Given that 79% of our handset subscribers are smartphone users and 76% of the replacement subscribers opt for LTE plans, we are maximizing the use of PEG Projects in 2013 3W(WCDMA, WiBro, WiFi) networks to prepare for a data explosion in the Domain No. of Major Projects upcoming years. To deliver even more reliable and faster wireless data Projects services, we adopted a CCC(Cloud Communication Center) virtualization Telecommunications 60 Developing gigabit internet service delivery structure for the newly-commercialized LTE services in 2012. Services strategy, etc. New Businesses 18 Developing a dedicated K-Pop hologram theatre business, etc. Service Innovation in 2013 Media/Content 15 Discovering killer services of web-based IPTVs, etc. Name of Service Improvements Made IT Solution 6 Improving the energy efficiency of all office buildings, etc. olleh biz BEMS Developing specialized EMS(Energy Management System) solutions Total 99 IMS Extending application from building-center control to outdoor control (controlling food waste, etc.) Project outcomes were fully used and disseminated across the board through bizmeka3.0 Growing into the nation’s largest B2B IT portal that supports all the in-house Project Knowledge Bank system. In addition to PEG projects, operations of SMEs the outcomes of major company-wide projects (research institute projects, olleh biz ICS Introducing the global top Akamai solution to domestic new hires’ projects, creative management projects, outcomes of outsourced infrastructure to deliver technical support that meets customer services) were made available within the database to innovate the way we needs work through sharing of knowledge and work expertise. olleh CCTV Telecop Combining kt’s video surveillance services and kt’s security As dedicated project experts, the performance of PEG members were evaservices luated in a different way from the annual evaluation of general departments: Enterprise internet Developing and commercializing E2E monitoring systems for their performance was assessed on a project unit basis and project outcomes calls enterprise internet calls that were evaluated on the basis of their contribution to the company-wide Enterprise Developing text-fishing/smishing filtering systems as messaging differentiated security services performance, were directly aligned with individual HR evaluations. This helped Enterprise internet us establish a reasonable and objective evaluation system that motivates Launching special rate plans for enterprise customers + VoIP rate plans these experts to focus on improving the quality of project results. Unlimited wired/ Launching data-centered rate plans that allow subscribers to Such endeavors led to the Project Management Grand Prize, which was wireless data rates choose their own rates depending on their level data consumption awarded by the Korean Society of Project Management in November 2013. LTE olleh Together Adjusting discount ranges in accordance with the integration with In 2014, 100 experts will offer consulting to local customer relations offices unlimited LTE data rate plans and increasing combined discounts and branches to help generate profits in the field of their accumulated project olleh TV Smart Adopting the world’s first web middleware technology through knowledge so as to advance kt’s Customer First management philosophy. web version upgrades Call forwarding Preventing ID theft and financial fraud (that misuse call forwarding) through more robust security/authentication functionalities Product Innovation ZOOMONEY Adding new functionalities: ZOOMONEY 2.0 (UI/UX, May 2013), kt reflects new technology and the latest hardware/software updates ZOOMONEY Card(Q3, 2013), expansion of traffic applications (Q2, 2013) to consistently improve existing service products. In 2013, a total of olleh market Newly launching VOD and webtoon services within the olleh 31 commercial services were freshly launched, including All-IP, smart market learning, Smart Home Phone, digital signage advertisement, international olleh navi Developing lightweight maps and improving UI/UX, applying management services, M2M(machine-to-machine) services, olleh TV and automated update technology, offering customer-engaging cloud services. services In line with the emergence of the ICT-based convergence era (green IT, cloudolleh weather Upgrading to olleh weather 2.0: offering detailed weather computing, BcN, etc.), we focus on expanding and developing our NI/SI information (Network Integration/System Integration) operations so that a smart society Belling Expanding the participation of 3rd party vendors and the offering can be realized. In 2013, we launched mobile telecommunications services of belling sound sources through the commercialization of ASP business that deliver nationwide wireless services, 0130-number mobile calls and kt Integrated Report 2014 29 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Environmental Innovation Social Innovation Our environmental process innovation focuses on improving the efficiency As a developer and provider of information communication technology of energy and devices to reduce costs, as well as carbon emissions. To and services, the core of our business lies in connecting people and in this reduce the necessity for business travel, we opt for video conferencing sense, the majority of our services are social services. We deliver products and have introduced the Smart Working Office to improve work efficiency and services that are specifically targeted for less-privileged individuals while evaluating the energy efficiency of all facilities and systems sourced (children from low-income families, seniors, disabled individuals) and externally or developed internally. social issues(aging society, children safety, etc.) so that our business Furthermore, we are fully engaged in green businesses (smart grid, smart conduct contributes to resolving social issues and promoting social logistics, cloud computing/PC service development, remote equipment innovation. and facility management) for customers. To promote our green growth as Specifically, we innovated U-safety services while launching standard rate a company through green IT services for customers, the Environmental plans to provide a safety net to protect the public from social crime and Management Committee was established in 2009: this committee is accidents, in conjunction with the Ministry of Education in 2013. In 2012, chaired by the CEO and meets twice a year. Annual tasks are assigned to we also disseminated the emergency safety assistant system for seniors five subgroups that cover energy, service, purchasing, regulations, and living alone, which was launched as a pilot project in 2012. Furthermore, resources to introduce environmental innovation to all of our internal the volume-rate system was developed within local nationwide government operations. R&D, networks are assigned with tasks so that all IT operations systems, which was operated and maintained to charge each household within kt are implemented under the perspective of environmental according to the amount of food waste they disposed of. innovation. In 2013, we released 10 green products (intelligent demand management) and our eco-friendly process innovation not only helped reduce costs, but Social Business Innovation in 2013 also contributed to income generation. Service Description Emergency Safety Installing sensors in beneficiary households to send Environmental Innovation in 2013 Helper System for situation information when any emergency occurs seniors living alone Category Name of Service Position location Offering location data for seniors with dementia through Service Innovation olleh navi service for seniors tracking terminals (worn by these seniors) suffering dementia Green Business Web-mail hosting olleh Home Study Offering e-learning content at affordable prices to remedy Enterprise call conferencing the disparity in educational opportunity Electronic prescriptions Telecommunications Offering telecommunications services at discounted rates Cash receipts welfare for low-income/disabled individuals Social insurance EDI olleh security Ensuring effective response to crimes against children through the ability to discover their location through E-tax invoicing (Semuro) wireless technology Policy Participation Participation in the national K-MEG project Internal Innovation Replacement with open cooling towers at kt Improvement of the centralized air-conditioning devices within office buildings Streamlining and improving the efficiency of water/power Performance distribution facilities Achievements from Major Innovation Initiatives of 2013 Systems (transmission, ultra-high speed, internet) Category Major Achievements Installation of centralized energy-saving air-conditioning devices PEG-led Projects 99 projects in telecommunications services, new businesses, etc. Improvement of the efficiency of pyrostats Product Innovation Intensive improvement of 19 services including olleh biz Smart Working(Extended to external consulting and BEMS, bizmeka 3.0, etc. operations) Greener Processes 18 greener processes undertaken in respective business Automated Peak Power Control (ELITE system) divisions (improving a centralized air-conditioning device Duct type ventilation HVAC (Outdoor-inlet cooling/heating structure within office buildings) system) Social Services Intensive improvement of three services More stringent Efficient Server Room Temperature Policy (U-safety services) 30 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers R&D Outcomes and Strategy Context As growth in the entire telecommunications industry is at a standstill due to market saturation and intensifying global competition, it is urgent that kt secures concrete growth engines. It is through intensive R&D investment that we pave the way for a future of sustained profit sources and sustainable growth drivers, aimed to revitalize the overall industry and pioneer technological development. Progress R&D System R&D Directions Under the goal of “Discovering New Growth Drivers and Develop Leading of convergence, we strive to discover and secure new growth drivers and Technology for the Future of kt”, kt’s R&D Center strives to offer fieldcore technology that will allow us to play a leading role based on our key driven solutions to current issues and present new customer value in close capabilities. To evolve into a high-performing R&D organization, we also cooperation with business departments in alignment with company-wide launched an upgraded R&D management innovation – implementing strategic directions. To build a competitive edge that helps secure No. 1 projects in close alignment with business departments. This ranges from market position—in the face of tight competition in the telecommunications project proposal/selection to evaluation, managing our project portfolio, industry—we focus on innovating our existing infrastructure and discover introducing a quantifiable project evaluation system and turning project renewed customer value within our mainstream telecommunications results into valuable assets – so as to pursue positive change and operations including media, and IT services. With the growing importance innovation. R&D Organization and Resources kt R&D Organization CEO Future Convergence Marketing Customer G&E ICT Network IT Strategy Office Future Business Infra Service Convergence Development Group Laboratory Laboratory Laboratory R&D Investment Category 2011 2012 2013 R&D Workforce (No. of persons) 435 534 593 R&D Expenses (KRW 100 million) 3,086.0 4,807.6 3,013.2 kt Integrated Report 2014 31 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Key R&D Areas S/W Developed and commercialized Magic Voice services Application We implement key R&D projects in four strategic areas to secure differTechnology Developed and commercialized olleh tv smart voice remote control entiated competitive edge in business and technology. services Completed the application of Virtual Assistant services to Four Key Areas Specific Research Area Details commercial servers Network •Dramatically reducing •Establishing integrated data Completed the commercial application of olleh.com app statistics network CAPEX/OPEX transmission to achieve a simple services •Reinforcing the network network infrastructure business •Innovative technology for a lowCompleted the development of technology to turn consumercost/high-quality wired/ generated video to virtual goods wireless access network Developed video analytics technology •Software-defined network infrastructure Developed data analytics technology Media & •Strengthening a •Web TV transformation / Service competitive edge in next-generation UHD STB media services •STB-less IPTV solution / Resulting Technology of Open R&D Initiatives •Discovering new next-generation home hub business models To secure key technology to be commercialized over the long haul, we are ICT •Developing technology •Smart Energy, e-Health, security conducting joint research with domestic top-notch research institutes, Convergence to create new ICT (information / convergence security) educational institutes and businesses in alignment with our Future Project. convergence-enabled •Next-generation monitoring, In 2013, we implemented 17 projects with four universities: POSTECH, growth drivers BigTainment (IT+sports) KAIST, Korea University and Yonsei University. The HR exchange between the Enabling •Securing key platform •Big data analytics, video analytics, kt Institute of Convergence Technology and other higher education institutes Technology technology to deliver voice recognition, recommendation allowed us to fully secure key technology. Such endeavors produced 25 customized intelligent technology, intelligent UI/UX, etc. services patents, 12 research papers and 14 software products. R&D Outcomes Outcomes of Internal R&D Initiatives kt is the world’s 1st to develop technology such as POTN network control SDN controller, open HTML5 web-based TV platform, and selective/aggregated transmission among multiple wireless networks in addition to cloud/ transport/premise SDN-aligned interfaces and many other technologies. It is through this technological innovation that we strengthen our competitive edge in the wired/wireless network and generate sustained growth drivers. Open R&D Workshop R&D Areas Resulting Technology 3W (WCDMA, Developed indoor 3G/LTE network design tools(S/W) WiBro, Our ‘Distinguished Seminars’ have been hosted since 2012 to build a Completed the development of handsets and gateways that global R&D network so as to make kt a world-class R&D institute. In 2013, WiFi)/LTE support selective/aggregate transmission a total of 22 seminars and advisory meetings were held with “globally Media Developed middleware and home portal commercial technology renowned scholars” in the IT field to assist researchers at the R&D Center for olleh tv smart and the employees of group affiliates in upgrading their R&D capabilities. Developed commercial olleh tv web app virtualization technology Developed commercial video stitching service technology Platform/ Developed FTTH optical cable monitoring system kt Group R&D Results Infrastructure Developed an advanced internet connection control system In accordance with the introduction of group-wide CXO positions, the Developed a smart network system management system kt Institute of Convergence Technology was assigned as the ‘group CTO’ in 2013 to be in charge of securing mid/long-term key technology and Developed and commercialized a handset log system supporting its commercialization. The responsibility of the group CTO Developed and commercialized an advanced integrated handset includes serving as a signpost and coordinator in the technology sector of management platform the kt group to setting mid/long-term technology strategies, presenting Convergence Launched commercial Hyundai Motor telematics services Services future directions for technological evolution, identifying future business Commercialized the development of company-wide information models and securing related key technology. In 2013, the institute helped security vulnerability diagnostic platforms share technical information among group affiliates, held group CTO workingDeveloped chronic disease management(diabetes) software to level meetings, signed the joint technology development agreement make a pilot business model of health check-up centers a part of kt’s business portfolio between group affiliates and kt held a joint exhibition of the business items of group affiliates as part of the R&D Road Show. In addition, the group CTO Network Developed and commercialized enterprise internet call remote Operation and testing/recovery systems is responsible for setting R&D performance management plans for group Management Constructed and supplied national information and affiliates and discovering and discussing group-wide R&D project items for Solutions communication infrastructure 2014. 32 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Global R&D Results R&D Performance Exposition kt and NTT have been holding executive meetings in the R&D field since Our semi-annual R&D Road Shows have been launched since 2010 to 2010 to share information on the latest technology possessed by both introduce R&D outcomes to other related business departments and to turn companies in addition to R&D issues, to pursue mutual cooperation. these outcomes into business opportunities and to improve the quality of Recently, the status of R&D activities for both companies was presented on R&D outcomes by gathering feedback. In 2013, a total of 62 R&D outcomes such topics as “Health and Welfare” and “Software-Defined Network” in were exhibited. order to build deep-rooted capabilities through sustained exchange. The 7th R&D cooperation meeting will be held in Korea in the 2nd half of 2014. kt-NTT Executive Meeting in the R&D Field 2013 R&D Road Show Securing kt Patents in Korea and Overseas We are dedicated to making patent applications—both in Korea and Performance overseas, partly to gain profits from these patents, but more importantly, R&D Investment to lay the groundwork for business stability by turning R&D outcomes into intellectual property. In 2013, our focus in discovering new patent areas Category R&D Workforce R&D Expenses (No. of persons) (KRW 100 million) was placed on virtual goods, intelligent monitoring, smart residence, SDN, and health care. kt acquired numerous patent applications for major key/ 2013 593 3,013.2 element technologies so that the intellectual property secured will lead to an even stronger competitive edge. Patent Registrations in Korea and Overseas •Total patent registrations (As of Dec. 31, 2013): 5,183 in Korea, 808 overseas  Total patent registrations (As of Dec. 31, 2013) •No. of registrations made in the concerned year: 284 in Korea, 65  No. of registrations made in the concerned year overseas 5,183 808 R&D Management Innovation kt is constantly committed to evolving into a global top-capable R&D company through the sustained innovation of technology management. R&D projects are selected and evaluated through the Technology Scouting Committee (TSC) attended by major business departments, so as to fully align these projects with business strategy and improve their competitive edge. A quantitative project evaluation system was introduced to and 284 aligned with the performance evaluation of individual employees to 65 further motivate them, while a systematic research nurturing program was developed to assist researchers develop their own R&D capabilities, in Korea overseas addition to leading cost innovation. kt Integrated Report 2014 33 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Creation of Brand Value Context In today’s world, the value of services and products are presented through brand awareness. Due to this reason, we strive to improve the brand image of our group and secure a competitive advantage over competitors. Brand value is directly related to customer satisfaction, which in turn, becomes one of the essential requirements to generate sustainable profits. Thus, we deliver a more impressive customer experience and create brand value through an integrated brand design and communication (IMC) initiatives. Progress kt is launching wide-ranging products and services that cater to the 2013~ Brand Evaluation Results by Brand Finance Global needs of the wired/wireless convergence era. Our customer-driven brand 2014 management earned us high rankings and brand value, as demonstrated • A total of $4.9 billion in brand value • No. 1 in brand value among Korean telecommunications companies by renowned domestic and international brand value evaluation schemes. • 33rd in brand value among global telecommunications companies (2014) Specifically, ‘Brand Finance’, one of the world’s top three brand value evaluation agencies, ranked kt 1st among other Korean telecommunications Our brand management is constantly evolving—from the launching of the companies in the ‘global telecommunications brand’ category in 2013 wired/wireless-integrated brand ‘olleh’ in 2011, to the announcement and 2014. This recognition greatly enhanced our status as ‘Korea’s of olleh management 2.0 in 2012. In 2013, we made steadfast progress representative telecommunications brand’. through integrated marketing communication (IMC) initiatives for our brand management. Evolution of the ‘olleh’ Brand Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 2 2012~2013 Stage 1 January 2011 July 2010 July 2009 ▼ PhaseManagement slogan Convergence product / kt’s representative kt’s representative specific Role service brand product / service brand product / service brand Phase To build an innovative To secure convergence To secure leadership as To enhance brand value -specific Goal image as an integrated leadership a representative wired / by reinforcing brand corporation wireless brand power For integrated marketing communication (IMC), we integrated previouslyand Face book accounts (as well as blogs), so that customers can access dispersed operations and are mobilizing a full range of channels and our brand whenever and wherever they want from their smartphones, resources related to brand and external communication. We deliver our smart pads and other mobile devices. Furthermore, wide-ranging materials unique brand value through TV and newspaper advertising and launch displayed at our offline stores that interact with customers the most promotions and campaigns to help customers understand our brand in a frequently use kt’s consistent brand identity. more basic and receptive manner. We also established corporate Twitter 34 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) Initiatives ‘Wideband LTE’ Campaign One main example of our IMC initiatives is the ‘Wideband LTE’ campaign. TV CM TV CM In October 2013, this campaign was designed and launched with a unique creative theme that set kt apart from its competitors to communicate the excellence of its wideband LTE services that ‘deliver wideband LTE on all LTE phones’. Our ‘wideband LTE’ advertisements that combined our cuttingedge telecommunications service with a well-recognized Korean folk song that represents the past analogue era and a unique Korean culture, was selected as the most-memorable advertisement in the 2nd half of IMC 2013 within the 2nd-half of the MCR (Media & Consumer Research) survey published last December by the Korea Broadcast Advertising Corporation, with responses almost four times higher than those of the 2nd-ranked advertisement. In November, another campaign for our ‘wideband LTE’ (that works anywhere—whether it be at the beach, a ski resort, in a subway train or SNS PROMOTIO within a building), was launched to publicize our achievement in becoming the 1st Korean telecommunications carrier to secure wideband LTE coverage only TV, radio and other broadcast media, but also social network servicefor the entire Seoul metropolitan region. This was followed by ‘Our based below-the-line(BTL) channels that befit this smart mobile era. This Wideband LTE Story’ which shares real stories told by customers through not only encouraged customers to emotionally connect with our advertising social network services using kt’s wideband LTE, and by the offline event messages, but also engaged them to become media themselves and ‘Wideband LTE Speed Challenge’ that allowed customers to experience the share and expand our campaigns as a one-person media communication speed of wideband LTE in person. channel. As a result, our LTE services boast an remarkably strong customer Our IMC initiatives were undertaken as integrated campaigns that used not recognition among other wideband LTE services. Double It! Campaign Since July 2013, our ‘Double It! Campaign’ has been initiated to advertise TV CM TV CM our remarkable ‘double’ benefit program available in our entire service area spectrum—from data, membership and content, to media and CS—in line with the ‘All-IP’ wired/wireless broadband era. This campaign produced noteworthy outcomes in enhancing customer loyalty. In fact, our customers voluntarily spread Double It! TV commercials and the campaign song through mobile and social network service channels. This worked parallel with the ‘Double Your Surprise’ social network service campaign that offered IMC customers double benefits (however they wished to use them), and such seasonal promotion programs as the ‘Double Your Sliding’ campaign that allowed users to enjoy a specific attraction at a famous water theme park. SNS PROMOTIO Nation-wide LTE Campaign To communicate ‘nationwide coverage’ that differentiates kt from its TV CM TV CM competitors, the ‘All Over the Country’ campaign was launched in March 2013. We sent campaign models to the most remote and unknown reaches of Korea to experience the speed of kt’s LTE services. In addition to TV commercials, IMC initiatives were undertaken to solidify customer awareness that “kt’s LTE is fast everywhere”: we offered benefits to customers who actually went to these remote places and took pictures to verify the speed of our LTE services and held a social network event IMC ‘Dad, Are We Going to Go to the Wilds?’ that enabled winning father-child tandems to go on overnight camping trips just as the models featured in the TV commercial had done. SNS PROMOTIO kt Integrated Report 2014 35 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Group-wide Brand Management Strategic Brand Management and Operation Creating Group-level Synergy through Joint Promotional Programs Systemic Management of Brand Performance Indicators The ‘Group Brand Committee’, the consultation body in charge of groupTo enhance our brand value and strengthen its competitive edge as part of level brand management that consists of 22 kt group affiliates, ensures our brand management system, we developed a systemic and scientific that group-level synergistic effects are created and that brand, advertising, performance management model to manage brand performance indicators. design, promotion, media & social contribution and such initiatives are Based on such scientific data, we identify highly useful brand strategies and aligned consistently. Specifically, the working-level promotion committee action plans to enhance our brand value. was created in 2013 to launch group-wide joint promotional activities. In so doing, kt and its affiliates are able to closely cooperate in selling Systematic Brand Training products and services to generate synergistic effects. Furthermore, all the IMC channels owned by group affiliates are integrated to contribute to We offer training and management programs to assist our employees (as improving kt’s brand image and undertake efficient marketing strategies. well as affiliate employees), in understanding our brand and recognize the Our ‘kt Family Campaign’ assists group employees in better understanding importance and appropriate use of it. In 2013, such brand training was group brands and products and services offered by group affiliates, so as to provided 10 times to new recruits of kt and its affiliates. Brand management disseminate our brand image within the kt group. kt is looking to facilitate training was also offered to employees working in related departments at kt group-wide joint promotional initiatives to enhance the ‘kt’ group brand and its affiliates to share the importance of brand management on a wider image, as well as the quality of brand management for our customers. group level. Integrated Brand Design Total Identity Design As part of our major strategy to enhance brand value, we established and are improving on the Total Identity Design system. This system enables us to present an innovative and consistent brand image on the entire range of our corporate representation—from brand mark and our corporate font, to space products and UI. ‘kt Family Campaign’ Poster Completion of the Total Identity Design Brand Identity Design kt group Brand Royalty Policy In 2013, kt created a ‘kt Brand Royalty Policy’, the first of its kind since its founding, to charge group affiliates for using ‘kt’ in their company name from 2014 onward. The brand use fee is calculated through customer surveys and financial analyses to translate the contributions made by Space Identity UI _ Identity Visual Identity Product Identity brand, an intangible asset, to creating a company’s economic outcomes into Design Design Design Design monetary value. This Policy serves as objective standard and outcomes may serve as evidence to provide legal protection to our ‘kt’ brand and ensure that its value is appreciated by third-parties. In addition, this program prompts group employees to stand back and recognize the importance of Brand Identity Design the group brand and help create resources to improve the value of it. A brand identity serves as the fundamental basis in building a total identity. The ‘swoosh’ insignia positioned at one end of our brand mark symbolizes the ‘Wave of Innovation’. All kt brands consistently express kt’s own unique identity through the use of brand properties, the corporate font and brand “Brand use fee” is calculated from the data Contributions that represents what kt generates out of the colors. to tangible economic outcomes created by the ‘kt’ brand assets Cash flow Estimated Contributions profits from to intangible • Generated by kt intangible ×Contributions assets assets affiliates made by brand • Generated by kt 36 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Visual Identity Design Achievements from Integrated Brand Design Initiatives Our representative graphics “olleh signal”, the first of its kind to visualize olleh Green Phone Awarded at the ‘(Re)design Awards’ telecommunication signals into graphics as well as the “olleh font”, a In developing the olleh green phone icon and design package, we made corporate font that embodies kt’s unique identity, are used for a wide array it clear to people that we deliver services that benefit the sustainability of brand representation materials. All materials that use kt brands also of our environment and society. Not only did this help improve our brand employ integrated visual presentation elements developed to help create a awareness, but it also enabled us to further support individuals with low consistent visual identity. incomes. We also became Korea’s 1st company to be selected as the Final Brand Identity for the Professional Baseball Team kt wiz Winner in the Professional Project segment of the ‘(Re)design Awards’ hosted by the world’s largest U.S.-based design association, American In November 2013, we completed the brand identity of kit wiz, the nation’s Institute of Graphic Arts (AIGA). This paved the way for us to publicize our 10th professional baseball team. ‘wiz’ comes from the word ‘wizard’ and brand identity and our commitment to public good across the world. We is short for ‘wizard’ or ‘expert’. The core of this brand identity lies in the two continue to build a sustainable marketing base so that our olleh green symbols of an ‘initial symbol’ and an ‘image symbol’: the initial symbol phone can make even greater contributions to our society. looks like a wizard’s crest and combines the two characters of k and w. These two characters combined signify tenacity and power and are also displayed on the caps and uniforms that are worn at ‘away matches’. The image symbol represents a young, modern wizard and symbolizes agile mobility and flexibility and is displayed on the caps and uniforms worn at home matches. These uniforms are the first of their kind in Korea that differentiate brand marks for home and away matches. These diversified brand identity symbols will prove effective in securing team loyalty from the residents of Suwon (the team’s hometown), and in increasing revenues from the sales of related products. Final Winner in the Professional Project segment of the AIGA-hosted Design Awards Performance Brand Value Evaluation in 2013 Mar. 2013: Brand Evaluation Results by Brand Finance Global* Space Identity Design • $  4.9 billion in total in brand value (up by $1.3 billion from 2013) Our olleh squares, olleh avenues and olleh stores are built upon kt’s • Ranked 1st in brand value among Korea’s telecommunications companies unique identity. Through the convergence with various businesses (coffee, in the “Top 50 Telecoms Operator Brand” segment doughnuts and accessories) in spaces where we directly interact with customers, we enhance our brand awareness and preferences to further *One of the world’s top three brand value evaluators strengthen our competitive edge in brand. olleh avenue – Convergence Store with olleh avenue – Convergence Store with Accessories Accessories kt Integrated Report 2014 37 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers Global Market Advancements Context To overcome the limitations that we face within the saturated telecommunications industry, and to create new sources of income, kt is systemically building more robust capabilities for global ICT business as well as existing international telecommunications operations to tap into the wider global market. In 2013, we achieved notable outcomes in 15 countries across the globe including Poland, Rwanda, Angola and Ukraine while posting KRW 305.9 billion in sales from our overseas contracts and data/traffic wholesales. Progress The core of our global business strategy lies in delivering differentiated government in October, which is worth KRW 88.5 billion, the highest-ever and optimized solutions from a wide array of areas. This ranges from the overseas contract signed by kt. construction of a telecommunications network infrastructure to offering service operational knowledge by reflecting the market characteristics and We also actively tapped into the African market and won the monopoly requirements of those regions in need of our capabilities and experience. wholesale license of 4G & future technology as well as wideband frequency We strive to create successful models and stories in global business ranges (100MHz and over) by means of negotiations with the Rwandan conduct within the markets where we are based, including neighboring government. In Angola, we won a contract to advance the security system countries. of its police authorities and installed CCTVs and traffic speed cameras to prevent crime in the capital of Luanda. This is Korea’s first-ever security system export and kt’s integrated monitoring solutions are significantly Our Competitive Edge in the Global Business contributing to the development of Angola. Our competitive edge in global business is based on the success within In the telecommunications and non-telecommunication segments, we our local market. In building a wide-ranging ICT infrastructure including jointly launched the mobile payment business in conjunction with FIDO ultra-high speed internet networks, BCN*, IPTV, and LTE** networks that we Bank of Ukraine. As such, our experience and expertise in ICT convergence transfer our capabilities to major emerging markets in need of improved ICT is widely recognized across the world. infrastructure. We offer global ICT services ranging from the construction of telecommunications infrastructure and public infrastructure services to integrated monitoring solutions and managed services for government agencies and global companies. We also provide end-to-end data service and IP services, traffic wholesaling and other global services on the basis of our global network that connects major countries around the world. *BCN : Broadband Convergence Network **LTE : Long Term Evolution kt’s Presence in Major Global ICT Business Sectors Included in major business achievements during 2013 is the contract to construct a ‘ultra-high speed internet network’ in the Polish state of Podlaskie agreeded by state government in March, and the contract to build a broadband network/FTTx in the Polish state of Mazovia signed by the state kt-Construction of a 4G LTE Network in Rwanda kt’s Major Global ICT Operations (2013) [In order of contract timing] Year of Contract Country Type of Customer Type of Business Business Details Size (KRW 100 billion) Mar. 2013 Poland Local Government Contract-based Ultra-high speed internet network (state of 189 Podlaskie) Jul. 2013 Bangladesh International Organization Contract-based Construction of a next-generation 522 telecommunications network Oct. 2013 Poland Local Government Contract-based Ultra-high speed internet network (state of 885 Mazovia) Dec. 2013 Angola Central Government Contract-based Advancement of the state’s security system 276 Nov. 2013 Ukraine Company Contract-based Mobile payment business conducted in 21 conjunction with FIDO Group 38 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Innovation and Growth | Brand Value Creation | Broader Global Presence Drivers kt’s Global Presence (As of Dec. 2013) Uzbekistan (ET/Super Mongolia imax) (Mongolia Russia Telecom) (Office) China (ktC/ Poland Omnitel) (Branch) Japan (ktJ) Algeria Colombia (Office) (Office) Hong Kong USA (Office) Bangladesh (ktA) (Branch) Rwanda (oRn*/AoS**/ Office) Vietnam (Office) *oRn : olleh Rwanda networks **AoS : Africa olleh Services Performance Sales from Global Operations (Unit: KRW 100 billion) Category 2011 2012 2013 Global ICT 705 208 391 Global Data 658 618 739 Traffic Wholesale 2,130 2,203 1,929 Total 3,493 3,029 3,059 kt Integrated Report 2014 39 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | 경제적 가치창출 | 혁신경영 글로벌 | 글로벌 시장 개척 CREATING Purchase & Collaboration Office | Hyeon-U Han 40 kt Integrated kt Integrated Report Report 20142014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | 경제적 가치창출 | 혁신경영 글로벌 | 글로벌 시장 개척 social VALUE Public Relations Office | Gene Ma kt Integrated Report CREATING 2014 SOCIAL VALUE 41 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 CREATING SOCIAL vALUE Shared Growth Strategic Social Contribution Vision and Strategic Direction Results of the Materiality Test Impact Trend Issues As a partner company built on social responsibility, kt strives in a sysSignificance to Stakeholders (On a scale from zero to five) temic manner to create social value. We reinforce a sustainable supply 4.40 chain management as a way to pursue mutually-beneficial, shared growth from long-term perspectives and disseminate sustainability 4.20 of environmental, social and business environments to our suppliers. B Furthermore, we take lead in CSV initiatives (bridging the digital divide, A 4.00 creating ICT jobs for retirees) that contribute to solving social problems C and facilitating communication through IT devices and content. 3.80 Major Achievements in 2013 3.60 D Payments to Suppliers KRW 2.98 trillion 3.40 Free-of-Charge Training for 34 courses attended by 2,480 employees Suppliers 3.20 Total Social Contribution 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 KRW 63.53 billion Significance of Impact on kt (On a scale from zero to five) Spending* Impact & Trend Issues Shared Growth Beneficiaries of IT Sharing 317,756 beneficiaries A Expanding social responsibility • Sustainable supply chain management Initiatives along the supply chain • Support for and expansion of cooperation for shared growth • Procurement systems to build a green B Robust demand for shared * Total sum of investment in local communities, monetary and in-kind donations, growth ecosystem and establish fair trade practices sponsorship and support • Communication with suppliers C Market Presence D Local community Strategic Social Contribution (Social contribution) • Social contribution • Sharing IT, Social Opportunity through ICT • Sharing Love, Sharing Culture 42 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Context As today’s business environment increasingly factor in economic, social and environmental considerations, companies are faced with complex and comprehensive business conditions. kt operates a sustainable supply chain management system and systematic sustainability management throughout the entire supply chain to reduce such risks. Progress Sustainable Supply Chain Management System Major Indicators of Supplier Sustainability Management Evaluation Category Material Suppliers Suppliers of ICT Construction To establish a robust corporate ecosystem that ensures sustainable growth, Services we developed guidelines including an evaluation system for suppliers’ sustainability management according to relevant global standards during Management • Alignment of non-financial • Inclusion of anti-bribery / performance(environment, safety, anti-corruption articles in the 2012. This is the first-of-its kind in Korea. In 2013, we evaluated material satisfaction, suggestion) with the Code of Conduct and standards and ICT field suppliers to improve execution capability of our Sustainable employee remuneration system SCM System. The scores resulted in a satisfactory 87.3 points on average. • Assignment of sustainability management accountability to Our goal for 2014 is to reach an average of 89 points in our suppliers’ ESG the top management/specific executives and the operation of evaluation. We plan to open training courses for suppliers to assist supplier dedicated teams/staff employees in utilizing a sustainable supply chain management system as Environment • Operation of departments • Operation of corporate policies an essential part of their daily operations. Furthermore, SCM consulting will (or managers) responsible for concerning the compliance be introduced to support the innovation of our suppliers’ supply chain. environmental management with environmental laws and • Aggregation and management of regulations GHG emissions data • Measures to prevent soil or Supplier Sustainability Management Evaluation Indicators (Scope 1 / Scope 2) water pollution • Collection and management of • Establishment/management In 2013, we launched an ESG-based supplier sustainability management data on waste disposal of energy consumption data evaluation system to address any negative impacts within the supply chain on human rights, labor conditions and the environment. Our material Society • Inclusion of minimum wage • Operation of corporate policies regulations within the corporate concerning the compliance suppliers are subject to a total of 40 evaluation indicators – management wage policy with all labor-related laws and (15), environment (13), society (10) and products (2)while our suppliers • Guaranteed freedom for employees regulations of ICT construction services are subject to a total of 32 indicators – to join or create the labor union management (5), environment (15), society (11) and construction (1). Products • User safety inspections made • Quality inspections to eliminate While we attempted to use 48 indicators in evaluating material suppliers on manufactured products the need to fix defects in 2013, eight of them were eliminated as they were not applicable to the telecommunications supply chain environment. SR Code of Conduct Agreement Evaluation results are considered when re-selecting suppliers or selecting We sign an agreement on SR(Social Responsibility) Code of Conduct top-performing suppliers. In 2013, we used these evaluation outcomes to with suppliers every year to request our suppliers fulfill their own social re-select 274 suppliers of ICT construction services as partner companies in responsibility. This agreement stipulates matters in relation to human 2014 and selected top-performing material suppliers. We conduct annual rights, compliance with labor regulations, occupational health & safety, supplier evaluations to re-select suppliers. environmental management and employee training. Training to Expand a Culture of Shared Growth Every year, we train our employees on shared growth, as well as our progress in pursuing shared growth with suppliers and requirements that should be satisfied in conducting business with suppliers. Specifically, we ensure that our employees work on an equal footing with our suppliers as partners and that their interactions with supplier employees are appropriate and respectful. In 2013, we offered these courses twice to 16,555 employees. Performance 2013 Outcomes of Sustainable Supply Chain Evaluation Category No. of Evaluated Suppliers Supplier Sustainability Evaluation Indicators Outcomes Material Suppliers 147 ESG* + Products : 40 indicators 84.3 points on average Suppliers of ICT Construction Services 275 ESG* + Construction (construction safety) : 36 indicators 90.3 points on average * ESG : Environment, Social (labor, human rights and social contribution), Governance (ethics, risk management) kt Integrated Report 2014 43 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 SUPPORT FOR SHARED GROWTH PARTNERSHIP Context Shared growth with suppliers is not merely a social responsibility, but a method of sustained growth and development. This is why kt expands financial support and non-monetary support to engage in initiatives such as training supplier employees and sharing patented technology licensing rights to suppliers. Progress Win-Win Partnership with Suppliers through Performance Sharing Support for Suppliers in Increasing Their Sales Policy To help suppliers expand their sales and strengthen their businesses, we Since 2006, we have operated a performance-sharing system to generate tap into the overseas market with our suppliers and support their global outcomes in conjunction with suppliers to cut costs and improve quality marketing efforts. through joint development of equipment and services and benefit sharing. Over the past six years, our suppliers (who successfully developed 12 types Our business activities to advance into the overseas market with topof telecommunications equipment), received benefits worth KRW 16.3 performing suppliers through joint business development led to the billion by taking part in our procurement practices. The performance sharing implementation of 12 joint projects worth KRW 178.9 billion in 2013. system lies at the core of our shared growth agenda. Furthermore, we attended the world’s largest mobile telecommunications exhibition MWC (Mobile World Congress, held in Spain) along with 10 The scope of this system is extending from materials to construction and outstanding suppliers to assist these SMEs with global marketing activities. software development, while its type of eligible projects diversified from In 2014, joint projects valued at KRW 123 billion will be undertaken, so as the remodeling/improvement of existing equipment to the development/ to unite forces with top-performing suppliers in tapping the wider global localization of new equipment, manufacturing process improvements and market. energy-saving. The compensation scheme was also improved dramatically: suppliers who developed new equipment are entitled to exclusive rights Along with support for overseas expansion, we also held the Recruitment to supply the equipment through negotiated contracts that are valid for up Expo in conjunction with the Federation of Korean Industries and other to two years; suppliers who successfully reduced costs through optimized partners to help our suppliers recruit exceptional talent, which produced specifications are eligible to receive the full 100% savings for one year tangible support for 23 of our suppliers in 2013. We also encouraged large in recognition of their efforts to suggest ideas and translate them into suppliers to commission their manufacturing to SME suppliers to assist our cost savings. In addition, we offer training and consulting to suppliers to SME suppliers in increasing their sales. In 2013, contracts worth KRW 12.8 raise the possibility of project success, as well as conditions and testing/ billion were signed between these suppliers. measurement devices, free-of-charge to assist suppliers in developing equipment. In 2013, a total of 24 projects were launched, including 21 themed projects and 3 general projects. Those 17 suppliers who reached their target were given precedence in allocating volume and received additional points in supplier evaluation. In 2014, we will identify additional performance sharing models and continue to implement projects to generate shared outcomes so as to further vitalize this mutually-beneficial system. Recruitment Expo 2013 MWC Exhibition in 2013 Type of Performance Sharing Programs Financial Support • General Program We jointly make improvements and/or develop new To help suppliers secure sufficient cash liquidity and capital, we offer equipment with our suppliers and share the benefits from the achievements indirect support programs such as our network loan program, a creditmade. There are no designated project themes: projects with the potential based secured loan program through WinC. We operate credit loan funds to save costs or improve on quality issues are submitted and reviewed yearworth KRW 400 billion through kt capital and have been making 100% round. cash payment to SME suppliers regardless of contract value. This is a • Themed Program This program was introduced to facilitate cooperation significant shift from the conventional subcontracting practice of payment. with suppliers of ICT construction services in 2013. kt presents specific Furthermore, we signed agreements with the financial institutions that offer themes in need of improvement (such as prevention of typhoon damage) win-win partnership loan programs so that we could operate a loan support and suppliers present ideas to make the necessary improvements. program that allows suppliers to take loans at interest rates that are lower than market rates. Specifically, a fund worth KRW 100 billion was created in 2013 to build a shared growth ecosystem with suppliers, out of which KRW 15.9 billion was loaned out. kt’s commitment to shared growth with its suppliers will continue in the future. Visit to Systech Undertaking a ThemedPerformance Sharing Project with kt 44 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Support for Suppliers with Development Infrastructure Support for Management and Productivity Gains As a way to relive the burden of suppliers of R&D expenses and incubate For two years (between 2012 and 2013), we invested KRW 600 million in SMEs and ventures, we established an independent network infrastructure launching the Productivity Innovation Partnership Support Program for 22 (comprehensive model rooms, Econovation Center) so that our SMEs and suppliers in conjunction with the Korea Productivity Center to help these developers can use our wired/wireless telecommunication internet service suppliers with management and productivity improvement. In 2013, we development tools and test beds free-of-charge. In 2013, our network also invested KRW 500 million in the Industry Innovation 3.0 initiative equipment model rooms and software development facilities were made launched by the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Commerce to assist 15 1-tier available for these suppliers 19,136 times. and 2-tier suppliers with manufacturing and process improvements. Since 2012, we have operated the Business Assist program that sends consultants, with previous work experience, as executives to large Legal Protection of Supplier Technology companies that pay regular visits to our suppliers to help address any top Our technology protection initiative aims to help SME suppliers reinforce management difficulties and support management innovation activities. their competitive edge in technology in consideration of their sector-specific We plan to reinforce support for SMEs to help advance their management characteristics. For material suppliers, we ensure that we protect not only system quality . patentable technology, but also their proprietary technology through the Technology Escrow Program*. In 2013, there were a total of 29 cases of technology protection. We will support our SME suppliers and venture Free Training for Supplier Employees businesses with network infrastructure and technology protection so that We offer workforce training to help our SME suppliers overcome their they can develop core technology. limitations in improving quality, developing human resources and building * Technology Escrow Program: Suppliers deposit their proprietary technology with stronger employee capabilities. Training courses in the fields of customer the Large Company-SME Cooperation Foundation so that they can prove their service, supply of materials and ICT construction services trained 23,310 possession of deposited technology in the case of future technology leaks. supplier employees (97 courses for 10,729 employees in 2011, 100 courses for 10,101 employees in 2012, and 34 courses for 2,480 employees Transfer of Patent/Technology Licenses in 2013) over the past four years. Group training courses are provided at our kt HRD Center and regional on-site training centers. Since 2011, kt has implemented free-of-charge transfer of IP (intellectual property) rights granted through our internal R&D, as well as technology transfers to our suppliers to assist these SMEs in securing key technology for their future growth businesses. By 2013, we offered 166 technologies to 130 suppliers through free-of-charge or paid transfers to assist them in launching new operations. In 2014, 14 additional technologies will be transferred (these will either come with a fee or free-of-charge). We will continue these initiatives through the sharing of our patents to drive the growth within our suppliers. Performance Major Achievements of Shared Growth Support in 2013 Category Details Performance Sharing Program 24 projects in total (21 themed projects, 3 general projects) Sales Growth Support 12 joint projects worth KRW 178.9 billion Financing Support • Network loans taken : KRW 448 billion • KRW 100 billion-worth win-win growth fund created in the content sector : Provided KRW 15.9 billion Development Infrastructure Support Network equipment model rooms and software development facilities made available for suppliers 19,136 times Transfer of Patent/Technology Licenses Patent: 52 patents for 16 supplies, Technology: Four technologies for four suppliers Management/ Business Doctor Program : Four suppliers, Productivity Improvement Support Productivity Innovation Partnership : 10 suppliers, Industry Innovation 3.0 : 15 suppliers Free-of-Charge Training Support 34 courses offered to 2,480 supplier employees kt Integrated Report 2014 45 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 COMMITMENT TO BUILDING A GREEN SHARED GROWTH ECOSystem Context Context The competitiveness of our suppliers is instrumental in determining our Because of rapidly-growing concerns over the environment and the competitive edge at kt, and the competitive edge of 2 nd-tier suppliers requirements needed for its protection, we are required to develop systems increasingly becomes a critical requirement to the growth of 1 st-tier to minimize any negative environmental impact along our supply chain. suppliers. To create a healthier industrial ecosystem for sustainable growth, To respond to such social shifts and needs, and to help suppliers achieve kt is gradually expanding support for 2nd-tier suppliers. productivity gains through improved quality management processes, we assist our suppliers with environmental management system consulting and certifications. Progress Expanding Shared Growth Initiatives Between Major Companies and Progress Their 1st to 2nd-Tier Suppliers Supporting Suppliers to Obtain ISO14001 Certification We have offered multi-faceted programs since 2011 to facilitate the shared We offer systemic support for 1 st and 2 nd-tier suppliers in receiving growth between 1st-tier and 2nd-tier suppliers. Specifically, the shared growth environmental management system (ISO14001) consulting and obtaining support system (WinC) was launched to expand the ratio of cash payments, to relevant certifications so as to establish a greener supply chain. 2nd-tier suppliers. Under the WinC system, 2nd-tier suppliers that supply to 1sttier suppliers can receive their payment in cash-equivalent credit sales bonds. To assist SME suppliers in securing practical quality management systems WinC also supports 2nd-tier suppliers in liquidating credit sales bonds from 1stand laying the basis for environmental management, we offer 50% of the tier suppliers at low interest rates. expenses that our suppliers spend on consulting and certification acquisition for the international environmental management standard ISO14001. In Financing Support for 2nd-Tier Suppliers 2013, 17 suppliers received such benefits. In so doing, we standardized As part of our financing support for 2nd-tier suppliers, we offer credit loan the quality management process of suppliers, raised their environmental support through kt capital’s network loan program worth KRW 300 billion. awareness and achieved productivity gains of our supplies. From 2014 Our 2nd-tier suppliers in need of financing support can request loans to kt onward, we will mandate suppliers with production facilities to gain the capital through the recommendation of 1st-tier suppliers, which is followed by ISO14001 certification to further accelerate the development of a greener document reviews and financing support for qualified suppliers. ecosystem along the supply chain. Expansion of Shared Growth Programs for 2nd-Tier Suppliers Handling Grievances Regarding Environmental Impacts In October 2010, our shared growth programs for 1st-tier suppliers became available for 2nd-tier suppliers. We support 50% of the expenses of 2nd-tier We use our official supplier portal, which is operated to handle supplier suppliers to receive quality control and environmental consulting and obtain grievances to receive their environment-related grievances. In 2013, there relevant certifications. We offer training, test beds, measurement devices, were no grievances submitted in relation to environmental impact. comprehensive model rooms and Econovation Center facilities for free. Specifically, our vendor coaching program was launched in 2008 to assist 2nd-tier suppliers in building their own quality systems through quality Performance improvement coaching made avaliable by quality management experts from Support for Suppliers’ ISO14001 Certification kt and 1st-tier suppliers. This coaching program benefited six suppliers in 2010, 15 suppliers in 2011, 23 suppliers in 2012 and 13 suppliers in 2013. Category Details This achieved more than an 80% improvement in material procurement and Environmental Certificates 94.1% (material suppliers 83.9% : 131/156, ICT management, testing/inspection and other fields. Obtained construction service suppliers 100% = 274/274) Suppliers Supported in 2013 17 suppliers (16 material suppliers, one ICT construction service supplier) Performance Ratio of Support of the 39% (16 suppliers/41 suppliers) Total Uncertified Suppliers Achievements in Supporting 2nd-Tier Suppliers Supplier Support Program Support for the environmental management Category 2011 2012 2013 system standard ISO 14001 certification Shared Growth Support 16 suppliers 30 suppliers 25 suppliers for 2nd-Tier Suppliers Achievements in Supporting the ISO 14001 Certification Over the Vendor Coaching 15 suppliers 23 suppliers 13 suppliers Past Three Years Category 2011 2012 2013 Beneficiary 175 suppliers 29 suppliers 17 suppliers Suppliers including Gyeongil including Divien including Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Naonworks Co., Ltd. Monetary Support KRW 114 million KRW 58.74 million KRW 21.60 million Provided Vendor Coaching Agreement Signing Vendor Coaching Outcomes Presentation Ceremony 46 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 procurement system communication with for fair trade suppliers Context Context Our procurement policy takes a quality-driven approach in selecting and Appropriate communication is essential in producing optimal outcomes managing suppliers in order to transparently operate procurement processes. among cooperating companies. Through the Information Sharing We also innovate our procurement programs (intermediate payment as Council and shared growth discussions, we continue to strengthen our a funding support for suppliers) to deliver fair and reasonable business communication with our suppliers to build a sense of cohesiveness along conditions, along with favorable working environments for our suppliers. our entire supply chain. Progress Progress Procurement Process Innovation for Quality-based Supplier Information Sharing Council Selection and Management We hold regular Information Sharing Council meetings with suppliers in each Since July 2012, our procurement process was overhauled to place quality as sector to gather their opinion on directions to pursue shared growth and joint the top priority in selecting suppliers. Our focus shifted from the qualification cooperation measures, while making necessary improvements. Since October of suppliers to more quantifiable aspects: they are prioritized for their quality 2010, we have been discussing emergency demand periods and the status evaluation scores and top-performers come first in negotiations and contractof supplier inventories, so as to support our suppliers in meeting emergency signing. The scope of quality management was extended and reinforced needs caused by product promotions and shifting market conditions. Since from hardware-centered practices to include software functionality, source 2011, we have been holding the SCM Council monthly and quarterly to handle code verification and development capability management. The quality issues related to rented handsets, raw materials, wireless device materials. In information system enables us to manage the operational quality of supplied 2013, the scope of discussions was extended to ultra-high speed connection equipment & handsets and align quality outcomes with procurement pricing devices and power, along with repeaters to encourage suppliers to optimize and supplier management to incubate top-performing suppliers. In so doing, their inventory and production. our suppliers can fully focus on technology development and we can optimize our operations not just from the CAPEX*-saving but TCO** perspective. We will Grievance Handling Program advance procurement processes and reinforce relevant systems to relieve the Our supplier portal serves as an official channel to receive and handle burden on suppliers and deliver high-quality products. grievances from our suppliers and any of our suppliers are eligible to submit * CAPEX(Capital expenditures): Expenses spent to generate future income their grievances. Once submitted, we initiate an investigation to help solve ** TCO: Total Cost of Ownership the grievances. In addition to the supplier portal, we allow our suppliers to present their grievances and difficulties directly to the head of the Procurement • Multiple Price Bidding Launched in 2009, this scheme aims to remedy the Cooperation Office through a dedicated communication channel while hosting overall degradation of supplier operations caused by excessive lowest price shared growth discussions at the site of suppliers. As such, we attentively pay bidding and establish fair and reasonable transactions. Under this scheme, if the attention to the grievances and difficulties of our suppliers to prevent risks lowest bidding price is more than 5% lower than the 2nd lowest price, the lowest concerning labor conditions and human rights that may occur along the supply bidder signs the contract to supply the allocated contract volume and the 2nd chain. lowest price is accepted as the lowest price. • Adjustment of Target Prices in Consideration of Unit Price Variables Since On-site Shared Growth Discussion August 2009, we have reflected unit price variables and relaxed our price Our procurement executives make monthly in-person visits to our suppliers adjustment conditions. Inflation rates, exchange rates and raw material price to become more familiar with their production quality management and fluctuations from the previous year are standardized and reflected in setting initial materials management field operations and help handle their difficulties, target prices each year. If these variables rise by more than 3% during the contract suggestions or any other shared growth issues. In 2013, 136 suppliers were term, our suppliers can demand price adjustment regardless of contract terms. visited to complete our response to the 41 difficulties raised by our suppliers. • Minimization of the Mismatch between Contract and Delivery Rates To minimize Seven out of these 41 issues required our internal improvement and we the mismatch between contract and delivery rates, we offered item-specific took action to completely handle these issues. In 2014, such on-site shared demand forecasts in the real names of staff and standardized configuration of growth discussions will be led by working-level staff to further facilitate highly-preferred items, while facilitating unit price contracts without determined communication with suppliers. volume and launching a systemized volume allocation program. We also built a process to comply with the volume rate specified in the contract with suppliers. Supplier Satisfaction Survey • Intermediate Payment Program In addition to the existing payment methods We conduct semi-annual, multi-dimensional evaluations of our supplier in (advance/progress-based/final payment), we launched the intermediate such areas of fair trade, the level of cooperation and shared growth systems. payment program in August 2011 to provide funding support to suppliers during As a result of our sustained endeavors to improve our substandard practices, the contract period. For contracts worth KRW 100 million or above and 60 days our supplier satisfaction rose by a total of 3.7 points in 2013 from the previous or longer, suppliers can receive up to 30% of the total contract payment, in cases year: 87.2 points in the 1st half and 90.9 points in the 2nd half of 2013. progress evaluations make progress-based payments difficult to fulfill. Performance Performance Supplier Satisfaction KPI Outcomes Achievements in Procurement System Innovation (After 2010) Category 2011 2012 2013 Category No. of Cases(Including Overlapping Cases) Value 1st Half 2nd Half 1st Half 2nd Half 1st Half 2nd Half Multiple Price Bidding 97 cases KRW 404.7 billion Supplier 83.87 84.79 86.90 89.01 88.87 90.66 Target Price Adjustment 28 cases KRW 167.7 billion Satisfaction points points points points points points kt Integrated Report 2014 47 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Social Contribution Context As the development of technology leads to growing interest in ICT-based social value, it is instrumental that kt establishes ICT based strategies and help organizations catering to social needs. Thus, kt’s social contribution strategy is set in accordance with shifting social conditions to undertake initiatives aimed at creating social value. Progress Creation of Shared Value (CSV) Under the vision ‘ICT that benefits the world’, kt is taking a lead in ICTto farming and fishing households through the One Company One Village enabled social initiatives. As part of this commitment, kt focuses on campaign. Activities also include checking the facilities at welfare centers ICT-based hope sharing initiatives for retirees, women suffering career and offering experience-based training that uses kt’s infrastructure. In discontinuation and the disabled and other socially-underprivileged 2013, 20,848 kt employees volunteered for 98,444 hours. individuals. kt also combines ICT with corporate philanthropy to offer video-based mentoring services for children from low-income families as a way to lead the creative economy. To narrow the information gap for the marginalized, our 200-strong IT supporters, dedicated to the company’s social contribution initiatives, are mobilized to offer computer and smartphone user training and anti-smartphone addiction training to prevent the negative impact of smartphone use, a serious social issue. In 2014, our goal is to align with group affliates to expand the scope of our CSV initiatives to create shared value within society. Directions to Guide kt’s Social Contribution Initiatives ICT that Benefits the World Love Volunteer Corps Volunteering at a Single Mom Care Center •  edicated kt IT Supporters D • Training to handle the negative impact of smartphones • Smart Academy Organizational Chart of Love Volunteer Corps Sharing IT • IT training for the underprivileged • CT video-based mentoring Dream School • IT support for the disabled Leader (CEO) Executiue Office (PR Office) • IPTV support for the underprivileged • L ove Volunteer Corps Departments Customer Marketing G&E Network • olleh Student Volunteers and Support Group Group Group Group • Dream Teacher to offer job opportunities to retirees and Departments women whose career was discontinued Sharing Love • Love for Children network Dream Together (Dream Center) • kt Finding Sound project IT Supporter Program • Global CSV • Scholarship IT Supporters was launched in 2007 to offer free access to IT, through • Medical Sharing the donation of IT knowledge. Every year, there were 200 kt employee volunteers dedicated to IT sharing initiatives. As of 2014, the 8th generation of IT Supporters was initiated. This pro bono talent donation initiative is •  olleh square Sharing Culture recognized as a representative example that positively shifted the paradigm • kt chamber hall of corporate social giving programs. Social Contribution Organizations Love Volunteer Corps Our Love Volunteer Corps was designed to undertake company-wide organized and systemic employee volunteer activities with the CEO serving as the chairman. With approximately 500 teams and 32,612 employee volunteers, Love Volunteer Corps launched wide-ranging initiatives—from supporting local children’s centers, helping the underprivileged in local communities and assisting in disaster recovery—to offering helping hands Launching of the 8th Generation of IT Supporters. Mar. 14, 2014 48 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Results of IT Supporter Activities (Unit: No. of persons) Information Have-Nots General Public Total 89,786 461,757 132,481 Total 122,635 Total 1,103,551 79,913 359,860 217,195 104,744 324,038 317,756 47,496 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Children Multi-cultural Families Small Businesses / Self-Employed Total 174,114 Total Total 82,493 4,779 340,479 173,930 12,087 4,165 132,114 61,211 3,146 30,226 34,221 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 External Recognition of IT Supporters’ Contribution Initiatives (Over the Past Three Years) Jul. 21, 2011 “Grand Prize-Corporate Sharing Award” at the 18th National Volunteer Grand Festival (Volunteering Korea, Joongang Daily) Nov. 22, 2011 “Prime Minister’s Award” at the 3rd Korea Human Awards Aug. 23, 2012 Excellence Award in the special/general segments at the 19th National Volunteer Grand Festival (Volunteering Korea, Joongang Daily) Dec. 2013 Gyeonggi Governor’s Commendation on anti-smartphone addiction training Performance New Initiatives Undertaken in 2013 • Establishing the Dream School, an ICT video-based mentoring program • Launching Dream Teacher, a job opportunity program that contributes to society Awards Social Responsibility Leader for Co-Existence Award Corporate Social Responsibility Award Supervised by Joongang Daily and JTBC Jointly hosted by the Korean Chamber of Commerce & Leading socially responsible management by receiving Industry and Forbes Korea awards for two consecutive years in 2012 and 2013 Receiving awards in the social responsibility segment for two consecutive years kt Integrated Report 2014 49 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Sharing IT Context As smartphones, world wide web and ICT devices become an essential part of our lives, the gap in information access, connectivity among different regions, social groups and generations widens. kt’s IT Supporters are dedicated to sharing their IT knowledge to bridge the digital divide and allow ICT to serve as a communication channel for everyone. Progress Sharing Advanced IT Knowledge To narrow the informational divide caused by the emergence of smart IT devices, kt launched the ‘Smart Academy’ and ‘Smart Sharing’ initiatives to lead the creation of a “warm and smart world”. As part of this commitment, we provide less-privileged individuals (categorized into four types) with new IT related experience and user training. This allows them to readily access information, while offering customized lectures when external organizations or groups call for such smart device user training. Furthermore, ‘Smart Academy’ open lectures are offered in the Seoul metropolitan area, Busan, Daejeon, Daegu, Gwangju, Ulsan and Jeonju while ‘Smart Sharing’ Delivery of Smartphone Learning Materials Building a Free-of-Charge Wi-Fi Zone for a for Those Who Use Sign Language Disabled Children’s Care Center initiatives are undertaken to bridge the Smart Divide for children at local child care centers. Dedicated Support for the Disabled Category Details Date Education Offering voiceover training and producing/distributing CDs Apr. 18, for the visually-impaired 2013 Building a nationwide learning support system for the Mar. hearing-impaired with the Korea National University of 2013 Welfare Aug. 6, Hosting mentoring camps for hearing-impaired youth 2013 Producing soundbooks for visually-impaired children 2013 • Recording soundbooks with voice-recording volunteers and donating 100 books together with word-entry volunteers (to produce Braille books) • Donating audio files to the Gustav Klimt exhibition (Media Hub) Improving access to books for the visually-impaired through Aug. upgraded support for the Younggwang Mobile Braille Library 2013 Smart Device User Training for Immigrant Women from Multi-cultural Families for the Visually-Impaired IT Building 20 olleh wifi-zones to improve IT accessibility for Apr. ~ Jun. institutions that serve the disabled 2013. IT Knowledge Training (Smart Academy) Improving the web accessibility of the representative Apr. 2, corporate websites (olleh.com, etc.) for the visually-impaired 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Hosting the smartphone user competition for the visuallyAug. 13, impaired 2013 Open No. of lectures 407 431 218 Lectures Producing and distributing DVDs that contain smartphone Dec. 10, No. of attendees 1,535 1,471 1,280 user manuals for the hearing-impaired (1,000 DVDs to 2013 institutions for the hearing-impaired and the general public Class-OnNo. of lectures 6,612 11,162 8,130 nationwide) the-Go Supporting IT training at nationwide welfare centers for the Apr. ~ Nov. No. of attendees 103,030 295,398 218,627 disabled to create jobs for these individuals, together with 2013 the Korea Disabled People's Development Institute Total No. of lectures 7,019 11,593 8,348 • Training 231 disabled individuals at 20 centers in nine cities and provinces/5 became certified, two were employed No. of attendees 104,565 296,869 219,907 Culture Sharing cultural events, that offer hopes and dreams to the May 25, hearing/visually-impaired 2013 • all-ip lounge tours for hearing-impaired teenagers Oct. 14, Support for the Disabled • Event to celebrate ‘Day of White Cane’ for the visually2013 impaired IT Supporters offer basic IT training (computer and internet use, OA training) • Attended by 130 visually-impaired people, performance by as well as certificate training to assist the disabled become economically visually-impaired individuals, distribution of white canes as independent. Since the full-fledged distribution of smartphones in 2010, gifts • Special lecture as part of the ‘See-saw’ hope-sharing our supporters have also provided smartphone/ smartpad user training. initiative at kt provided for the visually/hearing-impaired Specifically in 2013, a new team dedicated to supporting the disabled, was Community Support to facilitate the community of the hearing-impaired Apr. 5~ 6, created to offer substantial and practical support, ultimately establishing a • Happy Smart Café to help the disabled 2013 mutually-beneficial model for both the disabled and kt. • Mentoring and business support to facilitate Love Sign Language Café, a small business 50 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Support for Traditional Markets IT Supporters Experience Program for Stakeholders IT Supporters offer IT training to small business owners so that their kt’s IT Supporters Experience program directly engages stakeholders in IT improved IT capabilities may lead to sales growth. Such IT training was sharing initiatives to serve their role in narrowing the information gap. Each provided at traditional local markets last year. Our staff assisted store year, undergraduate volunteers are selected from across the nation and in owners who, due to their busy work schedules, could not properly use 2013, 400 Junior IT Supporters were selected to undertake various activities their smartphones. In fully assisting these individuals with smartphone to create a thriving ICT culture. functionalities, they were able to use smartphones to introduce or promote their products to customers. Furthermore, they learned how to use social olleh Student Volunteers Program network services as a tool to offer the latest information or promote their store to customers. Some store owners opened online shops to kt’s ‘olleh Student Volunteers’ was designed to systematically provide communicate with their customers as well as operating offline, which ‘sharing opportunities’ to future generations and expand kt’s foundation increased their sales. for social contribution initiatives to ones that engage customers. Each group of students volunteers for a period of one year and their activities are differentiated in that these volunteers should plan, learn and voluntarily engage themselves in wide-ranging, professional social contribution programs. Starting with 100 volunteers back in 2011, a total of 359 undergraduate students – 136 in 2012 and 123 in 2013 – have dedicated their time to sharing their knowledge and care across the nation over the past three Support to Open Online Stores One-on-One Smartphone User Training years. As of 2014, 105 undergraduates are engaged in monthly volunteer activities under the theme of Sharing ICT. Details of Support for Traditional Markets Our olleh Student Volunteers are regularly launching fully localized volunteering initiatives in eight regions across the nation and have Customized support by 23 IT Supporter Teams nationwide: One team in volunteered for a total of 4,393 hours in 2013. They assist less-privileged charge of one traditional market children in exploring their future career options and take them on career • Smartphone user training, computer training field trips, while contributing to the environment by attending forest • Increasing sales through e-commerce and social network service training experience programs, beautifying utility poles with mural paintings and • Store promotions and events through the use of QR coding making flower pots out of recycled cups. Through such creative and • Training Outcomes in 2013: Training-on-the-go for traditional market store unconventional approaches, they have taken the initiative in addressing owners (Trainees: 1,995 people, Training Hours: 793 hours) social issues. Participation in traditional market exhibitions to promote kt’s support for traditional markets Furthermore, we launch special initiatives, such as nurturing CSV social • National Top Market Exhibition: Announcing traditional market support enterprises and promoting overseas cultural exchanges. In 2013, we programs to national store owners’ associations, Operating PR booths attended the CSV Academy to foster social enterprises as a way to expand • Seoul Traditional Market Exhibition: Operating PR booths awareness of these companies, while directing cultural exchanges and global volunteer operations in Uzbekistan and Japan. ‘Find the Best Traditional Market Store’ event • Support for the online promotion and e-commerce of traditional market stores Featured promotional articles for prestigious traditional markets by the Dong-A Daily: Seoul Folk Flea Smartphone User Training Presented by Smart Training for Seniors Presented by Markets, Changdong Burim Market Senior Volunteer Corps olleh Student Volunteers in South Gyeongsang Online Promotion of Traditional Markets kt Integrated Report 2014 51 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Bridging the Digital Divide Service Providing Universal Services Universal services are defined as basic telecommunication services that can WIMAX(Wibro) services since 2013. be accessed by anyone, anytime, anywhere, at reasonable prices. They also kt ensures that our rates remain affordable so that every person in this refer to affordable communication services that can be easily used by the nation can use our universal services. This means that kt offers the same general public, regardless of their social background or place of residence. level of services to those living in high-cost areas (such as agricultural/ Presently, the scope of universal services includes fixed line calls and fishing villages and islands) as their urban counterparts. This runs contrary emergency call rate discounts for the disabled and low-income populations. to most domestic telecommunications carriers, who impose limitations on Specifically, such rate discounts have become available for portable their available service locations, due to service coverage or other reasons. Status of Universal Services Offered in 2013 Category Definition of Service Availability Fixed-line Local Calls Call service offered through subscriber phones • Offered to 17,620,000 subscribers as of the end of 2013 Phone Service • Continued supply of local call facilities as demanded by the development of new urban areas Island Area Services Call service offered through wireless land-to• Local calls and ultra high-speed internet connections are offered to 65,000 island or island-to-island communications subscribers in 420 island areas across the nation * There are a total of 3,170 islands in Korea, out of which 491 are inhabited Local Public Calls Call service offered through public phones • 74,000 unmanned public phones are operated nationwide • Regular disinfection/hygiene control, phone booths designed for the disabled Emergency Call Dedicated Numbers Call service offered through dedicated numbers • Applicable Numbers: National security hotline(111), crime report(112), Service for Emergency Calls selected and announced by the Ministry of spy report(113), cyber terrorism report(118), fire/disaster report(119), Science, ICT and Future Planning, as a backbone maritime accident and crime report(122), smuggling report(125) communications service • 119 calls are possible through video calls on mobile phones Marine Wireless Call service offered through wireless land-to• Telegraphs, calls and telegram services are offered to 4,000 subscribed ships Service ship or ship-to-ship telecommunications • When GMDSS* disaster signals are received in accordance with the SOLAS** Convention, they are automatically Rate Discounts Discounted telecommunication service rates • Services eligible for rate discounts: Local/long-distance calls, information calls available to the disabled or to low-income (114), mobile calls, ultra high-speed internet, portable internet (Wibro) populations in need of social protection • Fixed rate discounts for base/call rates • Discounts worth approximately KRW 209 billion were offered to a total of 3,847,000 subscribers for each service type in 2013 * GMDSS: Global Maritime Distress and Safety System ** SOLAS Convention: International Convention for the Safety of Life At Sea established by the International Maritime Organizations Performance Initiatives Undertaken by IT Supporters in 2013 Universal Services Portable internet(Wibro) service was added in No. of Rate Discounts Approximately KRW 209 billion was offered in rate discounts in 2013 IT Training Sessions 20,447 Island Telecommunications 65,000 subscribers in 420 island areas nationwide Service No. of Beneficiaries of IT Sharing 74,000 unmanned public phones (special phone Local Public Call Service Initiatives 317,756 booths designed for the disabled) 52 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 SOCIAL OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH ICT Context Retiring baby boomers, the shortage of quality jobs for seniors, and the loss of opportunities due to the widening income divide, represent social issues whose solutions require more than individual efforts. To do our part in addressing these social issues through our ICT capabilities, kt is offering programs for retirees, programs for women suffering from career discontinuation and programs for undergraduate students and children / teens from less-privileged families. Progress Talent Sharing Program for Retirees kt’s talent sharing program (See-saw) for retirees was designed to engage In 2013, the number of lecture readings and viewings reached to retirees in social activities. With 25 IT Supporter Teams nationwide serving approximately 3,300. Not only is online mentoring available, but offline as the base, IT-mediated communication training was offered to 15,000 mentoring is equally provided. This mentoring takes place at 21 Dream retirees, while assisting them with on/offline communication through the Centers located nationwide and at ‘Seeds of Dreams’, which are camp online community See-saw Net. To ensure that the invaluable experience sites created through the renovation of closed schools. Specifically, and talent of retirees is passed down and allocated to those in need, 388 Dream Centers are equipped with IT devices that enable real-time video retirees were selected out of 2,354 applicants to undertake 5,898 talent communication, and thus are capable of providing both on/offline sharing activities. mentoring. Approximately 1,000 webcams and headsets were distributed to local child care centers nationwide to allow for their participation. While this year, our selection parameters for selecting mentees were focused on children who received help from local child care centers and who were frequent users of our Dream Centers, we will expand the scope and number of our mentees to include disabled children and children from multi-cultural families. Our mentor pool consists of retirees, women of discontinued career and under-graduate students. As our mentors fulfill the requirements of a social Talent Sharing Program for Retirees Dream Teacher responsibility job, kt provides them payment for their contributions. As of (Horticulture) April 2014, there were a total of 336 Dream Mentors. These included such celebrities as actor Seong-Gi Ahn and singer Tae-Won Kim, who participated Dream Teacher in this program in 2013. We hope to create an ICT-enabled Hope Ecosystem To narrow the gap in educational opportunity for a total of one million to support less-privileged children in realizing their dream. We would like to underprivileged children, we created social responsibility jobs (Dream do this on a kt Group level by engaging our employees, and even ordinary Teacher, 230 teachers nationwide). Talented retirees and women between citizens to become mentors. jobs assisted these children with character development and in realizing their talents and dreams. Furthermore, kt became the first private sector company to plan the establishment of a social cooperative known as ‘Dream Teacher’. It is the first-of-its-kind in the retiree employment segment, and it aims to facilitate its own sustainable growth and self-sufficiency. * ‘Social responsibility jobs’ refer to volunteer-oriented jobs that emphasize personal satisfaction and a sense of accomplishment, over monetary compensation. These jobs can encourage an otherwise dormant Video-based Mentoring at Dream School Customized education support at Dream workforce, to continually participate in the labor market by providing School flexible hours and financial support. Performance Dream School In 2013, kt launched the ICT-based interactive mentoring platform kt Dream No. of Retiree-led Talent Sharing 5,898 activities Activities School(http://www.ktdreamschool.org) to help narrow the educational gap for children and teens from less-privileged families. Dream School is an No. of kt Dream Teachers 230 teachers (Social Responsibility Jobs) extension of our social contribution initiatives that we have been operating for children and teens since 2010. Aside from basic scholastic training, Dream School focuses on assisting children and teens in discovering their Outcomes of Dream School (As of Apr. 2014) talents and in building their character, where they have had relatively fewer opportunities in discovering, than their better-off counterparts. Provided Category Mentor Mentee Total (No. of that internet connections are available, kt Dream School mentoring can be Under Retirees Women General Children persons) accessed by anyone, devoid of spatial/time limitations, to communicate graduates Suffering Career Volunteers Receiving Help interactively and share information in real time. Discontinuation from Local Child Care Centers This mentoring program uses kt’s video conferencing system to enable experts in their field to either educate their students one-on-one or in 2013 (No. of persons) 102 142 89 3 300 636 settings with one teacher and several students. In addition to real-time lectures, recorded lecture videos and educational content are provided. kt Integrated Report 2014 53 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Sharing Love Context Corporate social responsibility initiatives aim to establish the right relationship between businesses and the society in which they are based. Businesses strive to share their corporate capabilities with society so they can grow hand-in-hand and acheive common goals. Just as our Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign (launched in 2003) celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2013 and will continue with its ongoing endeavors, we at kt will never cease in sincerely sharing our love with others. Progress Sharing Love for Children kt Dream Center surgery were provided with hearing aids. Our ‘kt Dream Center’ offers a wide To take the lead in establishing a safety net for local child care centers, we at array of programs, from small-group speech/music therapy to training and kt have operated kt Dream Centers, in alignment with local child care centers art & play therapy. This professional support helped with the rehabilitation in major regions of Korea, to help less-privileged children grow into future and the improvement of social skills for these hearing-impaired children. leaders. By drawing on our unique advantage of possessing diverse facilities Specifically since 2013, we have launched olleh Art School, a long-term across the nation, we transformed unused spaces within branch buildings emotional support program designed to holistically heal the family across the nation into kt Dream Centers. These centers are equipped with members often overlooked when a disabled family member requires IPTVs, beam projectors, smartpads, e-books, Kibots and other IT devices to the majority of attention and care. olleh Art School strives to assist these offer English education, in a way that matches the features of each device, families with their communication skills and offer them the opportunity to as well as other wide-ranging educational programs to help improve the participate in the olleh Forest Camp to promote their harmonious healing academic achievement of these children. Furthermore, we offer these and much-needed rest. While statistics show that 44% of parents/family children the opportunity to enjoy a wide array of cultural activities such as members who have disabled children suffer from depression, society only music, sports and field trips, that they would not normally have the chance offers minimal support. In this regard, the role that olleh Art School provides to participate in. This broadens their perspective and brings them one step is even more meaningful and important in that it attends to a critical need closer to reaching their full potential. that had before been largely unaddressed. olleh Art School helps care for As of 2014, there are a total of 21 Dream Centers in such major regions as the emotional stability of these family members, understand their feelings Jeju, Mokpo and Busan as well as Seongnam in Gyeonggi Province where our and restore their relationships through culture and art. In 2013, we offered Head Office is located. We also operate Dream Center shuttle buses to allow a 16-week program and made diverse cultural and artistic attempts to these children to easily come to Dream Centers. We will continue to launch deal with the communication challenges these family members faced. even more distinct and diverse programs for the future of these children. The outcomes of the program were presented through performances and Category 2011 2012 2013 this greatly boosted the confidence of the children of these families, who No. of Children Who Use Dream Centers 43,791 92,948 92,156 demonstrated significant improvements in their emotional stability. No. of Children Who Use Dream Center Shuttle Buses 1,131 4,616 4,586 No. of Dream Centers in Operation 17 21 21 10-Year Track Records of the kt Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign Category 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total Child Love Network ‘Dream Together’ Stem Cochlea 10 10 40 20 19 10 10 10 4 6 4 143 Implants kt is a member of ‘Child Love Network Dream Together’, a corporate social Hearing Aids 10 40 10 41 20 40 8 20 61 9 259 contribution network launched to support the dreams of 100,000 children that Others 7 5 2 14 receive help from local child care centers across the nation. Dream Together Brainstem 3 1 2 4 10 has 22 companies and organizations as its members – kt, KBS and Hana Transplants Tour to name a few – who are dedicated to offering realistic solutions to social Rehabilitation 3 3 1,652 1,658 issues by combining the social contribution capabilities of its members. Therapy The most representative Dream Together program is ‘Seeds of Dreams’, Family Support 68 68 Korea’s first campsite dedicated to local child care centers, to support Total 10 20 80 30 60 30 50 21 35 77 1,739 2,152 children receiving help from these child care centers in realizing their dream. After renovating closed schools in local areas as a way to better use these unused spaces, the 1st Seeds of Dreams campsite opened in Yangpyeong in May 2012, followed by another campsite in Jangseong in 2013. In 2013 alone, the Yangpyeong and Jangseong campsites were visited by 1,414 and 1,091 children respectively to start their journey to find their dream. In 2014, another Seeds of Dreams campsite will open in Jeju and this program will be expanded even further. Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign Using our characteristics as a telecoms operator, we launched the ‘kt Finding Sound project’ to restore normal hearing to hearing-impaired children from low-income families. This project offers treatment, rehabilitation and family support. By the end of 2013, a total of 2,152 children benefited through our 'kt Dream Center', which opened in Severance Hospital to provide hearing rehabilitation: 1,658 children received rehabilitation therapy, 143 children Finding Sound Project by Dream Center Family Support Programs under the received artificial cochlea implants, 259 children who couldn't receive Finding Sound Project 54 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Medical Sharing kt has been collaborating with Severance Hospital since 2013 to narrow Meeting Family Members through ICT, ‘Video Calls’ the medical gap for the medically-underserved. Specifically, in April 2013, To support the multi-cultural families that are emerging as a social children at the kt Dream Centers (located in marginalized areas nationwide) issue in Korea, our labor and management staff support video were invited for comprehensive medical check-ups and cultural field trips. calls through the use of its information technology each year. This Children diagnosed with specific medical conditions as a result of these enables Vietnamese immigrant women with Korean husbands to check-ups were provided with additional medical treatment. In October see their families in Vietnam through video calls. The lives of these 2013, medical professionals visited the Seeds of Dreams campsite in immigrant women are of paramount concern, not just in Korea, Yangpyeong to offer medical check-ups and preventative advice to lessbut also in their home country. This prompted kt to offer medial privileged middle school students to help them with health issues that volunteer services and residence improvements to the family often emerge at the change of seasons. In 2014, we plan to perform medical members of these women. In so doing, we help them acclimate to volunteer work in Uzbekistan and use ICT for medical purposes. In this the Korean culture and enhance the status of Korean businesses in way, we can creatively implement our skills and assets to offer health care Vietnam. support to a larger demographic of medically-underserved individuals. Scholarship for Creative and Innovative Leaders To nurture ‘creative and innovative leaders’ who will responsibly lead the world and contribute to development through innovative ideas, we offer novel and creative leader scholarships to undergraduate students in the two categories of ‘future-oriented creative talent’ and ‘social innovation talent’. The ‘future-oriented creative talent’ scholarship is offered to 545 students at 288 universities who have experience in starting up a business or in receiving awards at public content competitions. Our ‘social innovation talent’ scholarship is offered to 20 students at 12 universities through public social contribution idea competitions. These competitions are attended by undergraduate students who have volunteer experience, or who have Video Calls for Vietnamese Multi-Cultural Families worked with social enterprises or did NGO volunteer work. Sharing Love between Labor and Management Mutually-Beneficial Partnership with Local Communities kt’s labor and management departments have jointly fulfilled their social responsibility. In 2014, such on-going mutually-beneficial cooperation Our ‘Labor-Management Sharing with Local Communities Program’ aims has been systematized into ‘labor-management light’ as a way to put into to contribute to the local communities where we are based. Planned and practice the principle of ‘sharing love’. As a company dedicated to becoming undertaken by both labor and management at respective regional head an honorable global citizen, we wish to raise social and environmental offices, this program extended its reach to encompass the wider nation awareness and direct the merits of social responsibility to every corner of since 2013 to spread the value of mutually-beneficial partnerships for local our society. communities. This program includes: Seoul Madang Grand Festival for Gangseo-gu Residents (Nov. 5, 2013), Delivery of Briquettes with Love in Bupyeong (Dec. 16, 2013), Charity Bazaar for Neighbors in Need (Jan. 10, Globalization 2014) and Grand Festival for Those with Disabilities (Jan. 15, 2014). Our labor and management joined the Korean Association for Supporting UN SDGs to contribute to the UN-launched global agenda and to serve as Furthermore, to practice our warm-hearted love for those in need of our an advisory member to the Korea National Assembly UN SDGs Forum. In help, our labor and management volunteered at children’s welfare centers, so doing, we do our part in expanding our engagement in and partnership offered free meals to seniors living alone, and launched scholarships for with UN SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) from opinion leaders in our future leaders (teens). In 2014, we plan to establish social enterprises our society while taking the lead in sustainable environmental campaigns to propose alternatives to such social issues as creating jobs for vulnerable for the betterment of human life and the environment. Furthermore, we individuals so as to make our social contribution more ongoing and supported domestic training attended by female public officials from lesssustainable than a mere one-time event. The resolution to establish and developed nations in Africa and Southeast Asia to introduce our femalenurture social enterprises was approved by the UCC General Assembly (Dec. friendly policies and IT device experience opportunities. We also donated 19, 2013) to pave the way for these enterprises. clothes to refugee camps in Rwanda, Africa, as part of our proactive support for countries in need of global assistance. Specifically, video calls and volunteering in Vietnam are the top priorities undertaken (by the kt labor and management, and the UCC(Union Corporate Committee)). Appointment as Advisors to Training for Female Donating Clothes Labor-Management Volunteering at a Offering Free Meals the Korea National Assembly Public Officials from to Refugee Sharing with Children’s to Seniors with UN SDGs Forum Less-Developed Countries Camps in Rwanda Local Communities Program Welfare Center No One to Rely on kt Integrated Report 2014 55 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Global CSV Initiatives Outcomes of kt’s Global CSV Initiatives Over the Past Three Years Recognized as the DJSI industry group leader in the fixed/wireless (2011~2013) telecommunications sector for three consecutive years, kt is also garnering Category Country (CSV Initiative) attention in the global social contribution sector for its global sharing 2011 Rwanda (building an elementary school), Uzbekistan (internet training initiatives that were evaluated as a CSV model. Specifically in 2013, we center), Vietnam (IT training) moved beyond mere social contribution, to creating shared value. kt 2012 Rwanda (IT training), Indonesia (global Healing Hearing Impairment specifically played a leading role in creating shared value in the wider area Campaign), Vietnam (sending Student Volunteers, video calls) of the countries with whom we are collaborating. 2013 Rewanda (sending IT Supporters), Indonesia (e-Learning Center, K-Friends, sending Student Volunteers), Vietnam (video calls), Uzbekistan (medical sharing, global dream school) IT Training Complex ‘kt-Mahamentor e-Learning Center’ In July 2013, kt constructed kt-Mahamentor e-Learning Center, an IT training complex, in conjunction with Mahamentor, a local social enterprise, in Yogjakarta, Indonesia. This center is recognized as a CSV Performance model that combines the IT technology and infrastructure provided by kt Sharing Love for Children with educational content offered by Mahamentor and a local educational network. Specifically, the One for Two CSV program that offers free-ofNo. of Children Using kt Dream Centers 92,156 charge training to two underprivileged students for every regular trainee, No. of Children Participating in the Dream Together Seeds of Dreams 2,505 benefited 777 students with 931 hours of training in the 2nd half of 2013 Initiative alone. Furthermore, kt’s smartpad-enabled interactive lecturing solution Finding Hearing-Impaired Children from Low-Income 2,084 children Green Class is used for local e-learning education and its future model will Sound Project Families supported be developed jointly with local partners to allow kt and its partners to create Emotional Support Programs for Family Members social value together. 68 attended (olleh Art School, olleh Forest Camp) Medical Sharing Comprehensive medical check-ups offered to children from Dream Centers Medical check-ups and health training offered by medical professionals who visited Seeds of Dreams campsites Creative and Innovative 565 students were supported Leader Scholarship Labor-Management Sharing of Love Mutually-Beneficial Sharing with Local Communities programs Partnership with Local Communities Volunteering through the responsible volunteering system kt-Mahamentor e-Learning Center Education 210 teenagers were provided with scholarship support Hallyu Club ‘K-Friends’ In response to the continued interest in Korea in numerous countries, kt Global Sharing of Love launched K-Friends, a hallyu (Korean Wave) club that promotes Korean culture. Presently, 50 K-Friends are pioneering the spread of hallyu, both Rwanda Sending IT Supporters, donating clothes to refugee camps online and offline, among diverse groups. In 2014, K-Friends will continue Indonesia e-Learning Center, K-Friends, sending Student Volunteers to join forces with kt in undertaking cultural and support initiatives for Vietnam Video calls underserved individuals. Uzbekistan Medical sharing, Global dream school Experience Korean Culture Program for K-Friends 56 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Shared Growth | Strategic Social Contribution | 글로벌 시장 개척 Sharing Culture Context Sharing culture through music is deeply ingrained in kt’s identity as a telecommunications service provider. As kt’s operation is to transmit voice over digital data, our cultural sharing initiatives are undertaken in a way to spread ‘sound’ across the wider world. All profits from olleh square and kt chamber hall performances go to fund the ‘Healing Hearing Impairment Campaign’ project that supports hearing-impaired children. Progress olleh square Our olleh square is a cultural space that offers IT experience opportunities Profits from these regular performances go to fund the treatment of hearingand is located on a 3,300m 2 site on the 1 st floor of the company’s impaired children supported by the ‘Finding Sound’ project, kt’s unique Gwanghwamun office building. This space enables visitors to freely social-giving initiative. At the 100th performance held in August 2013, there experience kt’s latest IT devices and services free-of-charge and offers was a hearing-impaired children benefits project and 100 future musicians a cultural experience, as well as a resting place, with its café and Dream were invited to add a new voice to this truly shared initiative. Hall performances. In so doing, olleh square has positioned itself as the nation’s representative cultural complex. Specifically, there have been kt chamber hall also provides ‘Experience Classics Programs’ to offer approximately 800 Sharing Performances that have offered affordable and students easier access to diverse cultural experiences. On every 1 st easily accessible cultural experiences to more than 130,000 people. All Saturday, basic classical music education, open rehearsal experience the profits from these performances go to provide hearing aids to hearingand rare instrument experiences are provided along with regular classical impaired children. In addition, olleh square serves as a venue for diverse ITperformances, to help expose the general public to classical music. In 2013 related events such as the launching of new IT products and a destination alone, 12 such programs were held to benefit 269 students. for ICT field tours for domestic and overseas companies and organizations. So far, more than 4 million customers have visited olleh square. Our ‘jointly-planned performance’ was designed to offer the performance stage free-of-charge to musicians or organizations who cannot otherwise afford such performance opportunities. There have been 17 such performances attended by 3,500 audiences. 100th Performance at kt chamber hall Performance Sharing Culture at olleh square Results of kt’s Sharing Culture Initiatives kt olleh square Accumulated No. of performance and audiences: kt chamber hall Approximately 800 performances, 130,000 audiences Designed as a dedicated classical performance space in 2009 to popularize Group ICT tours by domestic/international companies and classical music, our kt chamber takes the lead in sharing culture through organizations: Approximately 4 million Tourists regular performances, jointly-planned performances and classics programs. kt chamber hall 100th performance of ‘Saturday Afternoon Chamber Music With 420 seats and customized facilities, kt chamber hall allows audiences with kt’ (Aug. 2013) to enjoy orchestra performances, chorus performances, chamber music, 12 Experience Classics Programs attended by 269 and recitals. audiences 17 ‘jointly-planned performances’ that offer free-of-charge kt chamber hall’s representative performance titled ‘Saturday Afternoon performance stage, 3,500 audiences Chamber Music with kt’ is held regularly at 4 p.m. every 1st and 3rd Saturday and is the first-ever regular classical performance that has been held more than 100 times continuously under the leadership of a domestic company. In 2013 alone, 24 performances were held for more than 10,000 people. Since its opening, the audiences for regular performances have continued to grow and in 2013, the tickets were all sold out. As of 2013, there were 108 performances with more than 40,000 people in the audience. kt Integrated Report 2014 57 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT 58 kt Integrated kt Integrated Report Report 20142014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement Customer Division | Sul-Ki Choi Marketing Division | Sung-Jin Park kt Integrated Report CUSTOMER 2014 ENGAGEMENT 59 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT CS Management Service Value Creation IT Security Enhancement Vision and Strategic Direction Results of the Materiality Test Impact Trend Issues We believe that our success in becoming “No. 1 kt” lies in delivering Significance to Stakeholders (On a scale from zero to five) exceptional quality and technology that offers real-life benefits to our A 4.60 customers. To become the first to launch top-notch, differentiated services and create the greatest-possible customer value, we are advancing 4.40 B Customer First management in our entire business conduct, from technology D C 4.20 development to services and marketing. Furthermore, we mobilize all available organizational resources to provide IT and information security 4.00 services that provide our customers with an even greater peace of mind. 3.80 E Major Achievements in 2013 F G 3.60 Creation of Korea’s 1st to commercialize wideband LET (Sep. 14, 2013) and Service Value No. 1 in the coverage of wideband LET 3.40 Four cases of developing wireless LTE technology and solutions 3.20 Korea’s 1st to apply big data in the public sector (Verification 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 and supplementation of late-night bus routes in Seoul) Significance of Impact on kt (On a scale from zero to five) • Awarded at the “Mobile World Congress 2013” Impact & Trend Issues Customer Satisfaction • Received the Best Next Generation Wi-Fi Device/Application Management A Growing demand for customer information security Award at the “WiFi Industry Award 2013” by WBA • CS management system B Customer Privacy st Customer Ranked 1 in home calls, internet calls and international calls C Growing demand for the safety of products and services • Creation of service value Satisfaction on the NCSI D Product and service labeling(Customer satisfaction) : NW infrastructure, ICT convergence IT Security • Obtained the ISMS Certification E Hyper-connection society(Network advancement) customer service, (Information • 97% of the employees completed online information security F Increasing number of consumers who value customer communication health, eco-friendliness and social-friendliness • Strengthening IT security Security) training G Marketing communication and protection 60 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement CS Management System Context Customer satisfaction (CS) is the key factor that determines a company’s value and sustainability. It is with the belief that creating customer value is instrumental in driving kt’s growth as a company, that we establish a CS management system and the CS Charter to deliver customer-centered and customerdriven services throughout our entire business conduct. Progress Establishment and Dissemination of a CS Management System It is with the vision ‘A Sincere and Credible World-Class CS Provider’ that deliver to our customers—both internally and externally. The CS Charter kt establishes a customer-driven CS management system. Our CS vision embodies the commitment of all kt employees to deliver on promises to defines our way forward, on the basis of our long-term goals and future customers, on the basis of kt’s core value ‘All for Customers’. corporate vision. The ideal CS represents the service value that we vow to CS Management System CS Charter Based on the ‘All for Customers’ core value, we put ourselves in our customer’s CS Vision A Sincere and Credible World-Class CS Provider shoes and live by the five principles of the CS Charter to satisfy all our customers. First, we always keep our promises with our customers by using a real-time approach in delivering services. Second, we swiftly identify customer needs and cater to such needs precisely. Third, we deliver the products our customer want through customer engagement and evaluation. kt as Company Whose Caring and Responsiveness Grow as Fourth, we always listen to customer feedback, in varying ways 24 hours a day, Ideal CS Trusting Customer Relationships are Forged 365 days a year. Fifth, we are united behind our firm commitment to extending our helping hands to the underprivileged and underserved. Performance Customer Satisfaction Results The National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) surveys (conducted by the Korean Productivity Center (KPC)) ranked kt 1st in PSTN service for 15 straight years, 1st in internet telephony for four straight years and 1st in international call service for two straight years. Customer Satisfaction Scores Identified by NCSI (Unit: point) 2011 2012 2013 73 71 72 74 74 74 Wireless PSTN Service Service 69 72 71 71 73 72 IPTV Broadband Service kt Integrated Report 2014 61 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement World Best Network Infrastructure Context The telecommunications market is just one of many sectors to experience technological innovations; technical competition is directly linked to service competition. This is why technical development is a key factor of competitive edge within the telecommunications market. kt develops customer-driven innovative technology to deliver a superior network quality, pioneer the development of telecommunication technology and strive to satisfy customer needs. Furthermore, kt strive to deliver reliable service, so that our service quality is uniform and identical anywhere—whether on an isolated island, or in an agricultural or fishing region. Progress Korea’s 1st Deployment, Commercialization, Pioneering New LTE Wireless Technology/Solutions and Widest Coverage of Wideband LTE Services kt-Samsung Electronics, Developing LTE Multicast Technology (Feb. 20, 2013) Through the spectrum auction held in August of last year, kt secured a As the mass-consumption of multimedia content becomes the norm, 20MHz wideband regarded as the ‘Golden LTE Frequency’ band (containing we developed ‘LTE multicast technology(eMBMS)’ to simultaneously 1.8GHz) and became the nation’s 1st telecommunications service provider transmit HD video content to multiple customers over the LTE network. This to launch commercial wideband LTE services on September 14, 2013. As of technology was demonstrated at the world’s largest telecommunications the end of 2013, our wideband coverage extended to all ground/in-building exhibition ‘Mobile World Congress(MWC) 2013’. areas in the Seoul metropolitan region. With Korea’s widest coverage of wideband LTE services, we strive to deliver the world’s highest quality Developing Wideband LTE Home Femto Cells (Nov. 12, 2013) telecommunications services to our customers. Wideband LTE home femtocell technology was designed to deliver fast and Securing 100% Wideband Coverage in the Seoul Metropolitan Region seamless wideband LTE services—even to such ‘shadow zones’ as homes or underground parking lots with deteriorating frequency conditions. This kt Other Service Provider technology is slated for commercialization in the 2nd half of 2014. World’s 1st Successful in LTE TDD-to-LTE FDD Roaming and VoLTE Calls (Dec. 4, 2014) kt and China Mobile successfully demonstrated data roaming services between the two different LTE standards of LTE TDD and LTE FDD, as well as voice and data roaming calls between these two different LTE standards, by using actual commercial networks such as bilateral IPX. Furthermore, the two companies showcased lively voice and video calls through high-quality AMR-WB and H.264 codecs as part of their demonstration of VoLTE, HDgrade video call services. Cross-border LTE roaming and HD-grade video call (VoLTE) services will be initiated within 2014. Based on data measured by BENCHBEE (~11.20) Realizing CA Technology: Three Times Faster than LTE (Dec. 17, 2013) st In January 2014, kt also became the nation’s 1 to run a pilot operation of The new carrier aggregation (CA) technology combines wideband wideband LTE-A services (which are three times faster than the existing LTE telecommunication (LTE) and Wi-Fi networks, to deliver triple-the-speed services) on a commercial environment network. This was followed by the of the existing LTE services (the latest movie can be downloaded within 15 commercial application of wideband LTE-A services in major areas of the seconds). This ‘CA’ technology developed by kt, was designed to transmit Seoul metropolitan region and other local metropolitan cities since March 1, data simultaneously over the wideband LTE network and premium WiFi 2014—when the restriction on the use of wideband frequency was lifted in network through the application of carrier aggregation. Presently, a speed of metropolitan regions. up to 300~450Mbps is available through the integration of 150Mbps—the highest-achievable speed of wideband LTE and 150~300Mbps available Such endeavors were globally recognized at the “Mobile World Congress over the premium WiFi network. 2014” held on February 28, 2014 in Spain: kt was honored with prestigious awards for three straight years the Outstanding LTE Contribution award kt-Ericsson, the World’s 1st Two-Way Simultaneous CoMP Technology and the Outstanding Overall Mobile Technology from the CTO’s Choice. (Nov. 6, 2013) Furthermore, kt demonstrated three-band CA(20+20+20, ~450Mbps) and wideband LTE-A HetNet (LTE-WiFi carrier aggregation, ~600Mbps) In conjunction with the global telecom carrier Ericsson, kt became the capabilities at the MWC 2014, which was highly regarded by global telecom world’s 1st in demonstrating the TM9-based two-way simultaneous CoMp companies and vendors. technology. This new technology is capable of increasing uploading/ downloading speeds by more than 20% of the conventional technology near the borderlines of base stations. This technology minimizes interruptions from nearby cells through the transmission of demodulated signals that restore modified signals—from one base station to each handset—so as to guarantee the fastest data transmission speeds for each handset. The commercialization of this technology is expected to enable kt to respond to the recent rapid surges in LTE data usage. 62 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement Guaranteeing the Quality of LTE Wireless Speeds Building an All-IP Network in Island Areas In line with the launching of wearable devices, such as smartwatches and Implementation of LTE Service Coverage on Dokdo Island (Apr. 15, 2013) Google glass—as well as the continued growth of IP terminals such as smartphones and smartpads—kt decided to shift from the TDM-based As kt allowed other carriers to use the existing steel towers and microwave legacy network to a broadband All-IP network and is advancing its network equipment (wireless transmission pathway) installed on Dokdo Island, LTE infrastructure accordingly. services, provided by Korea’s three largest telecommunication carriers, became available in the nation’s easternmost territory. This means that LTE services can be accessed by 40 residents as well as 210,000 tourists who Network Transformation: Shift the Legacy Structure into an IP/ visit this island each year. The LTE coverage established on Dokdo is more Optic-based Structure than 30km wide to allow for uninterrupted LTE services along the sea route As of the end of 2013, 63% of kt’s network became IP-based and from Dokdo and the nearby Ulleundo Island. our network will be fully All-IP based by 2017 through the sustained advancement of network infrastructure. Furthermore, copper cable-based PSTN facilities (limited to 4km coverage) will be replaced with optical fiberbased facilities, while operational costs are being optimized through the integration of wired/wireless base stations. In 2013, 460,000 IP-based BcN lines were deployed and fully IP-based signaling networks that connect PSTN facilities were completed. TDM-centered legacy transmission networks were also equipped with the latest technology—such as ROADM and PTN—which is more suitable for Dokdo Seen from the Above high capacity IP transmission. In 2013, the IP coverage among Korea’s five largest cities was fully established and toll networks are gradually making Twice-as-Fast LTE Services over Seas (Nov. 25, 2013) the same transition. To centralize optically-based facilities and demolish/ It is commonly believed that it is challenging to secure quality optimize copper-based facilities, we have been optimizing wired/wirelesstelecommunications services on passenger ships due to the need for integrated base stations since 2010. In 2013, five such stations were vast coverage over the boundless ocean and the instable conditions optimized and the Mokdong and Youngdeungpo stations were fully where frequency interruptions are hard to predict. Yet, kt deployed LTE optimized. In June 2014, this optimization project will be completed at base base stations and dedicated seaborne antennas on passenger ships that stations in Seomyeon, Ulji and Gyeongjoongang. regularly travel a total of seven routes which link Jeju Island and inland areas with (Mokpo/Haenam/Wando/Goheung/Busan/Incheon). These efforts Introducing Software-based Network Innovation Technology improve the speed of LTE services by more than 60% against the initial We are preparing to introduce a cloud-based network infrastructure, so speed. In so doing, high-quality LTE services became available for local as to flexibly process the explosion of traffic though software solutions residents and tourists who travel between inland areas and Jeju. and to make a cost-efficient investment. To this end, R&D efforts are underway to develop next-generation technology (SDN/NFV). Furthermore, Securing the Quality of LTE Services on Five West Sea Islands we are designing and developing a cloud-based infrastructure for IMS (Baekryeong Island) to the Level of That in Urban Areas infrastructure that provides VoLTE and SoIP services. Normally, wireless communication at sea is vulnerable to climate conditions, such as strong wind or torrential rain. While general solutions to this challenge are to build undersea cables, the stable construction  eploying Ultra-High Speed Wideband Internet D and operation of undersea cables was difficult in the case of the five West Sea islands, as these islands are far from land and the inhabitants of Network for Information Deficient Areas these islands fish a lot. As such, microwave equipment was adopted, but kt has been building ultra-high speed wideband internet networks in older versions of such equipment were prone to frequent communication agricultural and fishing areas (with less than 50 households) since interruptions whenever weather conditions worsened. This prompted kt 2010 through the use of its nation-wide 610,000 km-long wideband to introduce a new type of microwave equipment in December 2013 to infrastructure. It has also been launching a pilot project to build ultra-high respond to changing weather conditions. This led to a dramatic drop in speed wideband internet networks in island areas (Jeju and Gangwha) the probability of LTE service failures in those five islands and more than through the use of TV White Space (TVWS). In so doing, we are taking doubled the LTE downloading speed (40Mbps 80Mbps). Today, kt offers the lead in narrowing the digital divide, in conjunction with the Korean high-quality LTE services to our customers and members of the Marine government. Between 2010 and 2013, we completed such internet Corps along the five West Sea islands. networks in small (less than 50 households) agricultural and fishing villages (7,210 villages). In 2014, this project will target 1,266 villages, including those in island areas. Following the deployment of the ultra-high speed wideband internet network, our IT Supporters offer internet training to contribute to the balanced urban-rural development and the informatization of these rural areas. kt Integrated Report 2014 63 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement Silo Structure Hub Structure Virtual Goods Virtual Goods PSTN Ultra-High Speed LTE/3G B/B All-IP Network VoIP Network interworking through G/W Network interworking through integrated ALL-IP Transit Hub Paris Paris LA Boston LA Boston Incheon Incheon South Africa South Africa Improving the Speed of Wireless Broadband through Gigabit WiFi Services To respond to the evolution of smart devices, we at kt introduced Gigabit WiFi wider 80MHz bandwidth. This enabled us to offer high-quality media content that delivers Gigabit-level speeds over the 5GHz band. Since March 2013, and other high-quality services. such Gigabit WiFi services have been launched in landmark areas nationwide Furthermore, our achievement in building more than 200,000 WiFi (Gwanghwamun and Gangnam in Seoul). In December 2013, we completed infrastructure units (including Gigabit WiFi), along with demonstrating WiFi the deployment of Gigabit WiFi in major regions across the nation. roaming technology at the MWC (Feb. 2013) and MAE (Jun. 2013), were highly This enables kt to offer free WiFi services that are more than four times the recognized and kt was awarded the “Best Next Generation Hotspot (NGH)” speed of conventional WiFi. Our Gigabit WiFi adopted 802.11ac, an IEEE award by WBA. This services proved the world-class technology and quality of wireless LAN standard, to deliver up to 1.3Gbps downloading speed over the our olleh WiFi. 64 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement Service Stability Disaster Recovery Exercises To prepare for the discontinuation of customer services due to general Network Monitoring System communication failures or natural/man-made disasters (typhoons, As kt owns both global and domestic telecommunications networks, we earthquakes), we specifically focus on such high-risk facilities as major core operate a network monitoring system in a diverse and systemic way to equipment that serves a large number of customers. In addition, we have deliver stable services. emergency recovery response manuals for each type of actual interruption To ensure real-time monitoring and the efficient control of network facilities, situations and we regularly conduct emergency recovery drills to build Local Operation Centers (six centers in Daegu, Busan, etc.) and one Network stronger equipment recovery and DR(disaster recovery) capabilities. Control Center that comprehensively controls nation-wide networks are Such endeavors paid off in 2013 when torrential rainfall and Typhoon operated separately to deliver network monitoring functionality around-theDanas caused a nationwide communication disaster. kt demonstrated clock. Our 51 wired/wireless Network Service Centers that maintain/repair its exceptional crisis handling capabilities by overcoming locally-incurred communication equipment also ensure the stability of our network facility communication cut-offs through its close cooperation with governmental operations. agencies (Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning). To prevent network interruptions, we diagnose and improve on vulnerability factors that impact our services concerning internet, exchange, and transmission facilities respectively. When service interruptions occur, we follow pre-determined response processes to share the situation and takes detour communication measures to swiftly restore normal service operations. To build capability against increasing cyber terror threats by specific groups (DDoS attacks), our Cyber Response Center ensures that our internet networks—that have a direct impact on the convenient life of the general public—are stably operated and that our customers are provided with uninterrupted services. Network Local Network Emergency Recovery Drill Conducted on Aug. 20, 2013 During the Government-Led Control Center Operation Center Service Center Emergency Response Exercise Period Monitoring Monitoring and Maintaining and and controlling controlling local repairing network nationwide networks networks facilities Performance One location Six locations 51 locations Receiving prestigious awards at the “Mobile World Congress 2013” • Receiving the 2013 GSMA Chairman’s Award for our NFC (near field communication) technology Receiving the Best Next Generation Wi-Fi Device/Application Award at the “WiFi Industry Awards 2013” by WBA Korea’s 1st to commercialize wideband LTE and No. 1 in wideband LTE coverage st • Becoming the nation’s 1 to launch commercial wideband LTE services (Sep. 14, 2013) • Fully deploying wideband coverage in ground/in-building areas in the Seoul metropolitan region • Securing the widest wideband LTE service coverage in Korea New LTE wireless technology and solutions • ktSamsung Electronics, developing LTE multicast technology (Feb. 20, 2013) • Developing wideband LTE home femtocells (Nov. 12, 2013) st • Becoming the world’s 1 to deliver TDD-to-FDD LTE roaming and VoLTE calls kt’s CEO Examining the Control System of the Network Control Center Located in Gwacheon, Gyeonggi Province (Jan. 30, 2014) (Dec. 4, 2013) • Delivering CA (carrier aggregation) technology that produces speed three times faster than that of LTE (Dec. 17, 2013) Agricultural/fishing villages with ultra-high speed wideband internet networks deployed: 7,210 villages kt Integrated Report 2014 65 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement ICT Convergence Context There are growing expectations and demands for ICT convergence that create new value across industrial boundaries. kt is extending the scope of such inherent capabilities as an ICT company—into a wide array of services by convergence with health, automobile, energy and other industries. Specifically, kt is playing a leading role in areas where social value is created, such as support for public policy. Progress Energy-IT Convergence S upporting the Late-Night Bus Route Policy through Big Data Today’s energy paradigm is shifting from the supply-centered, centralized Analyses power generation into an eco-friendly power generation and efficient energy To create new public value through big data convergence, we signed an consumption, primarily spurred by global climate change and increasing MOU with the Seoul metropolitan government to support its late-night bus energy consumption. This led to our decision to move beyond the route policy (for seven months) starting from June 2013. This represents conventional high-cost and centralized energy generation to a smart energy a first-of-its-kind application that aligned public and private data, helped era where energy efficiency solutions and decentralized generation allow finalize actual bus routes and contributed to delivering customized public for convenient and reasonable energy consumption/trade through the services. energy-ICT convergence. We believe that smart energy generated through the convergence between ICT and energy will position itself as an important element in the local Creative Economy. Route Optimization through the Public-Private Data Alignment To improve the convenience and daily satisfaction of citizens, through As the governmental energy policy is fully supporting the growth of the an efficient operation of late-night buses and the use of valuable data for smart energy market by shifting to demand-driven energy management, public good, we partnered with Seoul City to add big data analyses to its expanding distributed power generation and facilitating the distribution late-night bus route plans. of green renewable energy, relevant markets are expected to grow in the Out of the nine late-night bus routes, seven of them except two routes upcoming years accordingly. under pilot operations were subject to big data analyses for optimization while data generated through the analyses of floating populations based Thus, we aim to become a market leader in providing energy efficiency on CDR and customer information as well as data summarized by time slot, solutions for homes and buildings, trading electricity saved through weekday and weekend was provided in selecting existing routes. We also improved efficiency, installing and operating eco-friendly renewable made recommendations to verify and supplement existing bus routes. energy facilities (e.g., photovoltaics) and taking advantage of energy big data. In so doing, we will be able to create benefits for the general public Convergence of Communication Data and Traffic Data and fully contribute to mitigating national power shortages. Furthermore, we expect that smart energy technology will be at the core of the nation’s Identify Floating Population transformation from a net energy importer to an energy technology exporter. Communication Data • Extract data whose base stations are located in Our involvement in the K-MEG(Korea Micro Energy Grid) project resulted Night-time Seoul out of the CDR* raw data call traffic in the development of total energy solutions and relevant capabilities • Process late-night data by time slot and day that allow for the convergence-driven management of heat and electricity, * CDR : Call Digital Record which is the first-ever in the world. The Smart Grid Demonstration Project in Jeju also enabled us to develop demonstration capabilities in the general smart energy segment including energy efficiency improvement, demand Identify Destinations and Users response, and power trading. Big Data • Process data through representative billing addresses (based on postal codes) As illustrated in our signing of the MOU with the Korea Electric Power Analysis • Process data by gender and age group to Corporation, we aim to collaborate with domestic and international identify the mobility-handicapped organizations and focus the capabilities of our affiliates so that we contribute to building a robust competitive edge in smart energy and creating this new market. Optimal Bus Station Locations We plan to dramatically improve our energy generation, consumption and Public Data • Transfer public transport-related data out of the management systems by facilitating the smart energy segment and to join Traffic volume, data contained in the Open Data Plaza forces with venture businesses and SMEs with a goal of reducing the total Bus stop locations • Identify optimal bus stop locations through the energy consumption by 15% by 2035 to establish a smart energy ecosystem analyses of bus routes, bus lanes and bus stops and intensively nurture this industry into a mid/long-term growth driver. in the city On the basis of our analyses of big data, the density of the floating population was analyzed and high-density areas between midnight and 5 a.m. were visualized. This led to verification, supplementation and recommendation of bus routes for a total of four existing routes in five areas. This enabled the city to fine-tune its route plans and it played a pivotal role in ensuring objective policy-making. 66 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement The application of big data in planning late-night bus routes was the first-offree-of-charge and without purchasing expensive vehicle-mounted portable its-kind in the public sector and is the target for overseas benchmarking. We application devices. In addition, olleh navi became the first smartphone vow to offer our full cooperation if big data is required for public projects that application in Korea to deliver ‘black box recording’ and ‘Head-Up Display are based in locations such as welfare centers for seniors, public libraries, (HUD)’ functionalities for customer convenience. In December 2013, routeor public childcare facilities. sharing functionality, based on collective intelligence, was launched to reinforce IT-enabled person-to-person communication. Improvements After Big Data Implementation In May 2014, an updated version of olleh navi—which reflects the latest Existing Routes Modified Routes trends and customer needs, and which is more user-friendly due to its improved UI/UX, will be available. By reinforcing basic-level qualities— such as successful destination searching and the ability to accurate predict Yaksu arrival times, olleh navi will deliver even greater customer satisfaction as the Station No. 1 smartphone navigation app. Beotigogae Station Civil complaints raised Konkuk Univ. Station Case No. 1 Case No. 2 Konkuk University Entrance Gate Yaksu Station, Beotigogae Station Reflecting Administrative Complaints Reflecting Late-Night Traffic Conditions Obtaining evidence for the complaints Supplementing the existing bus route in order to plan bus routes near the by adopting daytime/late-night traffic area through the analyses of big data congestion patterns Customize to My Search Routes Vehicle Setting Quick Destination List Godeok 상일동역 Station Myeongil Station Medical ICT Nambu Bus GubeunTerminal Station dari Station kt contributes to creating new value in the healthcare sector through the convergence between the healthcare and ICT industry. Our total healthcare Gil-dong services offer solutions relevant to every stage of life and ICT is used to Lowly-lighted areas with a small Station offer healthcare services differentiated for individual health conditions, so number of floating population as to prevent diseases and deliver care for patients suffering from chronic diseases, anywhere, anytime. Specifically, our next-generation hospital information system will combine such new technology, as cloud technology, Case No. 3 Case No. 4 and analysis/processing of medial big data to the existing solutions of Nambu Bus Terminal Subway Station Areas e-medical charts and medical image storage/transmission, so as to provide Reflecting Populations in Need of More Modifying bus routes around subway further upgraded healthcare services. We expect that in so doing, we can Busses station areas with large floating significantly contribute to providing high-quality health care services Supplementing the existing bus route populations late at night at more affordable prices to the general public and relieve the financial to make stops near the terminal where there is a large floating population as burden of the national health insurance system. Over the long haul, such a well as brightly-lit streets commitment will assist Korea in securing new growth drivers, through the export of advanced healthcare systems. olleh navi Performance First launched in September 2010, our olleh navi is a representative navigator app with 12 million downloads made so far, including Android First-ever Application of Big Data in the Public Sector: Optimization mounted handsets. The most distinctive feature of this app is that real-time of Late-Night Bus Routes in Seoul traffic data is reflected in its route guidance service. Customers subscribing Outcomes · Verified a total of four routes in five areas and improved these routes to other carriers can use this app free-of-charge. Its data consumption is · Calculated traffic volume to adjust bus interval schedules on weekdays approximately 2MB if used between Seoul and Busan, which means that and weekends · Analyzed the density of floating populations to visualize actual highthe olleh navi services are fully available within the data consumption limits density areas between midnight and a.m. 5 of most smartphone rate plans. On September 10, 2010, kt became the · This late-night bus route policy was honored with the Presidential Award at the Local Administration Informatization Workshop nation’s first to launch ‘olleh navi’ services for iPhones(iOS). This service provides route search/guidance functionalities in consideration of realtime traffic conditions as an added customer service. In so doing, our olleh navi customers can access sophisticated smartphone-based navigator services Launching a collective intelligence-enabled route-sharing functionality kt Integrated Report 2014 67 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement Customer Service Context kt faces rapidly-shifting trends in the communications market and growing demand from clients for faster and more convenient services. It is critical that we deliver customer satisfaction through wide-ranging products and services—from the distribution of rapid and reliable internet networks and product innovation (smart home phones)—to the expansion of customer benefits and e-billing. Progress Offering Smart Services through Commercial Gigabit WiFi olleh School Premium In 2013, kt launched commercial Gigabit WiFi services (olleh WiFi Giga) that Our olleh School Premium plan offers family-friendly smart learning services, deliver Gigabit speeds (up to 1.3Gbps theoretically) in nationwide landmark optimized for the smartphone environment, to learn from customized locations to offer wireless internet connectivity (that is more than three content. The content is carefully selected for each student group—from times faster than traditional WiFi) to create an enjoyable user experience. elementary school students, to adults. From key educational content for This increased the reliability of Gigabit WiFi services with an even wider elementary/middle/high school students, to self-development content for coverage on the basis of the world’s best optical communication internet undergraduate students and adults (humanities, language, hobbies), such environment [580,000 km]) and thus, prompted a paradigm shift in wireless content is provided through paid lectures (KRW 5,000 per month/VAT paid broadband. separately). Once customers sign up for this plan, simultaneous access We also commercialized the ABC(Always Best Connected) solution that from up to five devices is allowed to improve their satisfaction with the automatically selects and connects to the optimal network as well as the service. Presently, 8,000 users are paying the fixed monthly rate to use this GWS(Good WiFi Selector) that automatically connects to high-quality WiFi. service and the number of application downloads amounts to a whopping In so doing, we offered smart services that enable customers to access free300,000. We also offer discounted rates for communication services of-charge WiFi services conveniently, without taking additional action or through the partnership forged with diverse credit card companies. learning something new. It also assisted customers in cutting down on their To offer even greater substantial benefits to users, we plan to launch aligned telecommunications bill. services that compensate for exceptional learning outcomes. Our olleh WiFi, Korea’ s largest owner of WiFi APs with 200,000 APs, will expand its Gigabit WiFi services and improve the quality of mobile WiFi services so as to deliver an even more convenient and faster wireless connectivity. Develop your potential while commuting through Better understanding basic concepts through upHigh School Adults to-date lectures by EBS teachers and representative lectures on humanities, language skills and hobbies Students internet education teachers SERICEO, Twister TV(workplace English), Kim Myeong-Gi Vocal, Full-Math by Lee Gi-Hong, Power English by Kim Sang-Heon B-Boy and other premium lectures and other up-to-date lectures by star lecturers “Family-Friendly Smart Learning” Completely understanding the key content Available for both Middle School One click access to top-notch and fun Elementary School Students of each subject with EBS teachers and Children and Parents learning content Students representative internet education teachers School curriculum courses (Korean language, math, science, Curriculum courses, English learning, common sense quiz, academic social studies) by well-known online lecturers cartoons, new, animations and other 50 types of learning content 68 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement olleh Smart Home Phone HD The Smart Home Phone HD launched in January 2013 and the Smart Home Phone  2011  2012  2013 mini are home phones that enable HDgrade voice and video calls and come with music, TV and other content as basic Traditional Paper bills options. They also offer security solutions such as ‘Home Keeper’ to broaden their (Unit: 10,000 bills) usability and value for customers of smart home services. 2,691 65 75 It was due to such endeavors that our olleh 2,298 Smart Home Phone HD was honored with (Unit: %) the Best Innovation award in the ‘Smart Home (Networking)’ segment of INNO STAR 2013. This award is granted to products that deliver the greatest 2,108 innovation and customer satisfaction. 69 Specifically, our Smart Home Phone HD mini (launched in August 2013) was highly regarded by our customers for its affordable rates and charming design. The number of its subscribers surpassed 50,000 in just three Smart Billing months following its debut and positioned itself as a flagship product of our App / E-mail / MMS olleh smart home product line-up. (Unit: 10,000 bills) In 2014, we will launch Smart Home Phone HD 3 to offer differentiated services that improve customer value, while laying the groundwork to 887 develop platforms that connect varying devices and services in the home 25 environment. This will help us maintain our lead in the smart home market. 35 1,048 (Unit: %) Offering Greater Customer Benefits In January 2012, we integrated wired and wireless operations in introducing 1,133 31 a subscriber rating system to significantly extend the scope of subscriber benefits. These were primarily available for wireless subscribers (mobile, Wibro) to wired subscribers (internet, internet phone, IPTV, smart home phone, home phone) and we further segmented subscriber groups to offer customized services. To cater to diversified customer needs anytime, anywhere, regardless of online/offline channels, 24,000 affiliates were established nationwide. In addition, benefits offered independently or in Performance alignment with group affiliates were expanded to help relieve the burden of communication bills for subscribers. Furthermore, culture/performance, Awards and Achievements water-park, coupon/experience and premium services were made available •  ossessing the nation’s largest network of WiFi Zones (200,000) (as of AP P to provide even more differentiated experiences and benefits. at the end of 2013) • Receiving the Best Innovation award in the ‘Smart Home (Networking)’ segment of the INNO STAR 2013 Expanding One Billing and e-Billing To reduce cost from mailing paper bills and contribute to the nationwide agenda of low carbon and green growth, we have expanded the application of e-billing (smart billing app/e-mail/mobile). Our smart billing app was also developed to enable subscribers to check their billing data—whenever and wherever. Our smart billing app introduces the novel concept of One Billing: billing details of diverse wired/wireless services that we offer from mobile phone, 4G WIBRO, home phone to internet, TV, and internet phone can be checked through one single app. Furthermore, customer interviews and surveys allowed us to offer services upgraded from the customer’s perspective. These included such services as UI/UX improvements, the addition of payment functionality and an automated re-billing functionality, so as to deliver more customer-friendly services. We are shifting from the HTML and PDF formats for our e-billing so that customers can check their e-bills on any type of device. To further contribute to cost-savings and support low carbon green growth, promotional efforts to expand e-billing will be continuously undertaken as a CSV initiative. kt Integrated Report 2014 69 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement Customer Communication Context Because kt is a provider of human-oriented products and services that help with person-to-person interactions, it is instrumental that we at kt seamlessly communicate with our customers to ensure their satisfaction and reaffirm service reliability. Thus, we expand communication channels through social media networks, as well as through a customer complaints handling mechanism, to swiftly respond to customer demands. Progress olleh SNS kt is the first in the industry to set up a dedicated social media team. right to be exempted from the ban on sending more than 500 text messages Through wide-ranging channels, this team is able to learn even more about per day from 34,551 subscribers. It also helped us fundamentally block our customers. We created blogs, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter and Google+ attempts made by subscribers to expediently use the unlimited call/data accounts, and also established a presence on the Kakao Story* app in plans. The creation of spammer-use stop codes also allowed us to control 2013, to proactively communicate with customers in the PR, marketing and the intensity and index of anti-spam services as a way to fundamentally customer satisfaction fields. eliminate illegal spamming. Such efforts helped us dramatically reduce the number of reports made to our olleh anti-spam service channel by 97%, Mobile-centered social content—offered through social media networks, from a daily average of 90,000 to 2,000. have become an essential part of our marketing portfolio. We strive to take a full advantage of social media in launching PR and marketing initiatives as evidenced in ‘Dad, Are We Going to Go to the Wilds?’, the LTE Warp coverage PR campaign launched in 2013 and in our ‘Our Wideband Story’. Performance We also use Twitter as a communication channel for customer satisfaction: we receive an average of 1,000 customer inquiries a day. In so doing, our commitment to greater customer satisfaction continues around-the-clock, Spammer Blocking Rate in Q4 2013 uninterrupted—even on holidays and late at night. Our ‘Mobile Futurists’ group, which consists of undergraduate prosumers (prosumer = producer + consumer) assists us in reflecting customer feedback in designing our products and services. They also serve as product/service verifiers and panel group members to help verify newly86.6% kt launched products and services and to identify necessary improvements. This helps us plan and launch operations that cater to specific customer Com needs. 81% petit or 1 As such, we at kt continue to build closer ties with customers—through Com content and communication—that meet the requirements of mobile, real63% petit or time data dissemination. 2 * Kakao Story is an Instagram-like, photo-sharing application used extensively in Korea. Customer Fraud Protection Center To handle customer complaints concerning micropayment fraud and MMS suspected of being spam, we established a VOC reception and handling system to deal with micropayment issues through a special skilled staff. Our nationwide customer centers employ 95 operational employees for this system and our staff was assigned to handle complaints submitted through a separate dedicated number (080-949494) so as to deal with sensitive smishing operations. This led to an improvement in resolving customer complaints related to micropayments, which resulted in a monthly average of 8,000 (daily average of 350) complaints. We also take a fundamental approach in blocking spam text-messages by rooting out malicious illegal spammers. We established a professional antispam team at our customer centers and this team was granted a centralized authority to oversee anti-spam operations. This enabled us to withdraw the 70 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | CS Management | Service Value Creation | IT Security Enhancement strengthening IT Security and Protection Context kt implements its data privacy policy, pursuant to the Act on Promoting the Use of Personal Information Technology Network and Personal Information Protection as the Privacy Act, while offering relevant training to all its employees and expanding such training to its suppliers. By fully utilizing these technical and managerial security measures, we at kt are doing our utmost to further tighten IT security. We also offer services to prevent customer exposure to harmful online content and create a more wholesome internet environment. Progress Client Information Management and Implementing Training Information Security Services (olleh Anti-Smishing App) To raise awareness of information protection, all kt employees sign the Pledge We protect our customers from smishing attacks and prevent data breach of Data Privacy each year and receive online training. In 2013, 97% of our from lost smartphones through diverse information security services. If any employees completed this training and those who have yet to complete it, can apps that contain malicious codes or may function as such codes are installed do so by June of this year. Our e-mail and office e-bulletin boards also help on user’s smartphones, our olleh anti-smishing app alerts users so that build a more robust employee awareness of customer data privacy. these apps are deleted and illegal micropayments through smartphones are Our branches and suppliers are subject to data privacy reviews and we directly prevented. In addition, our olleh Phone Finder application was designed to visit suppliers to offer on-site training. As such, we are engaged in varying and help those who lost their smartphones by preventing personal data leaks and effective sustained initiatives to spread the data privacy mindset. allowing data back-up. In addition, we inform our clients of whether and how Furthermore, we help other group affiliates improve their level of data privacy their customer information has been checked and used. practices through consulting support and system security diagnoses. Creating a Safer User Environment Technological Capability for Data Privacy • e-Clean Initiative : The wide-ranging services that we offer are designed to To safely manage and protect the personal information of our customers, we filter harmful content out of the sea of information and to deliver a better installed firewalls, intrusion detection and access control systems to prevent internet environment. Our ‘Clean-I’ (that blocks malicious websites and unauthorized individuals from illegally accessing our systems while using obscene content related to pornography, suicide, violence, gambling and safe encryption in storing or transmitting personal information. We also use phishing) and ‘TIME CODI’ (smartphone app that allows customers to DRM(Digital Right Management) and DLP(Data Loss Prevention) solutions remotely control and monitor the internet use time on their home PCs), to prevent any leaks of personal information, regularly inspect and improve have been used by 230,000 subscribers as of February 2013 since they on vulnerabilities, and conduct mock exercises to respond to possible data were launched in 2002. We also partner with the Korea Communications privacy infringements in conjunction with related government agencies. These Standards Commission (KOCSC) to fundamentally blocks indirect access to are just some of the many technical and managerial protection measures that harmful websites by blocking malicious overseas websites on the internet we undertake to protect data privacy. network. Our online content rating, monitoring and age verification programs As most security breaches are caused by hacker attacks and substandard are also under continuous operation. management practices, we make it mandatory to implement security review • Cleaner Portal Sites : kth, one of our subsidiaries, blocks malicious postings procedures prior to launching services. Our digital forensic analysis unit through its self-cleaning functionality that enables users to independently that consists of security experts is responsible for preventing data leaks and and continuously monitor and block postings. In addition, it is mandatory offering year-round analytical technical support. that users verify their age with a personal ID number when using websites In 2013, the scope of our DB access control system was extended to further that contain adult content. UCC and other interactive services are monitored tighten the control over access to customer information storage systems. through an artificial intelligence program and an IP address blocking system. Operational and internet networks of PCs used by employees who handle We also take action to stop service delivery when violations are detected. This personal information were also separated to prevent any intrusion pathways helps us crack down on harmful postings and provide an even cleaner internet from the outside. This allowed us to upgrade our security measures to prevent environment. Our Reporting Center and the Hotline also assist in eliminating personal data leaks through these employee PCs. Furthermore, to create a obscene or illegally-circulated content and we share relevant information with ‘clean internet’ environment, we are now using IPIN or mobile authentication numerous external organizations to fulfill our role in creating an enjoyable to replace resident registration numbers that had been collected online for authentication purposes. In addition, we are working to destroy such internet environment. confidential data that has been already collected and stored. Information System Security and Data Privacy Management System Performance Evaluation Obtaining the Information Security Management System(ISMS) We develop and execute measures to protect information communication Certification Officially Recognized by the Korean Government infrastructure facilities pursuant to the Korean law, while ensuring data privacy Certified Areas: ISP(Internet Service Provider), IDC, information through company-wide diagnoses of data privacy practices. communication services In 2013, our ISP(Internet Service Provider), IDC and information communication services were certified by the ISMS (Information Security Management System) Employees Who (Unit: %) program that is officially recognized by the Korean government. In 2013, steped 2011 91 Completed Online up our security to maintain the ISMS certification and to obtain the highest 2012 93 Information Security grade in ‘information security management’. Training 2013 97 kt Integrated Report 2014 71 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 HUMAN RESOURCE 72 kt Integrated kt Integrated Report Report 20142014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 HR Office | On-Nu-Ri Yi / Yu-Hwa Kim / Eun-Young Jang kt Integrated Report HUMAN2014RESOURCES 73 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 HUMAN RESOURCE Talent Management Great Work Place Vision and Strategic Direction Results of the Materiality Test Impact Trend Issues Our employees are at the center of kt’s growth; they represent the Significance to Stakeholders (On a scale from zero to five) future of kt. It is with the belief that a stronger competitive edge only 4.60 comes from talented individuals that we operate fair HR systems and HR development programs that motivate our employees to reach their 4.40 potential(recruitment process, job assignment, and training programs). 4.20 Furthermore, we build a corporate culture of mutual cooperation and trust to allow for communication and collaboration among all A 4.00 employees, united as one, from the top management to working-level staff. 3.80 B C 3.60 D Major Achievements in 2013 E 3.40 New Recruits 1,103 employees Employee Remuneration KRW 2,524 billion 3.20 (Including Welfare and Benefits) 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 Significance of Impact on kt (On a scale from zero to five) Capacity-Building Training Hours 66 hours per employee Satisfaction with the Online Grievance Impact & Trend Issues Talent Management 4.74 point Handling Center A Growing importance of talent • Talent recruitment and retention recruitment • Fair HR systems Employee Satisfaction (Trust Index)* 75% B Increasing demand for employee • Employee capacity-building * Survey Organization: GWP Korea (Employee satisfaction of Korea’s top 100 welfare and rights • Work-life balance companies: 74%) C Employment • Open culture D Non-discrimination • Employee health & safety E Occupational health & safety 74 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Talent Recruitment and Retention Context Due to rapidly-changing market conditions such as globalization, technological evolution, diversified customer needs and the rapid transformation to an information-based society, it is essential that companies secure talented individuals who possess both expertise and enthusiasm. Therefore, kt is fully committed to hiring competent individuals as a driver behind its growth, development and management of human resources, in accordance with its business strategy. Progress Employees The diversity of employees is a crucial pillar in business conduct. During disseminate competency-based recruitment practices. Specifically, 2013, 4,992 of our 31,592 employees were female and they accounted for English/Major/GPA requirements were completely eliminated as mandatory 15.8% of the total workforce. We hire part-time employees in consideration recruitment qualifications. Meanwhile our ‘expert recruitment’ program, of job characteristics and they represent 0.8% of our total workface in 2013 designed to hire sales and SW professionals with job-related skills and (excluding senior managers and professional, experienced part-timers). In qualifications, was expanded as a way to shift our recruitment from focusing accordance with relevant regulations, kt ensures fair workforce conditions on academic backgrounds or impressive-looking resumes to practical to all employees, whether they are full-time or part-time. business related experience. Our ‘kt Star Audition’ evaluates applicants on their talent and enthusiasm in lieu of traditional paper-based examinations (Unit: No. of persons) or self-introduction resumes. In so doing, kt widens its pool of new recruits Category Male Female to encompass a far more diverse cross-section of applicants. 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Not only do we hire talented high school graduates as a way to create a Full-time 26,401 26,579 26,599 4,660 4,757 4,993 performance-based society, we also continue to increase the number of locally-hired employees. Furthermore, our kt Sponsorship is a unique work Part-time 455 417 413 289 263 219 study opportunity that helps talented individuals focus on their studies, Others 170 165 213 6 5 14 while aligning them for future employment with our global and new growth operations. Total 27,026 27,161 27,225 4,955 5,025 5,226 kt’s wide-ranging internship programs are renowned for offering both practical work experience and possible employment opportunities to Average Years of Service (Unit: No. of years) undergraduate future job seekers. These programs include the summer internship(nearly 80 interns/year) for domestic undergraduate students, 19.4 20.2 kt R&D internship(nearly 20 interns/year) which offers science and 19.3 17.5 17.9 16.8 engineering majors credit through industry-academic partnerships, the Male Female international student internship(nearly 10 interns/year) for foreign students studying in Korea, and the global internship(nearly 20 interns/year) for international Korean students. These internship programs deliver mutual benefits: they enable kt to access competent talent early on, while offering interns real-world experience and employment opportunities. 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Recruitment by Segment Category 2011 2012 2013 Employee Remuneration Newly-hired graduates 309 533 286 All kt employees are compensated fairly (regardless of gender), in New hires with previous work experience 231 291 204 accordance with their position, years of service and relevant regulations. New recruits receive wages that are 184% of the legal minimum wage. Customer service positions 291 317 490 (Unit: KRW 100 million) Interns 227 182 123 Category 2011 2012 2013 Total 1,058 1,323 1,103 Wage 18,695 19,603 19,796 Retirement Pay* 2,010 Social Increase of corporate responsibility to create jobs for young people 1,984 1,825 Conditions Growing awareness of competency-based recruitment – high school Welfare Benefits 3,122 3,383 3,718 graduates, women and local talent Total 23,801 24,811 25,524 Shortage of IT workforce, War for key talent * kt offers both DB (defined benefit) and DC (defined contribution) plans Recruitment Increase recruitment to strengthen social responsibility and secure Talent Recruitment Strategy long-term growth drivers • Recruiting the Right People Increase recruitment of professional talent as well as job-specific To fulfill our social responsibility in ‘creating recruitment through open recruitment jobs,’ kt has continued to increase recruitment each year. We also take diverse recruitment approaches to hire the right people and strive to Hire talented individuals to lead global/ICT operations kt Integrated Report 2014 75 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 • Commitment to Hiring the Disabled As a way to deliver work-based Reinstatement following Childcare Leave (Unit: No. of persons, %) welfare, kt strives to exceed the legally-mandated quota for disabled Category Gender 2011 2012 2013 employees (2.5%, as of 2013) each year. In 2013, we hired 809 disabled employees, comprising 2.51% of the total workforce. Our support for these Employees who took Male 23 26 28 challenged individuals extends from recruitment to work; from promotion to childcare leave Female 125 130 164 overall general HR guidance. As a company that believes in the growth and Reinstatement Male 96% 92% 93% dignity of each individual, kt has zero-tolerance for any sort of discrimination following childcare that unfairly restricts disabled individuals. As a result, a whopping 9.3% of leave Female 93% 97% 99% the total workforce is comprised of disabled employees filling the positions Employment for more Male 87% 81% 86% of team managers or above. kt is an equal opportunity company that creates than 12 months after Female 89% 97% 99% a corporate culture where diversity is both appreciated and respected. reinstatement Category 2011 2012 2013 Employee Turnover (Unit: %) No. of disabled employees 803 (2.52%) 824 (2.54%) 809 (2.51%) Category 2011 2012 2013 Male 0.62 0.24 0.28 Recruitment Ratio of the Disabled in Korea in 2012 Female 0.12 0.06 0.33 2.79 Total 0.73 0.3 0.32 2.53 2.54 1.84 1.88 Performance New recruits (No. of persons) Disabled employees (%) 1,323 Top 30 largest Large companies Public kt Public 2.52 2.54 2.51 companies with over 100 servants institutions 1,058 1,103 employees (Source: Ministry of Employment and Labor) Respect for Employee Rights kt prohibits discrimination against its employees on the grounds of personal or academic connections, gender, religion, physical hardship or for any other reason deemed irrelevant to the fulfillment of employment duties. 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Since 2010, we have maintained our high school graduate qualification criteria for customer service positions. Instead of barring such individuals from employment because they lack a college diploma, we offer them a chance to flourish. Furthermore, we abide by the gender equality principle and undertake initiatives for work-life balance and equal opportunity, Female managers (%) Turnover (%) while offering institutionalized support to protect our employees who are young mothers. We are in full compliance with human rights regulations. 5.7 0.73 Pregnant employees are banned from working overtime and offered 4.74 reduced workloads, while 90-day pre/postnatal leave and one-day nonpaid menstruation leaves are also available. 3.34 0.3 0.32 Ratio of Female Employees by Position (Unit: %) Category 2011 2012 2013 Working-level staff 15.57% 15.05% 15.7% Managers* 3.34% 4.74% 5.7% 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 * Managers: Executives, senior managers, team leaders and above 76 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Fair HR Policy Context Fully engaging employees in the development of an organization requires fair and effective HR management practices. At kt, our HR systems are designed to quickly adapt to rapidly shifting labor conditions and take the importance of job responsibilities, as well as the qualifications and performance factors. In so doing, we continue to search for ways to encourage individual employees to reach their full potential, while balancing the mutual growth of both the company and its employee. Progress Job Assignment based on Market Mechanism Reward Policy/ Top-Down Compliment Encouragement Our TM (Talent Market) program, an IT-based open HR system, was launched kt’s “Top-Down Compliments” aims to compliment and encourage in 2009 to allow employees to choose their own assignment and voluntarily employees for their exceptional performance. We created the “Team Leader begin work. Through IT systems, the TM program discloses assignment Commendation” to offer immediate rewards without procedural or formal information that ranges from staffing plans to the current status and restrictions. To recognize employee achievements on the spot and yearnecessary job qualifications. This improves the transparency of workforce round, there was a fourfold increase of rewards. These commendations are supply and demand and enables us to promptly assign the right people to directly awarded by team leaders and the recipients’ family members are the appropriate position. Specifically, the ‘expertise-based TM program’ invited to the awarding ceremony so as to instill pride and develop loyalty to was launched in 2013 as an upgraded version of the existing TM program to the company. Furthermore, employees having more than 20~30 years of work encourage employees to fine-tune their capabilities and manage their own experience with kt are awarded with the plaque of appreciation and a special career development. bonus pay. These commendations are offered directly by team leaders with the employee’s colleagues in attendance to show respect and appreciation Job-based TM Program for their long-standing dedication. In the reward section on the corporate website, we disclose the detailed achievements of those honored with the This program allows employees to transfer to different departments based on their current job category as a way to assist them in building deeper expertise. While CEO Citation or the KT Award. This not only serves to improve transparency employees are relocated within the same job category, they may be assigned to in regards to the awards, but also encourages employees to become more similar/related job categories in consideration of job relevance and this helps interested and engaged in such programs. promote CDP (Career Development Program)-based career management. Employee Merit Program to Motivate Long-Term Performance Talent Market Program Process In 2010, following the abolishment of the short-term performance-driven promotion system, kt launched the Employee Merit Program to effectively Identify motivate employees, boost their morale and improve their long-term Occurrence of Staffing Selection from the departments in staffing needs announcement pool of candidates performance focus. This fast-track promotion program was designed to need of additional staffing translate individual performance, capabilities and internal/external activities into annually awarded merit points. This program leveled the playing field Pre-registration in that those who reached a pre-determined point level could be promoted Individuals of desired NO Decision to apply YES departments regardless of their age or years of service. This program enables greater focus on individual achievements in evaluating employee performance. Furthermore, it adds capability, expertise, organizational contributions, Assignment of and collaboration to the evaluation criteria to establish fair performance HR selected individuals evaluation practices. HR Policy Details Market · The Talent Market program based on a market competition mechanism Fair Evaluation mechanism· Transparent supply/demand of workforce based job · Prompt assignment of human resources-placing the right people in HR evaluations are based on separate performance and capability KPIs assignment the right positions and the results serve as backdata for HR decisions concerning salary Fair · Transparent disclosure of evaluation criteria, procedures and outcomes performance · Evaluator education, evaluator consultation, evaluation outcome raises, promotions and rewards. Evaluation criteria and procedures are evaluation objection system transparently disclosed through appointed internal systems. Included in · Monitoring the fairness of evaluation the undertaken initiatives to improve fairness are evaluator training and Expanded · Fourfold rewards increase facilitate year-round rewards rewards/ · “Team Leader Commendation” was newly created to immediately consultations, along with an evaluation outcome objection system, and Top-Town reward exceptional performance evaluation fairness monitoring. As a result, the adoption of evaluation Compliments outcomes among employees increased and objections related to these Employee · Short-term performance-driven promotion system was abolished outcomes dropped by 32% (20 objections) from the previous year. Merit Program · Graded merit points are awarded each year in accordance with to motivate individual performance long-term · Promotional opportunities are awarded if merit points reach preperformance determined levels HR Evaluation Procedures 1. Conduct mandatory interviews with evaluates in setting job goals 2. Offer weekly feedback year-round and conduct half-yearly evaluations regularly Performance on the basis of the set job goals and achievements Objections Raised against Evaluation Outcomes 3. Adjust evaluation outcomes through the objection system and the Review Category 2010 2011 2012 2013 Committee No. of objections 112 96 63 43 kt Integrated Report 2014 77 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Employee Development Context kt’s growth is dependent on the growth of employees. kt offers diverse training and capability development programs to set the right conditions for employees to reach their potential and satisfy their intellectual needs. Progress Creation of a Stronger Pool of Leader Candidates Strengthened Global Business Capabilities kt’s leadership education is structured into three categories: new hire It was through the global capability training program in 2012 that we set training, general training and development training. Specifically in 2013, up a global talent pool database and our role/capability-based talent the Executive Leadership Program was created for executive candidates promotion system, to offer a total of 26 customized training courses in to learn the key capabilities required of executives, understand business 2013. These courses pinpointed specific areas so as to perfect a vast array strategies and develop strategy execution capabilities. The program, of specialized operations. For example, the global training requirements executes its curriculum through the discussion and presentation of current of respective departments were fully integrated to offer more intensive and major issues that kt is currently contending with. In addition, the specialized training for employees either traveling to overseas exhibitions or existing team leader/field director education system was realigned to globally-competitive talent already engaged in network operations. In 2014, reinforce the promotion system that consists of: selection of candidates we will offer capability level-based training that ranges anywhere from – incubating/verification – assignment to higher positions. In 2014, such communication skills, to professional business operations. ‘Virtuous cycle’ leadership education initiatives will be extended to cover senior managers training will also be on the roster to offer pre-placement intensive training to (Senior Executive Leadership Academy) and aligned closely with HR top-performers as a way to create a pool of talented individuals with global decision-making to strengthen our leadership development system. business credentials. Team Leaders Senior Managers Executives E.L.P S.E.L.P Specialized Global Operation Staff General team leader General senior General executive training manager training training New team leader New senior manager New executive training training training Global Expert Training Common Global Training Sustained Development of ICT Capabilities Our IT capability training was fully launched in 2012 to build a sustained Global Communication competitive edge as an ICT company. In 2013, an IT capability development roadmap was created on the basis of the objective evaluation of our current Global Business Staff Reserve Staff IT capabilities, while customized training was offered systematically through Global business Experts in key areas, 61 training courses. This year, our IT training system will be optimized to place headquarters and other development of fixed/ greater focus on essential business capabilities and offer intensive training for relevant departments mobile NW selected employees. In addition, heterogeneous convergence IT and security expert training will be the special focus of this year’s training initiatives. IT Training System Capability Level IT Academy IT Security Expert Development Expert Solution Architect IT Planning Architect Data Infrastructure IT Operation QA, SW architecture, Open-source DB, Infrastructure, Security and change IT strategy planning , advanced programming, data architect architecture analysis management Intensive big data PM open-source SW, and design SW design modeling IT business planning, SW engineering, Data modeling, Infrastructure, IT service practices, PM basics, programing basics, open-source DB, architecture analysis information protection, Basic consulting, UI / UX, database and design IT standards / trends QA basics SW modeling basics Training Sectors 78 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Compulsory and Strategic Job Training Major Talent Development Strategy and Plan in 2014 To assist employees in business/support operation departments in building stronger practical capabilities, kt will expand training programs Recover Our Leading DNA and Build a Stronger Competitive Edge for qualifications commonly required in wide-ranging job categories. Such Our plan for 2014 is to unite our entire workforce towards the two-tiered but training aims to develop business tool analyses, augment planning and single goal of “recovering our corps d'elite corporate DNA, and strengthening reporting skills and provides general working-level and practical capabilities our competitive edge through training”. To this end, we will not only offer for actual business conduct. In addition, distribution and sales/marketing intensive training designed to innovative one’s mindset, but also training planning and other core job qualifications will be intensively developed in fully aligned with field operations and business outcomes. Such training will accordance with kt’s business model and strategic directions. help manager-level employees recognize the importance of a committed and innovative attitude in overcoming crises and hopefully share this awareness Increased Effectiveness of Training Programs with their junior employees. Meanwhile, working-level employees will receive • Customized Training training designed to boost confidence and instill the customer-first principle kt employs a variety of methods for increasing the and other basic values and principles into the fabric of their daily work life. effectiveness of its training programs. Customized training was reinforced In addition, we will boost the fostering of field experts to reinforce the sales in consideration of department/individual-specific job characteristics and levels. The individual proficiency of senior managers and advanced and technology capabilities essential to positioning kt as an industry leader. executives was evaluated, and for any areas in need of improvement, Meanwhile, we will help loyal and experienced employees become in-house customized training is prescribed to bring them up to speed. In addition, lecturers so that they can use their expertise to deliver an even greater array of the needs expressed of the trainee departments are fully reflected in the practical training courses. process—from the curriculum planning stage to the customized course content and methods. To ensure greater content assimilation, trainees are screened so they can be placed in the appropriate level-specific group. In so doing, our training programs are thoroughly differentiated based on the Performance level and characteristics of the respective departments and individuals. Employee Training Hours and Expenses • Feedback of Results Upon completion, both trainees and their managers Category 2011 2012 2013 are provided with outcome reports that summarize training purposes/ No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of evaluation outcomes, along with an assessment of the trainee’s attitude. Courses Trainees Courses Trainees Courses Trainees This aims to encourage trainees to fully engage themselves in training Group Training 623 45,489 804 59,023 857 51,978 and strengthen the responsibility and coaching role of their managers for developing the expertise of their employees. e-Iearning 165 86,010 121 100,159 187 60,363 Training per 94 91 66 • Closer Alignment of Training and Business Outcomes One of the most Employee important objectives of our training programs is to improve employee (No. of hours) performance. We use actual real-life company issues and present them Training 690 713 710 as challenges for our trainees to address. Such an approach calls for a Expenses per greater focus on problem solving, and consequently, generates diverse best Employee practices throughout the process. Ultimately, this kind of training generates (KRW 1,000) substantial benefits in improving our business outcomes. • Increasing Sales through e-Learning Training We offer annual e-learning training. In 2013, we provided e-learning to 60,363 employees and we aim to do the same for 60,000 employees in 2014. In addition, we are applying our e-learning educational platform to our e-learning operations to further increase our sales. Specifically, kt group affiliates posted KRW 7.81 billion in sales in 2013 through their e-learning operations. In 2014, our goal is to increase this number to KRW 13.2 billion. Employee Training New Recruit Training kt Integrated Report 2014 79 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Work-Life Balance Context When individual employees strike the ideal balance between work and life, this not only leads to a greater contentment in their lives but also greater productivity gains for the company. kt creates a work environment that engages employees in far more than just a job. kt is a place where individual employees can once again discover a sense of ownership, creativity and enthusiasm in their work. That is why kt integrates a fun culture into to our operational tasks and deliver a sustainable Great Work Place. Progress Smart Working (telecommuting or telework) Self-Development Programs Refresh Leave Smart Working kt allows high-performing, long-tenured employees to take a leave Definition of absence as a way to optimize their effectiveness and refresh their kt’s IT-based innovative work (flexibility) arrangement that enables employees to mind. This program is offered bi-annually in February and August and work from home, the Smart Working Center or from any other location of their choice beneficiaries are selected through a screening process devoid of separate Benefits recommendation procedures. 200~250 beneficiaries are selected at a • Reduce 370,000 km/month in • Offer real benefits to female workforce time and approximately 1,000 employees will have been selected by 2014. commuting distance and 1.09 million concerned about child care and career Through this opportunity, employees are given time to develop their skills, minutes/month in commuting time discontinuation take trips or learn a foreign language. ▼ ▼ Savings in social congestion cost as Direct/indirect economic value worth well as 144tCO2/year in reduced KRW 3.75 million is created according to research outcomes Outplacement Support carbon emissions The ‘kt Life Plan’ aims to assist employees in adapting to life after retirement. Our ‘Change Management Program’ for current employees consists of value The Smart Working(telecommuting or telework) designed to ‘innovate the enhancement courses, vocational development courses, start-up capability way we work and strike a work-life balance’, has become an instrumental enhancement courses and career development & management courses. In pillar of kt’s corporate culture since its inception in April 2011 three years 2013, a total of 1,404 employees took such courses to help them choose ago. Presently, we offer a ‘Telecommuting Scheme’ that allows employees and chart out their futures. Meanwhile our ‘Professional Training Program’ to work from their homes and also an office in the vicinity of their home or for retirees supports the successful outplacement of these individuals from any other location of their choice, while ‘Flexible Working Hours’ allows based on their work credentials and experience and includes such employees to choose their own commuting and work time schedules. Our customized courses that concern qualifications, start-up experiences & Smart Working is positively changing the way we work: employees are given road shows, job exhibitions, and outplacement support. more flexibility in their work and in their lives. It opens doors for employees to increase their work initiative, feel more creative, improve performance quality and become fully engaged in the task at hand. A survey of new hires Start-up Support Leave also found that this program served as an important factor in recruiting kt became Korea’s first company to establish a start-up support leave talented individuals. Some 45% of the surveyed new hires responded “The program through the labor-management agreement back in 2009. Smart Working impacted my decision to join kt” and the economic value of This program was designed to enable soon-to-retire employees (due to this program is evaluated to be KRW 2.4 million/year on average. retirement age or personal reasons), to start up their own business while still employed and seamlessly shift their careers. Long-tenured employees slated for retirement are eligible for this program and may take an up to three-and-a-half-year leave of absence upon being selected through the screening process. A determined level of pay is also available and this assists these soon-to-be retirees in developing their capabilities and taking on new challenges. Welfare and Benefits Optional Benefits Package Our optional benefits package was first launched in 2006 to allow employees benefits relating to self-development, family-friendly, culture/ leisure and various other wide-ranging benefits in accordance to their personal preferences and lifestyles. The continued expansion of optional benefits items and the autonomous use of benefits points contribute to improving employee satisfaction with our benefits systems. Smart Working Center (Shared Office Space Designated by kt) 80 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Mutual Care between the Company and Its Employees Work-Life Balance In addition to offering special bonuses and ceremonial wreathes & funeral We have six in-house guest houses and 367 condominium accounts supplies for the familial events of employees, we also assist employees in nationwide that we make available to our employees year-round. paying for family bereavement (kt is the first and only Korean company to do Specifically, we operate separate summer guest houses to help our so) in a one-on-one matching grant format. This greatly lessens the burden employees improve their work-life balance and reduce any work-related our employees face when paying for wedding or funeral ceremonies that tension. Furthermore, we operate eight childcare facilities nationwide require lump-sum amounts of money. to provide favorable work conditions for our employees with infants or toddlers. In easing their childcare responsibilities, these employees are able to increase their productivity and fully focus on their work. Performance Poll Results for Smart Working Program(Visiting Research) (Unit: %) 2.6 ▒ Positive ▒ Moderate ▒ Negative 15.8 4.9 4.0 4.5 3.8 4.7 1.7 26.3 22.8 16.1 23.2 27.6 33.5 81.6 68.8 73.2 82.2 72.3 68.6 61.8 Q Are you satisfied Q Is your work Q Have your family Focus Creativity Quality Work with the Smart rewarding? relationships of work autonomy Working Program? improved? Change Management Program for Current Employees Course Name Self-Exploration Self-Revolution New Business Planning Career Making (Value Enhancement) (Vocational Development) (Enhancement of Start-up (Career Development/ Executive Capabilities) Management) Type of Operation e-Learning Group training Group training Group training Period One month Three days Three days Three days Trained Employees in 2013 – 874 447 83 Trained Employees 22,677 6,064 2,293 369 (Accumulated number) Professional Training Program for Retirees Course Name Startup Business Senior Entrepreneur School Career Design and Planning New Job Placement and Start-up Support Topic/Period Start-up / Quarterly Actual start-up activities / Re-employment / Quarterly Year-round Training Period/Venue Five days 10 days Four days Year-round (Training Center, (Training Center, (Training Center, spouses welcome) spouses welcome) spouses welcome) Details Understand the start-up process / Industry-specific start-up strategy Career analysis and Job placement Select the right business Professional consulting and career design Start-up consulting Marketing and business planning coaching Job search strategy Dialogue with successful Field inspections and entrepreneurs hands-on training 2013 Outcomes Eight sessions / 26 trainees 104 trainees – – Outcomes between 2009 and 26 sessions / 633 trainees 631 trainees 300 trainees 644 trainees 2013 (accumulated) kt Integrated Report 2014 81 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Open Corporate Culture Context An open culture and communication are critical components of any company’s endeavors to respond to fast-changing market conditions and building credibility within an organization to overcome crises. Thus, kt is committed to building an open organizational culture as a way to enhance credibility internally and externally while increasing employee satisfaction and stimulate creative ideas through the employee grievance handling system. Progress Communication with Employees On-Site Management Presentation kt’s half-yearly ‘On-Site Management Presentation’ was designed to share Furthermore, the kt119 Center (launched in 2011) to receive grievances business directions with local branches and directly gather opinions from online or through smartphone applications, allows us to address employee working-level employees. In 2013, this interactive communication channel grievances swiftly and smoothly. The annual number of grievances served to share the current status of operations, help understand the ALLsubmitted through the kt119 Center rose from 1,095 in 2011 to 4,390 in IP initiatives undertaken on the basis of fixed/mobile networks, report the 2013 while employee satisfaction with grievance handling increased from progress of the BIT (Business & Information system Transformation) project 4.54 points to 4.74 points accordingly. launched to innovate work methodology and share the challenges faced in improving customer satisfaction. This was further complemented by ‘olleh Golden Bell’ and ‘Talent Masters’ events. These were held to gain useful kt119 Grievance Handling Process information, learn about various issues through a fun quiz contest and to showcase the diverse talent of kt employees. Request for Grievance Website, phone Communication Meeting occurrence re-handling if calls, e-mail, fax Communication meetings are monthly meetings held by respective unsatisfied departments to present key management messages and share business with outcomes outcomes and other management situations. These meetings, designed to address both company-wide common issues and department-specific issues, serve as a crucial offline communication channel. To facilitate communication meetings, a top-performing department is selected and Feedback kt 119 Grievances submitted awarded monthly. Duplex Communication with Top Management At kt, we believe in the importance of interactive communication channels as a way for top management to directly gather the feedback and opinions Satisfaction Consultation surveys Grievances with relevant of employees and accurately disseminate the CEO’s business philosophy handled and corporate vision when the need arises. Thus, the CEO and other departments executives host regular discussions with employees from diverse position levels to integrate their opinions into major business decisions. Specifically, informal meetings between the CEO, working-level departments and young employees are held year-round to facilitate barrier-free communications. In addition, our intranet bulletin board is used to gather employee feedback on major corporate policies and to address any topics of interest our employees Mutually-Beneficial Labor-Management Relationship may have indirectly heard about, as well as their recommendations. News kt guarantees employees the right to organize a labor union and/or other articles about kt are shared among employees in real time. In cases where representative bodies. Our Union Shop program ensures that employees there is misunderstanding about an article, factual grounds are accurately become labor union members upon their recruitment in accordance with explained to the employees. the collective bargaining agreement. Our employees are also free to join or withdraw from the labor union at any time. We are obligated to consult the labor union concerning any major changes in business operations and Employee Opinion Handling System to notify them of these matters in advance. As of October 2013, unionized members at kt accounted for 77.4% of the total number of employees. To handle employee opinions, we set up the Grievance Office in 354 branches and the Ombudsman Committee that consists of representatives from labor and management. Diverse grievances that concern systems, operations, work conditions, personal relationships, individual concerns, and welfare benefits are submitted through phone, e-mail and website queries. In response, we do our utmost to prevent relevant issues and provide prompt solutions. 82 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Vision and Strategy for a New and Creative Labor-Management Culture Vision and Strategy for a New Vision and Creative LaborManagement Culture Goal Global Standard U·CSR Role Model Labor-Management Together Joint Initiatives for Mutual Benefits Action Labor and Management For a Flourishing Expand Strategy (Together) Human Society CSR 16 Tasks in 4 Top Priority Areas Four Top Priorities Mutual Partnership with Global (Focus Area in 2014) Trust and Stability Local Communities Nation-wide Dissemination Responsible volunteering Joint sharing initiatives Union Corporate Committee UN SDGs Forum at the (Eight-hour responsible Green keepers Social enterprise National Assembly volunteering) Scholarship for the Fund Continued global volunteering Implementation Employee family camp underprivileged UN campaigns for a Cooperation with partner Task Free-of-charge e-learning for Youth IT camp organizations (Red Cross, sustainable environment employees’ children Korea Labor Foundation) Support for less-developed Global language training nations (Training for public officials from developing nations) Labor-Management Unity Programs Performance At kt, both labor and management pursue mutually-beneficial relationships Operational Performance of the kt119 Online Grievance Handling in creating corporate value and undertaking cooperative initiatives so as to Center Over the Past Three Years position kt as a leader in pioneering a thriving labor-management culture. Category 2011 2012 2013 Note Under the vision of the ‘Globalization of a New Creative Labor-Management Culture’ were 16 defined action tasks in the four areas of ‘Globalize’, Utilization (No. of 1,095 2,275 4,390 Offline grievance handling ‘Identify and Disseminate a New Labor-Management Culture’, ‘Pursue grievances submitted) services are provided separately Mutual Benefits with Local Communities’ and ‘Give Back to Society’. In so Satisfaction (Points) 4.54 4.55 4.74 Offline grievance handling doing, we build upon kt’s unique labor-management culture and strengthen services are provided separately bilateral trust and cooperation. Furthermore, kt leads the Union Corporate Committee (UCC) to contribute to expanding the health and welfare of Ratio of Unionized Employees our society. We vow to take a step further to systemize existing mutuallyCategory 2011 2012 2013 beneficial cooperation initiatives into ‘Labor & Managment’ and build global references so as to disseminate kt’s own labor-management culture Ratio of Unionized Employees 76.9% 77.7% 77.4% into the wider global community. Employee Satisfaction Survey (Trust Index) Outcomes in 2013 Employee Satisfaction Category kt General Service Korea’s Top 100 Segment Companies kt strives to become a great work place as a way to continuously improve employee satisfaction and work efficiency. As part of this commitment, Trust Index 75% 71% 74% we commission external professional research organizations to conduct * Survey organization: GWP Korea employee satisfaction surveys in accordance with international standards. In 2013, we used the Trust Index in conducting such surveys in an aim to build a trust-based corporate culture. (This explains why the 2013 Awards survey outcomes cannot be directly compared against previous employee Nov. 2013: GWP Korea*’s evaluation outcomes satisfaction outcomes). The Trust Index focuses on the ‘relationship • Korea’s Top 100 Great Work Place Award (Three consecutive years) between the top management and employees’how employees respond to • Great Work Place for Korean Women (Working Moms) Award the systems and guidelines presented by the companyand consists of the * Korean branch of GPTW (Great Place to Work) of the U.S. five survey components of trust, respect, fairness, pride and fun. In 2013, kt’s Trust Index was 75% against the 100% full mark. This is 4% higher 2013: Aon Hewitt*’s evaluation outcomes than that of the general service segment and 1% higher than that of the • One of Korea’s Top 10 Employers in 2013 Korea’s top 100 companies. * HR management consulting firm kt Integrated Report 2014 83 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Employee Health and Safety Context A safe and wholesome workplace is a fundamental imperative in building a competitive company where employees enjoy their work. At kt, we laid the institutional foundation to establish a corporate culture that guarantees the health and safety of employees. Each of our offices does their part to ensure a safety-driven culture through the establishment of detailed plans and the implementation of systemized prevention and morale-boosting initiatives. Progress Safety-Driven Corporate Culture spouses are provided as a way to reduce the financial and psychological kt considers diverse initiatives designed to establish a safety-driven burden on employees. corporate culture very important. Our remotely-administered regular health In addition, kt’s differentiated Well-being Leave Program enables and safety training ensures that our employees abide by safety rules and employees to strike the right work-life balance and optimize their are briefed on relevant health-promoting information. Included in the psychological conditions. The Benefits Management System aims to deliver injury prediction and prevention measures taken by field sites to build comprehensive well-being support for all the stages of our employee’s life a systematized safety-oriented mindset are: sending safety messages, (childcare/talent nurturing/medical expenses/tuition/stable livelihood, undertaking four-stage daily ‘Zero Accident’ safety activities(field etc.). departments) and themed events held on Safety Check Day (occurring on the fourth day of each month). In addition, the annual Industrial Safety and Corporate Support for Employee Health and Safety Health Contest is held to reward zero-injury sites or those sites which have kt supports and shares group-wide occupational health and safety demonstrated exceptional performance in reducing such injuries. initiatives to contribute to the establishment of a safety-driven In November 2013, we opened Psychological Counseling Centers. Four kt organizational culture and a safer workplace within kt Group. We at kt office buildings located in the Seoul metropolitan area operate ‘mobile’ fully support such initiatives through the use of safety training programs psychological counseling centers that pay weekly visits to employees in to help kt safety managers build stronger job capacities, employing kt’s need of such services, while employees working outside this area can safety activity infrastructure to prevent and raise awareness regarding request these services where and when they wish. In addition, group occupational injuries, and providing consistent, systemic and diverse injury counseling is offered to aid team member communication and strengthen prevention content. In addition, we encourage kt employees to attend our teamwork while ‘healing’ seminars aim to help employees get in touch with annual kt Industrial Safety and Health Contest and other injury prevention their self so as to instill sympathy and a positive attitude into the deeper workshops as a way to enhance job safety capabilities on a group-wide level dimension of the corporate culture. (introduction of scientific safety management methods, etc.). Joint 『Injury Prevention』 Initiatives Labor-Management Health & Safety Committee For the best possible synergistic results, it is critical that both labor and The Occupational Health and Safety Committee, consisting of equal management be commited to injury prevention initiatives. Thus, kt offers numbers of representatives from both labor and management, is special safety training (on major injury prevention measures, occupational established at several of kt’s business sites that employ more than 1,000 injury compensation and handling procedures) to field team leaders. We employees. Other sites operate their own Grievance Handling Committee. also host the joint Industrial Safety and Health Contest in the 2nd quarter of These committees are responsible for developing measures to maintain each year. The aim of this contest is to unite labor and management towards and enhance the health and safety of employees. This is achieved through the common goal of enhancing safety through specialized lectures (role independent occupational injury prevention planning, health and safety of safety leaders, health promotion measures, etc.) and the reading of the training, work environment measurements and health check-ups. safety resolution. In addition, labor and management hold joint biannual The majority of kt’s health and safety policies (basic plans, training, health events to comfort and encourage the family members of kt employees who check-ups, and on-site guidance and inspections) are undertaken through have suffered occupational injuries. Additionally, proactive measures are official consultations with the labor union. taken to improve the welfare of injured employees, including full pay for medical leave and support for medical expenses. Performance Health and Well-Being of Employees Occupational Injury Statistics (Unit: No. of persons) Grievance handling systems that include open discussion forums, anonymous bulletin boards, and a grievance hotline help our employees Category No. of Total Death Injured Injury Note Employees Rate express any concerns, while renowned opinion leaders are invited at least once every quarter to give lectures on health care management. In addition, 2011 31,568 50 3 47 0.16% Employees comprehensive health check-ups are offered to all employees (including (including 2012 32,267 97 2 95 0.30% spouses) at least once a year. This greatly helps them prevent and manage part-timers) any illness early-on and statistical analyses and health care plans are 2013 31,428 60 2 58 0.19% offered to those individuals diagnosed with specific health conditions. Three-Year 31,754 69 2 67 0.22% Collective insurance plans covering incidences of cancer and job-related Average disabilities, as well as life insurance policies for employees and their * Injury rate in the telecommunications industry: 0.51%/ Nation-wide injury rate: 0.59% (Source: Ministry of Employment and Labor, 2012) 84 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Talent Management | Great Work Place | 글로벌 시장 개척 Occurrence of Injuries by Area (Unit: No. of persons, including part-time positions) Area Field Work Vehicle Disease Others Total Residential & Manhole Within Others Auto TwoCardio Others Sports Others Commercial Residences mobiles Wheelers vascular Events Area Disease 2011 15 2 19 1 6 0 0 0 4 3 50 Total 2012 33 4 35 2 6 0 1 1 8 7 97 2013 26 0 20 1 3 0 0 1 4 5 60 Injured Employees 74 6 74 4 15 0 1 2 16 15 207 (No. of persons) 158 15 3 31 By Area (No. of persons) 76.3% 7.2% 1.4% 15.0% Fall 55 29 2 86 Conduction 15 2 24 1 14 8 64 By Type Confinement 4 3 12 1 2 22 of Injuries (No. of persons) Collision 3 14 1 1 19 Others 1 6 4 1 2 2 16 Total 74 6 74 4 15 0 1 2 16 15 207 Occurrence of Injuries by Regions (Unit: No. of persons, including part-time positions) Category Northern Southern Western Busan Daegu South North South North Gangwon Jeju Others Total part of part of Region Jeolla Jeolla Chung Chung Seoul Seoul cheong cheong 2011 3 5 4 14 6 5 3 3 1 1 5 0 50 2012 12 5 12 13 10 14 8 10 5 4 1 3 97 2013 10 6 5 4 5 7 2 6 4 3 4 4 60 * Based on the location of regional customer headquarters (Ex. Busan: Including Busan, Ulsan and South Gyeongsang / Others: Departments (Seoul area)) Declaration of the Safety Resolution Inspection of Corporate Vehicles kt Integrated Report 2014 85 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 86 kt Integrated Report kt Integrated 20142014 Report Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact  nvironmental Management |E | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Network Division | Hye-Rin Cho Public Relations Office | Jun-Dong Lee Network Division | Tae-Hyun Kim kt Integrated Report 2014 environment impact 87 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Environmental Management Strategy Response to Climate Change Vision and Strategic Direction Results of the Materiality Test Impact Trend Issues Corporate responsibility for the environment constitutes the core of Significance to Stakeholders (On a scale from zero to five) sustainability management and presents new business opportunities. 4.40 Under the environmental management vision of 『Green kt, Green KOREA』, we not only transform our work environment ecosystem into 4.20 an even greener one, but also help create a greener national economy through ICT-based green services. It is through such green convergence 4.00 that we at kt will create a new business paradigm to pioneer a B A sustainable green growth. 3.80 C Major Achievements in 2013 3.60 D Achievements • CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project): Joined the Carbon in Green Management Global Leaders Club in 2013 3.40 rd Management • Ranked 3 in the Green Rankings in Korea (Ranked 1st in the telecoms/software/media industries 3.20 for three straight years) 3.20 3.40 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 Reduction of Reached the mid-term target: Reduced 117,487 tCO2, Significance of Impact on kt (On a scale from zero to five) Carbon Emissions or approximately 10% from 2007 Impact & Trend Issues Environmental Management Saved Energy Costs KRW 4.6 billion A Energy • Environmental vision Sales from Green and governance KRW 831.87 billion B Customer health & safety Services (Compliance with standards • GHG emissions reduction on electromagnetic waves • Energy efficiency Outcomes of Green standards) 836 items, KRW 9.76 billion • Resource recycling Procurement C General environmental issues • Eco-friendly products / services (Green IT) Policy Participation • Participated in six government-led green ICT projects • Public policy participation D Compliance (environmental) and certification and Certification • Data centers were rated highest under the Green IDC Certification program • Compliance with electromagnetic limits 88 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact |E nvironmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Environmental Vision and GOVERNANCE Context kt believes that green IT-enabled environmental management will not only help reduce energy consumption, but also offer new business opportunities for future growth. Our green vision, Green kt, Green KOREA reflects this strategy. We have been undertaking relevant green initiatives since 2009. Progress Environmental Management Vision : “Green kt, Green KOREA,” Green Convergence Leader for a Greener Korea of kt: Scope 1+2 emissions), second, contributing to a greener national To meet the requirements of external stakeholders and identify new economy through our ICT-enabled green services (Green by kt: Scope 3 business models, kt implements environmental management on the basis emissions) and third, shifting to a new business paradigm through green of three sub-visions: first, increasing our operational eco-efficiency (Green convergence to drive future growth (Green Paradigm by kt: New BMs). Green kt Green Korea Create a green GREEN kt Support the green revolution of the national economy Reduce costs through top-notch Lead green growth of Korea through ecosystem GREEN KOREA technology and accumulate Green kt capabilities  urchase green P Deliver  greener products telecommunications and related experience workplace Strengthen suppliers’ Improve our society’s green capabilities Improve  eco-efficiency of Take a new steps toward quality of life through consumers through green Green IT Supporters green growth drivers Green Innovation services Build stronger competitive edge Improve Korea’s image as a green Identify new growth engines through reinforcing of kt’s image leader to help enhance the nation’s Identify new IT convergence as a leading green company competitive edge businesses to drive future growth Home, office buildings, infrastructure, energy Green Management System Environmental Management Committee In consideration of expanding concepts of environmental management and chain, business trips/commuting, the disposal of waste and the use of the need for alignment with sustainability management, ‘the control tower water and services). Through the adoption of the executive responsibility role’ and its responsibilities were transferred to the CSV Center, a dedicated policy for each project as well as a top-down approach when it comes to sustainability management organization. Therefore, the Environmental challenging targets, this committee enables us to take a step closer to Management Committee is operated under the supervision of the CSV realizing our vision “Green kt, Green Korea.” Center and is in charge of energy saving initiatives that span up to scope 3 emissions. The Environmental Management Committee meets regularly and sets mid/ Undertake Identify green IT tasks long-term action plans to realize kt’s goal of becoming a world-renowned cutting-edge IT-based and build stronger executive company. With its responsibility for undertaking environmental and green growth agenda awareness The Four Main climate change-related action strategies, the committee also monitors the Responsibilities of progress of overall green IT tasks and develops future oriented strategies. the Environmental To reflect stakeholders’ needs, we reorganized the existing committee Management Build diverse Committee Ensure swift and preemptive in 2013 (whose primary focus was to reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions) interdepartmental response to environmental into the Environmental Management Committee, which takes on more communication channels regulations comprehensive responsibilities and includes Scope 3 emissions (supply kt Integrated Report 2014 89 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Organizational Chart of the Environmental Management Committee Organizational Chart of the Environmental Management Committee Chairman : CEO Champion : Head of the CSV Center Energy Group Service Group Purchasing Group External Affairs Group Resources Group Reduce energy in fixed/ Develop green services Operate green purchasing Respond to environmental Reduce water and oil wireless networks policy guidelines regulations consumption Reduce IDC energy Develop smart grid and BEMS Reduce carbon emissions Respond to global evaluation Reduce the generation consumption businesses of supply chain indices of waste Improve efficiency of office Reduce social carbon Operate a supplier environ Launch environmental Electromagnetic spectrum buildings emissions from services mental assessment system campaigns management Performance in responding to climate change and reaching relevant targets. Among telecommunication companies, kt scored at the very top in this area. CDP Environmental Sector Awards Korea selects top-performing companies in each industrial sector out of the • CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) 250 Korean companies responding to CDP. kt not only joined the ‘Carbon Global Carbon Management Leaders Club (2013) Management Global Leaders Club’ for four straight years as a leader in the domestic telecommunications sector, but also was recognized as 『industry • Green Rankings group leader』 of DJSI for 3 consecutive years. Ranked 3rd in Korea (ranked 1st in the software/ communication / media sector for three consecutive years) 1st-time Selection as Top-Performing Global Carbon Management Listed High in the Green Rankings for Three Consecutive Years Company by CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) kt was a high ranker in the Green Rankings published by the JoongAng Daily for three straight years: we placed 1st in the industry sector and 3rd in In 2013, kt was recognized as a member of the 『Carbon Management the total ranking. Our commitment to reducing GHG emissions through the Global Leaders Club』, a group of top-performing companies listed by U.K.convergence of telecommunication services and green IT was highly scored. based CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) in addition to maintaining its global The rankings recognized our success in reducing 74,000 tons of CO2 top position in the DJSI for three straight years. emissions through the launching of the Cloud Computing Center (CCC) in an The CDP evaluates major global companies in such categories as aim to minimize the power consumption essential in operating networks governance, risks & opportunities, strategy and GHG emissions & and to respond to increases in fixed/mobile data traffic. communication in relation to climate change response. It selects Green Rankings: This is a Korean version of the ‘Newsweek's Green companies with excellent performance in carbon management each Rankings 2011 Global 500 List’, that has been issued since 2009. Rankings year. In 2013, kt received the full 100 score points in the CDLI(Carbon are evaluated by Sustinvest and FnGuide which are Korean partners to Disclosure Leadership Index) which indicates how comprehensively a Trucost(U.K.) and Sustainalytics (the Netherlands), research partners for the company discloses its carbon data. In addition, kt was ranked Band A in Newsweek rankings. the CPLI(Carbon Performance Leadership Index) which was developed to Green Rankings covers the top 200 Korean companies, out of all the listed evaluate the positive measures undertaken by companies in responding companies, which are chosen in terms of revenue (on a consolidated basis) to climate change. This demonstrates the advanced status of the company and market capitalization. 90 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact |E nvironmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy GHG Emissions Reduction Context Climate change is emerging as a global issue that will determine the future of humanity. Corporate responsibility for environmental preservation not only constitutes the key to sustainability management, but also offers new business opportunities. At kt, we comprehensively manage our carbon foot print by including Scope 1~3 data and set a long-term goals to become a ‘Zero Carbon Company’ Progress GHG Emissions Reduction Target We defined our mid/long-term carbon reduction roadmap in 2009 and set Committee plays a leading role in identifying annual tasks of each division, the goal as 20% reduction by 2020 from the base year 2007. In 2013, we setting reduction targets and undertaking wide-ranging initiatives to reach reached the 10% mark and are consistently making progress in reaching these targets. kt is currently in the process of transforming its operational this long-term reduction target. In addition, our Environmental Management DNA into that of a global Green ICT company. Scope 1 & 2 Emissions and Outcomes of Reduction Initiatives The majority of the energy we consume at kt is electricity used to operate telecommunication devices. Still, we do in fact use diverse types of energy— from fuels from corporate vehicles and emergency generators—to city gas or thermal energy to heat buildings. Thus, the company-wide QA/QC(Quality Assurance / Quality Control) guidelines were developed to accurately manage energy use at each division and to reduce waste. Since 2007, our internal GHG emissions have been systemically managed and verified annually by third-party verification service providers certified by the Korean government. Such regular third-party verifications and carbon audits enable kt to produce accurate and credible emissions data and regularly present them to stakeholders. (Unit : tCO2e, tCO2 ) Category *2007 *2008 *2009 *2010 **2011 **2012 **2013 Scope I Fixed Combustion 41,063 40,828 40,221 49,073 44,332 39,387 37,053 (Direct Emissions) Mobile Combustion 13,343 12,097 18,210 17,657 19,346 23,864 23,428 Subtotal 54,406 52,924 58,431 66,730 63,678 63,251 60,481 Scope II Purchased Power 1,157,496 1,165,567 1,077,073 1,104,758 1,105,986 1,032,558 1,034,650 (Indirect Emissions) Stem 4,576 3,621 4,391 4,659 3,594 2,661 3,860 Subtotal 1,162,072 1,169,188 1,081,465 1,109,417 1,109,579 1,035,219 1,038,510 Total Emissions 1,216,478 1,222,112 1,139,896 1,176,147 1,173,257 1,098,470 1,098,991 * Emissions between 2007 and 2010 verified by : BSI(The British Standards ** Emissions between 2011 and 2013 verified by: KQA(Korea Quality Assurance) Institution, a U.K.-based standards association) Scope 3 To realize our vision “Green Korea” that aims to make the entire nation even greener, kt included Scope 3 carbon emissions, which are indirectly related to our operations to our carbon management. We defined the following three stages of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions: ① SCM (Supply Chain Management), ② Use of products and services, ③ Other Scope 3 emissions (water, waste, business trips and commutes), and additionally, social reductions from kt services. We launched systemic initiatives to reduce the carbon emissions from our services. Furthermore, emissions calculation methodologies in each of the three Scope 3 stages as well as actual emissions calculated were verified by third-party verifier to improve their external credibility and accuracy. kt Integrated Report 2014 91 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy ② Emissions from Service Use Stage These emissions are defined as those generated from electricity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 consumption while using kt services, and the calculation scope was limited to the B2C services offered to general consumers. In other words, these emissions come from the energy used to power modems and set-top boxes, handheld sets, installed residentially for the use of internet services, Domestic/overseas Commuting IPTV services and other types of services. To calculate such emissions, employee business trips a methodology was developed on the basis of terminal design values kt’s and the number of subscribers for a total of three types of services. It is in Direct & this stage that fixed/wireless telecommunication terminals produce the Indirect Oil and gas Electricity largest amount of GHG emissions. Thus, improving the energy efficiency directly and steam of products leads to reductions in GHG emissions. kt has already initiated Emis Water consumption Waste from consumed at purchased by worksites such reductions by launching low-power olleh TV set-top boxes to minimize sions kt’s sites kt residential carbon emissions. We will continue to manage emissions from this use stage by enhancing the energy efficiency of our products. Emissions from Emissions from the suppliers use of kt services by Product Type 2012 Emissions 2013 Emissions (supply chain) consumers (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Home Terminals 44,873 40,783 Mobile Terminals 89,117 168,621 Reductions Social Carbon Reductions Made from kt’s Services Made Internet Terminals 270,143 237,846 Total 404,134 447,249 Pursuit of “Zero (0)” (Zero Carbon Company) ③ Other Scope 3 Emissions These emissions refer to those generated from in-house water consumption, waste, business trips and commuting. To calculate emissions in this category, type-specific emission coefficients were developed in accordance with the ‘Carbon Labelling Certification Standard’ published by the Korea ① Emissions from the SCM (Supply Chain Management) Stage Environmental Industry & Technology Institute. Establishing an eco-friendly supply chain is one of the most effective ways to reduce social carbon emissions. At kt, our definition of ‘supply chainCategory 2012 Emissions 2013 Emissions (tCO2e) (tCO2e) stage emissions’ refers to emissions from the production of products and facilities required to offer telecommunications services. These emissions Water Consumption 996 997 cover products purchased from our suppliers and data on the amount of Waste Treatment Domestic Waste 294 349 energy consumed for product manufacturing is gathered annually. The Recycled Waste 11,703 750 data calculation methodology was developed in accordance with WRI’s Construction Waste 186 114 『Corporate Value Chain(Scope3) Accounting and Reporting Standard』 as a way to comply with international guidelines. Meanwhile, the data coverage Business Trips Downtown 319 380 was significantly extended from 111 tier-1 suppliers the previous year to Long Distance 880 659 149 suppliers in the present year. kt vows to assist suppliers in raising Overseas 2,931 8,551 awareness regarding environmental management and develop a low carbon supply chain in the telecommunications industry. Commuting Bus(local, express) 801 762 Subway 68 76 Product Type 2012 Emissions 2013 Emissions Private Vehicles 25,048 22,495 (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Train 72 25 Fixed Equipment 2,430 472 Mixed 599 210 Wireless Equipment 3,935 1,269 Total 43,897 35,368 Telecommunications Service Infrastructure 30,925 48,197 Total 37,390 49,938 92 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact |E nvironmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy S t a t e m e n t VERIFIER'S STATEMENT Song, Jong-cheol, Head of KQA The emergence of climate change as a global issue is driving companies to recognize environmental management as a major tool to fulfill their social responsibility. As GHG emission regulations and new business opportunities—from the convergence of the environment and industries, which previously were unchartered territories—increasingly become a reality, environmental management will be positioned as a major pillar of business conduct that can no longer be neglected. It is especially significant that kt extended its scope of GHG emission management to include Scope 3 emissions and commissioned Korea Quality Assurance to verify its emissions data. kt is the first Korean company whose Scope 3 emissions were verified through a dedicated third-party verification engagement conducted by KQA in 2012 and the verification scope included reductions made by kt in social GHG emissions, SCM, the use of services, business trips & commuting and water & waste. This served as the foundation for kt to successfully publish Scope 3 verification reports for two straight years “Voluntary assurance on the basis of the international standard ISO 14064-3(2006, Greenhouse gases – Part 3). Managing and verifying Scope 3 emissions will emerge as a global trend and companies will analyze of Scope3 emissions and benchmark kt as a best practice company. This prospect is evidenced in the fact that kt gained the is instrumental in full 100 disclosure points and joined Band A—in the environmental performance index published by satisfying increasingly the CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project). KQA sincerely hopes that kt create new business opportunities evolving stakeholder through the convergence of the environment and ICT and take consistent action to transform its vision of ‘Green kt, Green KOREA’ into a reality. requirements, as well as strengthening corporate CSV* initiatives” Song, Jong-cheol * CSV : Creating Shared Value Head of KQA Social Reductions from kt Services Stage Performance Our definition of socially-reduced emissions refers to reductions made in Reaching Mid-term Goal in Reducing Carbon Emissions carbon emissions through our services that deliver a greener life for our customers. For instance, video conferencing services remove the need for Approximately 10% or 117,487 tCO2 reduced in 2013 based on 2007 business trips and thus help reduce carbon emissions. These emissions are the sole “positive” emissions that we at kt should be maximizing. Changes in Scope 1 & 2 Emissions (Unit : tCO2e, tCO2) kt plans to use its green ICT-enabled services to fully contribute to reducing Category 2007 2013 Reductions Made social GHG emissions and making a greener Korea. The wide-ranging services that we currently provide were categorized in accordance with Total Emissions 1,216,478 1,098,991 117,487 the six types of GHG emissions reductions category proposed by the ITU (International Telecommunication Union) in order to calculate reductions Energy Intensity in 2013: 94.147 GJ/KRW 100 million made in social carbon emissions by service type as follows. Category Sales(KRW 100 million) GJ(Energy) GJ/KRW 100 million Total Emissions 238,100 22,416,303 94.147 Type of GHG Emissions 2012 Reductions 2013 Reductions Reduction (tCO2e) (tCO2e) Wireless Communication 1,167 16,592 The calculation and management of Scope 3 carbon emissions were IT Solutions 85,687 270,862 3rd party verified. Media & Content 911,838 825,879 New Growth 3,925 3,456 Total 1,002,617 1,116,790 kt Integrated Report 2014 93 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Energy Efficiency Context The continued growth in fixed/wireless data traffic requires the development of infrastructure as well as institutional commitment to energy efficiency. To effectively address this emerging trend, kt is launching cutting-edge technological solutions from the CCC(Cloud Computing Center), shifting from a simple AllIP network structure to a green IDC and undertaking diverse energy-saving initiatives. Progress developed and installed to minimize Simple & Green Fixed/Wireless Networks cooling for high-temperature de-vices— To minimize the power consumption by network operations, we are shifting while external air inlet technology is into an All-IP structure to create a simpler network. In response to the used to minimize cooling power. Out expected demand for new infrastructure facilities (LTE), we also set a mid/ of the new technology and techniques long-term ‘Energy Diet Master Plan’ as well as a responsible organization identified and deployed, the cooling to head it, as a way to improve the efficiency of station operations. technique that uses external air allowed us to save 2,117MWh in power consumption in 2013 alone, which is equal to more than KRW 300 million in energy cost savings. OLT ONT RN Eco-friendly Outdoor Air Inlet System Developed through the Shared Business Ntopia SW Results with the SME’s Program ONT RN SER ONU RN Energy Rating Program Station 50Km 20Km 10Km kt is deploying efficient communication equipment to dramatically save on power consumption. We take a fundamental approach in saving FTTH (fiber to the home) that prolong transmission energy through the development of energy efficiency guidelines for such distance (4Km → 20Km) equipment and in rating each piece of equipment for its energy efficiency. Our internally-developed energy efficiency rating program offers sectorMore Efficient Access Network [Fiber to the Home] specific standards (internet, transmission, power, wireless, super highspeed, terminals) and its stringent standards help enhance the energy efficiency of purchased equipment. This rating program is operated by the procurement department and its efficiency indicators are based on Media recommended values on a par with global standards. This contributes IMS Center to higher energy efficiency at kt and also facilitates the technology Inside Outside development of our suppliers. Station Station Kormet / IP Premium L2 L3 Ntopia Edge SW Router Deliver voice, data, and broadcasting services through an ‘Green LTE’ to Increase Eco Efficiency of Communication Equipment integrated All-IP network Rooms Shift to an All-IP Network Such communication equipment such as servers, routers, and power supply located in our communication equipment rooms not only generate To reduce power consumption for communication facilities, we are tremendous heat, but they also cause communication faliure if overheated. transitioning into an IP structure for existing facilities that are heavy power This requires the around-the-clock operation of cooling devices. It is consumers, while integrating stations dispersed across the nation into a imperative that kt is fully committed to reducing the cooling power required more centralized regional structure. To install high efficiency equipment for these particular rooms. for new facilities, our departments are working with external counterparts Last year, we initiated a joint R&D project with a SME supplier to develop to introduce an energy efficiency rating program for our communication an integrated rack system with built-in ventilation devices that take in cool equipment. Furthermore, to reduce power consumption for auxiliary outdoor air to cool the temperature of stacked DUs(Digital Unit) that control facilities (cooling devices, OA, buildings), heat exhaust devices are being LTE RUs(Radio Unit). This technology was designed to attract cool outdoor 94 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact |E nvironmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy air—while letting heated air generated from equipment out, through separate vents to maintain the lowest possible temperatures. This allowed us to reduce up to 75% in cooling power consumption. When this new rack system is installed at 70 major DU stations that operate key equipment, it may generate 12GWh in reduced power consumption per year. This conserved amount of energy is enough to power 2,500 households for an entire year, if their monthly electricity consumption is 400KWh. When translated into monetary value, the savings are worth KRW PV Power Plant at the kt Gwangju PV Power Plant at the kt Gwangneung 2.25 billion. Transmission Facility Transmission Facility Following the installation of this system, our Yangjae Branch—which contains five large-scale cooling devices, was able to save more than 70% in daily power consumption. In building a nationwide LTE network in the 2nd Quarterly Power Generation at kt PV Plants in 2013 (Unit: kWh) half of last year, we deployed a virtualization technology called CCC(Cloud Quarters in 2013 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Communication Center) and this enabled us to reduce 50% in power Gwangju PV Plant 8,338 10,915 7,914 7,643 consumption through the concentration of DUs. Gangneung PV Plant 152,107 161,151 137,343 133,834 Total 160,445 172,066 145,257 141,477 Eco-friendly Geothermal Energy Our sustained investments in photovoltaic generation, geothermal energy, fuel cells and other renewable energy mechanisms have enabled us to install and operate geothermal energy-powered cooling/heating and hot water supply systems at three office buildings, including the Banghak Office in Seoul. The Banghak Office had an old, poorly-efficient, gasCloud-based Visualization Technology Adopted for the Energy powered water cooling/heating system that had been in service for more Management System than 20 years since its installation. Thus, the building needed additional air-conditioning and fan heater installations. However, using underground We deployed smart grid visualization technology for 40 major locations in water from the cable tunnel as an energy source—through geothermal heat Gwanghwamun, Bundang, and Woomyeon-dong as a way to reduce energy pumps, allowed the office to maximize cost savings. consumption. While the previous BEMS (Building Energy Management The three-month-long pilot operation of this geothermal system with System) was designed to install equipment and manage power thermal efficiency four times higher than that of the existing system consumption for each building, smart grid services will enable us to check produced KRW 30 million in annual savings in cooling/heating expenses. and manage diverse energy data through the cloud. Thus, we have been Specifically, near the cable tunnel, buried 30 or more meters below the paving the way for these services. Banghak office building, the underground water remained almost a This was further complemented by visualization technology which allows us constant 16~17 year-round. Using the underground water from the cable to access power data and check appropriate consumption levels in real-time tunnel eliminated the need to drill into the ground. This also saved KRW 200 for each site. In so doing, managers can immediately identify the status of million in installation costs, which energy consumption and fine-tune energy-saving initiatives. accounts for almost half of the total As it moves beyond the conventional simple BEMS—to enable each geothermal heating/cooling system department to manage its own energy use, this new technology is crucial for deployment cost. the operation of the energy accountability program. kt will disseminate PV power ge n e ra t i o n — d e pl oye d a t t h e Gangneung transmission facility Photovoltaics as Renewable Energy as well as in the geothermal energy kt became the first in the Korean telecommunications industry to build system at the Banghak Office— a photovoltaic (PV) power plant on a 19,720m² piece of land within the across the board as a way to reduce Gangneung transmission facility, and has been consistently investing carbon emissions. Furthermore, this in renewable energy facilities over the past three years. Since 2012, soon-to-be expanded renewable our PV power facilities have initiated their commercial operation and e n e rg y i n f rast r u c tu re will b e generated electricity is sold to Dongbu Power Company, in accordance converged with IT, to identify new with the governmental RPS (Renewable Power Supply) policy. This leads to business opportunities. approximately KRW 200 million in annual profits and 22 tons in reduced kt’s Banghak Office Powered by GHG emissions. A portion of these profits are donated to Dream Centers and Geothermal Energy other community facilities. kt Integrated Report 2014 95 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Video Conferencing Company-wide Energy Saving Campaign kt’s video conferencing initiative aims to reduce business trip expenses, To raise employees’ energy saving awareness, we launch corporate energy speed up decision-making and shorten transport time. This is producing saving campaigns during each summer and winter season. positive impacts in productivity gains and in curbing carbon emissions. A report published by Digieco (kt’s economic and business research institute) in 2009, expected a total of KRW 13.7 billion in costs saved from reduced business trip expenses, increased productivity and reduced carbon emissions when 20% of the total domestic/overseas meetings of kt are Overcome Blackout Risk Summer Campaign replaced with video conferencing-based meetings. Our introduction of a PC-based video conferencing system aimed to reduce To respond to the national high, up-front deployment investments and overcome the shortcomings of challenge of the comprothe existing video conferencing system, such as time lags in transmitting mised power supply brought video and audio data. This video conferencing system was installed at 79 on by climate change, kt major locations across the nation and was aligned with our internal Unified launched the ‘Get Over the Communication (UC) to enable all employees to easily use this system Power Famine in Summer’ through a PC or in a video conferencing room. Campaign to help improve the At kt, video conferencing is used for meetings, seminars, training and other daily habits of its employees. multiple purposes and proved instrumental in the way our employees work. This campaign was undertaken in the following three phases In 2013, this system was accessed by 348,000 employees and our goal for and successfully led to company-wide energy savings. 2014 was set at 301,000 employee users. Video conferencing generated productivity gains for our employees and Phase 1: Gather novel and breakthrough ideas from all employees saved us more than KRW 5.84 billion in business trip expenses while and set seven energy-saving directives reducing as much as 144tCO2eq in carbon emissions. Phase 2: Produce e-learning video content from the seven energyFurthermore, we aim to make video conferencing platform technology saving directives and distribute the content across the another source of revenue. Our video conferencing service operations board posted KRW 1.14 billion in sales in 2013 and our goal is to increase this Phase 3: Gather energy-saving practices from each department number to KRW 1.27 billion in 2014. and build company-wide awareness on energy saving 100 Days of Warm Winter Action Plan In response to the forecasts that winter was coming earlier on in the season, kt and kt estate launched the companywide “Enduring the 100 days of Winter Action Plan” campaign to prepare for any possible power shortages during the colder months. Just as in the summer campaign, guidelines were set for employees and facility managers to abide by in addressing possible power shortages during winter and for maintaining eco-friendly working conditions. These guidelines were disseminated across the board and best practices were identified, Operations Conducted through Video Conferencing which were put into action through such initiatives as offering free throw blankets to facilitate engagement on the part of our employees. Performance Energy Cost Saved in 2013: Approximately KRW 4.6 billion kt saved approximately KRW 4.6 billion in energy costs through energy efficiency improvement initiatives. These endeavors also contributed to kt being chosen as the DJSI Industry Leader (ranked 1 st in the global telecommunications industry) for three straight years. 96 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact |E nvironmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Resource Recycling Context Resource recycling is instrumental in not only preventing environmental pollution, but also in eliminating unnecessary waste from the use of resources. kt is fully committed to reducing water & waste consumption and to recycling waste to improve environmental performance. Progress Management of Water Consumption Year Ton Category Type of Waste Ton Water consumption of kt office buildings, declined by approximately 22.4% 2008 90,678 General General 4,960 from the previous year. This can be attributed to the installation of more Waste 2009 73,137 Recycled 2,203 water-saving devices in bathrooms (automated flushing bidets, bubble foam-type faucets) and the more proactive operation of an underground 2010 53,867 Recycled Cables 13,092 Waste cable tunnel leachate filtration system. Specifically, this filtration system 2011 63,213 Cables 7,740 installed at our Namcheongju, Bukgwangju, Hyehwa and Guro buildings 2012 50,024 Generators 3,624 allowed us to reclaim 81,576 tons and 23,813 tons of water in 2012 and 2013 36,273 Others 74 2013 respectively and thus protect the environment. The company-wide Optical 2,394 Cable Waste regular maintenance of this filtration system led to temporary drops in the Construc 2,186 amount of reclaimed water in 2013. tion Waste kt will continue to reduce its water consumption through such systemic kt and IBK Launching the Green Relay Campaign water-saving initiatives. Water Recycling and Filtration System kt launched the ‘Green Relay’ campaign with the Industrial Bank of Korea Installed at the Cable Tunnel of the (IBK)to recover disposed cell phones to help children at local children’s Namcheongju Office centers realize their dream. These used cell phones were recycled into metal resources by a verified recycling company approved by the Ministry of Environment and the profits were donated to ‘Dream Together’, a Period (Year) Water Consumption (ton) Recycled Water (ton) philanthropic organization. 2011 2,904,958 – This ‘Green Relay’ campaign was meaningful in that the recycling of used 2012 3,000,742 81,576 cell phones offered more than just an environmental good deed; it extended 2013 2,326,977 23,813 helping hands to less fortunate individuals in our society. Management of Waste Generation by Waste Type During 2012, we at kt launched a project to establish a waste management procedure as a way to realign our company-wide waste generation management system and significantly improve the uncertainty of data. As we believe that waste has varying levels of environmental footprint according to type, we further segmented our waste management types into general, recycled, optical cable and construction waste types. Furthermore, eight subcategories were created to further segment waste types, and this improved the accuracy of data a notch higher. In addition, we established a company-wide waste management system and are undertaking various initiatives to reduce the generation of waste. These endeavors allowed us to reduce waste generation by two-thirds between 2008 and 2013 and to continuously raise the amount of recycled waste. In 2013, we not only reached our internal target of reducing waste by more than 10%, we exceeded this target by almost three times. This demonstrates that our commitment to transform into an eco-friendly Performance company is generating substantial outcomes. kt vows to continually undertake more proactive waste reduction initiatives on the basis of its Consumption of tap water and sewage declined by approximately segmented waste management system. 22.4% in 2013 from the previous year Discharge of waste declined by approximately 27% in 2013 from the previous year kt Integrated Report 2014 97 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Eco-friendly Products / Services Context We face growing demands and needs for eco-friendly products and services across our society and this trend is emerging as an important responsibility for companies to fulfill. Thus, we at kt conduct sustained R&D to deliver eco-friendly products and services that help optimize energy consumption in daily life and across all industries. Progress Optimized Building Energy Service, BEMS Home Energy Optimization Service, HEMS (Building Energy Management System) (Home Energy Management System) BEMS (Building Energy Management System) analyzes the status of energy HEMS (Home Energy Management System) represents kt’s green home & use in real time to predict, indicate and track energy consumption as a smart smart home solutions that offer additional services to conventional power energy, management and cost-saving solution. Aligned with smart grids, network services in order to deliver greater customer value. HEMS is used BEMS improves the efficiency of building facilities and delivers new added for wide-ranging operations as a package solution. It comes with energy value to customers. BEMS is kt’s energy management solution that was the management, demand response(DR), micro grid, smart grid and other first green certified service within the broadcasting and telecommunications relevant solutions on the kt Energy Service Platform. Our HEMS pilot test has industry. kt’s power-saving technology, along with exceptional technological been completed for 600 households through the Smart Grid Demonstration capabilities to offer real-life benefits to its consumers, are the likely factors Complex Project held in Jeju, while monitoring interfaces are provided that contributed to such a success. through smart phones, IPTVs, internet phones and PCs (4 Screen). Major Functions of kt BEMS Major Functions of kt HEMS Real-Time Check Optimal Control • Energy consumption • Uniform SRMT control • Energy cost • SR Index, follow-up control • Energy use by use • Time shift control or space • Pattern control Energy Management Statistical Analysis • Energy diamond • Energy statistical analysis Summary Information Energy Consulting • Energy management • Energy analysis by use or space (KPI) • CO 2 emissions / • Energy consulting peak demand analysis • Energy grid • FDD, LCC, CBL analysis Operational Management Environment Set-up • Facility management • User management • Building inquiry, • Schedule management facility statistics • Code management • Facility, BAS Data statistics / analysis Smart App • History management, management server management Renewable Energy Management Service, REMS Benefits of the kt-REMS (ESS Demonstration Complex in Daegu) Our kt-REMS (Renewable Energy Management System) is optimized for (Unit: won) residential power operation through Green Home solutions, energy costsaving renewable energy, and energy storage control systems. This system ▒ Pre-REMS Power Rate delivers not only an enjoyable living environment, but also energy cost 80,817 ▒ Post-REMS Power Rate savings through the management of the use and storage of renewable energy generated at home. The micro EMS (Energy Management System) 53,116 56,041 (installed in residences) controls renewable energy and the ESS (Energy 49,434 Storage System) while the integrated control system within the operation 31,658 center, is responsible for comprehensively monitoring the energy 23,668 management system and offering services. Febuarary March Aprill 98 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact |E nvironmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy kt, Fully Launching its Green Renovation Business for Private Sector Buildings Components of kt-EV carSharing Services kt plans to launch its ‘Green Renovation Business’ to improve the energy efficiency of old buildings. This business model, initiated by the Ministry of Land, System Structure Infrastructure and Transport and undertaken by the Green Renovation Creation CarSharing Service System Center, allows companies to improve the energy performance of older buildings and recover their investments through energy savings and improvements. To respond to power shortages and increasing energy prices, kt has presented the energy diagnostic systems ESCO and BEMS along with other diverse energysaving IT convergence solutions as alternatives. It was against this backdrop ❶ Reservation (Web/App) ❷ Authorization ❸ EV Driving that the Green Renovation Creation Center (attended by the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Industry and Energy and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport) selected kt as the sole preliminary business to advance into the green renovation business industry in early 2013. This decision will prompt kt to launch energy-saving business operations for not only older public buildings but also privately-owned buildings. In ❻ Billing ❺ Vehicle return ❹ Information access fact, starting with the Jeju Smart Grid Demonstration Project undertaken Provide smartphone / web-based service interfaces from 2009, kt has deployed its olleh BEMS (Building Energy Management Vehicle search, reservation / return and billing & return System) at the GS Caltex R&D Center in Daejeon (2010), Seocho Boutique Monaco (2012), Guro E-Mart (2012), BC Card Future Center (2012), Yeungnam University (2013) and the Korea Institute of Design Promotion EV Client & Wibro / LTE (2013), which led to an average of 19.8% in saved energy. Communication Interface CarSharing Terminal Since last year, kt has also tapped into the overseas building energy Authentication/Control of management market and signed the ICT consulting contract with the SLS NFC-certified Vehicles Door lock WiFi Communication Las Vegas Hotel in the U.S. to undertake a green building project that aims Bluetooth to achieve more than 10% in annual energy savings. ECU CAN 2.0 0BD-II Expansion of Eco-Friendly Services kt is building cooperative relationships to expand eco-friendly services. In Real-time wireless mobile communication between EVs and the monitoring system 2013, kt was fully engaged in the Smart Campus project, the EV (electric WiFi / Bluetooth communication between EV diagnostic devices and terminals vehicle) carSharing program and Eco-driving initiative. Green Class kt Rental, Expanding Eco-Driving with BC Card We at kt launched the Smart Campus project together with Sookmyung kt is committed to expanding eco-friendly services to its group affiliates. Women's University to develop ‘Green Class’, an interactive lecture system kt Rental, with its nationwide network of 160 operational locations and accessible on tablet PCs and smart phones. ‘Green Class’ is kt’s proprietary 85,000 vehicles, signed the Green Card partnership agreement with the solution that enables students to share lectures and notes in real time and Ministry of Environment and the Korea Environmental Industry Technology post questions. This delivers a more convenient learning environment and Institute to disseminate eco-driving practices and to facilitate the use of ecoits ‘low capacity content creation technology’ can compress lecture content friendly vehicles. into one/400th the size of the conventional content and store it accordingly. This helps save data capacity, as well as paper (through paperless lectures). Performance Green Services kt defines services that contribute to reducing carbon emissions externally— as green services, and is committed to increasing their profits. Green Service KPIs were set to maximize profits from green services and reductions in social carbon emissions and kt continues to expand such services and develop new green services. Specifically, we are determined to discover EV carSharing Solution services that help reduce social carbon emissions and to increase the ratio of green IT services (out of the total sales) to 10% by 2030. It was with this To develop the demonstration and business model for smart grid-related business strategy that we created a dedicated organization as an incubator technology, kt is participating in the Jeju Smart Grid Demonstration Project for energy solution business (Future Convergence Strategy Office while supervised by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. As part of this launching diverse initiatives to mitigate social carbon emissions. commitment, we developed and demonstrated the EV (electric vehicle) car sharing business system in the smart transportation segment, while Outcomes from Green Services (Unit: KRW million) introducing our kt-EV carSharing solution to allow consumers to rent and Green Service Category Performance (KRW million) use eco-friendly EVs at their convenience in Jeju. This enabled consumers to use eco-friendly vehicles, through the reduction of both gas expenses IT Solution 225,024 and carbon emissions, and gave ordinary consumers easy access to Media & Content 570,919 very expensive EVs. We expect that this will dramatically contribute to New Growth (Business Incubation) 35,928 environmental protection in our society. kt Integrated Report 2014 99 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Public Policy Participation and Certification Context Strategically responding to increasingly diversifying environmental regulations and needs and fully engaging in the development of relevant policies is critical for not only in conducting business, but also in serving national interest. In addition to company-wide energy saving initiatives and IT development, we are playing a leading role as a green IT leader through our participation in the governmental green ICT policy and aggressively abiding international standards. Progress Compliance with Environmental Regulations [Green Growth Law] Internally-Generated Electricity for the Participation in the DR Market (Unit: kWh) kt has been reaching the cap targets for GHG emissions set by the Korean Period Jan. Apr. May Jun. Jul, Aug. government’s GHG and Energy Target Management Scheme for four straight Reductions Made(KW) 26,762 47,285 70,402 50,232 90,631 427,319 years. To reduce our GHG emissions, the Environmental Management Committee meets regularly and the internal energy management system is used to manage our carbon emissions in real time. Specifically, we Eco-friendly Procurement (Green Procurement) define compliance with environmental regulations as a KPI and are making Our green procurement guidelines stipulate responsibilities and authority progress, so as to ensure we are exempt from paying any penalty from to comply with the ‘Voluntary Agreement for Green Procurement’, as well non-compliance with such regulations. As part of our contribution to the as the scope and procedures of mandatory green procurement. If prices development of policies related with this governmental program, our and quality equal, green products take precedence in making purchasing Hyehwa Branch and Bundang ICC were engaged in the target management decisions according to these guidelines. This agreement also covers general program pilot project undertaken in the building segment by the Ministry of consumables to promote eco-friendly purchasing, while environmental Land, Infrastructure and Transport. We will be fully committed to abiding by conditions should be considered in the written technical requests for the national carbon emissions roadmap as part of our Green Korea vision. electric communication facilities. In addition, green design guidelines are presented to suppliers to help them take into account eco-friendly surface Participation in Government-led Green ICT Projects treatment, ease with recycling/reuse, and minimization of packaging waste Supervising Ministry Name of Project from the product development stage. To further facilitate voluntary green procurement, an eco-labelling program was introduced for consumables Ministry of Trade, Development and deployment of the integrated K-MEG and labelled data is updated semi-monthly on the basis of green product Industry and Energy energy operation and management system information provided by the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Ministry of Trade, Development of key platform technology to advance Institute and monthly outcomes are analyzed to manage progress. Industry and Energy U-City Furthermore, our green procurement website allows users to learn about Ministry of Trade, Development of UFMS and an integrated platforms based the status of green procurement at kt, future directions, green procurement Industry and Energy on special urban information _ Transferred procedures, and methods to verify and search green products as a way to Ministry of Land, Development of carbon emissions-reducing urban assist our employees in making green purchasing decisions. Infrastructure and strategy and green index & business model Transport Green Procurement Outcomes Ministry of Trade, Eco-Mobility (Roadmap to develop a clean road transport Green Procurement 2011 2012 2013 Industry and Energy environment to expand the use of eco-friendly means of (one item/KRW million ) No. of Amount No. of Amount No. of Amount transport and operate energy-efficient vehicles Items Items Items Ministry of Trade, Development of interchangeability performance standard EcoGreen Mark439 5,094.9 689 4,787.9 835 9,270 Industry and Energy test site in the smart Place segment friendly certified Products GR Mark-certified 1 2.2 7 468.4 1 494 Other Energy Mark1 0.1 3 4.1 Avoiding National Blackouts through Participation in DR Market Ecocertified friendly Reducing azardous 2 180.3 kt is participating in the intelligent DR (Demand Response) market of the Products materials Korea Power Exchange (KPX) based on its ICT capabilities, experience in Reducing waste 1 0.9 2 4.4 developing smart grid technology and electricity loads of internally-owned Certified with overseas eco marks buildings. At the request of KPX, we reduce specific loads to minimize Others 30 14.4 120 33.2 economic risks from blackouts, while decreasing the burden of investing Total 472 5,112.5 823 5,478 836 9,764 in plant construction and energy consumption as a way to protect the environment. When Korea’s reserve power drops to 4,500MW or under, we work in alignment with the top company in the retail distribution industry, a Response to International Environmental Standards (ISO14001) representative heavy energy consumer, to reduce a total of 34MW in load in In 2007, kt became the first Korean telecommunication company to be 220 buildings across the nation. To take swift action, secure reliability and certified with the international environmental management standard to reduce the work load of field staff, we use our ICT capabilities to develop ISO14001 in the construction and real estate sector, while advancing its and deploy systems that allow for real-time/interactive communication own environmental management system to establish transparency and monitoring of the reductions made, automated control and the execution credibility for its environmental management performance. Our goal is of load-reducing measures. In 2013, we produced a total of 712,631 kWh to have all our operations certified with ISO 14001 through sustained in internally-generated electricity, which made significant contributions to environmental improvement and we are fully committed to environmental preventing nation-wide blackouts. management through environmental training, internal audits and companywide environmental campaigns. 100 kt Integrated Report 2014 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact |E nvironmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Compliance with electromagnetic Limits Green Technology and Business Certification Context To develop and disseminate green IT, we at kt have Mitigating negative impact on the human body and the environment, along continuously conducted R&D in the eco-friendly with complying with governmental standards, require that electromagnetic telecommunications segment. As a result, kt owns a waves from the use of communication devices or the installation of total of nine green technology and business certificates wireless antennas should be appropriately measured and managed. As a granted by the Korean government, the first-ever telecommunications operator, kt measures the specific absorption rates of achievement in the domestic telecommunications cell phones, and provides such information, while constructing base stations industry. Specifically, in 2013, the development of an in a way that reduces the environmental burden of surrounding conditions. integrated external air inlet energy-saving HVAC system added another green technology certificate to our certification portfolio and this enabled us to be recognized for our world class green ICT capabilities. Progress Type of Date of Name of Certificate Certification Certification Compliance through Monitoring of Electromagnetic Wave Strength Green Oct. 14, 2010 RC/CT-based facility-specific real-time remote measurement At kt, we measure the strength of electromagnetic fields to comply with Technology of energy consumption human safety standards. We ensure that the SAR (Specific Absorption Certification Smart grid-based building energy management solution Rate) of cell phones is at 1.6W/Kg or under, in accordance with the Korean (SG-BEMS) government’s standard limit, before these cell phones are registered and Oct. 14, 2010 Zibgee/PLC-enabled power-saving home network technology sold. Our wireless stations are also constructed in an eco-friendly manner Oct. 10, 2013 Integrated external air inlet energy-saving HVAC system to prevent customer complaints. To prevent electromagnetic waves from Green Oct. 28, 2010 Green telecommunication infrastructure development having any negative impact on the human body in advance, we ensure Business through the integration of stations on a regional level that base stations with high signal strengths are subject to the mandatory Certification Video conferencing system dissemination through the use measurement of electromagnetic waves and that they maintain their output of 3G, IPTV and Wibro technology at the lowest possible level. Broadcasting and telecommunications network-based ecofriendly address update services Oct. 11, 2012 ICT infrastructure-enabled smart working Offering Electromagnetic Information and Gathering Stakeholder Nov. 22, 2012 Energy-saving, eco-friendly green PC (entry-level) system Feedback development We provide background information and real-life information concerning electromagnetic fields to our stakeholders. Our website is uploaded with kt Data Center, Rated Most Efficient under the Green IDC Certification electromagnetic information, practical ways to reduce such waves and SAR Program ratings for all handsets. Relevant initiatives are also disclosed through our corporate reports. When new transmission antennas are set up at such Korea’s first-ever Green Data Center Certification program (supervised by the locations as residential or commercial areas where electromagnetic waves Korea IT Service Industry Association) awarded kt with the highest rating. may have an impact on the human body, additional funds are allocated This program was designed to improve the efficiency of the power operating to measure the strength of electromagnetic waves and the outcomes are conditions of big data centers—which are heavy power consumers— reported to the government. If new transmission antennas are installed as part of the endeavors to address the nationwide challenge of energy within apartment complexes, it should always be approved by the conservation. As Korea’s top data center operator, kt’s Mokdong center and resident household representative. If customers demand that additional Bundang center received A+ and A++(rated highest in Korea) respectively, measurements be made, dedicated precision measurements are conducted which demonstrated our top-notch performance in power efficiency. Our to offer the requested information. IDC infrastructure enabled us to improve our power consumption by 17.3% over the past three years. In the meantime, we are building an HTA testing Electromagnetic Research center (that can be operated in high-temperature conditions) to strengthen the competitive edge of our data centers. Specifically, we are optimizing Our Electromagnetic Advisory Committee is attended by experts. kt is the energy efficiency of our IT infrastructure, through cloud computing also an active supporter (research fellow activities) of electromagnetic technology, and we vow to become the world’s top data center service wave research, conducted jointly by the industry and academia, under the provider by enhancing the energy efficiency of our data centers to global supervision of the Korean Institute of Electromagnetic Engineering & Science, levels by 2015. in addition to being an advisor to government-led electromagnetic research. To gain efficient and substantial outcomes from such research activities, kt commissions the Korea Radio Promotion Association to conduct research on the impact of electromagnetic waves to the human body (invest in research Performance funds). kt is interested and invests in the impact that electromagnetic fields Participation in National Policy has on the surrounding ecosystems and on public health. • Participation in six national green ICT projects • Internally-generated power: 712,631 kWh in total • Green procurement: 836 items, KRW 9.764 billion Performance kt’s Measurement of Electromagnetic Wave Strength Certification Outcomes Category Self-initiated Requested by Total • Additional  Green Technology certificate obtained in 2013: Integrated Measurement Customers outdoor air inlet energy-saving cooling system No. of Base Stations 14,550 14,666 29,216 • kt’s data centers, rated highest under the Green IDC Certification program kt Integrated Report 2014 101 Company Value Creation Creating Social Value Customer Engagement Human Resource Environmental Impact | Environmental Management | 혁신경영 Response글로벌 to Climate Change | 글로벌 시장 개척 Strategy Appendix Sustainability Indicators Third-Party Assurance Statement GRI Content Index Membership Awards 102 kt Integrated Report 2014 Major Indicators of Sustainability Management Economic Performance Unit 2011 2012 2013 Sales (On a consolidated, K-IFRS basis) Delivery of Services KRW million 16,832,349 19,266,545 19,663,014 Sales of Goods(*) KRW million 4,439,684 4,589,830 4,147,585 Consolidated Financial Statement Current Assets KRW million 9,790,659 10,517,419 9,968,449 Non-current Assets KRW million 22,294,750 24,040,489 24,878,084 Total Assets KRW million 32,085,409 34,557,908 34,846,533 Current Liabilities KRW million 8,745,125 11,266,766 11,187,738 Non-current Liabilities KRW million 10,802,475 10,073,167 10,793,885 Total Liabilities KRW million 19,547,600 21,339,933 21,981,623 Capital KRW million 1,564,499 1,564,499 1,564,499 Premium on Common Stock KRW million 1,440,258 1,440,258 1,440,258 Retained Earnings KRW million 10,219,633 10,646,383 10,046,883 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income KRW million -22,865 1,325 24,538 Other Capital Component KRW million -1,497,289 -1,343,286 -1,320,943 Non-controlling Interests KRW million 833,573 908,796 1,109,675 Total Equities KRW million 12,537,809 13,217,975 12,864,910 Total Liabilities and Equities KRW million 32,085,409 34,557,908 34,846,533 Consolidated Income Statement Operating Revenue KRW million 21,272,033 23,856,375 23,810,599 Operating Expenses KRW million 19,523,624 22,647,142 22,971,256 Operating Profit KRW million 1,748,409 1,209,233 839,343 Equity in Income and Loss of Associates KRW million -3,038 18,079 6,601 and Joint Ventures Income Before Taxes KRW million 1,603,371 1,414,842 -5,258 Income Taxes KRW million 315,946 277,869 54,993 Net Profit from Continuing Operations KRW million 1,287,425 1,136,973 -60,251 Operating Profit(Loss) from KRW million 164,594 -31,534 Discontinued Operations Net Profit KRW million 1,452,019 1,105,439 -60,251 Shareholder Return/Composition/Dividend Shareholder Return (On a non-consolidated basis) Unit 2011 2012 2013 Par Value per Share KRW 5,000 5,000 5,000 Net Income KRW million 1,289,055 708,819 -392,311 Total Dividends KRW million 486,602 487,445 195,112 Pay-out Ratio % 37.7 68.8 (Dividends Paid/Net Profit during the Term) Dividend Yield Ratio % 5.3 5.2 2.5 (Dividends Paid per Share/Stock Price) Shareholder Composition (2013) Unit No. of Shares Equity Ownership Treasury Stock share/% 17,221,575 6.60% Foreign Investors share/% 103,670,742 39.70% National Pension Fund share/% 23,298,800 8.92% Employee Stockholders share/% 2,748,359 1.05% Domestic Institutions(Excluding the National share/% 38,616,860 14.79% Pension Fund) Other Entities share/% 5,004,756 1.92% Individual Investors share/% 70,464,131 26.99% Total No. of Shares Issued share/% 261,111,808 100.00% * A portion of economic performance data in 2012 may differ from what was described in the previous year’s report as the scope of consolidation was modified due to the adoption of K-IFRS 1110 kt Integrated Report 2014 103 Social Performance Unit 2011 2012 2013 Details of Spending on Social Contribution Monetary and In-Kind Donations Scholarship KRW 100 million 11.1 11.7 11.7 Donations and KRW 100 million 200.3 123 307.2 Sponsorship Investment in Local Communities IT Sharing in Communities KRW 100 million 126.6 121.7 124.7 Love Sharing Fund KRW 100 million 17.2 17.2 15.6 Support for Children and KRW 100 million 21.4 24.3 24.3 the Underprivileged Culture, Arts and Sports KRW 100 million 51.7 52 79.8 Support and Sponsorship for Sharing Love Initiatives KRW 100 million 82.7 74 72 Employee Volunteerism Volunteering Hours Hours 140,777 145,779 98,351 Volunteers No. of Volunteers 35,637 36,600 20,812 Employee Composition Gender Male No. of Persons 26,401 26,579 26,599 Female No. of Persons 4,660 4,757 4,993 Recruitment By Sector New Recruits No. of Persons 309 533 286 Experienced New Recruits No. of Persons 231 291 204 Customer Service Positions No. of Persons 291 317 490 Interns No. of Persons 227 182 123 Recruitment of Females No. and Ratio of Female No. of Persons (%) 4,660(15.0%) 4,757(15.2%) 4,993(15.8%) Employees No. and Ratio of Females No. of Persons (%) 3.34% 4.74% 188(5.59%) in Manager Positions and Above Recruitment of Disabled Individuals No. of Employees No. of Persons (%) 803(2.52%) 824(2.54%) 809(2.51%) Turnover Male % 0.62 0.24 0.28 Female % 0.12 0.06 0.33 Total % 0.73 0.3 0.32 Employee Composition Type of Employment Regular No. of Persons 31,061 31,336 31,592 Contract-based No. of Persons 744 680 632 Others No. of Persons 176 170 227 Use of Childcare Leave Employees Who Took Childcare Leave Male No. of Persons 23 26 28 Female No. of Persons 125 130 164 Reinstatement after Taking Childcare Male % 96 92 93 Leave Female % 93 97 99 Employment for More Than 12 Months Male % 87 81 86 after Reinstatement Female % 89 97 99 Employee Training Type of Training Group Training No. of Sessions/ 623/45,489 804/59,023 857/51,978 No. of Persons e-Learning No. of Sessions/ 165/86,010 121/100,159 187/60,363 No. of Persons Training Expenses per Person KRW 1,000 690 713 710 Total Training Hours No. of Hours 94 91 66 National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) NCSI Results Mobile Calls Point 73 71 72 Phone Calls Point 74 74 74 IPTV Point 69 72 71 Ultra-High Speed Internet Point 71 73 72 104 kt Integrated Report 2014 Environmental Performance Unit 2011 2012 2013 Consumption and Recycling of Water Water (Underground Water) Consumption ton 2,904,958 3,000,742 2,326,977 Recycling of Water (Recycled Water) ton 81,576 23,813 Rate of Water Recycling % 2.72 1.02 Discharge of Waste General Waste General ton 821 4,960 Recyclable ton 367 2,203 Recyclable Waste Cables ton 32,900 13,092 Equipment ton 4,678 7,740 Generators ton 2,495 3,624 Others ton 1,553 74 Optical Cable Waste ton 2,394 Construction Waste ton 7,210 2,186 Total Discharge of Waste ton 63,213 50,024 36,273 GHG Emissions Direct/Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 1 Fixed Combustion tCO₂e 44,332 39,387 37,053 Direct Emissions Mobile Combustion tCO₂e 19,346 23,864 23,428 Scope 2 Purchased Power tCO₂e 1,105,986 1,032,558 1,034,650 Indirect Emissions Steam tCO₂e 3,594 2,628 3,860 Total Direct/Indirect GHG Emissions tCO₂e 1,173,257 1,098,470 1,098,991 Scope 3 Emissions Supply Chain Phase Fixed-Line Devices tCO₂e 2,430 472 Wireless Devices tCO₂e 3,935 1,269 Telecommunications tCO₂e 30,925 48,197 Service Infrastructure Use Phase Home Terminals tCO₂e 44,873 40,783 Mobile Terminals tCO₂e 89,117 168,621 Internet Terminals tCO₂e 270,143 237,846 Other Water Consumption tCO₂e 996 997 Scope3 Waste Treatment Daily Waste tCO₂e 294 349 Emissions Recyclable Waste tCO₂e 11,703 750 Construction Waste tCO₂e 186 114 Business Trips Downtown Areas tCO₂e 319 380 Suburbs tCO₂e 880 659 Overseas tCO₂e 2,931 8,551 Commuting Bus (Intra-City, Inter-City) tCO₂e 801 762 Subway tCO₂e 68 76 Personal Vehicle tCO₂e 25,048 22,495 Railway tCO₂e 72 25 Multiple Modes tCO₂e 599 210 Total Scope 3 Indirect GHG Emissions tCO₂e 43,897 35,368 Social Emissions Reduction (Mitigation Effects) Wireless Communication tCO₂e 1,167 16,592 IT Solution tCO₂e 85,687 270,862 Media & Content tCO₂e 911,838 825,879 New Growth tCO₂e 3,925 3,456 Total Reduction in Social Emissions tCO₂e 1,002,617 1,116,790 Green Procurement Eco-Friendly Products Eco Mark-Certified No. of Items/ KRW million 439/5,094.9 689/4,787.9 835/9,270 GR Mark-Certified No. of Items / KRW million 1/2.2 7/468.4 1/494 Other Eco-Friendly Products Energy Saving MarkNo. of Items / KRW million 1/0.1 3/4.1 -/Certified Hazardous ChemicalsNo. of Items / KRW million 2/180.3 -/Reducing Products Waste-Reducing Products No. of Items / KRW million 1/0.9 2/4.4 -/Certified with Overseas No. of Items / KRW million -/Eco Marks Others No. of Items / KRW million 30/14.4 120/33.2 Total No. of Purchased Products and Value No. of Items / KRW million 472/5,112.5 823/5,478 836/9,764 kt Integrated Report 2014 105 Third-Party Assurance Statement To Stakeholders of kt The Korea Productivity Center(KPC, the ‘assurance provider’ hereafter) was commissioned by kt to perform a third-party assurance engagement of the kt Integrated Report 2014 (the ‘Report’ hereafter) and presents the assurance statement as follows. Responsibility and Independence The responsibility for the information and statements contained in this Report solely lies with kt. As the assurance provider, KPC is responsible for the assurance statement. As an independent assurance provider, KPC was not engaged in the preparation of the Report and does not have any interest in kt that may compromise its independence as an assurance provider. Assurance Standards This assurance engagement followed the AA1000AS(2008) assurance standards to provide Moderate Level assurance while conducting Type 2 assurance for specific indicators that require the confirmation of reliability concerning data collection processes, such as water consumption, waste management and occupational injury rates. KPC verified the consistency of the Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness principles as proposed by the AA1000AS(2008). KPC also verified whether the report content was created in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Limitations Pursuant to the above assurance standards, KPC assured kt’s 2013 performance and verified the reliability of the performance data outlined in the Report as follows. Financial data was verified through kt’s financial statements and disclosure documents audited by accounting auditors while a portion of the data (GHG data, website alignment) was verified by referring to previous assurance outcomes. In addition, physical inspections were limited to kt’s Headquarters in Seoul. KPC would like to make it clear that its assurance outcomes are subject to change if additional assurance procedures are undertaken in the future. Assurance Methods This assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with the following methods: KPC verified whether the Report satisfied the Comprehensive Option requirements proposed by the GRI G4 Guidelines. KPC followed the GRI G4 Guidelines to verify whether the report content and quality was in accordance with the GRI principles. KPC conducted media research and benchmarking analyses to review whether major issues outlined in the Report were selected and described in an appropriate manner. KPC reviewed the adequacy of the statements contained in the Report as well as errors found in the representation of the report content through comparative analyses with other sources. KPC conducted physical inspections of kt’s Headquarters in Seoul to verify the evidence of major data and information as well as internal processes and systems. Conclusions KPC believes that the Report is a sincere and fair representation of kt’s sustainability management initiatives and achievements. KPC also verified through this assurance engagement that the Report satisfied the ‘Comprehensive’ requirements as proposed by the GRI G4 Guidelines. KPC confirmed that the General Standard Disclosures outlined in the Report were prepared in a way to meet the ‘Comprehensive’ requirements while reviewing DMAs (Disclosure on Management Approach) and indicators concerning material issues identified through the report content selection process when it comes to Specific Standard Disclosures as follows: Sub Category Material Issues DMA & Indicators Overview of kt's Sustainability • Growing demand for corporate transparency • Anti-corruption EC4, SO4, SO5, PR7, PR8 • Increasing need to respond to governmental • Governance(Decision-making structure) regulations and policies Company Value Creation • Intensifying market competition • Increasing threats from substitutes DMA-Context & Progress • Accelerating technological development caused by technological convergence EC1, EC2, EC3, EC4, EC7, • Indirect economic impacts • Economic performance EC8 Creating Social Value • Expanding social responsibility along the supply chain • Market status DMA-Context & Progress • Robust demand for shared growth • Local communities(Social contribution) EC5, EC6, EC7, SO1 Customer Engagement • Growing demand for customer information security • Hyper-connection society DMA-Context & Progress • Protection of customers’ personal information (Network advancement) PR1, PR3, PR5, PR8, • Increasing sensitivity to products and services • Increasing number of consumers who • Growing demand for the safety of products and value health, eco-friendliness and services socialfriendliness • Commitment to improving products and services • Marketing communication Human Resources • Growing importance of talent recruitment • Prohibition of discrimination – DMA-Context & Progress • Increasing demand for employee welfare and rights Equality and Human Rights LA1, LA2, LA3, LA5, LA6, • Employment • Occupational health & safety LA7, LA8 Environmental Impact • Energy • Compliance with environmental DMA-Context & Progress • Customer health & safety (Electromagnetic radiation) regulations EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, 106 kt Integrated Report 2014 Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement Inclusivity means that an organization should engage its stakeholders in developing and undertaking responsible and strategic responses for sustainability. KPC verified, through this assurance engagement, that kt launched a wide array of initiatives in 2013 to abide by this inclusivity principle and to make improvements. It was confirmed that kt identified its major stakeholders to be comprised of six different types of customers, which included shareholders, suppliers, employees, local communities and the environment, and that the company was gathering feedback from these six stakeholder types by clearly understanding their specific engagement type and interaction frequency, so as to more proactively communicate with them. Specifically, it is highly noteworthy that kt regularly gathers feedback from its group of 200 customers and engages its stakeholders through customized communication channels (SCM Council). Materiality: Selection and Reporting of Major Issues Materiality means that an organization should determine issues that are relevant and material to major stakeholders surrounding that organization. KPC verified that kt adopted a reasonable materiality analysis process to select issues that were significant and material to both the company and its major stakeholders. kt complied with the principles of sustainability context, materiality and completeness in identifying major issues related to sustainability management and in conducting the materiality test. Through this process, kt identified 30 key issues. KPC also verified that kt’s initiatives and major achievements concerning the identified key issues were presented in each section of the Report in a balanced manner. Responsiveness : Organizational Response to Issues Responsiveness means that an organization should respond to issues that may impact the performance of its stakeholders. KPC confirmed that kt understood major expectations that impacted the performance of its stakeholders, undertook initiatives to respond to such issues and appropriately described such endeavors in the Report. kt categorized the identified key issues into six areas to present relevant initiatives and outcomes. Specifically, kt disclosed the status of its GHG-related activities and performance management over the past several years to concisely communicate and convey the improvements it made. Another point worth mentioning is the fact that kt continues to extend the scope of its management into Scope 3 emissions. Recommendations KPC found the wide-ranging endeavors and achievements made by kt in improving its sustainability very positive and presents the following recommendations to improve its future reporting and sustainability management: 1. Establishment of an integrated sustainability management performance management system: kt discloses its diverse initiatives and achievements related to sustainability management through sustainability reports. Any increase in the data of future reports could lead to issues with the reliability and management of the information contained in its current report and therefore, the company is advised to take an integrated approach to data management. 2. Expansion of comprehensiveness in the industrial ecosystem: Presently, kt offers various training courses and support measures to help its suppliers fulfill their social responsibility. It is recommended that kt consider the characteristics of its material suppliers and construction services respectively in providing assistance. Specifically, it is advised that kt review the social responsibility initiatives of its sales stores and monitor these stores in this regard. 3. Long-term review of sustainability management branding: kt is establishing its brand identity and disseminating this identity into wider group affiliates. kt will benefit from developing its sustainability management initiatives into a brand in its own right to further increase its corporate value and offer a consistent communication channel for employees and external stakeholders. May 2014 Chairman, Korea Productivity Center Dong-Su Kim, Director Gi-Hwan Lee, Team Leader Tae-Ho Park, Team Leader Seung-Sang Lee, Researcher The Korea Productivity Center’s Sustainability Center is an authorized assurance provider certified by AccountAbility, a global stakeholder engagement and assurance evaluator and the primary creator of the international AA1000 standards, and is qualified to carry out independent assurance engagements. The assurance team is composed of experts who have received professional training in assurance consultation and with extensive experience in sustainability management advice and assurance engagements. * AA1000AS(2008) : AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) The global assurance standards established by AccountAbility that provide methodology to report sustainability management issues through the evaluation of organizational operation concerning business performance, compliance with principles and the reliability of performance data * AA1000APS(2008) : AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard(2008). The global standard principles established by AccountAbility that provide the basis for the AA1000 standards kt Integrated Report 2014 107 GRI Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosure Page Omissions External Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, 4-5 p106-107 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 16, 22 p106-107 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6 p106-107 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 9 p106-107 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 6 p106-107 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries 38-39 p106-107 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 6 p106-107 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 6-10 p106-107 customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: 10, 75 p106-107 • Total number of employees • Total number of operations • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) • Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 A. Report the total number of employees by and gender. 75-76 p106-107 B. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. C. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. D. Report the total workforce by region and gender. E. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. F. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 83 p106-107 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 43 p106-107 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, 11 p106-107 structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: (Changes in • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and ownership expansions structure) • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Organizational Profile: Commitments to External Initiative G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 16 p106-107 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 112 p106-107 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international 112 p106-107 advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Holds a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 A. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 103 p106-107 documents. B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 A. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 20-21 p106-107 B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 20-21 p106-107 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: 21 p106-107 A. Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization B. If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: a. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or b. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material C. Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization 108 kt Integrated Report 2014 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: 21 p106-107 • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization • If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons About this Report p106-107 for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. ㅡ No significant p106-107 changes Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 17 p106-107 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 17 p106-107 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 17 p106-107 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 17 p106-107 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About this Report p106-107 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About this Report p106-107 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About this Report p106-107 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report p106-107 Report Profile: GRI Content Index G4-32 A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. About this Report p106-107 B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report Profile: Assurance G4-33 A. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance About this Report p106-107 for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. C. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 12 p106-107 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the 13 p106-107 highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with 11-13 p106-107 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on 13 p106-107 economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: 11-12 p106-107 • Executive or non-executive • Independence • Tenure on the governance body • Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments • Gender • Membership of under-represented social groups • Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts • Stakeholder representation G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his 11 p106-107 or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its 11-13 p106-107 committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: • Whether and how diversity is considered • Whether and how independence is considered • Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered • Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved kt Integrated Report 2014 109 G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 11-13 p106-107 and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: • Cross-board membership • Existence of controlling shareholder • Related party disclosures • Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, 12-13 p106-107 and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective 11-12 p106-107 knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 A. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect 11-12 p106-107 to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. B. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. G4-45 A. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, 11-13 p106-107 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. B. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk 12-13 p106-107 management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and 12 p106-107 social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s 13 p106-107 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 12-13 p106-107 G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 12 p106-107 governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-51 A. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the 11-12 p106-107 below types of remuneration: • Fixed pay and variable pay: a. Performance-based pay b. Equity-based pay c. Bonuses d. Deferred or vested shares • Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments • Termination payments • Clawbacks • Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees B. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are 12 p106-107 involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, 12 p106-107 including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in 12 p106-107 each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestㅡ Cannot be paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in reported as annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same the relevance country. of the ratio of percenage increase cannot be established due to the appointment of a new CEO Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 14, 43 p106-107 conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, 14-15 p106-107 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful 14 p106-107 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 110 kt Integrated Report 2014 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page Omissions External Assurance Category: Economic Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10 p106-107 Performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 91-93 p106-107 activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 75 p106-107 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 100 p106-107 Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum 75 p106-107 wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant 100% p106-107 locations of operation Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 48-57 p106-107 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 31-33 p106-107 Category: Environmental Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 91 p106-107 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 92-93 p106-107 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 93 p106-107 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 94-96 p106-107 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 94-96 p106-107 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary ㅡ No violations sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work Page Omissions External Assurance Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age 75-76 p106-107 group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 80-81 p106-107 part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 76 p106-107 Occupational Health G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker 84 p106-107 and Safety health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 84-85 p106-107 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 85 p106-107 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 84 p106-107 Sub-Category: Human Rights Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ㅡ No such incidets of discrimination occurred Sub-Category: Society Local community G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 44-47, 56-57, 101 p106-107 impact assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local ㅡ No such communities operations exist Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to ㅡ No such corruption and the significant risks identified operations exist G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 15 p106-107 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 15 p106-107 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Customer Health G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 70, 101 p106-107 and Safety safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary ㅡ No such incidents codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services of non-compliance during their life cycle, by type of outcomes occurred Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s 9 p106-107 Service Labeling procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage (Customer of significant Satisfaction) product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary ㅡ No such incidents codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of of non-compliance outcomes occurred G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 61 p106-107 Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products ㅡ No such Communications products exist G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 15 p106-107 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer 23 p106-107 privacy and losses of customer data kt Integrated Report 2014 111 Membership Domestic Korea Research Institute for Competitiveness, Economic Group Council, Network Security Forum, Green Investment Forum Korea, Korea Industrial Safety Association, Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea, World Futures Forum, Korea Association of Smart Home, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Lasbiburte Information & Telecom, Korea Association for Telecommunications Policies, Information Technology Forum for Unification, Korea Economic Education Association, Korean Economic Association, Fair Competition Federation, Korea Advertisers Association, Korea Digital Media Industry Association, Korean Association for Broadcasting & Telecommunication Studies, Korea Academic Society of Industrial Organization, Korea Listed Company Association, Korean Society of Consumer Studies, Korea Software Industry Association, Korea Smart Grid Association, Korean Society for Journalism & Communication Studies, Korea Ubiquitous City Association, Korea Ubiquitous-Health Association, Korea Association of Natural Disaster Reduction Industries, Korea Radio Promotion Association, Korea Institute of Information Security & Cryptology, Federation of Korea Information Industries, Telecommunications Technology Association, Korea Association of Information and Telecommunication, Korea Advanced Intelligent Robot Association, National Intelligence Communication Enterprise Association, Korea Cloud Service Association, Korea Telecommunications Operators Association, Korea Information and Communication Society, Korea Association for Chief Financial Officers, Korea IT Leaders Forum, CONsortium of CERT (CONCERT), u-KOREA Forum Overseas WFA(Wireless Fidelity Alliance), FMCA(Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance), OMA(Open Mobile Alliance), WiMAX Forum, VoiceXML Forum, DSL Forum, WBA(Wireless Broadband Alliance), TMF(Telecommunication Management Forum), APT(Asia Pacific Telecommunity), ITU(International Telecommunication Union) Awards 2013 Award Awarded By Date The Most Admired Companies, All Star Korean Management Association Consulting Feb. 1 2013 Korea’s Best Employers Aon Hewitt Feb. 16 Global System for Mobile Communications GSMA Chairman’s Award at the Mobile World Congress 2013 Feb. 17 Association (GSMA) Top 50 Telecoms Operator Brands 2013-ranked 1st in brand value among Brand Finance Global Mar. 14 Korea’s telecommunications companies NCSI(National Customer Satisfaction Index)ranked 1 in the local/ st Korea Productivity Center Mar. 25 long-distance call, internet call and international call sectors INNO STAR 2013-Best Innovation award in the ‘Smart Home(Networking)’ Korea Management Association April 1 2013 Korea Management Award Korea Management Association May 16 Korean Accounting Association, Transparent Accounting Awards 2013Grand Prize May 31 Korean Institute of Certified Public Accountants 2013 Excellence in Corporate Governance Award Corporate Governance Service Jun. 21 2013 Korea Standard-Service Quality Indexranked 1 in the ultra high-speed st Korean Standards Association Jun. 27 internet and IPTV sectors Social Responsibility Leader for Co-Existence Award JTBC, JoongAng Daily Sep. 11 Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Corporate Social Responsibility Award Sep. 24 Forbes Korea 2013 KCSI (Korean Customer Satisfaction Index)ranked 1st in the ultra-high speed Korean Management Association Consulting Sep. 30 internet, local/long-distance call, internet call and international call sectors DowJones(US)/RobecoSAM Industry Group Leader in the telecoms sector of the DJSI World Oct. 31 (Swiss-based investment company) Joined the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) Global Carbon Management CDP in the U.K., CDP Korea, Nov. 1 Leaders Club Korea’s Great Work Place Award (Three consecutive years) GWP Korea Nov. 11 WBA(Wireless Broadband Alliance, a global ‘WiFi Industry Award 2013’Best Next Generation Wi-Fi Device/ Application Award Nov. 21 alliance of ultra-high speed wireless operators) Green Ranking ranked the 1 in the software/communication/ st JoongAng Daily Dec. 19 media sector (3rd in Korea) 112 kt Integrated Report 2014 This report was printed with soybean oil ink on paper certified by the international environmental NGO, FSC, using elemental chorine free bleaching pulp.
