Sustainability Report 2012/13 2 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 Contents 1. Foreword ...................................................................................... 4 2. A note from our director ................................................................ 5 3. About us ......................................................................................... 6 4. Our commitment to sustainable development ......................... 7 5. Our sustainable approach ............................................................ 8 a. Environment ..................................................................................... 8 b. Investing in our people ................................................................ 9 c. Enriching communities through the Acre Foundation ........ 10 d. The broader sustainability marketplace .................................. 13 6. Looking ahead: 2013/14 ............................................................... 14 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 3 Foreword Acre is a specialist sustainability recruitment firm, working in the heart of the sustainability marketplace. As a result, we are able to experience firsthand the amazing contribution these professionals are making both socially and environmentally within their organisations. Our objective is to connect companies and people by creating networks that promote positive and sustainable environmental and social impact. As a small but expanding organisation, we aim to embed sustainability into our business practices wherever possible, albeit on a much smaller scale than some our high profiled clients. This is illustrated through Acre’s: »» environmental policy »» commitment to the career development of staff »» creation and encouragement of a positive and healthy working environment, »» thought provoking thought leadership pieces and the sharing of best practices across the sustainability sector »» community enrichment objectives, in which both staff and clients are engaged to help support selected charities. Acre are constantly reviewing new programmes and initiatives that can further impact our community and we strive to impact positively on all those that we work with. The active, transparent promotion of sustainability through the Acre Foundation, which was launched in 2011, represents one of our most gratifying achievements and an initiative we endeavour to invest in as we grow. Produced annually, this is our second sustainability report which aims to communicate our sustainability progress and initiatives for the period November 2012 2013. 4 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 A note from our director A second initiative is the launch of our Acre Bench, a platform which publically profiles senior interim professionals in our market place – whilst it is unusual for a recruitment company to make their networks so readily available, we believe that such a service will facilitate the acceleration of growth in the market. The past year has seen a range of new Creating impact initiatives being rolled out and I’d like to describe some of our key activities. Acre’s greatest opportunity for influence is through the impactful individuals we Volunteering place within our clients’ organisations. Over the past year we’ve placed individuals in Our team have undertaken an increased some of the most significant sustainability amount of pro-bono career coaching programmes in the world. An fine example through Octavia Foundation’s ‘Gateway of this includes assembling the leadership to Work’ programme an affiliation team for the Bangladesh Safety Accord, that we’re very proud of. We are now a collaboration between over 150 of the in our fourth year of the partnership, worlds largest retailers alongside global having provided mentoring to a range trade unions. The Accord is poised to of London residents looking to get back improve the working conditions for millions into work. of garment workers in Bangladesh. Development In this way, Acre is a catalyst for achieving substantial social and environmental Acre attracts professionals from a range improvements and over the forthcoming of backgrounds but we are unified by a year, we intend to develop a methodology passion for sustainability and a desire for in order to measure the impact of the continued improvement. We see a great candidates we place. deal of value in supporting individuals who wish to invest in further education, and to this effect we initiated a study leave policy in 2013. 25% of our team have obtained post graduate degrees or commenced study in the past 18 months, all focussing on sustainability Andrew Cartland or related topics. Founder Acre Transparency Increased transparency has been an important part of Acre’s strategy this year with two notable initiatives being rolled out. The first is the use of third party feedback platform, (www.feefo.com) a website which allows our clients to leave feedback on our performance which is published regardless of the rating. Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 5 About us What we do Acre is a leading sustainability recruitment consultancy connecting companies and people across corporate responsibility, sustainability, environment, energy and health & safety. Over the last decade, Acre has built a community of the sharpest sustainable business professionals in the world. This unique network can be deployed in a number of ways – through executive search for permanent hires or contract assignments, or direct access to interim sustainability professionals on the Acre Bench, or using Acre’s Business Intelligence function to address key challenges and opportunities. Acre’s aim is to help create a better economy by uniting people and businesses bound by strong social and environmental values. Specialties: Sustainability, Corporate Responsibility, Energy, Environment, Health & Safety, Permanent Recruitment, Executive Search, Contract & Interim Recruitment Living by our values We place six values at the heart of our business. They influence how we work on a day-today basis and are a critical element of our corporate strategy. Entrepreneurship Innovation We value and reward productive work We embrace new ideas and technology, and constantly endeavour to go the extra as well as the innovation and creativity mile for our clients and the organisation. of our employees and the sector as a whole. Business Protocols Transparency We value both company and individual We keep our processes simple, growth and prize financial success. We transparent and avoid bureaucracy. We always seek to achieve positive results deal with people and issues in the most for our clients and have confidence and direct manner without hidden agendas. pride in our ability to do so. As an organisation we share common goals. Ethics Collaboration We always do our best to ensure that We are a team and we all strive to we are ethical in everything that we make people at Acre feel valued and do. We are honest with each other, our appreciated. We have a common goal clients and our suppliers and expect and celebrate each other’s successes the same in return. We seek to be an together. We want Acre to be the best agent of positive change and to deliver it can be for our clients, our candidates the highest quality service available in and our employees. the sector. 6 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 Our commitment to sustainable development Acre’s commitment As a small organisation, we do what we can by embedding our sustainability agenda into everything we do. We are proud to be active members of the UN Global Compact, and through our Acre Foundation, we engage both staff and clients to help support our carefully selected charities with the aim of making a positive impact on the world at large. Our collaborative and partnership-based approach allows us to add real value to the sustainability landscape through our thought leadership, mentoring and advice to increase knowledge and understanding within the sustainability and recruitment space. As the wider sustainability landscape builds momentum and evolves, Acre is in a position to have a positive and meaningful impact on the individuals who operate within it. We are constantly looking for ways to maximise our social and environmental impact through various initiatives and the people we place. Headway on 2012/2013 sustainability commitments 2012/13 Commitments Actions Reduce the environmental impact of our Our partnership with Wiles Greenworld, business (per head). We aim to do this the green office supplies and recycling through continuing to develop initiatives company, has been renewed and and promote behavioural changes which goods and services continue to be have a positive impact sourced via a sustainable supply chain Continue to build the Acre Foundation Acre matched £480 for team and in order to make a difference to causes individual fundraising activities that represent our passion and values and with £1935 being donated to our demonstrate our commitment to the UN Ecoscheme charities. We also Global Compact introduced our “Charity not Cards” drive making an additional £435 donation for Christmas Continue supporting mentees through 10 one-to-one mentoring and coaching the Octavia programme and other sessions for individuals and 26 volunteering initiatives volunteer hours provided by members of the Acre team Increase our output of key industry Thought provoking intelligence thought leadership to enable our industry, published and the launch of the WISSE and those specialists within it, to flourish networking support group to grow and and create a sustainable future build the sustainability sector Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 7 Our sustainable approach “Acre really tries to a. Environment reflect its ethical values in day-toAcre’s environmental policy covers all aspects of our operations – from good housekeeping day business, and it’s inspiring to be measures, partnerships with sustainable suppliers and ensuring that investments made are part of a team that efficient and environmentally sound. actively ‘practises what it preaches’ Moving from reduction Ways of working and by promoting to positive impact: local community: and encouraging sustainability • Procurement of solely • We continue to invest initiatives every day eco-friendly products, in a more energy efficient within the office.” right down to our pens, that were IT infrastructure from conferencing Georgia Wall once water bottles, to organic and fair facilities to our thin client IT system Office manager trade catering products • A virtual interview platform has been • Our partnership with ethical introduced to reduce the number of office supplies and recycling business trips company ‘Wiles Greenworld’ places • Our collaboration with the local sustainability as a primary objective in Business Improvement District the daily running of our office enhances Acre’s contribution to the • 67% of business supplies is now local area, assisting ‘inmidtown’ with not only neutral, but generates an their innovative sustainability projects environmental benefit – a further from ‘freecycling’ to ‘hives on rooftops’ improvement on last year’s 56% Water, waste and recycling: • During the past six months, more than 70kg of plastic and cans have been recycled, and our paper recycling equates to over 340 reams of paper • The supply chain of office supplies has been coordinated with our delivery of our recycling collection in an effort to minimise our carbon footprint • We have partnered with the Rainbow Trust; funds raised from the recycling of our ink cartridges will provide support to families affected by the life-threatening or terminal illness of children “The ride to work scheme has helped me create a healthy work environment, Our self-serviced premises and the creation of a new office manager role, allows us to have with employees a greater infuence on our environmental impact. We will be closely monitoring our energy coming together to and water consumption to ensure further reductions are made. regularly exercise and train for various competitions or Ride to work challenges outside of work hours. Acre continues to be very supportive of individuals who opt for cycling to work, and has seen an elevated and sustained uptake rate within the team. With the Ride to Work scheme, Lydia Langford and the addition of shower facilities, approximately 40% of employees regularly cycle in to Manager work as their preferred commute. 8 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 Our sustainable approach b. Investing in our people “The career development opportunities Acre is committed to the career development of the team; our culture is to grow and offered by Acre are promote from within whist encouraging a positive and healthy working environment. We’re fantastic. I started expanding quickly and there are plenty of opportunities for staff to develop their career. here as a Research Intern on a three week internship, Staff development Acre provided me with excellent 2012/13 marked a number of achievements within our team: support and training including a three • Five internal promotions day intensive external Permanent • Two internships made permanent Recruitment course. • An internal mentoring scheme launched The internship • Continued investment in internal and external training on a variety of topics opportunity provided • Quarterly updates on company financial performance by directors to staff me with a fast way to learn the core business areas, gain Support for post graduate study commercial insight and has helped me Acre is committed to employees’ personal development, and as such will support study to progress to my toward post graduate qualifications where the subject is relevant to Acre’s business. current position as a core member of the Support is provided in the form of both financial backing and study leave. In 2012/13, Research Team.” study leave and financial support was offered to five staff members currently undertaking further education. Sophie Luck Researcher Sabbaticals A long service reward in the form of sabbatical leave is available for employees that have worked at Acre in excess of four years. Following the anniversary, staff are entitled to ten extra days paid holiday, to use for a life-changing experience. This year a member of the team completed the intensive Metropolitan Special Constabulary (MSC) programme during this period, and is now an active member of the part-time volunteer police force. Equal opportunities employer The company aims to be an equal opportunity employer and seeks to satisfy the objectives and intentions of relevant legislation and codes of practice pertaining to equal opportunities in employment. Acre’s Equal Opportunities Policy opposes all forms of discrimination. There should be no discrimination against employees, applicants for employment, trainees, persons providing a service to the company or seconded to the company, in line with the equality act of 2010. Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 9 Our sustainable approach c. Enriching communities through the Acre Foundation Acre encompasses a team of skilled and passionate individuals with interests across a range of charities the Acre Foundation (acre-foundation.com) was set up as a way to bring together Acre’s charitable work under one roof to support a range of good causes. This allows for a strategic and proactive approach to working with our partners in a structured and coherent way. The Acre Foundation comprises of three core areas: • Staff volunteering • Acre’s Ecoscheme and other causes • Fundraising At the time of publishing, the Acre Foundation has raised £18,566 via the echoscheme and various fundraising initiatives undertaken by the team, along with a total of 48 hours volunteered across various initiatives. “Being able to help someone step back Staff volunteering and consider a difficult life changing Acre has continued to partner with the Octavia Foundation to develop the ‘Gateways decision was hugely to Work’ programme aimed at supporting unemployed people who reside in nearby rewarding. Not only boroughs who are seeking work. Through this scheme, we provide mentorship to clients of was the feedback from Octavia very Octavia’s employment and training projects, with the aim of helping individuals back into positive but the work and therefore helping them achieve greater long term control over their circumstances. whole process was enjoyable and added Mentoring includes: enhancing key skills such as engagement and communications, as well to my self worth” as assisting with CV development and interview training through a series of one-to-one sessions. This has led to various successes in terms of securing new opportunities in the Mary Dale work environment and building the confidence of these individuals. Consultant Building on our desire for our staff members to contribute in a positive way to our local community, we recently introduced a scheme that gives each member of our team four volunteering days leave a year and initiated several opportunities for the team to volunteer en masse. In order to develop our volunteer programme, we surveyed our staff to better understand the motivatations behind volunteering and what areas individuals are most passionate about. The data below shows that the main motivator to volunteer is the ability to do something for our community. According to our survey, 88% of Acre employees indicated their preference to volunteer on environmental related projects, therefore we are looking to establish a more environmentally focussed volunteering programme in 2014. 10 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 Our sustainable approach Findings from the internal volunteering survey conducted by the Acre team: “The Octavia Foundation’s Individual Motivations motivationsforfor volunteering volunteering Types of volunteering Type ofasvolunteering per indivudual interests partnership with Want to give something back Elderly Acre Resources My family/friends volunteer Women Men has proved to be Be more confident Accommodation beneficial both Get a new hobby Homelessness to us and our Improve my career opportunities General Health & Medical Support clients. Having the opportunity to Feel good about myself Employment Meet new people Improve physical/mental health Youth be mentored by a Counselling Services Try something new professional gives a Arts & Entertainment Learn new skills Health and Recreation real confidence boost Make a difference Environmental to the unemployed Help individuals 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 people that we Do something for my community work with. Some of these people 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 have gone on to We are currently exploring various initiatives with the London Wetlands Centre for 2013/14 secure employment with the aim of supporting them to conserve London’s enriched wetlands. having experienced the personalized approach that Ecoscheme and other causes Acre takes with each person that Our Ecoscheme makes regular financial donations to carefully selected charities for each we’ve referred job placement we make. We ask clients who’ve had an individual placed in their businesses to them. Acre’s to select from one of three preselected charities, to whom we make a donation on their mentoring service is highly valued by behalf. In 2012/13, £1,935 has been donated on our clients behalf. the Foundation, particularly as it Towards the end of last year, we also launched our ‘Charity not Cards’ initiative; where helps to differentiate instead of sending christmas cards to our clients, we asked them to select a charity in the our employment Ecoscheme and made a donation of £5 on their behalf. We raised a total of £835 for the support services drive in 2013. from others” The Ecoscheme currently comprises of the following three charities: Employment and Training Project Manager, Octavia Foundation The simple idea behind Cool Their vision is to help The EDGE of existence Earth is that rainforests are establish strong and vibrant programme aims to conserve worth much more to the communities in central London the world’s most Evolutionarily human race left standing. and improve the quality of Distinct and Globally Cool Earth is a unique charity life for individuals. Octavia Endangered (EDGE) species that is saving the world’s Foundation’s work is intended by implementing the research most endangered rainforests to increase the strength and and conservation action through working with local effectiveness of community needed to secure their future. communities to secure life; improving local conditions, The Zoological Society forests at risk of being especially for people in of London (ZSL) is raising destroyed within the next 18 disadvantaged situations, awareness of these species months. Cool Earth works to enabling people to take part with local communities, build local and community in public decision-making, supporting in-country experts capacity to make a difference, and helping them to achieve in research projects and ensuring that less than greater long term control over advising governments on 10% of their supporters’ their circumstances. sustainable conservation. money is spent on administration. Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 11 Our sustainable approach “It’s great that Kiva Kiva can provide such a great platform to Acre continues to support a number of other causes, like Kiva, a non profit organisation empower people working on the principals of microfinance connecting people through lending to alleviate in the developing poverty. This non-profit organisation empowers budding entrepreneurs in developing world to create the opportunity countries through loan schemes. Every new employee at Acre is welcomed with a £100 to prosper for voucher to lend within Kiva. themselves. The great thing about In this reporting period, we are proud to have contributed a total of £800 to a variety of the scheme is that schemes including a fabric shop in Rawalpindi, Pakistan and a café run by and for teenagers it’s ongoing and in Colombia. To find out more, visit: www.kiva.org we can continue to use the money we received back Fundraising initiatives to reinvest in other projects globally.” The Acre team are passionate about a range of charities and support these individual causes Ben Flint through fundraising initiatiatives and involvement, whether individually or as a team. The Senior Consultant Acre Foundation pledges to match staff fundraising up to a total of £100. Fundraising initiatives over the past year have included: “Acre always matches our Charity Who What When fundraising for charities which Oxfam Lydia Langford 2013 Virgin London Marathon Apr 13 means that we can Cancer Research Lydia Langford Tough Mudder May 13 raise money for Cardiac Risk in the issues that matter Richard Wright Mount Toubkal Climb May 13 Young (CRY) to us and know that our company Cancer Research Sara Telahoun Race for Life Jun 13 is going to support Red Cross Acre Team Team bake sale Nov 13 us – no matter how fed up with all my cake baking my A complete list of our fundraising initiatives can be accessed on the Acre Foundation colleagues get! It has created a culture of website: acre-foundation.com giving and a feeling of connectedness here at Acre.” Simone Awramenko Manager 12 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 Our sustainable approach d. The broader sustainability marketplace “The Women in sustainability, safety and environment Knowledge leadership was launched in an effort to create a Acre is in a strong position to have a positive and meaningful impact on the individuals platform for senior who operate within the sustainability market. We do so by contributing to the knowledge women in the space base of the sector by equipping clients with thought provoking intelligence and the to network, connect sharing of best practices through a wide range of initiatives. Deliverables include industry and share best benchmarking, thought leadership papers and insights, events, blogs and news alerts. practices. Following www.acre.com/news the success of the first five events and Acre hosts an annual events programme across a number of interest groups, allowing over 120 leaders in the space in professionals in the space to network, collaborate and share ideas and best practices. attendence, it is clear there is a strong We launched our Women in Sustainability, Safety and Environment (WISSE) event, aimed appetite for this at senior female professionals in the space, and so far we have hosted three events. This network.” initiative aims to provide a support network of strong, like-minded individuals to share ideas and explore challenges and best practices for mutual benefit. James Irwin Manager Our series of WISSE events in 2013 included: October 2013: Investor Insight into the Value of Sustainability June 2013: Developing CR Strategy in Complex Organisations March 2013: Sky’s Bigger Picture Gender Strategy Feedback from our WISSE events has all been extremely positive. From the feedback received thus far, such a network proved extremely valuable for members. Key reasons include: • ability for members to keep up to date with industry best practices, benchmark and gain inspiration from what others are doing • opportunities to network, collaborate and learn from others • meet like-minded senior female professionals working in similar environments, to “As the economy share experiences and challenges improves organisations need to centre their Our wider social influence through the roles we place growth around a resource efficient The core of our commitment to sustainability remains our everyday activity of placing strategy, as well as talented professionals in roles where they can effect change within their organisations. As turning themselves into better corporate a team, we are currently exploring ways in which we can take this one step further to be citizens; that’s where able to acknowledge the great value our candidates are making in the world at large and our candidates, be the ability to share best practices amongst the sector. they permanent hires or interims, can make a difference.” Andy Cartland Founder Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 13 Looking ahead for 2013/2014 Sustainability steering committee 2012/2013 has been a year of immense growth for Acre, so to ensure we maintain the momentum of our sustainability initiatives, we have identified a new sustainability steering commitee and look forward to a programme of exciting activities in the coming year. This team will be responsible for encouraging and establishing a sustainable mindset within the company and to strategically manage the development and implementation of such initiatives for the year ahead. Commitments for the year ahead Environmental 55 Grow our partnership with ‘Wiles Greenworld’ to ensure our business operations are as efficient and sustainable as possible Investing in our people 55 Develop a mission statement that encompasses our sustainability objectives which embodies the environmental and social impacts made by our candidates 55 Continue to provide encouragement and support for career development across the team Enriching communities through the Acre Foundation 55 Increase the uptake of donations on behalf of our clients to the Ecoscheme charities through placements, our Christmas drive and other initiatives 55 Develop a comprehensive volunteer strategy for the Acre team with a calendar of activities for the year ahead, undertaking a minimum of 150 hours We have partnered with inmidtown, an initiative that represents 570 businesses in Bloomsbury, Holborn and St Giles, to formulate a volunteering programme that will enable Acre to support businesses in the local area. We plan to kick-start 2014 with an environmentally focused volunteer programme with the London Wetland’s Centre and encourage at least 80% of the team to become actively involved in similar initiatives by contributing four days per year. The broader sustainability marketplace 55 Expand our thought-leadership programme, events and network groups in order to provide sustainability professionals with the necessary tools and support to help them flourish in their respective careers 14 Acre Sustainability Report 2012/13 Memberships and guidelines UN Global Compact and Bribery Act Acre is a member of the UN Global Compact and actively integrate its universally accepted principles within our strategy and operations. We are strong advocates of human rights and equal opportunities and regularly review our internal policies to address the Bribery Act. www.unglobalcompact.org Get in touch To find out more about the work of the Acre Foundation or our sustainability initiatives, please visit our website or contact us on the details below: Managing Director Marketing Manager Andrew Cartland Raquel Daniels ac@acre.com raquel.daniels@acre.com Call us: 020 7400 5570 Visit our website: www.acre.com Follow us: @acre
