2013 Corporate Citizenship Report Waggener Edstrom Communications 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Message From Our CEO CEO Letter In a Perfect World As the owner of a communications agency various efforts and areas of improvement. With Contributing economically and socially to whose many specialty areas began (and a half-dozen reports under our belt (including society while helping conserve natural resources remain) with a foundation in technology, I this one), we have learned a lot and continue and positively contributing to the quality of life was awed after attending the TED conference to evolve along our citizenship path. Actions of our employees and citizens in the community in Vancouver, B.C., earlier this year. Anyone speak louder than words, and while progress is in which we operate and beyond is central to who’s been to TED can testify how inspiring it is sometimes slow, progress is progress. We remain our future success. to hear the many stories about technological steadfastly committed to evolving our corporate advancements and human potential — citizenship strategy and achieving sustainable Perfection serves us best when we accept it as a something I’ve blogged about a number of times. performance for the long term with an eye on source of inspiration rather than an unattainable One theme in particular piqued my interest impact. This year we are transitioning to the ideal. This interim report builds on the content of after my conference ended; strangely enough, Global Reporting Initiative 4.0 framework and the company’s previous corporate citizenship it was the central subject for TEDx Portland. That using the opportunity to review and refocus on reports and communications on progress to topic: “Perfect” and the challenge in striving factors that are most material to the long-term UNGC. As the ways we conduct our business for it, defining it and creating it. Around the sustainability of WE. As part of the transition we evolve, so must our commitments. We look time I was hanging up my own entrepreneurial will also move to a biennial reporting cycle forward to providing more details on progress, shingle, my dad gave me some advice that still (every two years); our next GRI report will be focus areas and outcomes in the next complete speaks to me more than 30 years later: “Don’t published in the fall 2015. report in 2015. let the perfect stand in the way of the good.” This is something I think about often. A mix of WE reaffirms its support for our participation in optimism and pragmatism ultimately rules the the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Warmest Regards, day and the decisions we make. For me, being and remains committed to the 10 principles Melissa Waggener Zorkin, CEO confident in the choices that determine our of the UNGC as part of our strategic planning future matters much more than trying to create and daily operations. The following interim a perfect world. report indicates the progress in continuing to support and integrate the principles into our When we first started producing our corporate business. The four focus areas — environment, citizenship report, it wasn’t perfection we were human rights, labor and anti-corruption — are after but a yearly all-up accounting of our critical for us as a growing international agency. 2 3 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Overview Overview Our sixth corporate citizenship report tells the story achieve maximum business value for clients and of impact and progress. Corporate citizenship societal impact. Our global reach and mindset represents our commitment to making a positive ensure that we apply the right people and best and sustainable social, environmental and resources to address our clients’ business needs. Independence economic impact through our services, employees, management of operations and contributions to society. In 2013, WE expanded its global footprint by adding four members to the WE Global Alliance Network: Taiwan (One For All), Sweden/Nordics (Agera PR), Commitment and Opportunity WE’s sixth corporate citizenship report is intended to Czech Republic (Best Communications), Benelux be a transparent and accountable explanation of (Mindshake), bringing the total members to 35. the company’s corporate citizenship strategy. Our WE experienced 15 percent growth in the EMEA 2013 report provides an overview of the company’s region and 11 percent growth in the APAC region. performance using the Global Reporting Initiatives WE’s three fastest-growing markets in 2013 were (GRI) protocol framework as a foundation. In 2015 Waggener Edstrom Communications Inc. (WE) is an independently owned global, integrated marketing and South Africa, the United Kingdom and China. WE will publish a GRI report using the 4.0 framework. communications agency. From planning through implementation, WE uses earned, paid and owned mediums WE’s carbon emissions remain two percent under to help its clients achieve their business goals. WE is a partner to and champion of international leaders including People are at the heart of WE’s business and the 2008 baseline numbers, demonstrating Microsoft Corp., GE Healthcare, Teleflex Medical, Cambia Health Solutions, and Coca-Cola, among others. WE’s corporate citizenship strategy.The company believes progress from operational changes made since vision is to be the preeminent leader in giving a voice to innovations that influence markets, inspire people and that corporate citizenship is about improving the 2008. These changes have also resulted in a 60 improve lives. quality of life for employees and for the communities percent reduction in emissions from waste due to in which it works and lives. With an eye on the long Founded in November 1983, WE is a privately held company headquartered in Seattle, Wash., USA. As of Dec. 31, our recycling and composting programs as well as term, WE is focused on two core strategies to fuel 2013, WE’s global footprint included 19 offices in nine countries, and the company employed 793 employees. Our the implementation and increased use of video and growth and expand its business: attract, retain and 2013 global revenue was $117.6 million. In 2013, WE celebrated its 30th anniversary and reflected on the history audio technology by employees in place of travel. engage employees via a series of triple bottomof the company as well as anticipated with excitement what the future could hold. line initiatives, and invest in core competencies to 4 5 2013 Conserving resources and minding the planet: CITIZENSHIP For the past six years, WE has measured its carbon footprint and REPORT proactively been working to reduce its environmental footprint through its procurement decisions, technology investment strategy, education and Communities engagement with employees with the goal to encourage behavioral changes that & Environment will translate into actual reductions and positive habits in the workplace and at home. 4,167 2% 5.2 Global Citizenship In 2013, WE produced 4,167 metric tons of carbon emissions, which equates to an average of 5.2 metric tons per employee. The agency’s 2013 carbon footprint remains down 2 percent from the 2008 baseline. However, WE Serving the Greater Good experienced a 1 percent increase from 2012. Power of Partnerships: To have an impact, propel positive change and support communities, WE believes that win-win Since 2010, Waggener Edstrom Communications has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. partnerships are the key to progress and effectively serving our clients. In 2013 WE issued our fourth annual Communication on Progress, a public disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing the 10 principles that focus on international HUMAN RIGHTS, FAIR LABOR, ENVIRONMENTAL ›› Delivering Impact via Pro Bono Services: In 2013 teams across the agency engaged in 3,314 hours RESPONSIBILITY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION, as part of the annual corporate citizenship report. of pro bono work, valued at $631,285 and donated to the community at no fee, supporting the growing needs of more than 20 nonprofit clients. Commitment, support and protection of human rights: For us as a professional services company, human rights takes the form of nondiscrimination personnel ›› Social Change Through Collaboration: In 2013, WE and partners NetHope and Mercy Corps concluded two, three-year Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) commitments to action in partnership: practices that promote equal opportunity and diversity as published in WE’s Code of Conduct. Each with NetHope (Scaling the Development of Young IT Professionals) and Mercy Corps (Empowering year WE promotes and supports human rights in the community through financial contributions, Ethiopian Women and Girls for Peaceful Change). volunteering and pro bono services. In 2013, WE partnered with Women for Women International (WfWI), a nonprofit organization that provides women survivors of war and other conflicts with the tools and resources to ›› Investing in the Next Generation of Professionals: As part of the company’s commitment move from crisis and poverty to stability and self-sufficiency. to education, WE has built a partnership with The LAGRANT Foundation (TLF), which provides ethnic minority college students aspiring for careers in communications with scholarships, career Global volunteer movement: workshops, professional development, mentoring and internships. In 2013, WE hosted career Employees’ global participation in volunteer activities to support organizations that share the development workshops and the first-ever Alumni Leadership Forum for alumni recipients of the company’s value for education and economic empowerment donated over 7,000 hours in pro bono TLF scholarships in New York to support their personal leadership development and emotional and volunteer time and built capacity for over 20 nonprofit organizations. WE also organized over 70 intelligence skills to support the next stage of their careers. team volunteer events potentially impacting 4,800 lives. 6 7 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Measuring Progress Reduce GHG emissions from the baseline year after year Greenhouse Gas Emissions (CO2E) Metric Tons Baseline (2008) 2011 Tracking Our Impact 5.1 Per Employee 4.8 Per Employee Good Work Is Its Own Reward 4,249 Total 3,871 Total We report on our progress and initiatives annually. Since WE first published a corporate citizenship report, WE has been focused on reducing its carbon footprint from its 2008 baseline year after year and giving back one percent of its total fee revenue annually. WE is steadfastly committed to these broader goals. Corporate citizenship 2012 2013 has been and continues to be a dynamic learning journey. Goal-setting continues to mirror the same path. The 4.9 Per Employee 5.2 Per Employee company will continue to incorporate corporate citizenship into its annual strategic planning process and the journey to transition to the GRI 4.0 framework in 2015. Donate at least one percent of our annual total fee revenue to the community 4,108 Total 4,167 Total WE’s Charitable Donations 2013 Results ›› Contributed 3,314 hours of pro bono work, creative services and strategic communications services to help build capacity for more than 20 2013 Results nonprofit clients. ›› Using Technology to Lower Emissions: In 2013, 85 percent of employees utilized a new tracking ›› Motivated 52 percent of employees to use some system to capture their work-from-home hours to further inform WE on employees commute habits. portion of their 16 hour volunteer benefit totaling 1.2 million donated 4,082 hours, valued at a $332,079 contribution to ›› Turning the U.S. Capital Green: WE-DC focused on integrating green practices into their everyday 117.6 million total fee revenue nonprofit organizations. habits. 80 percent of employees are biking or walking to work each day, all the paper in the office is 100 percent recycled, large juice bottles replaced individual containers to lower plastic consumption, energy ›› Organized over 70 team volunteer events, efficient light bulbs are installed, and all employees commit to turning off monitors and other equipment 1.1 million donated 122.4 million total fee revenue potentially impacting 4,800 lives. each evening and on the weekends. 2008 2011 2012 2013 70+ 52 3,314 ›› Ride, Bike, Walk or Carpool: In 2013, WE invested resources to educate and promote commute options for all U.S. offices and created online ride share tools to ease carpool/vanpool formation. VOLUNTEER PERCENT OF RECORDED EVENTS EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER HOURS 8 9 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Measuring Progress In 2013, WE’s overall revenue base declined by 0.7 percent from the previous year due to the agency’s U.S. revenue Business and people decreasing 3.0 percent year over year. This decline in the U.S. was somewhat offset by continued international diversification, which resulted in 15 percent growth in the EMEA region and 11 percent growth in the APAC region. Performance to Date WE’s three fastest-growing markets in 2013 were South Africa, the United Kingdom and China. Despite the drop in revenue, the U.S. remains the agency’s highest-performing region in terms of revenue and profit margin. 15% 11% $125 M $122.4 million total fee revenue Fastest Growing Highest-performing Markets in 2013 Region $118.6 million $120 M total fee revenue EMEA APAC South Africa, China, & United Kingdom United States $117.6 million $115 M total fee revenue $115.8 million The technology sector continued to be the largest portion of the agency’s client portfolio and was a driver total fee revenue of growth in our markets across the world. However, 2013 saw the addition of many new and exciting brands including Teleflex Medical, Cambia Health Solutions, AVG, Coca-Cola, and Volvo, across our other areas of 2008 2011 2012 2013 expertise, including healthcare, social innovation and consumer. 10 11 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Business & People Integrated Marketing & Communications C LE TY AR Nurturing Creativity & Curiosity LIFES EER We place a premium value on our employees and consider them our greatest asset. In the intellectual capital and professional services sector, people are your product. Recognizing this and making business decisions that put people WE L LB E I N G at the center of a well-run business is essential. To attract, retain and engage world-class talent, we aim to provide our people with a special experience and opportunity that they won’t get elsewhere. We are focused on our employees’ whole experience. The experience and rewards we offer are designed around employees’ careers, well-being and lifestyle. 12 13 2013 Children’s Book Bank: (CBB) seeks to get more books into the hands and homes CITIZENSHIP of young children who might not otherwise have books of their own. They were REPORT launching a new program seeking funding Business from local businesses to connect with the & People underserved communities CBB seeks to enrich. They needed assistance branding and raising awareness of this program in order to make it a success. WE employees worked to provide CBB with a new brand identity, logo, messaging, a full brochure, communications plan and corporate presentation to engage stakeholders and achieve fundraising goals. Friends of Baseball: (FoB) is an organization that offers Oregon’s economically and geographically challenged children enhanced opportunities for social interaction, academic success, and physical and Volunteer mental well-being through participation in youth baseball and softball team programs. FoB was launching a regional baseball tournament with the intention of raising brand awareness, securing sponsorships, getting local media attention and ultimately helping them to better reach their & Pro Bono communities. With no marketing department to assist in this project FoB reached out to WE. WE designed a brand identity for FoB as well as, marketing materials, and a microsite to promote the friendly in-state rivalry between the (Eugene) Emeralds, (Hillsboro) Hops, and (Salem-Keizer) Human capital and intellectual assets are valuable resources for nonprofit organizations. The demand for skilled Volcanoes. volunteering and professional services among nonprofits is high. Waggener Edstrom is working to continue to provide employees with ways to engage with nonprofit partners and to use their professional skills to give back. WE employees are eligible to use 16 hours per year to serve nonprofit organizations of their choice. In 2013 WE increased the flexibility of the volunteer benefit to further promote the engagement of employees in the community. In 2013, our pro bono clients included UN Foundation Family Planning, NetHope, Mercy Corps, SHE, Portland Sunshine Division, Peaches Neat Feet and Women For Women International, among others. WE also Tualatin River Keepers: (TRK) is a nonprofit that works participated in a 24-hour pro bono initiative called CreateAthon. to protect and restore Oregon’s Tualatin River System. TRK requested a brochure to share with volunteers, donors and the community that clearly shared their mission and goals. WE developed a website mock-up, social media strategy, a In October 2013 a group of 18 employees from across the agency participated in a 24-hour creative pro bono new logo that included new brand colors, and a brochure to initiative. Participants volunteered their professional skills in graphic design, public relations, social media strategy showcase the most important aspects of TRK with the goal of and Web development to support four nonprofits. The organizations received more than $100,000 in pro bono increasing funding and community involvement. services upon completion of the projects: 14 15 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Business & People Oregon Dog Rescue is a shelter devoted to placing dogs in the best homes and assuring the long-term success of the adoption. Oregon Dog Rescue had a goal of raising their brand awareness and increasing their social media outreach in order to attract more donors, volunteers, and potential adopters. WE provided them with a social media plan to help increase the exposure of their adoptions. They also received Twitter and Facebook how-to resources and pitching guides to support the execution of the plan. After 8 months, ODR experienced a 30 percent increase in adoptions. SHE is a social enterprise that invests in overlooked (and often taboo) ideas and people to become vehicles of social and economic changes. Through its first initiative, SHE28, SHE is providing girls and women access to affordable menstrual pads in an effort to increase their quality of life. In 2013, WE developed a brand positioning statement and framework for a new line of “go!” pads for SHE. These sanitary pads would be introduced into local schools and organizations to young Rwandan women and produced and distributed locally. The purpose of the program is to improve opportunities for women Volunteer and girls while also driving broader social and economic change. WE identified key brand elements that would resonate with a variety of audiences — bold, modern, confident, reliable, & Pro Bono comfortable and affordable. The team developed a brand positioning statement for go! including brand target, brand essence, brand purpose and competitive differentiation, and created a messaging framework for the various audiences involved in the process. go! pads are currently in stores and schools in Rwanda increasing the access for women and girls. 16 17 Our 2013 2013 Gift of Time CITIZENSHIP Volunteer inspiring people REPORT & improving lives IN 2013 WE DONATED PRO BONO WORK 1.2M 7,400 = $963K REPRESENTING MORE THAN $ CONTRIBUTIONS EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING WE-UK ANNUALLY WE COMMITS 1 PERCENT OF ITS TOTAL FEE IN 2013 REVENUE TO MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN THE WORLD. PRO BONO + VOLUNTEER HOURS Business & Pro Bono & People 2013 Social Impact Snapshot Look Up, Twirl and a Smile WE Employee Teams Built Capacity for 20+ Nonprofits Organizations Eight employees in the WE-UK office 70+ WE Team Volunteer Events Potentially Impacted 4,800+ lives* headed out to volunteer with Kids Company, which has been providing WE Volunteers RISES S U S TA I N PUGET S O A BL E H E A LT H EN TE RP practical, emotional and educational U R support to vulnerable youth since ND E D CIS C O BIKESHA B OY S A N AN In 2013, WE offices across the globe got out BELLEVUE 1996. The employees helped with a FR G IR M ER LS N UNIVE SA CY into the community and invested in WE’s two CLU BS OF CORPS circus workshop, which both instilled OF RS RG BO ITY S UB SB S U OF corporate causes: economic empowerment Y AN D GIRLS CL JOHANNE confidence in the youth and also provided them with an arena to have a great time. P L AY W O R K and education. In 2013, 52 percent of employees N HE PE I C T AC N H’ GO LK S N T D. C . CENTRA EET FEE PA used some portion of their 16 hour volunteer S ST M RE CI E FIC W AK O NORTH E-A-WISH T UA ER S NE A P THOPE TI L EE benefit, totaling more than 4,000 hours. N R 30 IVERK Y VO NC A E R VA LUNT ERS OF EMER FISTULA Gift of Time NS E A O L D C NE CE RK C KLA M ER IC YO W EXAMPLES A G NE TH N R E AT E R E O I LA GR AT ANT FOUND VOLUNTEER PRO BONO TS WORK WORK SET NK HU BA AU P LA C E C ST IN YW SA CU IL H K E O PETS ALIV ORKS MAS ES DR EN’S BO WE-NW OR R EGON DOG CA R E SURFR AY S FO TIC BA LL Pause for a Cause D T WE-SOUTH AFRICA RTS C H RIT PE ID BO R O PORTLAND O E FO SE O EU R RE UND AT I O N BA GO TR FR N FIRS IEN DS OF N Pacific Northwest employees took a break from “business as IO E BELLEVU IS P O V I LI D WE-Joburg Gives Back to Adopt-a-School CE E KID B OYS SU NSHIN usual” for active interaction with the Boys and Girls Club of S OF C O N MP A D UB S ANY GIR ON LS CL AT I Foundation A DO O U ND FU LL CIRCLE N FU D Bellevue to bolster the education, health and wellness of local PTLF ASCHOO ON E YO UNG WOR D L Twelve WE-Joburg employees volunteered for kids. The employees helped facilitate art projects and run a WE understood our business challenges as well as our strengths. We are executing the communications the Adopt-a-School Foundation. The employees full day of activities at the beach during one of BGC’s summer and social media plans that WE developed with minimal resources and maximum impact. Results: increased awareness and engagement in programs that enable all young people to reach their full potential as productive, caring, responsible citizens. participated in three events to give back, camps. — Kathy Haggart, President and CEO, Boys and Girls Clubs of Bellevue PNF has been blessed with pro bono work from WE; messaging, online and print ad creative, press including painting a classroom, donating engagement, social media, and specifically our Pinterest presence. WE’s acts of kindness are helping us refine our communications to provide more customized shoes for children living with disabilities and fighting serious illnesses. cleaning supplies to the school to keep it looking — Madison Steiner, Founder and President, Peach’s Neet Feet Working with WE on brand positioning and messaging has been a rewarding process that I continue good for the students, and doing a 15K walk to to share with my broader team. Your work has helped make the brand real and will support local women in Rwanda jump-start their own businesses to manufacture and distribute affordable, quality and eco-friendly sanitary pads. raise more funds for Adopt-a-School — Connie Lewin, Director, Strategic Partnerships and Marketing, Sustainable Health Enterprises Hundreds of schools throughout South Africa are in desperate need of basic necessities to maintain their classrooms. The Adopt-a-School Foundation strives to address the inadequacies in rural and disadvantaged schools to ensure positive learning experiences. Volunteering to raise funds and painting local classrooms is an excellent way for our office to invest in the youth of our country. — Laura Rodrigues, Account Manager, WE-Johannesburg WE-NY After spending an afternoon of team volunteering for APA!, which rescues dogs and cats that are at the greatest risk by providing them care either at its facility, with foster families or adopting them out, I wanted to make a more impactful contribution. Because the number of animals saved depends heavily on the number of people who open their homes, I have recently signed up to be a foster parent! — Brittany Marr, Administrative Assistant, WE-Austin At least 42 employees engaged deserving children in meaningful play to support their education, WE-NY Gives Back by Providing Children personal growth, leadership, health and wellness via WE Recess volunteer events. The activities Playworks directly touched the lives of 500+ low-income Portland-area elementary students multiple times and supports Playworks in harnessing the power of play to strengthen our kids, schools and communities. With the Tools to Learn Pacific Northwest — Monica Brewer, Program Associate, Playworks Pacific Northwest A team of eight WE-NY volunteers took a trip to Chelsea to * Social impact estimate based on data provided by the nonprofit organizations served during monthly WE volunteer events in Portland and Seattle. help Volunteers of America fill backpacks to provide lowTOGETHER WE waggeneredstrom.com/citizenship Follow @WE_Citizen CAN MAKE A D I F F E R E NCE income families with the right materials to send their children to school fully equipped. 18 19 2013 CITIZENSHIP Strength Through “Women for Women International knew right from the start what the rest of the world has taken longer to REPORT realize: that strong women are key to strong nations. That’s a conviction we share.” Business Storytelling – Hillary Rodham Clinton & People Challenge Insight and Strategy Impact Women for Women International (WfWI) is a nonprofit organization By leveraging its expertise in women’s empowerment programs and • 13 placements in top tier outlets including ABC News, The New York that provides women survivors of war and other conflicts the tools Master Narrative capabilities, WE recognized the gala served as a Times, and New York Daily News, generating more than 86.7 million and resources to move from crisis and poverty to stability and selfunique opportunity to tell a unified story about the organization’s impressions sufficiency, strengthening communities and nations in the process. success and future goals. WE crafted a story framework that focused • Top tier broadcast appearance on CNN International, reaching To celebrate its 20th anniversary milestone, WfWI enlisted WE to tell on WfWI’s impactful work and supported speech development for more than 9 million viewers a story about the organization’s amazing impact and “Stronger the gala’s high-profile presenters, including former Secretary of State Women, Stronger Nations” philosophy in a way that would resonate Hillary Rodham Clinton, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg, and WfWI’s • Developed 10 new relationships with reporters from A-list media with audiences, drive media coverage and position the organization President and CEO Afshan Khan. WE equipped these thought leaders such as National Geographic, Harper’s Bazaar, Reuters, Fast for growth under new leadership. with strategic messaging to harness throughout the event and Company, Huffington Post, InStyle and Bloomberg Businessweek during media interviews. WE drove a robust media strategy with key • Sold out gala, with 667 guests influencers and conducted onsite interviews with CNN’s Christiane Amanpour and WfWI’s Founder Zainab Salbi. • A record $2.1 million in contributions raised for WfWI from the gala Hillary Rodham Clinton and Sheryl Sandberg on stage Hillary Rodham Clinton and Donna Karan meet during at the gala the reception 20 21 2013 CITIZENSHIP Case Study REPORT Business Get Fit & People Business Opportunity Strategy Measure of Success Despite significant investments in consumer health The public health campaign, “Get Fit,” was a TwitterThe main objective was to help people recognize that making healthy lifestyle changes and well-being, the public at large did not appreciate hosted storytelling initiative that encouraged people could help reduce the risk of cancer. “Get Fit” engaged more than 2.6 million people via or understand GE Healthcare’s commitment to health to tweet about cancer-busting lifestyle choices. Each Twitter over eight weeks, successfully encouraging lifestyle changes. In addition, more beyond providing “machines in hospitals.” There also continent was given its own hashtag, and the twothan 1,000 GE Healthcare employees participated, making healthy lifestyle changes was a perception that the company was old-school month competition determined which continent’s and acting as brand ambassadors. and predictable when it came to marketing and residents could “Get Fit” the fastest by making lifestyle communications. In partnership with the WE Healthcare changes that reduced cancer risk and tweeting about team, the Studio D team devised an integrated their actions. By the Numbers: communications campaign for GE Healthcare to • 7,958 hashtags used encourage people globally to lead healthier lives; specifically to join the fight against cancer. Each • 7,949 tweets from 30+ countries during 8 week campaign year, 12.7 million people discover they have cancer, • 702 tweeters and 7.6 million people die from the disease. Evidence shows that 30–40 percent of cancer deaths can be • 55 countries involved prevented and that a healthy diet and exercise can • Newsroom visits up 62 percent year-over-year help reduce this. • $20,000 donation to Kenya Red Cross Society • Africa/Middle East won the competition and donation ENGAGED MORE THAN • Coverage in 37 outlets – 23 news articles and 14 blogs 2.6 MILLION IN EIGHT WEEKS 22 23 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Business & People Business & People WE is focused on giving employees the opportunity to do their best work, leverage their strengths and advance their career by working with strong clients and being surrounded by leaders and managers committed to mentoring and coaching them to success. WE recognizes that every employee’s experiences and priorities are personal and each employee is in a different phase of their career. WE designs recognition, incentive, reward, and benefit programs to support and nurture its employees’ journey. 24 25 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT Business & People Leadership Forum WE TOUR Leadership Forum is a program targeting highTo encourage greater collaboration, networking, performing managers and directors at WE. Each learning and exploration of businesses, geographies group of eight to 12 people convenes monthly over and clients, WE introduced WE Tour. Available to the course of one year to refine personal, professional all employees worldwide, WE Tour encourages and management leadership skills in addition to employees to take advantage of travel — personal tackling real business situations or opportunities. or professional — by providing an additional day’s Since its launch in 2006, more than 114 employees accommodations to enable employees to work have participated in Forum, totaling 8,066 training from one of our 19 offices around the world. hours and shaping various policies and programs. we TOUR WE Learning Global Exchange Program WE Wellness & Development For the past six years, WE has continued to increase employees’knowledge and create new opportunities In 2013, WE launched WE Wellness. The program builds on our existing employee benefits and for employees through its Global Exchange program. wellness initiatives to support overall wellbeing in WE In two weeks, the program provides employees with employees. It provides ongoing onsite education Continuous learning and development is at the heart of WE’s strategy to attract and retain world-class talent. an opportunity to see the world, immerse themselves and prevention programs with incentives for healthy WE’s monthly training calendar is supplemented by signature programs and initiatives designed to create an in a new culture and experience working at a eating, self-care, exercise and health monitoring. immersive learning experience and opportunities for knowledge sharing. In 2013, WE offered roughly 450 total different WE office. In addition to fostering a spirit hours of training, with employees around the globe devoting nearly 6,395 total hours to professional development of teamwork across offices in different geographic initiatives. regions, the program promotes understanding and greater cooperation across cultures within the Education 2008 2011 2012 2013 agency. In 2013, 20 employees participated in the program. Number of Trainings Delivered Worldwide 242 195 242 166 Percent Delivered in U.S. 68% 88.2% 76% 52% Percent Delivered in APAC/EMEA 32% 11.8% 24% 48% Total Training Attendance 2,373 1,958 2,043 2,685 26 27 2013 CITIZENSHIP REPORT About this report About This Report About Waggener Edstrom Communications WE uses the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines as a basis for its report and a framework for measuring Waggener Edstrom Communications (WE) is a global, integrated communications agency. For 30 years, the and reporting our environmental, social and economic performance. independently owned firm has developed strategic communications programs for innovative and worldchanging clients, working to influence markets, inspire people and improve lives. In the past few years, the agency In 2014, WE will transition its reporting cycle to align with its internal planning cycle (July 1–June 30). WE will was honored with numerous awards for our creative and strategic work, among them recognition as Global provide a GRI-assured report after transitioning to the Global Reporting Initiative 4.0 framework in fall 2015. Technology Agency of the Year, Best Large Agency to Work For, Communications Agency of the Year, and For more information about this report and WE’s Corporate Citizenship initiatives, please contact: Technology Agency of the Decade. The agency has more than 750 employees in 17 offices around the world, and its Global Alliance partners expand the agency’s reach to more than 80 additional international markets. Rhian Rotz WE has four key sectors: Social Innovation,Technology, Healthcare and Consumer, as well as expertise in Creative, Director, Corporate Citizenship Digital, Content, and Insight & Analytics. To learn more, visit http://www.WaggenerEdstrom.com. +1 503 443 7821 rhianr@waggeneredstrom.com @WE_Citizen 28 29 © Copyright 2014 www.waggeneredstrom.com
