About This Report Purpose of the Report This is the third sustainability report published by Korea Land & Housing Corporation (hereinafter “LH”). It details LH’s efforts to promote sustainability management practices and initiatives as well as the company’s economic, social, and environmental performances. LH will continue to actively communicate Harmonizing Human and grow with all stakeholders by reporting information transparently and meaningfully. Beings with Nature Scope and Period This report covers LH’s sustainability activities and performances from January 1 through December 31, 2013, and when necessary to provide time-series Sustainability Report 2014 trends, data of the three most recent fiscal years were utilized. Reporting scope includes the headquarters and regional offices, and reporting period is 1 year. Principles and Standards This report was compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative 3.1 guidelines and verified by an independent assurance agency to ensure its reliability and quality. Details regarding the assurance results are available in the assurance statement set forth in the Appendix. Additional Information More detailed information is on the LH homepage and Korean and English version of the reports can be downloaded in the PDF form. Please refer to the following contact information for any further inquiry or opinion about our sustainability report. Homepage http://world.lh.or.kr Blog http://blog.naver.com/bloglh/ Address 172, Dolma-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea (463-755) E-mail afireant@lh.or.kr Tel 82-31-738-7234 Fax 82-31-738-8665 Department Creative Innovation Team, Administration Management Department Key issues in 2013 (Summary) Key issues in 2013 (Details) Economy Contents Sustainability Key Issues in 2013 Management Society Environment Key Issues in 2013 04 CEO’s message 06 Rank Ⅰ. About LH 08 What Matters Most? 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Corporate Profile 10 Sustainability Management Promotion System 12 LH performs surveys and materiality assessment every year with regard to Corporate Governance 13 6 major stakeholders – customer, people, central and local government, Ethical and Transparent Management 14 local community, supplier, and employee in order to identify the most Material Issue Securing financial Building Expanding awareness Strengthening antiIncreasing awareness Enhancing service Developing and impleOperating green Risk Management 16 material issues for sustainable growth. In 2013, stakeholders selected 8 soundness and customer trust of environment corruption and of shared growth with responsibility menting residential management system Stakeholder Engagement 17 issues including ‘securing financial soundness and profitability’ as the profitability through eco-friendly ethical management suppliers stability policy for most material issues to be reported. businesses activities people in need Ⅱ. Economy 20 * ‌More details on communications with stakeholder and materiality assessment are Promoting Management Normalization 22 available on page 18. Fulfilling People’s Housing Stability 26 Securing New Growth Engines 30 High Economic Performances 34 01 02 05 Ⅲ. Society 36 External Stakeholders’ Evaluation 03 04 Customer Satisfaction Management 38 06 08 Social Contribution Activities 42 07 Why is This It is important to recover As a public corporation responsible We should dedicate to constructing As a public corporation that To fulfill the ‘creative economy’, To satisfy the needs of customers We should focus on securing As a leader in green growth, Shared Growth and Win-win Partnership 46 Important? Human Resource Management 48 fundamental financial soundness for people’s residence, we have to environmental cities and buildings operates for the national interest, one of national tasks of the who settled in housing complexes housing stability and welfare we have to build advanced through securing profitability to focus on providing stable housing to ensure eco-friendly housing eradicating bad practice and new government, it is crucial LH provides, various services should services for the underprivileged green management system and respond to increasing interest conditions, delivering customer spaces and expand the awareness corruption is important to maintain to successfully carry out shared be offered. people in order to fulfill the role as proactively apply it to our business Ⅳ. Environment 52 in financial status of the public satisfaction, and conducting sound of environment. transparency. growth with SMEs. a public corporation. activities. Environmental Management 54 enterprises. management activities. Environmental Technology and Construction 55 Low High Internal Stakeholders’ Evaluation Response to Climate Change and 57 Carbon Economy Environmental Performances 58 MaterHow LH has We enforce the sales responsibility LH was selected the ‘excellent We are committed to expanding The ethical management guide We are contributing to An enterprise-wide CS organization We are expanding the supply of LH has established 4 visions and Key issues for 2014 Done! iality system to secure profitability and achievement in the advancement eco-friendly businesses. To this book was published to settle a strengthening SME’s capability headed by the CS Management rental housing and implementing key 10 strategic tasks for green enhance financial soundness of public enterprise’ in recognition end, we are laying the foundation corporate culture that emphasizes by strongly supporting their new Committee is being operated. beneficiary customized housing growth and its environmental Ⅴ. Appendix 59 01 Securing financial soundness and profitability through continuous management of our efforts to normalize for U-Eco City Project and green transparency and integrity. It technology development and In addition, we assign CS goals welfare services for child headed activities and performances are General Indicators of Sustainability 60 02 Building customer trust innovation. management conditions and businesses and continuously contains ethical regulations, code paving the way for their entrance to every department and check families and senior citizens. clearly announced to the public Management conduct campaigns for high developing CDM projects that of ethical conducts, and case into overseas markets. the practices to ensure service every year. Sustainability Management Initiatives 62 03 Expanding awareness of environment through eco-friendly businesses integrity. utilize new and renewable energy. studies. responsibility. Independent Assurance Statement 64 04 Strengthening anti-corruption and ethical management activities GRI Index 66 05 Increasing awareness of shared growth with suppliers Awards 70 06 Enhancing service responsibility Page Organization Chart and Membership 71 07 Developing and implementing residential stability policy for people in need p.22-25 p.22-25 p.55-56 p.14-15 p.46-47 p. 38-41 p. 26-29 p. 54 of Associations 08 Operating green management system 06 LH Sustainability Report 2014 07 CEO’s Message LH will take step by step towards a company that can last a century. To give people better life and work and better home is the reason for LH’s existence. Since the establishment, LH has been playing an important role in ensuring people’s housing stability and balanced development of national land through building and supplying rental housing, developing new cities and housing sites, and community development. As the development age fades, changes in society, economy and policy driven by low birthrate, aging, and increasing single household are becoming great challenges to LH. We well understand that it is essential to break with stereotypical ideas and methods in the era of mass development and mass supply, and concentrate on needs of time and people. LH’s management normalization is a road to become a sustainable company that meets the needs of time and the nation. It starts from unleashing management innovation and securing financial stability to ensure our role as a public corporation. To this end, we are creating a functional organization by introducing capability and performance based personnel management system and emphasizing autonomy and responsibility in jobs. Based on these efforts, we are reducing debt through sales promotion and securing financial structure to faithfully conduct national projects. We are contributing to national housing stability by providing various housing welfare services that all people enjoy equal benefits. LH is not only expanding supply of rental housing but also providing various customized housing services such as purchased rental and long-term lease to meet individual economic conditions, which helps people in need secure housing stability. We think of coexistence between people and nature as first and fulfill our social responsibility to build a world where everyone is happy together. LH is committed to leading Korea’s green growth by constructing eco-friendly houses and green cities. It also conducts a range of social contribution activities such as caring children in rental housing complexes. Furthermore, we are performing customer satisfaction management through consumer-oriented services, reinforcing shared growth with the partnering companies, and striving to become a company of high integrity and transparency based on strict ethical standards. With a clear perception that people and the nation are the foundation of our company, we will devote ourselves to contributing to the development of the government, local communities, suppliers, employees, and all people. We will do our best on each and every step to become a company that can be loved and trusted by people and consequently last a century. President and CEO of LH About LH Adding value to national land The value of people is the first priority at LH. We make a concerted effort to realize housing stabilization of people and efficiently develop national and delivering land, contributing to the improvement of quality of life and national economic growth. In addition, we are committed to creating happier Preemptive risk management happiness to people and actions tomorrow by pursuing sustainability management. LH will grow into a sustainable company that is loved and trusted by people. Customized ethical education Attendance rate of non-executive in 2013 directors in 2013 Transparent, Clean, and Trustable Public 9,529 persons 97.7 % Corporation 10 LH Sustainability Report 2014 11 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Corporate Profile Overview of LH LH was established to lead the national economic development by providing better residential environment for the nation and efficiently managing the land. With high recognition that people are the first priority in corporate management, we always emphasize public benefits and take the lead of national land and housing policies, Performance in land bank business Constructing 7 industrial No. of newly supplied No. of houses supported to providing better lives and housing environment. complexes by 2018 houses in 2013 people in need Land banking 5.68 million m 2 (As of the end of December 2013) 40.51 million m 2 65 thousand 30 thousand Land supply 2.30 million m 2 Company name Korea Land & Housing Corporation No. of Employees Headquarters 172 Dolma-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Land Bank, Informationization of National Land Gyeonggi-do 6,477 persons and Housing, Trust Business, Free Economic Zone, Happy House, House Supplying, Housing National Land Housing Welfare, and Housing Land Development South-North Economic Cooperation, CEO Jae-young Lee Management RAISING THE Stability and Industrial & Distribution Complex Total Asset VALUE OF Purpose of • ‌Acquisition, development, banking and supply Establishment of land NATIONAL LAND • Urban development and maintenance KRW 173.42 trillion Sejong City, Innovation City, New City, City Maintenance, City Development, Project Financing, U-City, City Development R&D and Technology Research, Certification, SME Supports, Quality Test, and Culture Assets Investigation • ‌Construction, supply, and maintenance of District Energy, and Overseas Business houses Sales Date of October 1, 2009 establishment KRW 18.27 trillion 9 Innovation cities Mission & Vision 44.02 million m 2 City development in Purchasing of SMEs’ products No. of city reconstruction in 2013 Azerbaijan Republic No. of new patents 15 in 2013 With the vision of becoming a top-class land and housing service provider that creates happy lives, we are 3,661 houses 72 million m 2 No. of new certifications 112 KRW 5.99 trillion engaging in developing housing complexes and green cities for residential stability of people and improvement of quality of their lives as well as contributing to the nation’s economic growth through efficient land development. Performances of the LH 2020 Strategy Spearheading the improvement of quality of life and national economic growth through Mission ▶ ensuring stable housing for people and efficient utilization of national land The ‘LH 2020 Mid and Long-term Project’ was prepared to secure financial stability and fulfill its role as a public corporation and it has been conducted since 2012. We have strived to recover the feasibility of projects by realigning project areas between 2012 and 2013, which allows us to restore market trust. Vision ▶ A top-class land and housing service provider that creates happy living environments Stage 3 Stabilization (~2020) Happy residential Advanced spaces in which Green cities that Stage 2 Transformation (~2015) Promotion tasks Status national land with everyone lead the future global competitive • Becoming ‌ a public enterprise wants to live Planning Stage 1 Overcoming crisis (~2012) Promotion tasks Status trusted by people • Becoming ‌ a corporation • Promoting ‌ future growth Planning Implemented recognized as a great workplace Reinforcing customer Promotion tasks Status businesses in earnest Strategic Enhancing Improving business Cultivating future • Growing ‌ into the best global ▶ centered management • Reinforcing ‌ sustainability Direction financial stability efficiency growth engines land and housing service Planning system • Improving ‌ feasibility through Implemented Implemented management systems provider optimizing business structures • Optimization ‌ of business • Reduction of project costs • Development ‌ of high • Improvement ‌ of image as • Establishing ‌ future-oriented • Restoring ‌ market trust by Implemented Implemented structure • Increase ‌ of added value of value-added new a reliable company corporate culture Strategic businesses overcoming financial hardships • Diversification of funding products • ‌Creation of future-oriented, ▶ Tasks • Secure ‌ of governmental ‌ • Enhancement of • Enhancement ‌ of new corporate culture • Stabilizing ‌ organization by support for policy projects cooperation with businesses • Establishment ‌ of successfully completing the Feedback stakeholders. • Reinforcement ‌ of performance-based task for advancement of public competitiveness in management system enterprise technology and R&D 12 LH Sustainability Report 2014 13 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Sustainability Corporate Management Sustainability Management Strategy Governance BOD Composition Promotion LH increases corporate sustainability by ensuring well-balanced economic, social, and environmental Executive director The Board of Directors (BOD), as the highest decision making body, reviews and concludes basic management System growth. To this end, we have set up three key sustainability management strategies strengthening business policies and major management decisions. The BOD consists of 7 executive directors and 8 non-executive competitiveness, leading low carbon green growth, and contributing to local communities. These strategies are Name Position Gender directors and chaired by the senior non-executive director. Heads of divisions and directors are appointed by conducted by drawing and performing detailed strategies and tasks by each sector. Yeong-do Standing Auditor Male the Executive Nomination Committee, consisting of professionals in academia, administrative agencies, and Kim research institutes, in order to ensure transparency in nominating and evaluating director candidates. Full-fledged In-eok Vice President & Head of Male operation of the BOD prevents delay in decision making. Jung Planning & Finance Div. Sustainability Enhancing LH’s sustainability by ensuring well-balanced Sang-hu Lee Head of Housing Welfare Div. Male Management Strategy economic, social, and environmental growth Ho-won Head of City Male Activation of the BOD Activities Lee Environment Div. Byeong-yeol Head of Public Male The BOD meetings are held regularly and extraordinarily to make timely decision making on major issues. In 2013, Yoo Housing Div. a total of 16 meetings were held, through which 30 issues were solved and 8 issues were up for consideration. To Hyeon-ju Head of National Male prevent conflict of interests within the BOD, any member specially related to the issue is restricted to the decision LAND Lee Project Div. making. & HOUSE * 7 directors including heads of divisions Non-executive director Land value Subcommittees under the BOD • Leader ‌ in land and Name Position Gender housing industry LH has established subcommittees and audit committees under the BOD to strengthen deliberation on issues • ‌Developing housing Chan-sun Director of the Foundation Male Nam for Broadcasting Culture and improve feasibility and soundness. Also, onsite subcommittees are proactive in preliminary reviewing major and land Trust · Faith Smile · Happiness projects at sites, which contribute to improving the degree of project completion. In 2013, subcommittees held • ‌Increasing public In-dong Deputy Mayor of Daejeon Male value Song 10 meetings and made preliminary reviews on 21 issues. The Audit Committee held 6 meetings and deliberated Duk-seok Chairman of K-Reits & Male 15 issues. Chae Partners Co., Ltd. 1. Raising financial stability Seon-yong Vice president of Higen Male 2. Improving business efficiency Economy 3. Developing future growth engines Kim Motor Co., Ltd. Reinforcing the Role of Non-executive Directors Seon-nam President of Gwangnam Male Reinforcing business 4. ‌Reinforcing customer-oriented Kim Ilbo competitiveness management system To reinforce the role of non-executive directors and expand their management engagements, LH provides 5. Enhancing ‌ technology and R&D Chan-gil Chairman of the Korea Male LIFE & Kim Housing Managers them with information on management issues and supports their visits to sites and other activities. In 2013, they from LH competence Association participated in major issues such as organizing sales compensation council, inspecting HR system, realigning HUMAN Ju-sun Vise Chairman of Korea Male organizational structure, and study on feasibility of the Gimpo Metro Line. They also visited our worksites Life and environment Yoon Institute of Urban Planners People-oriented including housing complexes in Cheongna Yeongjon and Wirye and Land & Housing Research Center in • Constructing green city SeungExaminer of GyeonggiMale • Responding ‌ to climate ‌ • Universal housing welfare cheol do City Planning Daejeon. Furthermore, we expanded the number of non-executive directors from 58 to 87 and capitalized on change • Housing ‌ welfare service Wi Construction their expertise in the fields of finance, management, conflict settlement, and organization. • Increasing ‌ Environment Society ‌ • Increasing housing value environmental value Leading low carbon Expanding social green growth contribution BOD Activities Preliminary Review Ratio by Subcommittees Activities of Non-executive Directors 6. Building green housing system 11. Creating jobs in private sectors No. of BOD meetings Preliminary review ratio (%) Attendance rate of non-executive directors (%) 7. Improving energy efficiency 12. L eading the realization of social fairness Attendance Rate (%) Ratio of statements by non-executive directors (%) 8. ‌Proactively responding to climate change 13. Promoting shared growth No. of resolutions 9. Practicing green management 14. Building social trust 10. Developing green technologies 15. Securing ‌ confidence from 95.1 73 97.7 LOVE & employees 93.6 93.9 59 94.9 96.4 HAPPINESS 28 30 58.8 63.5 68.7 27 Happiness of 32 people Hope · Comfort LH BRAND 15 16 · Home 14 • Social contribution • Shared growth • Increasing ‌ social value 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 14 LH Sustainability Report 2014 15 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Ethical and Transparent Ethical and Transparent Management Promotion System Companywide Ethical and Transparent Activities Management Strategy Building Participative Ethical and Transparent Management System Under the vision of ‘Clean LH Together with People’, we have established ethical and transparent management LH has built a participative ethical and transparent management system to encourage employees’ voluntary strategies linked with mid and long-term management goals of the corporation. To achieve this, we are ethical practices. We also gave advance notices on 8 cases such as development business regulation, revised developing and practicing concrete action plans. the code of conduct in accordance with recommendation of the integrity ombudsman, and promoted various activities to attract employees’ participation in ethical and transparent practices. Inspecting ethical management practices and Goals in 2013 fulfilling social responsibility to improve public confidence • Conclusion ‌ and announcement of job Building participative Preparing improvement plans of Sharing awareness integrity contract for the CEO, standing ethical management system and ethical management through of ethics and Audit Committee members, vice president, spreading ethical management culture strengthening monitoring system integrity among and 4 department heads who are Strategic executives executive directors • Fulfilling ‌ transparent management such as • Developing ‌ and measuring ethical Directions the enforcement of preliminary notification management index • Conducting ‌ educations on integrity for of corporate rules over 200 high-level positions • Regularly ‌ monitoring employees’ awareness • ‌‌Spreading ethical management by providing of ethics and checking ethical and customized ethical education programs transparent activities Carrying out the Upgrading ethical Clean ABC management (All Basic Customer) information system campaign The Most Ethical Company in Korea Responsible Organization • Developing ‌ and implementing We realigned the organization responsible for ethical and transparent management into planning & integrity tasks by each department Won awards for • Delivering ‌ integrity letters to arouse sense management sector and practice & inspection sector. In 2013, under the CEO, the Special Committee for Integrity • ‌Sharing ethics and integrity practices of integrity 2 consecutive years Practice was established to inspect employees’ practices of ethical and transparent management. This committee, by each department • Distributing ‌ integrity-related contents such • ‌Attracting companywide participations by as videos to promote self-education by consisting of vice president, ombudsman and heads of integrity measurement related departments, inspects connecting internal evaluation and integrity each department performances in ethics and integrity of each department. mileage system No. of cyber integrity education Internalization of Employees’ Awareness Of Ethics Planning & Management of Ethical Management Practice & Inspection of Ethical Management graduates in 2013 Various online and offline education programs are provided to raise employees’ awareness of ethics and integrity. In particular, matters related to ethical and transparent management were added to online education courses for BOD 9,529 acquiring promotion qualification. We also newly established the ‘e-Compass’, a portal site for ethics and integrity, (47% increase from the previous year) to communicate proposals and information with regard to sustainability management among employees. Integrity Furthermore, we distributed ethical management guidebook and leaflets to inform the importance of social CEO Ombudsman responsibility. Standing Auditor Auditor Special Committee for Integrity Practice Best Practice Integrity Practice Office Anticorruption Taskforce 【 LH EMDEX, Self-developed Ethical Management Index 】 LH EMDEX Trend In 2013, we developed the LH EMDEX, a self-evaluation index for ethical management. The LH EMDEX is 79.4 Business Management Office Head Office Nationwide Regional Offices biannually drawn up by checking the level of practice index with 26 questions on 7 areas – ethical and 78.1 transparent management, internal communication, internal control, transparency, customer satisfaction, and sustainability management. It helps to diagnose the awareness of ethics by position and gender and prepare Integrity Management by Responsible Department of Head Office systematic and optimized ethics strategies. Practices and performances in integrity of 6 sectors with high possibility of corruption land compensation and supply, construction inspection, quality test, facility maintenance and repair, rental housing management, and HR affairs – are managed by 5 responsible departments at head office. Their performances are reflected to internal 1st Half 2013 2nd Half 2013 evaluation to encourage employees to practice ethics and integrity. 16 LH Sustainability Report 2014 17 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Risk Stakeholder Management Risk Management System Engagement Stakeholders of LH LH has stipulated standards and procedures to manage risks within the sustainability management regulation. LH defines customers, people, central government & local governments, local communities, suppliers, and All threats, uncertainties, and possibilities to lose opportunities that disturb the implementation of our business employees as its 6 key stakeholder groups, with which the corporation is strengthening communications. We plans and achievement of objectives are considered as “risks”. Risks that materialize and substantially harm LH's are very active in announcing our sustainability activities, listening to stakeholders’ opinions, and meeting social management practices and reputations are regarded as “crises”. And the crises are reclassified into management needs and expectations through operating communication channels. crisis, disaster crisis, communication crisis, and conflict crisis to be managed in priority. Management Crisis Disaster Crisis Communication Crisis Conflict Crisis ‌ • Crisis by external • Natural disaster ‌ • Negative media • Conflicts ‌ with environment • Artificial disaster coverage stakeholders • Strategic crisis • Data disaster • LH’s call center • Customer suggestion program • Operating crisis • Contingency ‌ in North Improving Customers • General civil service office • Customer advisory group • Financial crisis Korean projects customer services • Customer satisfaction survey • LH’s sales data application Risk Responsible Organization • LH’s website • Public notices Management Elevating public • Sustainability Report • ‌Integrity ombudsman program Committee The Risk Management Committee, as the supreme decision-making body in risk management, concludes People confidence • Blog, Facebook, and Twitter • CEO’s press meeting policies, strategies, and action plans to respond to risks. The committee is chaired by the CEO and vice president • Disclosure acts as the CRO (Chief Risk Officer). The Risk Management Team under the committee supervises overall Risk Management Team risk management operations and support tasks, and risk management staff consisting of the head of each Risk management staff of each department department, chief of team, and manager address risk issues in a timely manner. In contingencies, the Risk (Head of department, chief of team, and manager) Response Headquarters analyzes the crisis, maps out countermeasures, and monitors overall responses. • Consultation ‌ with the • Congressional inspection Implementing policies government • ‌Workshop, and public role • Management ‌ assessments council meetings, etc. Central Government & Local Governments Risk and Crisis Management Process • LH voluntary service group • ‌LH PR exploration team • Social contribution report for college students Local Social contribution • ‌Social Contribution Advisory • ‌LH ad contest for college Crisis Alert Communities and solidarity Committee students Criteria • ‌Union Corporate Committee • ‌LH Youth Literature (UCC) Awards Risk Management (Detection of Crisis Symptoms) Risk Management Monitoring & Determination Follow-up Identification Assessment Response Crisis Analysis Response Reporting of Crisis Level Management Integrity and • ‌LH Shared Growth Taskforce • Integrity survey Suppliers shared growth • ‌Clean Coexistence Council • Conference with suppliers Attention Caution Warning Serious (Blue) (Yellow) (Orange) (Red) • Routine risk management • Responsible ‌ organization’s or each • ‌Analyzing crisis by responsible • Reporting ‌ to the Risk Management • Each ‌ department’s efforts to prevent the department’s efforts to prevent the organization and reporting the results to Committee and approving the • Labor-Management Conference • Public report program spread of crisis into upper levels spread of crisis into upper levels the Risk Management Committee establishment of the Emergency Employee • LH Coexistence Committee • Suggestion program • Analysis ‌ and review of future crisis by • ‌Review of the establishment of the Response Headquarters Employees • Responsible ‌ department’s monitoring of satisfaction • Employee satisfaction survey • LH News crisis and countermeasures responsible department and organization Emergency Response Headquarters by • Establishing ‌ and operating the the Risk Management Committee Emergency Response Headquarters • Companywide festival • Monitoring ‌ of cooperation between responsible department and organizations 18 LH Sustainability Report 2014 19 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Stakeholder Stakeholder Survey Engagement Materiality Assessment Stakeholder Survey LH is always listening to various stakeholders’ voices through communication channels with them and online and Identifying Stakeholder Issues offline media. To select the issue pool, we analyze media, benchmark companies in the industry, and interview In 2013, stakeholders chose ‘securing financial soundness and profitability’ for two consecutive years as the most important issue for LH to improve internal and external stakeholders every year. A total of 24 issues selected through these processes are evaluated sustainability. This resulted mainly from media’s intensive approach to 295 public enterprises’ current management status and ensuing requirements on and realigned in terms of stakeholders’ interest and impact on our organization. their management normalization activities. Additionally, the social paradigm shift from development to welfare aroused stakeholders’ interest in social and environmental issues beyond economic issues. Identifying Issue Pool Key Stakeholder Mapping Stakeholder Survey Prioritization of Issues • ‌International standards, sustainability • Definition of stakeholder group ‌ • Drawing out expectations ‌ • Materiality assessment Survey Results management issues in the industry, • Gathering ‌ stakeholder list from each on each issue internal data, T/F interviews, etc. department Economic Issues Stakeholders inside and outside of LH selected ‘securing financial Stakeholders’ Key Material Issues soundness and profitability’, ‘securing customer trust’, and ‘creating and High 01 distributing economic value’ as the most important issues that LH should 27.7% 02 respond preferentially. 01 Changes in materiality between 22.1% 03 02 2013 and 2014 05 ‌ Securing financial 11% 03 soundness and profitability 08 Assessment by external stakeholders 04 Changes in materiality and Securing customer trust 06 characteristics of issues ‌ Creating and distributing 08 05 04 between 2013 and 2014 economic value 21 07 06 Material issue in 2013 Social Issues 07 but not in 2014 11 Our stakeholders hoped LH to further focus on raising awareness of shared Stakeholders’ Key Material Issues 01 Material issues in 2014 growth with suppliers, enhancing service responsibility, and developing 01 Material issues in 2013 policies to ensure hosing stability of people in need as a public corporation 18.4% aiming for the improvement of quality of people’s lives. 15.5% 14.7% Low High ‌ Expanding awareness of shared Assessment by internal stakeholders growth with suppliers Reinforcing service responsibilities ‌ Developing and enforcing housing stability policy for people in need Rank Material issues in 2012 Rank Material issues in 2013 Rank Material issues in 2014 01 Securing financial soundness and profitability 01 Securing financial soundness and profitability 01 Securing financial soundness and profitability Other Internal and External Environmental Issues Creating jobs and participating in Efficient land management and 02 Securing customer trust Expanding environmental awareness through eco-friendly businesses, Stakeholders’ Key Material Issues 02 02 economy vitalization policies housing stability of people enhancing anti-corruption, integrity, and ethics practices, and operating Expanding environmental awareness through 03 Customer satisfaction management 03 Vitalizing construction industry 03 eco-friendly businesses green management system were selected as material issues for other 25% Business restructuring and Urban redevelopment and improvement of Enhancing anti-corruption, integrity, environmental aspect by our stakeholders. 04 04 04 management innovation housing welfare and ethics practices 17% ‌ Expanding environmental 14.3% 05 Shared growth with suppliers Enhancing anti-corruption, integrity, Expanding awareness of shared growth awareness through 05 05 and ethics practices with suppliers eco-friendly businesses Efficient land management and housing Developing and distributing eco-friendly ‌ Enhancing anti-corruption, 06 06 06 Reinforcing service responsibility stabilization of people technologies integrity Developing and enforcing housing stability ‌ Operating green 07 Establishing transparent and fair trade practice 07 Expanding overseas businesses 07 policy for people in need management system 08 Social contribution to local communities 08 Customer satisfaction management 08 Operating green management system EconomY LH will do its best to LH is improving its financial soundness through employee’s constant effort and innovation towards management normalization. Based on these deliver happiness and efforts, we are providing people with living spaces and building a better life for the neighbors in need. To fulfill our role as the company responsible valuable life to people for people’s housing stability and welfare, we are committed to developing new technologies and new businesses as well as implementing national projects and improving housing welfare for people. Decrease in debt ratio in 2013 No. of rental houses operated by LH (as of 2013) Realizing people’s 8 %p 754 thousand houses housing stability and universal housing welfare Stakeholder Interview Innovation for management normalization and Daewoo E&C, as a customer and a business partner of LH, engages in developing land and constructing apartments and landscapes. We also supply performances apartments by directly purchasing land developed by LH, contributing to people’s housing stability and creating economic value. Daewoo E&C and many other construction companies were able to overcome difficulties from long-term construction market recession and reduce managerial risks by participating in LH’s public projects. I hope LH will pave the way for growth of private construction companies by continuously demonstrating its leadership as Korea’s representative land and housing company inside and outside of the nation. Currently, most of the private construction companies have hard time in securing credibility and managing risks when entering large construction projects in overseas markets such as new city development. However, if we together with LH enter the overseas markets by capitalizing on LH’s capabilities and knowhow ranging from project development to technological or financial supports, new growth engines will be further developed. Daewoo E&C hopes LH will continue to generate reasonable earnings through various development projects at home and abroad, enhance publicity such as people’s housing stability, and realize Yeon-ik Choi sustainable growth. Director of Daewoo Engineering & Construction 22 LH Sustainability Report 2014 23 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Promoting Management Management Innovation Reorganization for Innovation Normalization In August 2013, LH established a responsible management system through reorganization in order to emphasize Promoting the 2nd Business Restructuring autonomy and responsibility by each division. The evaluation of each division’s contribution to financial Since the launch of LH as an integrated public corporation in 2009, we have reduced KRW 112 trillion in costs by improvement was also introduced, which enhanced the responsibility of each business division on companywide The 2 Business Restructuring nd successfully restructuring development projects in 138 districts. Our management normalization has also been debt level. These actions are expected to enable each division to actively manage debt and encourage nd accelerated by promoting the 2 business restructuring to meet changes in economy and society from 2013. companywide sales. Business restructuring to meet changes in To enhance fundamental financial soundness and reduce debt, we have concentrated on business method economy and society diversification, cost reduction, all-out sales, system improvement, and employee relocation. As the result, in 2013, (Before) (After) Establishing and promoting debt-to-equity and financial debt-to-equity declined by 8% and 11%, respectively. 9 Headquarters 5 Headquarters & 2 Divisions comprehensive plans to reduce debt • Developing ‌ systematic regional demand Planning & Coordination HQ Roadmap for Comprehensive Management Innovation estimation methods • Demand ‌ responsive business and sales To promote systematical management innovation and maximize execution, LH established the Management Bogeumjari Housing HQ Planning and Finance HQ strategy Innovation Roadmap in 2013. According to the roadmap, we have performed diagnosis on each area of business, Green City HQ Housing Welfare HQ • Reducing inventory and debt Responsible identified innovation tasks, and prepared the ‘Comprehensive Plans for Financial Soundness and Management Management Advancing business structure Housing Welfare HQ Urban Environment Innovation’. We will perform the tasks and reach the management normalization as scheduled. Financial Stability • Reorganizing business portfolio Implementation • Introducing ‌ low-cost business Housing Business HQ Public Housing HQ of national policy methods Management Innovation Roadmap projects Industry & Economy HQ National Project HQ Debt reduction plans and Administration Support Division Administration Support Division Management Diagnose (2013) Management Innovation (2014) Management Stability (2015) restructuring of business structure • Developing ‌ management ‌ • Conducting management • ‌Visualizing management innovation Sales & Compensation HQ Technology Support Division innovation tasks innovation tasks results Construction Technology HQ • Performing ‌ diagnose on each area • Applying ‌ to works and feedback • Improving ‌ systems and achieving goals Identifying Tasks for Management Normalization and Internal Stability LH conducted a management innovation task contest with all employees to select plans for financial Settling Virtuous Circle of Business Structure improvement and management innovation. Additionally, we identified 100 tasks in 10 areas to perform management normalization to meet government policy. Details are as follows: 52 tasks in 6 areas for Enhancing Marketing Activities Sales Withdrawal Trend management normalization such as project adjustment, cost reduction, and all-out sales, and 48 tasks in 4 areas LH builds a virtuous circle of profit and financial stability through enhancing sales and marketing activities. As (Unit: KRW in trillions) for internal stability such as management innovation and future growth engines. the result of companywide marketing activities and consumer-customized provision, we were able to achieve KRW 22.1 trillion, a KRW 1.7 trillion over the annual target, in sales withdrawal in 2013, for the first time since the Summary of LH Action 100 Plan YoY 129% corporate integration. 22.4 22.1 Management Normalization 17.1 Marketing Activities to Create Potential Demand Paving the way for 01 ‌ Project realignment: Project scale and period adjustment and selective promotion centered on core projects (6 projects) continuously playing a role as a public 02 ‌ Diversification of promotion: REITs for rental housing, private-public joint development, and entrusting development (6 projects) Sold 253 land plots at • Hosted presentation biannually (2 times) corporation through Presentation tour for customer KRW 132 billion • Presentation by each regional office financial stability 03 Cost reduction: Improvement of works, process, and system, and curtailment of expenditure (9 cases) 2011 2012 2013 ※ including cost reduction tasks at head office Selecting 100 practical 04 All-out sale: Starting emergency sale and disposal of all salable assets (8 cases) • Selected ‌ 30 land plots through evaluation on Sold 11 land plots at tasks in 8 areas of the Selection of valuable land unsold land 05 ‌System improvement & Governmental support: Increase of project efficiency by improving illogical systems and excessive KRW 52.5 billion LH ACTION 100 Plan * Best Selection 30, KRW 179.1 billion regulation (18 cases) and concentrating 06 ‌Working condition adjustment: Preparation of institutional foundation to reduce excessive welfare conditions all energy on (5 cases, 21 details) Sold 35 land plots at Implementation of ‌ • Created new investment demands by attracting achieving the plan KRW 228.8 billion Land Return System* private contractors Internal Stability Sold 18 land plots at • Disposed ‌ unsold assets by resetting the price to 07 Happy House and Housing pay: Performing government tasks without problems (3 cases) Execution of price strategy KRW 192.8 billion meet market needs 08 ‌ Management innovation: Recovery of people’s confidence and improvement of management activities (38 cases) 09 ‌ Future Growth: Development of new growth engines to respond to changes in land and housing paradigm (2 cases) * ‌Land Return System: A sale promotion strategy to reduce investors’ risks by ensuring the 10 ‌ & organization: Reestablishment of organization and HR systems to correspond to changes in management HR return of contract deposits when they exercise the return right after a certain period of the contract environment (5 cases) 24 LH Sustainability Report 2014 25 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Promoting Management Companywide Efforts for Sale Improvement of Financial Structure Normalization By dedicating to companywide all-out efforts for sale and early withdrawal of investment expenditures, LH Expected effect of financial debt reduction Revision of Lease Business Structure has broken out of a vicious circle of increases in loans and debt-to-equity. We have signed sales management (Unit: KRW in trillions) In November 2013, LH has changed leasing business structure from ‘loan method’ to ‘fund entrustment method’ contract in September 2013 to introduce competition between regional headquarters and conducted a sales to improve financial structure. Loan method has kept increasing financial debt because LH borrows loans for Sales Withdrawal Trend target management system. Within 3 months of implementing these efforts, we were able to achieve KRW 6.2 4.6 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 9.8 leasing from the Housing Fund and subleases to tenants. Meanwhile, fund entrustment method makes it possible Withdrawal amount (Unit: KRW in trillions) trillion in sales, a 37% of total sales in 2013. In a bid for the sales target management system, we simultaneously for LH to subleases to tenants after signing the lease with the Housing Fund without loans, which does not occur Cash withdrawal ratio YoY 211% implemented the withdrawal maximization plan and retrieved KRW 16.8 trillion, a 116% over the target. The 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 liabilities. In doing so, LH reduced financial debt of KRW 4.6 trillion in 2013 and the scale will be extended to KRW 9.8 93 70 scale of sales targets will be extended to from current KRW 0.5 trillion to KRW 1 trillion in the future in order to trillion by 2017. Therefore, this method is expected to enable LH to deviate from financial burden. 44 strengthen sales activities and withdrawal. 17.0 17.1 16.8 Fund Financing Method Fund Entrustment Method 3. Fund deposit 2011 2012 2013 1. Fund ‌ operation and 1. Fund loan entrustment of rent 2. Lease Contract/Fund deposit 2. Lease contract National National Leaser Leaser 【 Project Home Ownership by LH, ‘Buy House 2013’ 】 Housing Fund Housing Fund Under the slogan, ‘sale is the only way to survive’, each division hosted a sales determination contest and conducted 5. Interest on fund the street sales promotion campaign named as Project Home Ownership by LH, ‘Buy House 2013’,. While the <Leaser> campaign publicized the government policy and information on company owned land, house, and commercial 4. Rental fees 3. Rental contract 4. Rental contract <Fund borrowers> 5.‌‌Rental fees facilities to people, it also enabled all employees to be armed with a sense of crisis and share the importance of sale (Interest on fund) for sustainable growth with them. Tenant Tenant Securing Stable liquidity Performance in Management Normalization in 2013 (Unit: KRW in billions) Diversification of Financing Financial debt Growth rate of financial debt Stockpiled land LH has stably secured funds needed for the implementation of the government’s real estate policy by redeeming StrucMid-toClassifiForeign (Unit: KRW in trillions) (Unit: KRW in trillions) (Unit: KRW in trillions) ABS tured Long KRW 10.1 trillion and newly raised KRW 11.3 trillion in 2013. Especially, diversified fundraising methods such as cation bond Notes term CP issuing foreign bonds, structured notes, and ABSs accounted for 19.2% of total funds by raised KRW 2.17 trillion in 106 31.5 29.9 104 6.2 6.1 27.5 Fundraising 746.8 650.0 370.0 400.0 2013 and reduced about KRW 5.8 billion in interest cost. KRW 2.2 trillion was raised from major public investment 3.2 98 Reduction 1.9 0.8 institutions. 1.8 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 【 Declaration of Loan Freeze 】 Total debts Financial debt ratio Debt-to-equity In November 2013, the CEO Jae-young Lee declared a plan to stop increasing loans from corporate bonds since 2014 (Unit: KRW in trillions) (Unit: %) (Unit: %) by issuing bonds equivalent to the amount of maturity with the exception of the national housing fund loan. Our 142 351 468 466 CEO’s strong will to reduce debt led to securing trust in LH from financial market and solidified the foundation for 350 138 340 458 financing. Particularly, we were able to expand the scale of fundraising from overseas markets from USD 200 million to 131 USD 400 million in issuing foreign bonds based on Swiss franc at the end of year thanks to upgraded corporate trust. 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 26 LH Sustainability Report 2014 27 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Fulfilling People’s Housing People’s Housing Stability Happy House Supply Plan by Land Type Happy House Stability LH is promoting the Happy House business in accordance with the government’s housing market normalization 38 thousand units on public land Expansion of Rental Housing Supply plan released on April 1, 2013. This is a new public rental housing business that supplies houses built on land near 27 thousand units on In accordance with changing real estate market trend, our construction plans centered on public sale have been public transportation to solve housing instability of socially active classes such as newlyweds, career starters, and private buyers Status of LH’s Rental House Construction adjusted and, as a result, the supply of public rental housing was expanded from 80 thousand to 110 thousand college students. Starting the construction of 4,702 units in 7 pilot districts, LH plans to provide 140 thousand Land owned by units on an annual basis. LH is expanding the supply of rental housing to meet the government’s policy towards public enterprises units meeting the government’s policy by 2017. Classifiuniversal residential welfare for low-income households. In 2013, 48 thousand units out of total 55 thousand Unit 2011 2012 2013 39 thousand units cation units started the construction as rental housing. As a result, the rate of starting rental housing construction on land for public House for sale Units 29,402 31,137 7,232 construction increased to 87%. House for rent Units 34,074 41,357 48,326 36 thousand units on recycled Rental ratio % 54 57 87 city land, etc. Beneficiary Customized Housing Welfare * ‌Annual supply plan: 26 thousand units in 2014 and 38 thousand units a year since 2015 Accumulated Supply Results of CustomOur customized housing welfare business contributes to providing stable residential spaces to people without ized Rental Housing by Type (2004~2013) home ownership. We have prepared various lease types, such as national rental housing, public rental, and ‌ Purchasing rental house for (Units) permanent rental, that varies on customers’ income level. Recently, purchased rental and lease types are multiple-household increased to secure housing stability of the privileged due to the limitation of supplying rental housing by new Happy House Project Lease of existing houses construction. In 2013, LH provided a total of 29,725 units by purchased rental and lease, achieving 158,856 units Lease for college students Lease for newlyweds for a decade. This figure accounted for 89.3% of the government’s supply. Lease for household heads without parents Stable supply of ‘Happy House’ is necessary for young classes to help them reduce housing expenses and create new urban culture. 50,582 (32%) Permanent Rental •‌ Permanent rental housing with inexpensive rental cost Happy House helps young classes, who have been excluded from housing welfare, by reducing their housing and social expenses. It started from the paradigm 8,459 (5%) shift of residential welfare point of view from provider to consumer. It will contribute to raising industrial activities of young classes by curtailing social expenses National Rental Housing • Houses ‌ for people who want to have ownership for commute to schools and jobs and transportation as well as residential expenses. We will also create new city spaces to activate local economy, culture, and 23,768 (15%) public interest through the Happy House business. Public Rental ‌ • Houses that tenant can receive ownership after 5 year rental Happy house will be built as a space of sustainability. 158,856 Purchasing rental house for ‌ • Renting out houses with low price for low-income class after purchasing house 14,169 (9%) (100%) multiple-household for multiple-household Existing houses •‌Subleasing houses to low-income class by leasing existing houses 61,878 (39%) Happy house will be built Happy house vitalizes local Happy house will become Happy house provides jobs for Newlyweds •‌Subleasing houses to low-income newlyweds by leasing existing houses in cities as a young and energetic economy. a space of communication, culture, tenants and local residents. Lease residential town. and welfare. College students •‌Easing the burden of housing expenses on low-income college students • 80% ‌ of units will be provided first to • ‌Vitalizing local economy by attracting • ‌Providing spaces of communication and • ‌Providing jobs for tenants and local socially active class such as newlyweds, younger class with purchasing power harmony by building parks and cultural residents by placing social enterprises career starters, and college students spaces the complex and start-up & employment support Household heads • ‌Supporting residential stability of household heads without parents and children and • Activating ‌ cities by repairing places centers without parents teenagers of disadvantaged class • Rental ‌ fee under the market price that are worn out or neglected ‌ • Strengthening welfare programs for • ‌Improving residential conditions childcare, education, culture, and leisure for workers at regional industrial that tenants prefer complexes Rental Housing by Type Classification Happy House Public Rental (10 years) National Rental Housing Permanent Housing Improving housing stability Supporting people who Supporting housing stability Supporting housing stability Purpose 【 A New Concept of Permanent Rental Housing, ‘Saerom Village’ 】 and welfare for younger class want to own houses of low-income class of lowest income class College students, newlyweds, Low-income households with Welfare recipients and In November 2013, a move-in to the permanent rental housing built for low-income households restarted for the Target Members of subscription deposit and career starters under 4th class in income other lowest income class first time in 20 years. LH will continue to promote the ‘Saerom Village’ project to construct residential buildings with Size (exclusive use space) Under 45m3 Under 85m3 Under 60m3 Under 45m3 social welfare facilities and permanent rental housing on the spare land within existing permanent rental housing Location Area that are easy to commute New cities and other housing areas New cities and other housing areas complexes in order to ensure housing stability of the lowest income class. The ‘Saerom Village’ project will contribute to improving the quality of life beyond just residential spaces for the lowest income class. 28 LH Sustainability Report 2014 29 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Fulfilling People’s Housing Realization of Housing Welfare Major Achievements in 2013 Stability House-Poor Aids New Housing Supply In 2013, LH started the operation of ‘Hopeful Rental Housing REIT’s’ program to purchase apartments from owners (Units) who suffered from large debts and unsalable apartments. When selling their apartments through this program, Classification 2011 2012 2013 they can repay their debts and still get to live in the same apartments for 5 years. As this program ensures people Project approved by government 86,978 84,002 40,392 who are suffering from debts and deterioration of apartment value against moving residential spaces, it has been receiving the greatest response out of all house-poor policies and a total of 895 households have signed Public sale 36,633 43,902 3,673 contracts as of December 2013. Rental housing 50,345 40,100 36,719 Satisfaction Survey for Supporting Housing Stability of Rental Tenants National Rental Housing Supply of houses 70,256 58,528 64,728 To enhance the housing welfare of rental tenants, LH constructed the demonstrative housing welfare governance (Unit: Points) in 92 complexes in November 2011. Currently, we are operating the governance in 160 complexes and expanding Public sale 21,330 24,288 26,940 Classification 2012 2013 customized residential welfare activities to serve senior citizens, job creation, and youth education in accordance Product and service 78.9 80.6 with the characteristics of each complex. Rental housing 48,926 34,240 37,788 Management 79.8 82.8 Residential condition 74 76 New Rental Housing Supply (Units) Car Sharing (LH’s Happy Car) Meals for Children Study Rooms Classification 2011 2012 2013 50 complexes 105 complexes 38 locations Purchasing rental house for 4,436 3,357 7,079 multiple-household Total 11,711 24,190 22,646 Cost Saving in Heating per Permanent Improving Old Rental Housing Facilities Rental Housing Households in 2013 LH is proactive in repairing worn-out rental housing and increasing energy efficiency to improve residential Existing house 6,492 8,277 14,283 environment. In 2013, we spent KRW 70 billion on improving 104 thousand permanent public rental houses. In addition, we changed heating facilities of 20,966 units in 22 complexes from diesel-fueled to LNG-fueled system, KRW 205 thousand which allowed tenants to save KRW 4.3 billion in heating annually. Lease Newlyweds 4,509 4,906 3,905 College students 107 10,349 3,713 Child household heads 603 658 745 Productive Life with Nature 【 Happy 100 Senior House 】 SUB TOTAL 16,147 27,547 29,725 • Rooftop ‌ vegetable garden and public greenhouse To respond to the 100 aging society, LH started the Happy 100 pilot project to enhance residential welfare of senior • Household greenhouse class. This project includes expanding medical treatment and community programs and building safe and pleasant National Rental Housing 26,893 20,495 19,991 Greenhouse Rooftop vegetable residential spaces. We selected Soha district in Gwangmyeong as the candidate for this project and are developing a garden Vegetable pilot project model with forming a council consisting of specialists in welfare. This project will take the lead in building Public rental 9,283 9,971 15,363 garden differentiated residential spaces where senior citizens can enjoy their old-age lives with nature and health. Household greenhouse Greenhouse Permanent rental 482 Communicative Senior Life SUB TOTAL 36,176 30,466 35,836 • Communication ‌ room at every building Design Concept for Space Composition • Multi-cultural facility Communication Communication room room DAY CARE CENTER HEALING PLACE BARRIER FREE Rental Housing Operation Street mall Customized spaces within the complex (Units) Constant medical treatment Barrier free home and health consultation (vegetable garden, greenhouse, and complex Classification 2011 2012 2013 Culture communication room, etc) center Culture center Number of rental housing units 658,709 704,992 754,083 30 LH Sustainability Report 2014 31 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Securing New Growth Engines Building Foundations for New Businesses U-City (Ubiquitous City) LH is strengthening the city competitiveness by developing the U-City (Ubiquitous City) where cutting-edge IT Developing New Business Models to Increase Asset and Product Value infrastructure and ubiquitous information service are converged. Integrated platforms that connect cities’ main Raising the value of land and housing is one of LH’s core business activities. To this end, we have created values by functions such as administration, traffic, welfare, environment, and disaster prevention have already been built focusing on city development and social overhead capital (SOC) projects. Meanwhile, the oversupply of houses in Sejong City, Dongtan district in Hwaseong, and Cheongna district in Incheon. In particular, we completed an and sufficient infrastructure require a paradigm shift to increasing added-value of existing cities and developing intelligent integrated security system to effectively prevent violent crimes. Also LH won an award at the Korea new business models. To respond to this change, LH is dedicating to developing new business models to increase Residential Service Award in 2013. Won an Award at the Korea Residential Service asset and product value such as land product reform and city regeneration. Award in 2013 Overseas Business Land Product Reform LH is raising the real estate value through land product reform. Land Product Reform is a market-oriented Performances in Oversea Business planning activity by changing the shape, size, and purpose of lands to meet customers’ needs. To activate land In 2013, LH began overseas development projects in Brazil, Vietnam, and Myanmar and focused on preparing product reform and land sale, LH has introduced the interim review on land product reform and is operating the package-typed project models, laying the foundation for overseas business that would create high added values land product reform Council. in the future. In recognition of our overseas city development and supports for domestic companies’ penetration into overseas markets, we won the grand prize at the Overseas Construction Awards in March 2013. Solidifying the Foundation for Overseas Business Won an Award at the Overseas Construction Award in 2013 LH has adjusted its mid-term overseas business strategy to support domestic construction companies which Interim Review on Land Product Reform Land Product Reform Council have lost competitiveness in receiving new orders from resource-rich countries such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar Land Planning Mandatory review on land product reform Forming a council headed by chiefs despite low-price strategy. To this end, we are focusing on building wider global networks, supporting information after one year of starting first supply between sales and development divisions exchange, and solidifying the foundation for overseas business. New business models to ensure profitability will be developed with the establishment of substantial overseas business promotion systems by 2016. LH, as a comprehensive developer, is committed to leading overseas business. Changes of land product Land product downsizing use plan Change of project type 5-Year Overseas Business Promotion Strategy Land Product Reform Change of construction Change of plans by district Change of purpose 2014 2016 2018 restrictions Establishing Phases ▶ Building foundations Expanding businesses business systems Securing networks, Accumulating business Land Sale Performance: KRW 9.4 trillion in 112 lots Main Task ▶ accumulating data, and experience and creating Promoting pilot businesses and expanding each business strengthening capability overseas business models Role ▶ Coordinator  Master Developer 【 Performances in Land Product Reform 】 Land Product Reform Land Sale (Unit: Lots) Land size (Lots) 【 High Value-added Package Type Overseas Business Model 】 Sales amount (KRW in trillions) 208 85 7.2 City Development by Residential-Industrial City Development by 160 56 Leasing Land U-City Multi Complex City Management System Technology Transfer 4.9 Comparative advantage through Diversifying fundraising sources Introducing U-City components Worker centered development HW system + SW technology support U-traffic Housing facility Policy experience Construction technology Land IndustCity Existing developHardrial deveHardU-building Educational facility Industrial technology Industrial technology business ware comlopware 2012 2013 2012 2013 ment right plex ment City Management Educational U-administration Infrastructure Technology cooperation 32 LH Sustainability Report 2014 33 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Securing New Growth Engines Strengthening Technology and R&D Status of U-City Project Implementation of Research Tasks New Technology & New Construction Method R&D LH is concentrating on developing new technologies and construction methods to lead future businesses. Our In-company tasks (Unit: Cases) General entrusted tasks cutting-edge U-City technologies are introduced to the Sejong City project and the 2nd new city project. We National entrusted tasks have also conducted more than 100 R&D projects every year. 148 138 Homaesil, 15 12 130 16 R&D Suwon 3.12 million m 2 27 16 17 Researchers (persons) ‌Investment expenditure 11.0 (KRW in billions) 10.1 9.9 106 110 97 Youngjong, ‌ R&D expenditure per person 92 85 87 Pangyo, Incheon 19.32 million m 2 (KRW in billions) Seongnam 9.3 million m2 2011 2012 2013 Byeolnae, 0.11 0.12 0.13 Hongduk, Namyangju 5.10 million m 2 Yongin 2.15 million m2 2011 2012 2013 Samsong, Dongtan, Goyang 5.07 million m 2 Hwaseong 9.04 million m2 Cost Reduction Rate VE (Value Engineering) in Design (Unit: %) VE (Value Engineering) is a business management technique that pursuits cost reduction and higher product Daegu value simultaneously by leading changes in product life cycle ranging from planning to design, construction, Baebang, Technopolis 7.27 million m 2 2.8 sales, and services. LH has applied VE into the design stage to prepare an optimum product design and ensure Asan 3.68 million m2 2.0 1.8 economic feasibility and validity of field application. In 2013, a total of KRW 438.8 billion was reduced through VE Gangwon in design stage and we won the Minister’s award from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. Sejong Innovation 3.61 million m 2 City 21.04 million m2 City Type of Design VE Daegu 2011 2012 2013 Innovation 4.22 million m 2 Unjeong, Paju 9.55 million m2 City Cost reduction type Environment Safety Value innovation type Ulsan • Performance → • Performance ↑ Innovation 2.99 million m 2 Doan, • Cost ↓ Direction • Cost ↓ Daejeon 6.11 million m2 City Constof Value Mainteruction Improvenance Jeonbuk Performance Performance improvement type ment emphasized type Segyo, Innovation 9.91 million m 2 • Performance ↑ Civil Symbolism complaints • Performance ↑ Osan 3.24 million m2 City • Cost → • Cost ↑ Cheongna, Incheon 17.79 million m2 Building Spatial Big Data LH is promoting the spatial big data system project to integrate and manage government’s spatial data. To do so, LH signed an agreement with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in May 2013 and established mid and long-term strategies. The spatial big data system was first launched to the public through the Onnara real estate website. This website offers information on the price trend and prospect of real estate in the nation and statistical data related to real estate LH will continue to improve the spatial information application system to support scientific policy projects and enhance public housing welfare services. Completion of construction Under construction Gwanggyo district shown on LH’s spatial information application system 34 LH Sustainability Report 2014 35 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Economic Performances Creating and Distributing Economic Value Financial Statements Even while placing great efforts on management normalization, LH is effectively investing its business resources Classification Details Content Unit 2011 2012 2013 in securing future growth engines. We provide various solutions related to real estate encompassing housing Total sales KRW in billions 15,260 18,372 18,273 welfare services to land development projects such as city space creation. Results from such businesses are Land Development KRW in billions 7,638 12,291 10,892 returned to society and all stakeholders. Sales Housing Construction KRW in billions 6,522 4,858 6,116 Key economic breakdown Housing Welfare KRW in billions 750 846 884 performances Subsidiary Business KRW in billions 350 378 381 Operating Profit KRW in billions 1,090 1,409 830 Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders Net Profit KRW in billions 791 1,205 711 Current assets KRW in billions 92,250 95,037 97,076 Assets Non-current assets KRW in billions 66,223 72,724 76,343 Total assets KRW in billions 158,473 167,762 173,419 current liabilities KRW in billions 34,109 38,184 39,364 Economic Value Summarized Shareholders financial Liabilities Non-current liabilities KRW in billions 96,462 99,938 102,967 Created position Total liabilities KRW in billions 130,571 138,122 142,331 Sales Dividend Capital stock KRW in billions 22,414 23,076 23,889 Equities Others KRW in billions 5,488 6,564 7,195 Total equity KRW in billions 27,902 29,640 31,084 ConstrucCorporate Sales growth % 16 20.4 -0.5 Stakeholders Growth tion Cost Tax Net Profit Growth % 55 52.4 -41 Suppliers Government Return on Asset % 0.5 0.7 1.8 Local Taxes Profitability Wage and Return on Equity % 2.8 4.1 10.2 and Social Benefits Current ratio % 270.5 248.9 246.6 Contribution Key Financial Indicators Quick Ratio % 26 26 26 Stability Debt-to-equity % 468 466 457.8 Financial Debt Ratio % 350 351 340 Local Employees Communities Equity Ratio % 17.6 17.7 17.9 Gross value added to Productivity % 4 4.2 3.7 assets Economic Value Created Shareholders Government (Unit: KRW in billions) (Unit: KRW in billions) (Unit: KRW in billions) Classification Details Content Unit 2011 2012 2013 122.8 18,371.7 18,272.8 Reduction of Weighted average Interest rate % 4.15 3.5 3.17 15,260.0 0.9 interest costs interest rate for funding 77.3 62.4 Classification Details Content Unit 2011 2012 2013 0 0 Total KRW in billions 15,260 18,372 18,273 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Sales Independent businesses KRW in billions 4,716 8,482 9,442 National projects KRW in billions 10,544 9,890 8,831 Employees Local Communities Suppliers Total KRW in billions 1,090 1,409 830 Operating (Unit: KRW in billions) (Unit: KRW in billions) (Unit: KRW in billions) Independent businesses KRW in billions 369 510 -171 profit 599.5 Classified National projects KRW in billions 721 899 1,001 562.0 563.4 333.7 11,566.2 10,339.5 11,058.3 accounting Total KRW in billions 791 1,205 711 252.1 227.4 Net profit Independent businesses KRW in billions 142 349 -85.8 National projects KRW in billions 649 856 797 Total KRW in billions 130,571 138,122 142,331 Liabilities Independent businesses KRW in billions 62,967 76,765 81,979 National projects KRW in billions 67,604 61,358 60,352 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Society Growing into a corporation that fulfills social responsibilities We are committed to make a LH, as Korea’s largest public corporation, makes a concerted effort to satisfy its social responsibilities and duties. Our commitment to ethics better society through social and integrity allows us to increase management transparency and gain higher trust from all stakeholders. We will also continue to expand our contribution activities social contribution activities that pursue fair society, shared growth with local communities, job creation, and cultural and environmental supports in order to contribute to making a better society. Total Volunteer Hours of Purchasing Products from Employees in 2013 SMEs in 2013 Creating social value by contributing to the development 65,848 hours KRW 5,992.8 billion of local communities Stakeholder Interview Since the summer of 2005, the Citizens for Decent Housing and LH have been jointly engaging in services to feed children who are living in rental housing complexes. This social contribution program includes delivering lunch boxes to children of low-income families or dual-income families and providing educational and cultural programs during vacation, which is well received by beneficiaries, their parents, complex management staff, and residents. In summer 2013, we provided food services to 100,800 people in 107 housing complexes, through which 210 jobs were created. In addition, 300 volunteers provided a total of 105 talent donation classes such as Korean paper art, balloon art, reading, and etiquette lessons, in which 240 members of LH Community Service Group joined food service, dish-washing, and one-day lessons. I believe social contribution of LH offers people with poor housing conditions practical assistance and invigorates residents in public rental housing complexes. Today, social contribution is recognized as an essential and high-level responsibility in corporate management. I know that LH is dedicating to implementing social contribution activities in the field of housing welfare, ecological environment, and social welfare in order to realize its vision to lead the improvement of quality of people's life, Nam Sang-oh housing stability, and national economy. To efficiently use your corporate resources, it is necessary to prioritize your social contribution programs in Secretary General of the accordance with importance and focus efforts on core programs. In particular, considering the housing voucher program that will be reorganized this Citizens for Decent Housing year and the introduction of government-led housing welfare worker system, LH needs to adopt new social contribution programs that can connect its housing welfare governance system, social welfare, and public services. Moreover, it’s a good idea to strengthen partnerships with NGOs in order to expand social contribution activities related to housing welfare in rental housing complexes. 38 LH Sustainability Report 2014 39 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Customer Satisfaction CS Management Framework Building the Customer Satisfaction System Management CS Strategy VOC Management Under the ‘LH’s Mid to Long-term CS Management Strategy 2015’, we are promoting the following four strategic LH is operating the VOC system for integrated management of customers’ opinions, advices, and complaints. directions and tasks to achieve our CS vision ‘A Public Enterprise Loved by People through Delivering Customer Those collected through various VOC channels are rapidly responded and treated and the processes are checked Satisfaction’. Our CS level is assessed through the customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Ministry in real time not to be omitted. Significant opinions and complaints are shared with relevant departments and of Strategy and Finance with regard to public enterprises, and the results are reflected to our management improvement plans are reflected to our mid to long-term management strategies. strategies. We will continue to enhance our responsibility for customer service by practicing CS management throughout the company. Response to VOCs CS Vision A public enterprise loved by people through delivering customer satisfaction Companywide participation and monitoring Enhancing product values Reflection to Delivering services to satisfy customers Collection Response Application Feedback management based on customer needs Strategic activities Directions Creating a corporate image that pursues Building customer-centered infrastructures mutual growth and communication Improvement and evaluation Responsible Organization Improvement of Customer Service Our CS management is efficiently conducted through a companywide responsible organization. The CS We have endeavored to improve our product quality and design to satisfy various customers’ needs. Our Management Committee under the CEO establishes mid to long-term strategies and plans for CS management customized design and customer service have contributed to raising the quality of housing condition and and the CS Management Advisory Committee consisting of academia and advisory groups engages in upgraded service and product systems mitigated inconveniences and complaints. In addition, we have installed presenting improvements of mid to long-term strategies and analyzing performances. The CS Practice more counseling offices for rental contracts in the nation to help residents resolve their unstable housing Committee plays a role for concluding cooperation in CS activities between head office and worksites as well as conditions and provide supports for stable housing. assigning CS targets to each department and checking their practices. Service Improvements in 2013 Expanded the • Encouraged ‌ participations of customers and expert groups in design value engineering, participation of quality inspection, model house contest, and so on CS Management Advisory CS Management Committee CS Practice Committee customer evaluation Committee • Reflected the marketability evaluated by the panel to design competition panel Establishment of mid to Participation of the academia Activation of CS activities long-term strategies and and advisory groups Started rental by working staff • Provided ‌ convenience to university students who are accustomed to IT-based systems plans for CS management in management activities application for • Simplified ‌ application documents by introducing qualification search based on the Social university students Security Information System through website CEO • Established a call center responsible for complaints about defects Upgraded repairing • Promoted ‌ the advancement of repairing defects system to ensure rapid responses defects system • Operated repair squad and expanded patrol services in the apartment complex • Focused on developing methods to repair chronic defects CS Management Committee CS Management Advisory Committee CS Practice Committee Operated regional • Operated 10 counseling offices all over the country to increase accessibility counseling offices for • Provided ‌ counseling services by professionals such as licensed real estate agents General Affairs and Regional Office rental contracts • Published manuals to enhance counselors’ capabilities and offered high-quality services Head Office LH’s Counseling Office for Rental Contracts Customer Department Operating Office 40 LH Sustainability Report 2014 41 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Customer Satisfaction Enhancing CS Capabilities Management Campaign for Customer Happiness Highlights in 2013 Various campaigns are conducted to establish CS culture and make employees cultivate CS mind. The campaign ‘3 UP for Customer Happiness’ motivates employees to serve customers and the ‘LH Smile Contest’ to select 14 employees who are excellent in customer response attracts voluntary participation. In addition, the results and spirit of customer satisfaction are shared among all employees through in-company broadcasting, webzine, and Task Force to Increase Housing Quality films related to CS activities. A task force consisting of engineers and onsite staff was launched in order to increase housing quality and customer satisfaction by preventing repetitive and structural defects. A total of 37 members from 5 CS Training Programs teams participated in the task force headed by the chief of Housing Project 2, and they engage in worksite Special CS Lecture Tour in Worksites We provide various and effective CS training programs. The CS lecture tour at worksites contributes to expanding inspection, design review, and supports for system improvement. The task force preferentially selected Wirye, opportunities for customer contact and our CS trainings for frontline employees make it possible to offer the Onsite Responses to Osan, Goyang, and Gwanggyo Districts for its activities. Based on analysis data, minor defects are promptly 25 worksites same kinds of services to customers at any workplace. Our CS capabilities have also been elevated through incorrected on sites and significant defects are comprehensively treated to preemptively prevent errors in Unsatisfactory Affairs 2,477 participants 294 company specialized CS trainings and commissioned trainings to professional CS institutes. design and construction. After the dissolution of the task force, we will continue to make a concerted effort to prevent defects by sharing the results of repairing defects and check lists as well as conducting design Total cases Accelerating CS Activities reflux and recall systems. (1st stage: 124 , 2nd stage: 170 ) (Year 2013) Business Support Division, as the control tower of CS management, is responsible for enhancing CS capabilities of all business units. Employees who are designated as CS leaders and managers of each department take the CS Leader 25 persons head in CS activities and help colleagues voluntarily put CS management into practice. This system escalates CS CS Manager 2,477 persons capabilities of each department and consequently of the company. LH Howdy Monitoring Group The ‘LH Howdy Monitoring Group’ consists of housewives with high interest and professionalism in housing. Evaluation on CS Performances We preferentially select members who are living in the metropolitan area and LH’s apartments because they have high understanding of housing quality and tasks. They mainly engage in identifying improvements of LH introduced the CS mileage system in order to raise CS mind of employees and encourage voluntary CS LH’s houses from an objective point of view of customers. activities and established a compensation system connecting the result of customer satisfaction survey and internal evaluation. This compensation system based on a year-round CS monitoring helps us enhance customercentered management and provide customers with better services. Publication of a Manual Containing Housing Information Tightening the linkage • Reflecting ‌ the results of CS evaluation on public enterprises to internal evaluation indices of between customer responsible departments of head office and regional offices To provide rental housing residents with welfare information, we published a manual that helps them satisfaction and • Reflecting ‌ the satisfaction level of residents including maintenance status and responses to internal evaluation complaints easily understand requirements such as qualification, process, and so on to receive welfare services by LH, the central government, and local governments. This manual also contains information about LH’s housing • Operating mileage systems to activate CS activities welfare and various social welfare services for low-income families, female and multicultural households, Introducing CS ‌Individual: participation in collective CS trainings, completion of cyber trainings, children, adolescent, disabled, senior citizens, health, and jobs. We distributed this manual not only to the mileage system and awards in competitions government, local governments, and relevant institutions, but also LH’s regional offices, housing welfare Department: sharing CS activities, awards in competitions, etc. centers, and rental housing complex offices to be accessible to the residents. • Rewards based on results of CS evaluation and monitoring of customer response Building Awarded 14 departments and 36 employees with excellent results performance • CS mileage Opened a Website for Ownership & Lease Housing compensation system Awarded 2 departments and 14 employees with excellent results LH opened a website for ownership and lease housing customers in July 2013. This website helps customers easily access to information about for ownership and lease housing and contributes to improving the quality of customer service and efficiency of administrative works. 42 LH Sustainability Report 2014 43 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Social Contribution Social Contribution Framework LH’s Specialized Social Contribution Activities Activities Strategy Major Businesses of Community-based Community-based Social Enterprises Social Enterprises LH supports the establishment of community-based social enterprises to contribute to improving the quality of LH realigned the vision and strategic directions for social contribution that reflect the purpose of corporate establishment, management activities, and the characteristics of its businesses. lives of rental housing residents and developing local communities. Starting in 2010, community-based social Rental Major Businesses enterprises have engaged in producing and selling products and services that can reflect regional characteristics Complex and realize social value. And their earnings generated from economic activities are reinvested for the Seonghwa in • Local food business Vision Becoming a reliable public enterprise through fulfilling social responsibilities Cheongju • Operation of Sharing Café development of local communities. Their businesses have been extended to educational and cultural services for • Libraries and study rooms the underprivileged as well as operation of local childcare centers in rental housing complexes. We will continue Yulha in • Safe lunch box to help community-based social enterprises develop their businesses and contribute to local communities. Leading low-carbon and Daegu • Safe vegetable garden Promoting top-level social contribution green-growth policy • Happiness Counseling Office Strategic Directions Iksan in • Vegetable garden Joint Wedding Ceremony for “Happy Companionship” Expanding supports for people in need Participating in volunteer services Jeollabuk-do • Food service Every year since 2004, we have hosted joint wedding event named as ‘Happy Companionship’ for multicultural • Farmer’s market households who are living in our rental housing complexes and had not yet gotten married because of financial Paju in • Delivery of lunch box Gyeonggi-do • Selling of side dishes problems. Expenses for wedding, reception, and honeymoon are entirely provided by LH. A total of 120 couples • Culture and welfare service have gotten married until 2013. LH is committed to becoming a public corporation that can provide residents Responsible Organization with happiness beyond just building houses and developing cities. LH conducts social contribution activities centered on in-company 33 community service groups and has the Social Contribution Committee to secure efficiency. In addition, we strive to maximize performances in social contribution by organizing independent groups together with social welfare institutions and relevant public Improvement of Rental Housing Improvement of Local Environmental Conditions Environment LH is conducting a unique social contribution to lend its land spaces for free which have been unsold for a long institutions. Supporting Establishment (No. of enterprises) time to residents. These land spaces are lent in groups of five residents and cultivated as vegetable gardens. Fresh LH Community Service Group of Community-based vegetables produced on the gardens are donated to low-income households, childcare centers, and facilities for Social Enterprises 16 the elderly in local communities. In addition, LH is proactive in transforming old and vulnerable playgrounds into 12 Chairman (President) environment-friendly and safe ones, in which local children and residents participate. Through these efforts, LH is 8 committed to building ecologically sustainable local communities where nature and people are able to coexist. Advisory Committee Executive Secretary Vice Chairman (Vice President) (Head of Department) Operation Council Developing Social Contribution Programs by 2011 2012 2013 Social Contribution Committee Branches at Head Office Branches at Regional Offices Industry-University Collaboration Supporting Establishment (No. of enterprises) of Local Childcare Centers We are promoting collaboration projects with other institutions in order to conduct concrete and efficient 38 global social contribution activities. In August 2013, we signed an MOU contract to jointly develop global Attracting Voluntary Participation from Employees 33 social contribution programs with Yeungnam University. It was prepared to create synergy by integrating We have realigned systems to attract voluntary participation from employees. A new performance index LH’s experiences and knowhow in building housing complexes and developing land spaces and Yeungnam 22 reflecting the rate of participation in social contribution activities was introduced, through which we grant University’s professionalism in economic development research and education. Currently, the two bodies are incentives and prizes to offices and employees with high index. In addition, the Sharing Fund which is raised and focusing on developing and implementing social contribution programs to offer better housing conditions and operated by employees’ voluntary participation helps them feel worth to directly contribute to society. A total of quality of lives to people of developed countries. 5,429 employees have participated in the Sharing Fund in 2013. 2011 2012 2013 Moreover, we jointly organized the UCC (Union Corporate Committee) with congenial public institutions and have been implementing global volunteer services with them. In 2013, the committee members visited 380 local Incentive System Sharing Fund Services to Feed Children (No. of enterprises) families of multicultural households from Vietnam and provided volunteer services that made the most of their 105 business characteristics. LH focused on repairing and improving old houses. 92 88 • Newly ‌ established indices to assess employees’ • ‌Raising fund by employees’ voluntary donations from participation level (hour, number, frequency, etc.) their salaries every month 2011 2012 2013 • Prepared ‌ a reward program for excellent departments • ‌Using fund for social contribution activities of and individuals in social contribution community service groups at regional offices 44 LH Sustainability Report 2014 45 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Social Contribution Activities Highlights in 2013 Social Contribution Programs Tailored to Life Cycle LH is committed to implementing social contribution activities to offer practical assistance by developing differentiated programs tailored to each age group. Activities Performances ② Childhood Education and childcare services for children Mentoring program: 215 children who are living in rental houses Feeding services: 3,228 children First won the Encouragement Award at the Best Practice Competition Operation of the ‘Visiting Museum’ for underprivileged children hosted by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport Adolescence Launch of Dream Housing Bankbook for teen heads of household A total of 155 teen heads opened the bankbook. Scholarship supports for low-income households Provided scholarships to 462 teens of low-income households (Ginkgo Tree Foundation) in Seongnam Young Adults Continuous expansion of community-based Hired 233 employees at 16 companies social enterprises to create jobs ① ③ Holding joint wedding events for unmarried multicultural A total of 120 couples have been married. households who are living in leased houses ①S ‌ upporting the establishment of community-based social enterprises Old Age Volunteer services such as bathing, cleaning, Served 200 senior citizens who live alone in ②V ‌ isiting senior citizens on the and delivering side dishes permanent rental houses all over the country New Year’s Day ③ ‌Participating in restoration of Kimchi-making event (2 thousand heads of napa cabbage) Delivered kimchi to 379 senior households flood damages ④ ‌Delivering briquettes to people in need ⑤ Holding joint wedding ceremony ⑤ ⑥ ‌Building eco-friendly playground in rental housing complexes ⑦ ‌Feeding children in rental housing complexes UNICEF & ⑧ Kimchi-making event JTBC Chosun Biz Save the Children ⑨ ‌Mentoring program for children in Won the CSR Leader Won the Love-Sharing rental housing complexes Selected as an excellence Award in Mutual Growth Social Contribution Award ⑩ ‌Supporting the establishment of in child-friendly local childcare centers in 2013 in 2013 ④ management Social Contribution Performance Sharing Fund (Unit: KRW in billions) Matching Grant (Unit: KRW in billions) Time Spent on Volunteer Services (Unit: hours) ⑦ ⑨ 65,848 65,254 0.35 0.35 0.35 0.35 0.34 0.34 43,324 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 ⑥ ⑧ ⑩ 46 LH Sustainability Report 2014 47 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Shared Growth and Win-win Shared Growth Framework Supporting SMEs to Enhance Capabilities Partnership Strategy Purchasing of SME Products Economic Assistance In 2013, we established a new plan named as ‘Beautiful Companionship’ in order to successfully promote shared LH established the ‘SME Support Group’ to continuously promote product purchasing from SMEs and increased Rate of purchasing (Unit: %) growth with SMEs. We also ran a contest for shared growth ideas from all employees and collected opinions of the number of personnel responsible for purchasing over 5 times. In 2013, products purchased from SMEs 54.6 amounted to KRW 5.9 trillion, a KRW 700 billion increase over the previous year, and accounted for 54.6% of total expert employees at each sector, through which key four strategies were drawn up to secure sustainable shared 51.6 51.6 growth. purchasing. The rate of purchasing from SMEs has increased for 3 years in a row. Goal Laying a sustainable foundation for shared growth with business partners Fair Competition Enhancing Transparency in Bidding Process Providing SMEs with more opportunities Improving systems to ensure fair 2011 2012 2013 All of the biddings except for turnkey base projects at LH are conducted by electronic bidding system to enhance for direct engagement subcontract transactions Strategies transparency. Electronic biddings accounts for about 99.88% of total ones. Our entire bidding announcements Building inspection and feedback system are linked to the G2B (Government-to-Business) system and ALIO (All Public Information in One) system so that Supporting SMEs to enhance capabilities and increasing the level of awareness Total amount of purchasing (Unit: KRW in billions) whenever we announce biddings on the in-house electronic procurement system, those are automatically 5,992.8 loaded up on the government system for the public announcement. Responsible Organization 5,267.0 5,298.6 Tightening Subcontract Transactions We organized the Win-win Partnership Promotion Committee head by the chief of Business Support Division The payment confirmation task force consisting of 133 employees at 23 headquarters checks payment status and the committee holds a meeting every quarter and extraordinary meetings when necessary. The committee every month and subcontract transactions biannually on 4,125 subcontractors at 556 worksites. As a result, the checks the practice of promotion tasks, supports shared growth activities, increase employees’ awareness of winnumber of illegal subcontract transactions and the amount of overdue wages decreased 10.7% and 10.6%, win partnership, and encourage them to practice. 2011 2012 2013 respectively, year on year. Creating LH’s Unique Win-win Partnership Model LH intends to expand the joint-venture system with prime contractor that enables us to directly select subcontractors instead of turn-key base contracts that the contractors choose the lowest bidder. The proportion of the joint-venture system with prime contractor will increase from 5% in 2013 to 40% in 2016. Expanding Communications with SMEs Activating Interactive Communication 【 Evaluation Process for Business Partners 】 LH investigates the level of suppliers’ satisfaction in the fields of general administration, evaluation & inspection, subcontract, safety & environment, professionalism, responsibility, and integrity. Also, we collect opinions of LH is continuously monitoring activities of suppliers through computerized payment confirmation system and inspection of their Economy site workers through discussion meetings with suppliers and strive to strengthen relationships. In 2013, our 21 subcontract transactions. Furthermore, we are focusing on minimizing business divisions held 47 meetings, through which a total of 367 grievances were collected and entirely solved. Reduction of due date of impacts on environment and society by suppliers by capitalizing payment for construction on internal systems such as subcontract transaction guidelines and by 5 to 11 days Providing More Training Programs inspection task guidelines. Training programs for employees and suppliers have been expanded to diffuse the culture of win-win partnership. We have provided our regional offices and business divisions with regular in-house training programs 21 times and suppliers with trainings to eradicate unfair subcontracts and bad habitual practices 30 times during the year. LH will continue to strive to settle the culture of sustainable shared growth and win-win partnership. Environment Society 24% increase in 10.6% decrease in overdue securing eco-friendly wages and 10.7% decrease living spaces in illegal subcontracts 48 LH Sustainability Report 2014 49 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Human Resource Management Status of Employees Cultivating Talents LH’s HR Model LH does not discriminate against the level of education, age and gender, proactively complies with related Talent Cultivation Programs Strategy to Cultivate Talents regulations, and performs ability-centered employment. We also provide equal employment opportunities to To strengthen professionalism of each job and position and cultivate core talents, LH is operating various high school graduates, disabled, people of national merit, and other people who are living in non-capital regions. Classification Courses No. of educational programs encompassing basic theory, problem solution, field reaction capability, and other tailored Participants In 2013, we hired 17 new employees and additional 26 employees based on social equality. training courses. Total 1,249 67,055 Value Creator Core value/ 4 706 capability as a leader Classification Unit 2011 2012 2013 Job capability 31 1,905 Goal Cultivating LH’s unique talents who can lead the creativity and innovation Total Full-time position Persons 6,495 6,703 6,477 In-house university/ 12 200 Change Leader commissioned education Successfully operating Fostering core talents and experts to Temporary position Persons 424 362 326 the LH Land and Housing University lead the future of LH Self-development and 102 49,195 career development Tasks in 2013 Youth interns Persons 439 389 546 Enhancing educations in each sector Cyber education 1,100 15,050 Operating the smart-learning program such as sale, marketing, finance, tailored to customer needs Professionalism and residential welfare Gender equality Female employees among % 17.2 18.2 18.4 full-time positions Female employees among manager positions % 0.8 1.1 1.6 Nurturing Core Talents We are strengthening the utilization of specialized staff at each business area. More specialized staff has been sent Socially disadvantaged Disabled employees among into housing welfare and rental asset management areas that require higher professionalism. We also created % 2.4 2.6 2.5 people full-time positions new positions that are appropriate for specialized staff such as expense confirmation, defect maintenance, land management, and licensing support. In addition, we respond to various issues that occur at each business site Turnover Turnover rate % 0.8 2.6 0.5 in timely manner by arranging specialized staff in equilibrium. Meanwhile, an asset management specialist cultivation program was established to perfectly support house-poor people through ‘Rental House REIT’s’ * ‌Some figures were changed in accordance with the change of guidelines to announce the status of employees by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance program which was one of national tasks and to prepare the expansion of real estate related financial businesses. Employment Based on Social Equality Number of LH Land and Housing Education Process Based on Life Cycle University Freshmen The LH Land and Housing University is running job education programs specialized in LH businesses to nurture Expanding Senior Employment high school graduates as specialists in land and housing sectors. Graduates of the LH Land and Housing University are recognized as regular university graduates according to the Lifelong Education Act and can In a bid for solving social problems from aging and senior poverty, LH has expanded the senior employment. In 40 persons become talents armed with job capability. Also, we provide retirement planning and life planning for the retiring 2013, a total of 3,000 seniors, an increase of 1,000 people year-on-year, were employed and working period was employees. Employees within 10 years of retirement can receive educations such as mid-to-long term financial also extended by one month. They have engaged in inspecting facility safety, checking conditions of residents, planning, life redesigning, and retirement preparation through the LH Future Planning Academy. For employees and supporting other senior citizens who live alone, contributing to helping socially disadvantaged people in within 3 years of retirement, education programs to support their business startups or career changes are local communities. We will continue to hire senior employees under the purpose of solicitude for the socially disadvantaged. provided. Starting Ceremony for Senior Employees Cultivating Talented High School Graduates Cultivation of Female Talents We are operating education programs to prevent career discontinuity of female employees and foster women In 2013, a total of 194 high school graduates joined LH and the figure was the largest among public corporations. managers. Female employees at LH are able to participate in preliminary manager course and leadership They have been provided with various training programs and job experiences to enhance their capabilities. development course. We also encourage interchanges among female employees to give motivation to become We also support their registrations to the LH Land & Housing University to provide them with opportunities for female specialist. These activities are expected to strengthen the diversity in our businesses. gaining bachelor’s degree and running parallel with study. In addition, the field-office rotational working system is conducted to cultivate field specialist. LH will expand the employment of high school graduates to fulfill the job Welcoming Ceremony for High School Graduates creation policy of the government and foster future talants. Welcoming Ceremony for high school graduates 50 LH Sustainability Report 2014 51 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Human Resource Management Advancing the Labor-Management Relationship Family-friendly Management Win-win Strategy between the Labor and Management Supporting Work-Life Balance Number of Labor-Management With the vision of building a creative labor and management relationship, LH is focusing on the following 4 Number of Maternity Leaves in 2013 Various family-friendly programs are being implemented to support the balance between work and family. We Council Meetings Held in 2013 strategic tasks. have expanded childbirth and childcare supports and increased the number of in-house nursery facility from Total 206 cases 155 to 210 so that female employees prevent discontinuity of their career from the burden of childcare. Also, (19 cases by male employees) every Wednesday is designated as Family Day to encourage employees to spend time with their families. Every 150 times Vision Building a creative labor-management relationship to become a last Wednesday is designated as a Home-Run Day. On the Home-Run Day, company dinner and overtime work world-class land and housing corporation is banned and company’s intranet is shutoff to encourage employees to get off work early and expand familyEstablishing a valuable corporate culture base on cooperative friendly corporate culture. Goal labor-management relationship Improving the Flexible Working Program Win-win growth between the labor Enhancing job capabilities and management At LH, flexible working program is conducted in a bid to actively respond to the governmental policy and throughout the company Strategic Tasks improve productivity through work-life balance. Since 2011, we have been carrying out flexible working hour and Securing a rational collective Activating mutual communication working hour reduction for infant care. In particular, this program has helped employees care for their children. agreement process In 2013, flexible working programs were integrated and expanded for vitalization. We also provided executives, high ranked employees, and staff responsible for flexible working with educations to improve their awareness of advantages of flexible working program. Building a Win-win Labor-Management Relationship LH strives to resolve conflicts from significant changes in management activities and decision-making such as Various Welfare Programs reorganization or personnel transfer by performing active communications with the labor union. In 2013, there were conflicts related to the establishment of the 3rd labor union and dissatisfaction at promotion between the labor and management. These conflicts have been resolved through continuous meetings, discussions, and Family-friendly • Program: Filial Duty Camp, Family Camp, and Child Camp programs • Result: 53.9% increase in participation (836 participants) implementation of consultation on building new human resource system. Growing Together Festival Strengthening Communication between the Labor and Management • Program: ‌ Psychological inspection and consultation, Healing Workshop, and special In 2013, LH enhanced the role of organizations for labor-management cooperation, through which inefficiency EAP programs lectures by celebrities • Result: 250% increase in participation (200 participants) from repetitive works about pending issues between labor and management was eliminated. Moreover, we have been proactive in collecting employees’ opinions on pending issues of management since opening a communication channel for all employees in October 2013. Through this communication channel, a total of • Program: ‌ Annual Leave Plan, Refresh Leave, Holiday-linked Leave, and reflection of the Encouragement of result of using annual leaves to internal evaluation 28 opinions related to labor conditions such as HR, welfare, and education have been collected, of which 13 using annual leaves • Result: Improvement of work efficiency cases have been applied. Our existing communication channels Open Labor and Management Meeting, LH Coexistence Committee, Youth Lunch Day, GpGgi Activity, and LH Healing Camp – have also been more vitalized and contributed to resolving labor-management issues and forming a consensus. Joint Workshop for Plural Labor Unions Best Practice LH Healing Camp We have been hosting the LH Healing Camp program composed of body and mind trainings such as yoga, meditation, and tracking, lecture on health, and self-reflection. This program, which was prepared to create the GWP (Great Work Place), has provided employees with mental stability and contributed to building energetic and healthy corporate culture. LH Healing Camp received 4.23 points out of 5 on satisfaction in 2013. Environment LH will make a concerted LH dedicates to achieving the vision in environmental management, conducting environmental land development, and reducing energy use effort to create a Building a Greener World through Environmental Management through green management. We are also demonstrating the leadership in eco friendliness by developing eco-friendly cities and buildings, clean environment. reducing GHG emissions, and engaging in district heating & cooling and CDM projects. We will continue to expand eco-friendly activities in our businesses and strengthen the environmental management system. Contribution to Generating Increase in Purchasing Eco-friendly Energy in 2013 Products (compared to 2012) 55,285 MWh 279 % Focusing on Eco-friendly Land Development Stakeholder Interview The Environmental Impact Assessment Association predicts environmental impacts of the development business, performs analysis and researches on environmental impact, and promotes eco-friendly construction through supporting technology development, environmental laws and system enhancement and performance evaluation management. I know well that LH is active in participating in evaluating and practicing environmental policies by capitalizing on its professionalism in developing land and housing and deep understandings of related laws. The corporation is also leading the development of eco-friendly cities by establishing an effective water-cycle system to cope with climate change such as flood and drought and minimizing damage to the land and ecosystem. These efforts to preserve natural environment and provide pleasant living environment brought a knock-on effect to improve satisfaction of residents. I hope LH’s excellent eco-friendly construction knowhow to be applied to the supply of housing in the future. I also expect that LH will establish a system to minimize the generation of waste and expand the use of new and renewable energy in entire construction processes by considering the product life cycle encompassing design, construction, and rebuilding. By doing so, LH will continue Lee Moon-Hyung to demonstrate the leadership in environmental management. Chairperson of the Environmental Impact Assessment Association 54 LH Sustainability Report 2014 55 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Environmental Environmental Management Strategies and Tasks Technology and Building Green Cities and Laying the Foundation for Green Businesses Korea has a vision in green growth to become one of world’s top 7 green countries by 2020. With the vision Construction of ‘leading the green growth initiatives through building world-class eco-friendly cities and housing’, LH is Developing Environmental Cities committed to implementing the following 4 key strategies and 10 major tasks to spearhead the national green To protect nature and provide urban residents with ecological environment, LH creates a green network in growth. which ecological corridors, wide plants, forest, and ecological habitats are located. We also construct ecological cities with blue network that offers water-related spaces by utilizing stream water in the city. Byeolnae District in Vision ▶ Leading green growth initiative by committing to constructing world-class environmental cities and houses Namyangju, the 2nd Seochang District in Incheon, and Han River New Town in Gimpo have been constructed as eco-friendly cities. Especially, Byeolnae District in Namyangju won the grand prize at the ‘13th Natural Environment Award’ on November 22, 2013. Building green cities and Constructing environmental 4 Key ▶ Establishing GHG emissions Practicing green laying the foundation for houses and improving Strategies reduction system management Won the Grand Prize at the Natural Environment Award green businesses energy efficiency • Developing ‌ green city • Developing ‌ and expanding • Building ‌ the carbon • Building ‌ the green models and building pilot environmental housing emissions inventory management system 【 Byeolnae District in Namyangju 】 cities technologies • Developing ‌ CDM projects • Enhancing green activities 10 Key ▶ Tasks • Laying ‌ the foundation for • Expanding ‌ the use of and registering in the UN Byeolnae District in Namyangju is LH’s representative eco-friendly residential city that is integrated with our city green businesses green energy and green Framework Convention on ① ② development knowhow. Residents are able to experience various ecological environments as Byeolnae District • Making ‌ green transport construction materials Climate Change 1. ‌Aerial View of is located around Bulam Mountain and small streams such as Deoksong Stream, Yongam Stream, and Siksong system and fostering • Accelerating ‌ resource Byeolnae Strict carbon absorption sources recycling Stream. Also, Byeolnae District has the Automatic Clean Net System to collect residential waste through a network of 2. ‌Automatic Clean Net System underground transfer pipe and the Clean Center which disposes gas created by waste incinerator with the pyrolysis ③ 3. Clean Center fusion method. These systems provide residents with pleasant living environments. Overview of Green Growth Activities Laying the Foundation for Green Businesses LH’s environmental management strategy and tasks start from the concept of creating eco friendliness of cities, LH is engaged in energy business within industrial complexes, through which the corporation provides infrastructures, and their networks. The components of eco-friendly city networks include eco-friendly buildings customers with heat and electricity generated from cogeneration plants, heating boilers, and resource retrieval and new and renewable energy facility. LH strives to effectively use energy and resources in constructing and facilities. This system ensures maximum 20% higher energy efficiency than individual heating, contributing to managing eco-friendly cities and its components. These efforts contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions national energy and electricity supply strategy. Particularly, LH uses pollution-free refrigerant for this system to and efficiently respond to climate change. Through this comprehensive environmental management system, LH protect the ozone layer and utilizes clean fuel and nitrogen oxide reduction facilities to minimize emissions of will lead the national green growth policy. greenhouse gas, sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide. Building Green Transport System Green city We have built a Green Transport System which can increase the speed of transportation and reduce exhaust gases. In the U-City, the intelligent traffic system and intelligent public transportation services are provided to let Building an environmental Green transport system residents enjoy pleasant traffic environment. Moreover, our efforts to advance the traffic system contribute to city network creating a pleasant and safe city and improving residents’ quality of life. Foundation for green businesses Enhancing green activities Performance in District Energy Business in Doan, Daejeon Establishing an environmental corporate culture Energy consumption Energy generation Waste gas Building the green management system LNG (ton) Electricity (MWh) NOx (ton) SOx (ton) GHG(tCO2e) Steam (Gcal) 130,259 16,373 119,109 14,989 13.18 47,834 11.69 44,135 Building the carbon emissions inventory 89,945 9,554 30,206 New and renewable energy 6.25 Responding to facilities in the housing complex Engaging in CDM projects 55,285 Climate Change 48,448 Environmental houses Accelerating resource recycling 25,446 0.16 0.36 0.40 Developing and 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 expanding environmental housing technologies 56 LH Sustainability Report 2014 57 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Environmental Response to Technology and Building Environmental Houses and Improving Energy Efficiency Climate Change Building the GHG Emissions Reduction System Construction Expanding the Construction of Environmental Houses and Carbon Establishing the Carbon Emissions Inventory Certification Status We are focusing on enhancing the competitiveness of eco-friendly housing construction. Our Land and Housing Research Institute is not only making a concerted effort to develop design and construction technology to Economy LH use the city carbon emission inventory for managing carbon emissions of each green element such as construction, new and renewable energy, transportation, resource, and others as well as total carbon emissions of maximize energy efficiency but also encouraging the construction of eco-friendly buildings in the private sector the city. All employees of LH can easily access the carbon emission analysis system via online (http://co2analysis. Certification of green construction (Unit: cases) Certification of energy efficiency ratings by engaging in green certification business. With the goal of realizing sustainable development, the institute is lh.or.kr) to monitor carbon emissions in each area. This system is also used for setting unit reduction target and 163 studying plans and designs that pursue coexistence between human and nature and minimize environmental developing CDM projects through the analysis of economic feasibility. To achieve our plan to reduce 30% of 134 impacts. It also grants green construction certificates to the buildings meeting the certification levels. greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, we are introducing the Green City Carbon Emission Inventory into the city planning and expanding the Green Model Cities. 70 New and Renewable Energy 18 15 10 LH is leading the new and renewable energy system for apartments by constructing Korea’s first solar powered Reduction of Carbon Emissions Developing CDM Projects and Registering in the UN Framework Convention generation facility for apartments in 2006 and applying solar powered water-heating system for apartments through CDM Projects on Climate Change 2011 2012 2013 in 2009. So far, LH has constructed 91 thousand solar powered apartments in 132 districts and applied solar Since registering the new and renewable energy project in Sosabeol district in Pyeongtaek into the UNFCCC Solar power CDM projects Construction of Environmental Houses powered water-heating system into 12 thousand apartments in 12 districts. Through the new and renewable at National Rental Housing (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) in 2009, LH has been continuously searching for with Green Energy Facilities ‌Environmental houses (Unit: Number of houses) energy system, residents have been able to save around 15% in their energy costs, which has contribute to 24,000 tons/10 years CDM projects to register on the UNFCCC in order to secure carbon emission trading rights. As the result, the ‘CDM with green energy facilities reducing greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to planting 3 million pine trees. (Date of registration in the UN: December 2011) Project for New and Renewable Energy System Introduction to Apartments in Korea’, which installed solar power 30,801 generation facilities in the National Rental Housing complexes, was registered on the UNFCCC in May 2013. Solar power CDM projects This project is expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to planting 61 million pine trees and 18,341 18,120 at apartment houses secure 180 thousand ton of carbon emission trading rights by 2030. In 2014, LH will continue to promote new 190,000 tons/20 years and renewable energy business and acquire carbon emission trading rights through installing solar powered (Date of registration in the UN: May 2013) generation facilities in 2,435 apartments in 3 districts. 2011 2012 2013 Practicing Green Management 【 Expanding Green Construction Materials 】 PASSIVE ITEM Active Item Purchasing of Environmental Products Establishing Green Management System Construction methods to increase energy Adoption of high-efficiency materials in the Our unique design applied by green materials has played efficiency fields of electricity and machinery (Unit: KRW in millions) LH established the Green Growth Committee in 2010 to assist decision making and green management related a role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We applied Southern • Location of southern exposure Ventilator for • House works. Also, to continuously strengthen the companywide green company activities, we have been implementing exposure • Natural light condition waste heat • School not only passive items such as high-performance insulation 74,100 • Minimizing ‌ open spaces and recovery internal and external environmental campaigns and encouraging employees to participate. To expand green window size in north side materials, super-insulated vacuumed glass windows and doors, and outside insulation system but also active items purchasing, we have designated the introduction of green materials as one of key 10 tasks. Furthermore, we have Air tightness • Introducing ‌ the passive housing Temperature• ‌Detached house, row house, and high method controlled hot apartment, and school such as geothermal energy and high energy-efficiency been proactive in establishing and practicing electricity saving plans in a bid to prevent national power shortage • High-efficiency ‌ window system insulation (10~30% reduction) water distributor devices to the apartments in Gangnam Bogeumjari District. 26,593 during the summer. Awning • Reducing ‌ cooling load in summer High-efficiency • School These apartments became Korea’s first Green Home Model 8,430 • Promoting outside awnings lighting equip• Installing ‌ automatic awnings over ment Complex that proved 60% reduction in energy consumption Reduction of Direct Energy Use living room windows compared to previous ones. Our top rated energy-efficiency 2011 2012 2013 Efforts to decrease fossil fuel usage in our businesses have continued as well. We have changed our business•‌Planting on the rooftop and wall • Detached house and apartment planning and expansion of green materials use lead us a Green Standby building electricity • ‌Living room of row house and purpose cars into hybrid and other eco-friendly vehicles and implemented car pool system, car free day and cutoff outlet residential and commercial step closer to the low carbon, low energy, and eco-friendly building shuttle bus operation between the company buildings to reduce direct energy usage in business activities. living environments. Reduction of Indirect Energy Use Cost Reduction by Waste Recycling In accordance with the government’s ‘Guidelines to Promote Usage Rationalization of Public Institutions’, LH has Expanding Resource Recycling prepared and practices energy saving plans. The plans included maintaining the optimal indoor temperature The pace of developing waste recycling technology has still underperformed the needs of society. To (summer: over 28℃, winter: under 18℃), limiting operating time of air-conditioning and ventilation system, Price Quantity Amount economically deal with enormous wastes amounting to 550,000 m3 generated from our construction sites, we Classification (KRW in (Thousand (KRW in operating elevators to stop every other floor, turning off lights during lunch hour, and using LED lights and highly thoutons) billions) have developed waste recycling technologies through forming partnerships with the private companies. As sands/ton) efficient office devices to make a habit of reducing indirect energy. a result, we succeeded in recycling waste by just investing a third expenses compared to existing incineration Incineration (1) 160 300 48.0 method. These technologies are currently taking the step of patent application after the verification from the Production (2) 65 300 19.5 Fuel Ministry of Environment. We also continue to apply these technologies into our all business sites and other public Selling (3) 20 90 1.8 corporations’ projects. Amount of cost 115 90 30.3 reduction (1)-(2)+(3) 58 LH Sustainability Report 2014 Environmental Performances Energy use (Unit: TJ) Fossil fuel City gas Electricity Heating 24.2 36.6 247.2 21.8 2011 329.8 19.3 28.6 199.4 20.9 2012 268.2 23 30.7 237.9 22.7 2013 314.4 Water resource management Water supply and recycled water Water supply Recycled water (Unit: ton) APPENDIX 180,317 10,422 2011 190,739 269,617 18,644 2012 288,261 199,140 11,755 2013 210,895 General Indicators of Sustainability 60 Management Sustainability Management Initiatives 62 Rate of recycling (Unit: %) Independent Assurance Statement 64 GRI Index 66 2011 5.8 Awards 70 2012 6.9 Organization Chart and Membership 71 of Associations 2013 5.9 GHG emissions (Unit: tCO2e) Scope 1 Scope 2 3,522 13,416 2011 16,938 2,785 10,962 2012 13,747 3,187 13,032 2013 16,219 Scope 1 Scope 2 • Heating ‌ fuels at head office and worksites (combustion at fixed spaces) •‌Use of electricity at head office and worksites • ‌Fuels for vehicles at head office and worksites (combustion at mobile equipment) 60 LH Sustainability Report 2014 61 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix General Indicators of Sustainability Management Organizational Profile ratings, by utilizing a spatial database to minimize the environmental impact of LA15. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave SO8. ‌Total number of monetary fines and sanctions against nonland and housing development projects. Based on this data, we are committed (Unit: Persons) compliance with laws and regulations 2.6 Shareholders (Unit: KRW in millions) to protecting biodiversity by conducting researches on endangered species, Classification 2011 2012 2013 LH conducts educations for construction engineers to prevent unfair Shareholders Shareholders’ Paid-in Percentage preserving and designating habitats. Employees on parental leave 181 201 206 subcontracting practices and informs the relevant authorities of these violations. equity capital (%) Employees returning after parental leave 99 150 58 We have detected 38 violations in 2013, of which 37 cases took administrative Government 25,710,000 19,983,471 86.6 EN23 ~ EN25. Management of wastewater and harmful substances actions and the remaining one case was corrected. Korea Finance Corporation 4,290,000 3,095,750 13.4 Harmful substances are strictly managed and treated in accordance with Total 30,000,000 23,079,221 100.0 Human Rights applicable regulations. Sewage from LH’s head office and regional offices is HR1 ~ HR2. P ‌ rotection and inspection of human rights of suppliers Product Responsibility processed at sewage treatment plants. and subcontractors PR4, PR7. ‌Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Corporate Governance EN29. E‌ nvironmental impacts of transporting products, materials, Even though there is no stipulated regulation on human rights, we inspect regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service 4.5 Compensation for directors and executives and employees the possibility of human rights violations in the stage of reviewing risks for information, labeling, and marketing communication The operations of the Board of Directors are assessed by external evaluators cooperation or investment. We make it a rule not to be involved in transactions We clearly explain major contents of products and services we provide through LH operates business shuttle buses, implements car-free day programs, and through annual government-led management assessments. LH pays annual with suppliers and subcontractors, which are likely to breach human rights printed documents and prohibit overstatement and false information. In encourages the use of bicycles for commuting and short-distance business salaries to executive directors differentially in accordance with the governmentregulations or have violated such rules through examining their corporate terms of advertisement, we comply with the laws and regulations of the Korea travel in a concerted effort to reduce significant environmental impacts from led management assessments. backgrounds. In addition, we conduct annual integrity inspections of suppliers Advertising Review Board. All our business activities including marketing also transporting employees. and subcontractors. comply with relevant laws and companywide guidelines. Economic Labor HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken PR8. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding EC3. C ‌ overage of the organization’s defined benefit LA4. ‌Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LH does not discriminate employees by gender, educational background, age, breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data plan obligations agreements religion, origin, or physical disability. We comply with No. 111 (Agreement on LH established customer privacy policies concerning access control, authority Four Major Insurance Programs Discriminatory Treatment in Employment and Vocation) of ILO convention. The company guarantees workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association, management, and follow-up audits to protect personal information. There was (Unit: KRW in billions) We have not had any legal actions or penalties taken against us due to collective bargaining, and collective action pursuant to the applicable regulations no complaint with regard to private information leakage in 2013. Classification Employee LH Total discrimination during the reporting period. Contributions Contributions and collective agreements. They can freely join the labor union or withdraw from Medical Insurance 14.4 14.4 28.8 it. Nonunion members are also entitled to several systematic measures, including National Pension 13.0 13.0 26.0 grievance management procedures, to protect their standard labor rights. As of HR11. ‌Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addVocational Accident Insurance 3.7 3.7 the end of 2013, 91.9% of the entire staff was unionized. ressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Employment Insurance 2.9 6.7 9.6 LH aggregates a variety of complaints through the Integrity Ombudsman LA6. ‌Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Program, MCA (Master Clean-up Agency), audit branches, and Integrity Practice EC5. R ‌ atio of standard entry level wage compared to management-worker health and safety committees Specialized Committee. We have received no complaints regarding human local minimum wage rights violations in 2013. The Occupational Safety and Health Committee is being operated to jointly The standard entry level annual wage stood at KRW 25.82 million in 2013, which deliberate and respond to safety and health issues. The number of the was about 212% larger than legal minimum wage. committee members was 20 in 2013. Social SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption LA7. Rate of work-related accidents Environmental (Unit: %) LH actively engages in anti-corruption initiatives. We have established a EN11 ~ EN15. Biodiversity management Classification 2011 2012 2013 system to allow employees to report bribery attempts to eradicate bribery To minimize the environmental impact of land and housing development Rate of work-related accidents 0.1 0.1 0.02 and kickbacks that impede operating fairness. We also make it compulsory to projects, LH conducts preliminary environmental assessments to examine prohibit land and housing trades and report relevant transactions to prevent the suitability of development and perform main environmental impact LA12, LA14. Fair performance evaluation and compensation illegitimate insider trading. We have detected four incidents of corruption and (Unit: %) assessments of projects that are set to be initiated in accordance with the responded with disciplinary actions in 2013. Classification 2011 2012 2013 Environmental Impact Assessment Act. The company also manages ecological Rate of application of and biodiversity data, including environmental preservation areas and natural performance evaluation 100 100 100 62 LH Sustainability Report 2014 63 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Sustainability Management Initiatives UNGC ISO 26000 Having joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in June 2010, LH has been reporting its compliance with the 10 key principles including human rights, labor, The ISO 26000 is an International Standard for social responsibility launched by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November of 2011. It provides environment, and anti-corruption through its sustainability reports. UNGC detailed its “Communication on Progress (COP)” regulations to encourage corporations to a comprehensive guideline that represents diverse management integration guidelines and seven key issues: corporate governance, human rights, labor practices, the fulfill their social responsibilities and promote communications with stakeholders. LH compiled its 2014 Sustainability Report in accordance with the “Advanced Level” environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. LH has developed its own list of items for evaluation to ensure standards of newly published COP regulations. continuous compliance with the ISO 26000. ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure Topic Key issues Relevant GRI Index Level of Disclosure UNGC Advanced Level GRI 3.1 Page 6.2 ‌Organizational 6.2.3 Decision-making processes and structures 1.1, 1.2, 2.3, 4.1~4.17 ◐ 1 The COP describes key aspects of the company’s high-level sustainability strategy in line with Global Compact principles. 4.1~4.8 10, 11, 13, 60 governance 6.3 Human Rights 6.3.3 Due diligence HR1~HR2, HR5~HR7 ● 2 The COP describes effective decision-making processes and systems of governance for corporate sustainability. 4.9~4.10 13 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations HR5~HR7 ● 3 The COP describes engagement with all important stakeholders. 4.14~4.17 17~19 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity HR1~HR3, HR5~HR8 ◐ 6.3.6 Resolving grievances HR1, HR4, HR9 ● 4 The COP describes actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues. 4.12 54, 63 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups HR4, HR6~HR7, HR9, LA13~LA14 ◐ 6.3.8 Civil and political rights HR5, HR9 ● 5 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in the area of human rights. HR1, HR3~HR4, LA4, LA9 15, 50, 60, 61 6.3.9 Economic, social, and cultural rights SO1, PR1~PR2, EC8~EC9 ● 6 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles. HR11 61 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work HR4~HR7, Labor DMA, LA4, LA14 ◐ 6.4 Labor practices 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships HR2, HR4~HR5, HR8, LA1~LA5, LA13~LA14 ◐ 7 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights Integration. SO4 61 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection LA3~LA5, LA14, EC5 ◐ 8 The COP describes key outcomes of human rights integration (including GRI). HR3~HR4 15, 61 6.4.5 Social dialogue HR5, LA4~LA5 ◐ 6.4.6 Health and safety at work LA6~LA9 ● 9 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in the area of labor. LA1, LA3~LA4 48~52 6.4.7 Human development and training in the workplace LA10~LA12 ● 10 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labor principles. LA9 50 6.5 Environment 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution EN19~EN24 ● 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use EN1~EN10, EN25~EN27, EN29 ● 11 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labor principles Integration. LA4 60 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation EC2, EN16~EN18 ● LA1~LA2, LA4, LA7~LA8, 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitats EN11~EN15, EN25 ● 12 The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the labor principles (including GRI). 43, 44, 48, 49, 51, 60 LA10~LA11, LA13 6.6 Fair ‌ operating 6.6.3 Anti-corruption SO2~SO4 ◐ practices 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement SO5~SO6 ● 13 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in the area of environmental stewardship. EC2 57 6.6.5 Fair competition SO7 ● 14 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles. EN26 55 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain HR2, HR8, PR1~PR2, EC6, EC9, EN26, EN29 ◐ 6.6.7 Respect for property rights HR9, SO1, SO7~SO8, EC9 ● 15 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship. EN26 55 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices PR3~PR4, PR6~PR7 ● EN3~EN5, EN8, EN11, EN16, 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety PR1~PR5 ● 16 The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the environmental principles (including GRI). 56~58, 60 EN18, EN22, EN27, EN30 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption PR1~PR5, EN26~EN27 ● 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution PR3~PR7, PR9 ● 17 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in the area of anticorruption. SO4 61 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy PR8 ● 18 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principles. SO2~SO3 15 6.7.8 Access to essential services PR5, EC9 ● 6.7.9 Education and awareness PR3~PR7 ● 19 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption. HR11, SO4 61 6.8 ‌Community 6.8.3 Community involvement SO5~SO6, LA8, EC1, EC8 ● involvement and 20 The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principles (including GRI). SO2~SO4, SO7~SO8 15, 46, 47, 61 6.8.4 Education and culture LA8, EC8 ● development 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills SO1, LA11, EC6~EC9 ◐ 21 The COP describes implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain. HR1~HR3 15, 61 6.8.6 Technology development and access EC8~EC9 ● 22 The COP provides information on the company’s profile and context of operation. 1.1~1.2, 2.1~2.10 10, 11, 60, 70, 71 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation SO1, SO8, EC1, EC6~EC9 ◐ 6.8.8 Health LA8 ● 23 The COP incorporates high standards of Integrity and disclosure. 3.1~3.13 1, 18, 64~65, 66~69 6.8.9 Social investment EC1, EC8~EC9 ● 64 LH Sustainability Report 2014 65 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Independent Assurance Statement Introduction Conclusions Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been commissioned to carry out assurance engagement on Korea Land & Housing Corporation In DNV’s opinion, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of LH CORP.’s policy, practices and performance in 2013. (hereinafter referred to as ‘LH CORP.’) Sustainability Report 2014(hereinafter referred to as ‘the Report’). This engagement focused on the information provided in the Based on the work undertaken as part of this Assurance Engagement, DNV believes that the Report generally meets the principles, content and quality requirements of Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. GRI G3.1 and the requirement of GRI Application Level ‘A+’. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles: This Assurance Statement is intended for the readers of the Report. LH CORP. is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information Inclusivity l Good. LH CORP. has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement is practised throughout the organization. The Report within the Report. DNV’s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the management of LH CORP. only, in accordance with terms of reference and scope covers the ways it engages with stakeholders. The documented process of stakeholder engagement is confirmed with management performance evaluation report. of work agreed. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and true. DNV disclaims 6 Stakeholder groups which are Customer/Employees/National citizen/Federal and local Government/ Local community/Supplier and contractor are identified in the any liability or responsibility to a third-party for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this Assurance Statement. Report with main issues about which the respective stakeholders are concerns. Responsiveness l Acceptable. Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from the survey are considered in preparation of the Report and in formulation Scope of Assurance of LH CORP.’s sustainability management approach. The Report needs to provide more detailed information with regard to how the material issues disclosed in the The verification was carried out in March and April 2014. The scope of work agreed includes the following: previous report were managed and what performance were resulted from the sustainability management during the reporting period. In addition, providing key • Sustainability policy, initiatives, practices and performance, as described in the Report. These were verified at company level. performance indicators for the highly material issues determined in the Report will improve the monitoring the progress of sustainable management. LH CORP. is • Cross-check ‌ data and information from the calendar year 2013 against disclosures in ALI public information in One and recommended to establish quantitative objectives corresponding to respective material issues and regularly monitor and measure the performance. These needs to the state-owned organization management performance evaluation report and internal documents and records. be reported in the sustainability report of next year. • Processes for defining the boundaries, focus and content of the Report. Materiality l Good. The materiality determination process is clearly presented in the Report. Inputs from a wide range of sources are considered for materiality • ‌‌Review of the extent to which the principles and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) determination including the needs and concerns of stakeholders, media analysis, peer-based norms, and survey, interviews. The Report generally provides an account are reflected in the Report. of performance on the issues that are most significant to LH CORP.’s activities and which are most relevant to its stakeholders. • ‌The extent to which the principles of Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness are adopted. The reliability of the information within the Report was verified under Moderate level of assurance. Opportunities for Improvement LIMITATIONS The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to LH CORP.’s management in addition to the recommendations above. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of LH CORP.’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. • Establish sustainability targets and periodically monitor progress against those; • To expand sustainability evaluation of contractors and suppliers. Verification Methodology DNV is a leading provider of sustainability services, including verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance specialists work in over 100 countries. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any information presented in the Report and did not provide any services to LH CORP. during 2013~2014 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustainTM). In Kyoon Ahn Seoul, Korea In that respect, the Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: April 2014 Country Manager • ‌Adherence to the principles of Materiality, Completeness, Neutrality, Reliability, Responsiveness and Stakeholder inclusiveness, as set out in DNV Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting, and • The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1 and its Application Levels. As part of the verification DNV has challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report. In reaching our conclusion, we have undertaken the following work; • Performed sample-based reviews for determining material issues to be included in the Report; • Examined relevant documents, data and other information requested by DNV and made available by LH CORP.; • Checked that the Report fulfils the requirement of GRI Application Level. 66 LH Sustainability Report 2014 67 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix GRI Index ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure N/A Not applicable ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure N/A Not applicable GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks Vision and Strategy Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 4.11 16 ● by the organization Strategy and Analysis Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 1.1 Sustainability statement of CEO 7 ● 4.12 62~63 ● which the organization subscribes or endorses 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 7 ● 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 71 ● Organizational Profile 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 17 ● 2.1 Name of the organization 10 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 17 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 10~11 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and 4.16 17~19 ● 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 10 ● by stakeholder group 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 10 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 17~19 ● organization has responded to those key topics and concerns 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 10~11 ● Economic Performance Indicators 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 62 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 34 ● 2.7 Markets served 10~11 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 71 ● EC2 57 ● climate change 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership 10~11 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 60 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 70 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 32 ◐ Report Parameters EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 60 ● 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 1 ● EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers 47 ◐ 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 1 ● EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community N/A 3.3 Reporting cycle 1 ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EC8 26~28, 34, 42~44 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 ● public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 3.5 Process for defining report content 18 ● EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 34 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report 1 ● Environmental Performance Indicators 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1 ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 58 ◐ 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and subsidiaries 1 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 58 ◐ 3.9 Data measurement techniques such as performance indicators 1 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 58 ● 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 1 ◐ EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 58 ● 3.11 Significant changes of scopes and boundary of report ● No significant changes EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 56~58 ◐ 3.12 Standard Disclosures in the report 66~69 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, EN6 56~58 ◐ and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 3.13 Matters related to assurance of the report 64~65 ● EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 56~58 ● Corporate Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 58 ● 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 10, 13 ● As water is supplied by infrastructure 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 13 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A of cities, there is no worksite to The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/ affect water sources. 4.3 13 ● or non-executive members EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 58 ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of 4.4 13 ● EN11 60 ● highest governance body high biodiversity value outside protected areas Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected 4.5 60 ● EN12 60 ● and executives areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 13 ◐ EN13 Habitats protected or restored 60 ● Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 60 ● 4.7 13 ● body Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 11 ● EN15 60 ● by operations, by level of extinction risk 4.9 Procedures of the BOD for overseeing sustainability management 13 ● EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 58 ● Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 58 ● 4.10 13 ● to economic, environmental, and social performance EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 57 ● 68 LH Sustainability Report 2014 69 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix GRI Index ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure N/A Not applicable ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure N/A Not applicable GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks We do not use ozone layer-depleting Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 55 ● HR5 50 ● substances. may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 55 ● Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6 N/A No cases contribute to the elimination of child labor As wastewater is purified through EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination N/A infrastructure of cities, there is no Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and HR7 N/A No cases wastewater to be directly discharges. measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 58 ◐ Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning HR8 N/A No cases aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 60 ● HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken N/A No cases Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms EN24 of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped N/A Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or HR10 14, 47 ◐ internationally impact assessments Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed through formal grievance mechanisms 61 ● EN25 60 ● affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Society Performance Indicators Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact SO1 Programs that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities 42 ◐ EN26 55 ● mitigation SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 15 ◐ EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 15 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance EN28 58 ● No cases of violation SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 61 ● with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying N/A Public institution is banned from lobbying EN29 60 ● the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions SO6 N/A No cases EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 56, 57 ● by country Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and SO7 46, 47 ● their outcomes LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 48 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 48 ● SO8 61 ● with laws and regulations Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities N/A No cases LA3 49~51 ● by major operations Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 60 ● SO10 47 ◐ negative impacts on local communities LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 50 ◐ Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are LA6 60 ● safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories 39 ● Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related subject to such procedures LA7 60 ◐ fatalities by region Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 N/A No cases Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes LA8 43~44, 51 ● members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 32 ● LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 50 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4 61 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 49 ● product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer LA11 49 ● PR5 39 ● employees and assist them in managing career endings satisfaction LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 60 ● Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 39 ● communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 13, 48 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 60 ◐ PR7 61 ● marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes LA15 rn to work and retention rates after parental leave 51, 61 ◐ Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 61 ● Human Rights Performance Indicators customer data Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the HR1 61 ● PR9 N/A No cases clauses or that have undergone human rights screening provision and use of products and services Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights HR2 61 ● and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 15 ◐ that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 61 ● 70 LH Sustainability Report 2014 71 About LH Economy Society Environment Appendix Awards Organization Chart and Membership of Associations Board of Directors Organization Chart Audit Committee Awards Organizations Year * As of January 2014 Standing Auditor Presidential Citation in the Housing Welfare Institution Sector President 2013 President Audit Office Ministry of Security and PR Office Best Award, Regular Censorship to Celebrate the 38th Anniversary of Civil Defense Corps 2013 Public Administration Vice President Grand Prize, 13th Natural Environment Award Ministry of Environment 2013 Planning & Housing Urban Public National Administration Technology Excellent Institution in HR Development Ministry of Education 2013 Finance Div. Welfare Div. Environment Div. Housing Div. Project Div. Support Div. Support Div. ‌ • Planning & • Housing Welfare • Urban Planning ‌ • Public Housing • Industry Complex ‌ • General Affairs & • Complex ‌ Technology Coordination • Rental ‌ Housing • Marketing ‌ & Planning • Free ‌ Economic Zone Customer Satisfaction Standard Excellent Prize in the Public Sector, Value Engineering Awards Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 • Administration ‌ Provision & Compensation Office • Public ‌ Housing Project • Personnel ‌ • Housing ‌ Technology Management Management ‌ • Land Development 1 Project • Sejong Innovation City Management Standard • Project Planning • Rental ‌ Asset • Land ‌ Development 2 ‌ • Private Investment • Inter-Korean ‌ ‌ • Labor Relations • ‌Technology Screening Encouragement Award, Excellent Case Competition in Land and Transport Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 • Finance Strategy Management • New City Project 1 Housing Project Development • Laws & Suits & Evaluation • ‌Finance Management • Urban ‌ Regeneration • New City Project 2 • Housing Facility Cooperation • Procurement ‌ & • Construction ‌ Planning • Housing ‌ • Overseas Project Contract Management • Urban Design • Happy ‌ Housing Development • Land Bank Planning • Administration ‌ Minister Citation for Job Creation Supports Ministry of Employment and Labor 2013 Promotion • Landscape Design • Housing ‌ Cost • Financial Project Information • Urban Facility • Happy ‌ Housing Management • Spatial Information Planning Minister Citation for Land and Transport Jobs Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 • Happy ‌ Housing Project Minister Citation for Revision of Enforcement Ordinance for Housing Construction Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 Regional Office Operating Office Land, Housing & LH Land and Urban Research Housing NIS Director Citation for the Evaluation of Information Security Control National Intelligence Service 2013 • Seoul • Busan & Ulsan • Sejong City • Wirye Project Institute University • Incheon • Gyeonggi • Dongtan Project • Hanam Project • Gangwon • Chungbuk • US Army Base Project • ‌Cheongna & Research Support Korea Management Award Korea Management Association 2013 • Daejeon & Chungnam • Jeonbuk • Goyang Project Yeongjong Project • Gwangju & Jeonnam • Daegu & Gyeongbuk • ‌Gwangmyeong & • Paju Project • Gyeongnam • Jeju Siheung Project • Pyeongtaek Project Research Planning • Yangju Project Excellent Prize, Technology Innovation Management Award Korea Software Industry Association 2013 The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Top Ratings in KoBEX-SM (2 years in a row) 2013 (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Membership of Associations Transparent Society Agreement Practice UN Global Compact Korean Society of Civil Engineers Architectural Institute of Korea Excellent Case for UNICEF’s Child-friendly Management UNICEF & Save the Children 2013 Conference for Public Corporations Korea Institute of Ecological Architecture The Korean Institute of Illumination and Korea Planners Association Korean Association for Housing Policy Studies and Environment Electrical Installation Engineers Excellent Corporation, 2013 Korea’s Co-prosperity Conference Seoul Economic Daily 2013 The Korean Housing Association Korea Construction Promotion Association The Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture Urban Design Institute of Korea The Society of Air-conditioning and Korea Industrial Technology Association Korean Society of Transportation Korea Concrete Institute Korea’s Most Ethical Corporation (2 years in a row) Korea Ethics Academy, Sisa Journal 2013 Refrigerating Engineers of Korea The Korean Society for Noise and The Korean Institute of Power Electronics Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea Electric Engineers Association Vibration Engineering Grand Prize, Love-Sharing Social Contribution Award Chosun Biz 2013 Korea Energy Engineer Association Korea Personnel Improvement Association Korean Society of Water and Wastewater Korea Fire Safety Association Korean Geotechnical Society Korea Water Resources Association Korean Society of Road Engineers International contractors Association of Korea 2013 CSR Leader for Co-existence JTBC 2013 The Society of Air-conditioning and Architectural Institute of Japan Japan Society of Civil Engineers The Japanese Geotechnical Society Refrigerating Engineers of Korea Grand Prize in the Ubiquitous Sector, Korea Housing Service Award Money Today 2013 Korean Institute of Electrical Installation American Society of Civil Engineers American Concrete Institute American Planning Association Engineers www.LH.or.kr 172, Dolma-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea (463-755) TEL 82-31-738-7114
