Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.bbih.ae AFM (Advanced Facilities Management) 2014 COP Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C., supports the ‘Ten Principles’ of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C., will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ‘Ten Principles’. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP Policy. Sincerely yours, Mr. Samih Basaddiq Managing Director 1 ©Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.bbih.ae AFM (Advanced Facilities Management) 2014 COP HUMAN RIGHTS DECLARATION OF SUPPORT Advanced Facilities Management supports the Universal declaration of human rights and ensures that our employees are not complicit in human rights abuses. We have a range of Human Resources Policies which reflects the company’s view on human rights as declared on Advanced Facilities Management employment and work conditions. IMPLEMENTATION Any potential Human rights abuse detected by the employee and welfare relation officer are directly reported to the Human Resources Department and will be treated on a very confidential approach. The Human Resources Department is responsible for executing company policy regarding human rights. Any proven abuse prior to the internal investigation can result to the termination of the employee’s contract. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the past year, Advanced Facilities Management has not been subject to any legal cases or incidents involving Human rights violations. 2 ©Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.bbih.ae AFM (Advanced Facilities Management) 2014 COP LABOUR DECLARATION OF SUPPORT Advanced Facilities Management supports the International Labour Standards and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We ensure a fair and equal treatment of all employees and that all decisions involving team leaders for employees are in accordance with the advanced Facilities principles of equal employment opportunity. Advanced Facilities Management does not discriminate and tolerate any discrimination, against any employee because of race, color, national origin or ancestry, gender, age, religious convictions, or disability. IMPLEMENTATION Advanced Facilities Management has a range of HR Policies which support best practices in terms of labor and employment declared on the company policies on equal employment opportunity. We do not discriminate against any employee with respect to hiring, placement, promotion, termination, rehire, transfer, leave of absence, training, compensation, terms, conditions or privileges of employment because of that individual’s race, color, religion, sexual orientation, age, origin, disability, or other characteristic or status. Employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination in their workplace are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of the Human Resources Department. Employees can raise legitimate concerns and make good faith reports without fear of reprisal. Anyone found to be engaging in any type of unlawful discrimination is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including discharge. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We conduct an annual performance evaluation of all our employees and identify training requirements for their optimum personal development. Advanced Facilities Management has not been involved in any legal cases and labour incidents in the past year. 3 ©Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.bbih.ae AFM (Advanced Facilities Management) 2014 COP ENVIRONMENT DECLARATION OF SUPPORT Advance Facilities Management L.L.C. supports the principle on environment to undertake initiatives and promote greater environmental responsibility. Our Advanced Environmental Business aims to always strive to protect the environment with our driven goal to see a greener, cleaner and eco-friendly tomorrow for UAE. IMPLEMENTATION Advanced Facilities Management Environmental service is providing our clients innovative solutions to waste collection, disposal, recycling and treatment. Our Environmental team engages in continuous research for newer and most effective processes on disposal systems and treatments for solid and liquid waste. We continuously educate our staffs, clients’ and the community on the valuable importance of recycling and proper waste disposal as part of our committed service. Our Environmental team and engineering staffs are constantly training on the latest strategy, tools & equipment to develop much more on their competencies and become more effective in their field of work. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Advanced Facilities Management Environmental service is authorized by various environmental agencies and municipal authorities to offer services in Public and private spaces. We have a range of Environmental Protection and waste management Policies that is being strictly implemented and practiced across our organization in line with our (BAS) Bureau of Assessment Services certification on ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001:2004, and OHSAS 18001:2007. 4 ©Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. Corniche Road PO Box 44038 Abu Dhabi United Arab Emirates www.bbih.ae AFM (Advanced Facilities Management) 2014 COP ANTI-CORRUPTION DECLARATION OF SUPPORT Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C., supports the principles on anti-corruption. Our Business is involved in fair and open tendering process which plays an important role in impacting development in general and specifically combating transparency and corruption. IMPLEMENTATION We believe that transparency improves efficiency and reduces opportunities for fraud and corruption in the public administration by reducing red tape and maximizing use of new technologies. Advanced Facilities L.L.C., strictly adhere and comply with the U.A.E. Federal Laws practices on tenders which regulate all contracts of public works, services and supplies. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C. started developing the business through tenders and commercial proposals to sell our products and services. We started with 3 tenders from 2011 and increased to 7 tenders on the following year of 2012. At the end of 2013 about 42 tender proposals has been forwarded to our clients’. 50 40 30 20 10 0 YEAR 2011 YEAR 2012 YEAR 2013 5 ©Advanced Facilities Management L.L.C.
