Communication on Progress 2013 UN Global Compact Utrecht, 28 april 2014 UA46/cop 2013 Inhoud 1 Introduction and statement of continued support 3 1.1 The UN Global Compact 3 1.2 Who we are and what we do 3 1.3 We want more 4 1.4 An eleventh principle: Contribution to Society 4 2 Human Rights 6 2.1 Principles concerning human rights 6 2.2 Human rights in our markets 6 2.3 Outside of our projects 7 3 Labour 8 3.1 Principles concerning labour 8 3.2 Training 8 3.3 Freedom of association 8 3.4 Discrimination and diversity 9 3.5 Challenges for the future 10 4 Environment 11 4.1 Mobility 11 4.2 Purchasing 12 4.3 Office infrastructure 14 4.4 Challenges for the future 14 5 Anti-Corruption 15 5.1 Our approach to anti-corruption 15 6 Contribution to Society 16 6.1 The eleventh principle 16 6.2 Challenges for the future 16 7 Conclusions: we do it well, it could be better 17 7.1 Progress and challenges 17 1 Introduction and statement of continued support 1.1 The UN Global Compact In January 2010 Andersson Elffers Felix (AEF) joined the UN Global Compact and committed to its ten principles concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption: Human rights 1) Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2) make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3) Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4) the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5) the effective abolition of child labour; and 6) the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7) Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8) undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9) encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10) Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. This document constitutes our third annual Communication on Progress (COP). Our first COP, published in 2011, outlined our company policy regarding the principles and reported on the measures taken in the four areas. In this COP, we repeat our commitment, report on progress made and on some changes in our business affecting our exposure. 1.2 Who we are and what we do Andersson Elffers Felix (AEF) is a strategy and organizational consultancy firm, established in 1982 in Utrecht, the Netherlands. AEF is one of the leading Dutch consultancy firms in the public and semi-public domain. It prides itself on a combination of a thorough understanding of subject matter and strong functional, organizational expertise. In AEF, quality comes before quantity. A strategy of slow growth has enabled AEF to focus on the quality of work, development of expertise and strengthening a strong client-base. It has also enabled AEF to weather the recent economic downturn. AEF has developed into a mid-sized consultancy firm with a staff of around 40 consultants. Consultants of AEF seek for out-of-the-box and tailor-made solutions instead of standard models and methodologies. They know how to improve the organizations and how the inspire the people they are working for. Therefore, AEF always works in close collaboration with the client to find solutions for policy and management issues touching upon the strategic positioning of the organisation. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 3 Consultants of AEF really want to contribute to a better society. Therefore, we facilitate and encourage our consultants to be active in organisations that keep them in touch with the problems, challenges and opportunities that arise in society. As a consequence, many of our consultants perform valuable functions in the cultural sector and in voluntary and nongovernmental organizations. A close involvement of our consultants with the issues at hand is indispensable for the successful execution of our projects. 1.3 We want more We remain strongly committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact. They, almost by default, form an integral part of our company philosophy and organizational culture. As a mid-sized consulting company mainly operating in The Netherlands, where most of these principles are enforced by law, it is relatively easy to live up to the requirements of supporting the UN Global Compact. As a provider of consultancy services for government and public sector, our supply chain is quite short. Our main resource is knowledge, our assets are our employees, our reputation and our ability to change. We believe in a pro-active and positive approach to the principles of the UNGC. Instead of merely not violating any of the principles and ‘checking the boxes’, we want to actively promote them as a core aspect of our work. Hence, we implement and respect the principles not only in our business, but they also have an impact on our clients in the public sector. That results in a two-tiered approach: we support the Global Compact principles by improving our internal work processes and company policies as well as actively encouraging the ten principles externally through our core business, consultancy work. 1.4 An eleventh principle: Contribution to Society In addition to the ten UNGC principles, we’ve added an additional conviction: 11) Businesses contribute to society. AEF has a long tradition of selecting regular projects on the basis of an affirmative answer to the question: ‘does this project make a difference in society?’ That is our main goal, our main criterion. And projects – change programmes, innovative policy conception and execution – are our main asset to achieve that. AEF can make its most effective contribution to society through contributing to projects with its knowledge and experience. This is actively reflected in the fact that AEF carries out a number of pro bono projects every year. Projects concern issues in the cultural sector, social arena or even to support principled business enterprise. For example, AEF has developed an educational program (JINC), which enables students from low-rated primary schools to do internships for a day at businesses in their city. AEF associates commonly participate in pro bono activities outside of their regular working hours, often in political parties, on the boards of cultural establishments or volunteer work in a social setting. Yours sincerely, Aris van Veldhuisen Managing Partner UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 4 Utrecht, 2 May 2014 UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 5 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2.1 Principles concerning human rights Human rights are rights to which all humans are inherently entitled. While the views on what specific human rights constitute occasionally diverge, several declarations of human rights have found wide acceptance internationally. AEF stands behind the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and the European Convention on Human Rights (1950) and its five protocols (1952, 1963, 1963, 1963, 1966). Our consultants embrace all these principles. We believe that by the nature of our business we can actively contribute to supporting the two principles. For example, according to art. 25.1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, “everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and wellbeing of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.” By delivering good work to the public sector we can increase its capacity to ensure the protection and advancement of human rights. As management consultants, by strengthening and improving the organisational capacities of organisations that work towards these goals, we can have a valuable impact on the human rights situation in the world. 2.2 Human rights in our markets AEF works mainly in the Netherlands. While being a highly developed country, signatory to the relevant conventions on human rights and internationally respected for its high human rights standards, the Netherlands still face some criticism. According to the Human Rights Watch World Report 2014, concerns about immigration and asylum policy persist: In June, the UN Committee against Torture (CAT) expressed concerns about immigration detention beyond the legal 18-month limit of unaccompanied children asylum seekers and of families with children pending age determination, and conditions and treatment in detention. The committee recommended effective use of alternatives to detention. Detainees in Rotterdam and at Schiphol airport went on hunger strikes in May to protest their poor treatment. As of June, unaccompanied asylum-seeking children are processed under an accelerated procedure; those over the age of 16 whose asylum requests have been rejected may be returned immediately unless adequate care in their home country is unavailable or the child is unable to provide for him or herself. The Dutch children’s rights ombudsman expressed concern that the procedure does not adequately take into account the best interests of the child. (Human Rights Watch Report 2014, p. 448) AEF is very active in the public safety and immigration/integration sector. Over the past years, we have carried our several assignments for the improvement of organisational UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 6 capacities and processes for government agencies in this sector, for example for the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND), the Central Agency for the Reception of Asylum Seekers (COA) and the Legal Aid Board. Apart from government agencies we have also carried out several projects for NGOs that work in this field, such as Refugee Services Netherlands. If we look to the Human Rights Watch, we can conclude that there is still a lot of work to do in order to improve human rights in The Netherlands. Consultants of AEF are nonconformist. They want to continue contributing to the promotion and safeguarding of human rights through realizing projects on this field. Being ranked 4th out of 186 on the Human Development Index, The Netherlands have a high standard of living. We nevertheless believe that continuous improvement in the public sector can ensure “the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family” is granted to everyone. We see our task in this country in maintaining and improving the various systems in place that safeguard this basic human right. By advising on health care, housing, education and social services in the Netherlands, we try to do so through our work. Examples in 2013 included:  The development and organization of an educational program (JINC), which enables students from low-rated primary schools to do internships for a day at businesses in their city.  The presidency of a dance organization (Dansgroep Amsterdam) by a partner of AEF, in order to promote cultural activities that contribute to a better society.  The sponsorship of a student orchestra organization (NESKO), which enables the organization to go on tour and play their music all over the country.  Supporting entrepreneurship and business development by supporting an entrepreneur in Nairobi, Kenya in starting up a business in the public transport sector.  We carried out several projects to ensure and improve the functioning of health care organisations and of child protection organisations. 2.3 Outside of our projects Aside from carrying out regular projects, many of our consultants are active in less developed countries, often supporting local non-profit organisations by providing consulting expertise. Not only does this allow us to have a real impact in these regions, we also benefit from exploring a new market and broadening our network. Our consultants not only carry out these projects by their own request, we also believe that it is a great opportunity for them personally develop themselves. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 7 3 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 3.1 Principles concerning labour We fully support the Global Compact principles in the area of labour. Not only are these principles enshrined in Dutch and European law. As a consultancy advising on organisational matters it is also vital for us to be on the forefront of development in this area and serve as a role model for our clients. In order to attract and retain talent, we need to create a work environment that our employees like to work in and that caters to their individual needs. Personal and professional assistance is of great importance for us, In order to identify possibilities for professional and personal development, each employee is assigned a mentor in the company. The mentor also serves as a contact point for any problem the employee might encounter. Requests for sabbaticals or changes in FTE are usually granted and pregnancy (or paternal) leave is never considered a problem. This year for instance one of our employees is on a sabbatical to Barcelona in order to spend to develop some personal projects and another employee is on a sabbatical to Sri Lanka to help set up a turtle shelter. It is very important for us that our employees have a healthy balance between work and life. This includes that they can spend enough time with their families. We facilitate this by flexible work schedules, flexible work spaces and equipping every consultant with a mobile phone and a notebook, so they can independently choose where to do their work. 3.2 Training Training forms an essential part of our company culture. We actively encourage our employees at all levels to follow training courses in areas they feel they need to develop. We take pride in investing in the personal and professional development of our staff wherever possible and value personal initiative for self-development. We usually cover all expenses for trainings. Over the past years, we have continuously increased the funds made available for training programmes. Since a couple of years, we not only count on external experts for trainings, but also have our own training program. Consultants from inside our organisation train others in order to help our employees with their personal and professional development. It is also an excellent way to keep updated in a fast-changing world. 3.3 Freedom of association Our employees are free to establish and join organisations of their own choice, given these do not violate the law or pursue unethical goals. We actively encourage involvement in political and non-profit organisations. In 2013, about half of our consultants are active in UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 8 such organisations, most of them offering their professional expertise free of charge for charitable purposes. Personal involvement ranges from board membership in museums, theatres, and art foundations over educational and health organisations to organisations promoting the welfare of children and political parties. Next to that, many of our consultants are also active in professional associations. We uphold the right to collective bargaining by regularly supporting works councils for contra-expertise assignments. 3.4 Discrimination and diversity AEF is committed to not discriminating on the grounds of sex (including pregnancy and maternity), marital status (including civil partnership status), gender reassignment, disability, race, age, sexual orientation, religion/belief, trade union membership or nonmembership, or status as a fixed-term or part-time worker. Due to the evolution of the company from a small to a medium-sized company over the past 25 years, with most of the employees being recruited from our own network, the employee base has been biased towards being largely Dutch in its origin and predominantly male in the top positions. Having recognized the need for change, we have in recent years taken measures to create a more diverse employee base. Arrangements have been made to facilitate part-time work at senior and partner level. Now 11% of the partners are female, compared to 25% in 2011. This decrease has to do with one female partner leaving our organisation. We are trying to retrieve a better balance at the partner level in the years to come. We expect a couple of male partners to retire in the next couple of years. Our aim is to fill their positions by women when possible. As the graph below shows, we are approaching a more and more levelled off male-female ratio over the other positions within the company. Our ultimate goal in this area is to approximate a 50/50 ratio across all levels. Percentage of women 80% 70% 60% 50% 2011 40% 2012 30% 2013 20% 10% 0% Partner Senior Medior Junior Percentage of women at AEF, 2011-2013 UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 9 Average age of consultants 60,00 50,00 40,00 2011 30,00 2012 20,00 2013 10,00 0,00 Partner Senior Medior Junior Average age of AEF consultants across the different positions, 2011-2013 A issue that need to be addressed is age bias among the top positions within the company. Partner positions were held by consultants with an average age of 49 in 2011. The average age in these positions increased to 51 years in 2013. The retirements of some of our partners in the next couple of years will make it possible to bring down the age bias. 3.5 Challenges for the future  We aim to further increase the percentage of women at the top and approximate a 50/50 ratio of women and men across the different positions within the company.  In the coming years, we will try and create a more diverse body of consultants that better reflects the population of the Netherlands, and larger cities in particular, especially in terms of ethnicity. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 10 4 Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses are asked to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses are asked to encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. AEF cares deeply about the environment and is committed to sustainability, the seventh Millennium Development Goal. As we are a service provider whose product is knowledge, our impact on the environment is lower than that of companies in other industries. Nevertheless, there are three areas in which we have a clear impact on the environment. These are:  Mobility  Purchasing  Office infrastructure 4.1 Mobility The nature of our work requires our employees to travel. While internally a lot of meetings are held through conference calls and meetings ‘half-way’, some projects require actual face-to-face meetings with clients. We have also taken measures to reduce the amount of kilometres travelled per year and to make travelling more environmentally friendly. For example, working from home is actively stimulated. All consultants receive a mobile phone and a company notebook with which they can access the interand intranet at any time. Recently our employees have received new mobiles phones with faster internet access in a further attempt to stimulate working from home and on the road. Several measures have been taken to make travelling that is necessary more environmentally friendly. All consultants are eligible for a year pass for public transport, including trains, trams and buses. For appointments in Utrecht, where our main office is located, we have several company bicycles available. And we encourage the consultants to make use of rental bikes that are available at almost all train stations in the country. We try to keep the amount of lease cars as low as possible. Junior and regular consultants account for only 10% of the (business) car usage at AEF. This concerns in particular jobs at locations with no or very limited public transport accessibility, for which one lease car is made available. Only from senior level onwards, the provision of personal lease cars is made possible. With a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, we have introduced a policy that all new lease cars must bear energy labels A or B. Due to running leasing contracts, improvements in this area are only possible when the old contracts expire. The figure below illustrates the effect of this policy: 94% of our lease cars bore energy label A or B in 2013, compared to 37% and 10% in 2010 and 2008, respectively. The number of (semi)electric cars has increased significantly: from 0 cars in 2008 to 3 in 2013. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 11 Lease car energy labels 100% 90% 80% 70% F 60% E 50% D 40% C B 30% A 20% 10% 0% 2008 2010 2013 Energy labels AEF lease cars 2008-2013 We estimate that with 542.000 km travelled by car in 2013 our CO2 emissions originating from car travel are 65 tons in that year. That is roughly 60% less than in 2009, when our consultants travelled 947,725 km by car (171 tons CO2). Due to the strategic re-evaluation and our retreat from international business our regular air travel has reduced to virtually zero. 4.2 Purchasing Purchasing is another area in which we can take action to reduce our impact on the environment. We choose our equipment on the basis of its operational lifespan and energy label. After depreciation, the lifespan of the equipment is extended by giving it away to social institutions or our employees. An obvious factor in protecting the environment is paper consumption. We only buy FSC certified paper that is bleached with the lowest possible environmental impact. Our goal is to be, where possible, a paperless office. Employees are encouraged to only print if necessary. In 2008, our annual paper consumption was at 1,219,756 sheets. With the introduction of double-sided printing as standard setting of our printers we have managed to reduce the annual paper consumption by half, to 640,796 sheets in 2010 and to 305.000 sheets in 2013. This decrease is fuelled further by the fact that a lot of employees are now using a tablet to read articles and reports instead of printing it first. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 12 Annual paper consumption 2008-2013: sheets of paper used per year 1400000 1200000 1000000 800000 600000 400000 200000 0 2008 2010 2013 Annual paper consumption 2008-2013: sheets of paper used per year Another factor to consider is energy consumption. In 2012-2013, AEF has used 108.462 kW/h of energy. Compared to the period 2009-2010 (105,615 kW/h), this is an increase of 2,6%. However, this has to be put into relation with the high increase in workforce in the last years. When related to the increase in workforce, the increase in energy consumption goes down. This is nevertheless a point that will still require extra attention from our side in the coming year. Energy consumption (kW/h) 120000 100000 80000 60000 40000 20000 0 2009-2010 2012-2013 Annual energy consumption for the periods 2009-2010 and 2012-2013 in kW/h We aim to reduce our energy consumption by continuing to purchase only products that meet the newest energy standards. Furthermore, we have switched our energy provider in order to use only green energy. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 13 We try to reduce emissions by only buying local, organic and seasonal food. We buy our fruit from a retailer that focusses on ecologically responsible farming, for instance by planting a tree in Malawi for every sold fruit basket. 4.3 Office infrastructure AEF is based at a city location with optimal public transport accessibility, both for employees and visitors. The current building has been carefully renovated and extended according to the latest sustainability standards in 2000. Energy efficient timer-based heating was installed and natural ventilation is applied. Sustainability was the basis for the choice of building materials, and the office has been constructed to innovatively use land without damaging planting on the ground level. The architect has received the Schreuder Prize for underground construction. We use flexible workstations that help exploit the available space efficiently. Only 35 workstations are needed for 60 employees. Furniture is bought based on sustainability principles. 4.4 Challenges for the future  Continuation of the decrease of the consumption of paper and – relatively – energy.  We will try to reduce our energy consumption. In 2014, we will also conclude on whether or not own renewable energy creation is feasible for us. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 14 5 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 5.1 Our approach to anti-corruption Integrity is an essential principle of the company. We work against all forms of corruption through a two-pronged approach. Firstly, we make sure not to be involved in corrupt practices ourselves or accidentally facilitate corruption. Secondly, we actively fight corruption in all its forms by carrying out projects aimed at integrity and anti-corruption. A key component of our anti-corruption approach is transparency. Our consultants are required to disclose any involvement in activities that would constitute a conflict of interest. We are audited every year by an independent auditor and publish our annual results online and in a year book. Furthermore, we are ISO 9001:2000 certified. This certificate was audited this year. The external assessor was very pleased with the way AEF is working and the way employees are treated. Reputation is one of our biggest assets. We cannot afford being involved in scandals, mistrust or fraud. Clients choose us for a large part due to our reputation, and corruption would be a flaw that is not easily excused. We are member of the Dutch Council of Management Consultants (ROA – Raad van Organisatie Adviesbureaus) that is committed to following a strict code of ethics which includes not being involved in any form of corruption. The president of ROA is also a partner of AEF. A breach of this code would result expulsion from the council and in serious reputational damage, much to the cost of our business. Not only in terms of reputation, but also legally any corruption would be extremely harmful for our business. Some clients, for example the European Commission, before contract signature require evidence that the contractor “has not been the subject of a judgement which has the force of res judicata for fraud, corruption, involvement in a criminal organisation or any other illegal activity detrimental to the European Union’s financial interests”. In other words, being caught engaging in corrupt practices would mean that no business could be done with these clients. We also actively work against corruption. We did a survey on an fraud incident at the municipally of Utrecht and are currently working on a big report on fraud in the Dutch health care sector. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 15 6 Contribution to Society “Principle 11”: Businesses should contribute to society 6.1 The eleventh principle In the introduction we already referred to an eleventh principle we believe in, namely that all businesses should contribute to society. Our core question to be asked before beginning new projects is: “does this make a difference in society?” – only when the answer is positive, we carry out that project. There is some overlap with the other principles. Projects – or any business, for that matter – that contribute to one of the ten principles are also covered by the eleventh principle. Nevertheless, there are other ways of contributing to society, outside of the ten principles. Helping to strengthen social cohesion in local communities or supporting organisations with socially responsible goals are but two examples. AEF is pleased to report that all of our regular projects have met the criterion of positive contribution to society this year. In addition, we have carried out projects outside of our main business. We have carried out several assignments free of charge or at reduced rates for the arts and culture sector and organisations in the social arena. AEF actively encourages and facilitates personal involvement of its employees in political and non-profit organisations. About half of our consultants have next to their work at AEF filled in functions at such organisations this year. 6.2 Challenges for the future In the coming years we want to further develop and expand our activities outside of our mainstream business and we want to help more local anchored organizations to achieve their social goals. Considering that our main strengths lie in organisational change programmes and innovative policy conception and execution, we want to increase our positive impact on society by doing exactly what we are good at. This is where we see our biggest potential for change. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 16 7 Conclusions: we do it well, it could be better 7.1 Progress and challenges We are proud of the fact that we have made progress in all four areas the Global Compact addresses. Through our core business we were able to address human rights and anticorruption issues, and adjustments of our own work processes and company policies have yielded improvements in our labour situation and our impact on the environment. We will continue to pursue our two-tiered approach to the principles of the Global Compact to further advance in these areas. However, new challenges emerge and there is still room for improvement regarding the issues that have already been addressed this year. We operate at the upper scale of what is feasible in the national market.  In terms of human rights in our established market, much depends on the political climate. While we will continue to work for the advancement of human rights, our actual impact can be limited (or boosted) by the political climate we are acting in.  While we still feel the need to proactively pursue policies aimed to encourage female progression and at reflecting the ethnic composition of our society, we have made great improvements in the labour situation at our company.  With respect to the environment, we have almost reached the limits of what is feasible in our established market.  AEF has a strong, zero-tolerance anti-corruption policy in place and actively carries out projects to promote integrity and develop codes of conduct. However, we want more. In light of our high standards regarding the ten principles in the national market, we feel that adjusting business processes even more is not enough and not feasible. Considering our strength in organisational questions and the ability to develop, implement and execute change processes and policies, we feel that this is where our additional contribution may lie. Doing projects outside of our regular realm and diving into areas that need further development will be a challenge for the coming years, also with different financial implications. We need to aggregate the work we already do to understand its impact, and on that basis develop new strategies and measures to bring about real change – for our own society as well as others. We believe we should do what we can do best: give advice to public and semi-public sector organisations to ensure they have the capacity to address the issues that are covered by the ten UN Global Compact principles and our own eleventh principle. Progress in this realm will require aggregation of our current work to understand its impact. UA46/ungc aef cop 2013 17
