• 21.10.14 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ‘Southeast Electronic Components Pvt Ltd’ reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, I.S.Banan [ M.D. ] Human Rights • Southeast has of confirm belief that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.We at southeast promote the culture that everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. We feel that it is our duty,to educate people about their rights and we promote this activity thru our human resource dept.The records of various trainings provided are available as an evidence. Implementation • The HR dept is regularly in touch with people and guide them for their rights and ensure that they are not deprived of their rights. • A suggestion / complaint box is maintained at the main gate in which any person can put their suggestions or complaints and the same was handled confidentially with the top management for its resolution and it is ensured that there is no violation of any human rights and dignity of people is maintained. We encourage our employees for openness and a due respect is provided for their suggestions / complaints and actions are taken as much as possible. Measurement of outcomes • The company has not encountered any incident in the last year for human rights violation. Labour Assessment, policy and goals • A written down 'Labour Policy' is maintained wherein ‘Southeast’ committed to comply to the various rules and regulations as applicable by the law of land and applicable in the country. Southeast, promotes the culture which is developed on trust, dignity and respect of persons and discourage any type of child labour. Implementation • Labour policy is approved by M.D. and displayed in the company and atmost care has been taken by top management that various rules and regulations are implemented and strictly followed. Measurement of outcomes • HR dept.and top management jointly discuss and ensure that all employees are treated equally and provided equal resources which are applicable as per law of land and proper records related to govt. regulations are maintained. • Undertakings being taken from suppliers that they are not employing any child labour and also educated at different platforms thru regular interactions. • Monthly meeting of all employees with the top management is organised to address their issues and its resolution with due consideration and respect. Environment Assessment, policy and goals • Environment, Health Policy is written down and displayed prominently at ‘Southeast’ so as to ensure protection of environment and health of their employees. To strengthen its working and ensuring sustainability company has a valid ISO-14001 certificate which is valid till 2017. Implementation • Regular trainings provided to employees on environment protection and ISO-14001 systems followed in the company followed with regular feedback thru audits from third party. Measurement of outcomes • Performance is monitored thru regular internal audits and compliances assured with proper records. Also third party audits conducted once in a year for ensuring compliance of the system in the company and no major issues were raised during the last year. EMS Systems found in compliance as per guidelines of ISO-14001. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals • Company is holding a very strict stand on this issue and continuously holds the Zero tolerance policy for corruption and bribery. In accordance to this company has formulated the Ethics Policy and continue with it. Implementation • Ethics Policy is duly formulated and approved by top management and regularly monitored by M.D. for the actions. Employees are encouraged to give feedback for any unfair practices prevalent in the company thru' suggestion / complaint box which is in direct access to everyone and also they have given the authority to directly report such matters to M.D. Measurement of outcomes • Regular interaction meetings held at different levels with different employee groups and feedback taken without disclosing their identities and also they are encouraged to submit their suggestions thru suggestion box. Feedback from suppliers also taken for any such issue. No incidence of corruption has been reported in the last year.
