2013 年可持续发展报告 Sustainable Development Report 2013 2013 About the Report About The Report This is Sinochem Group’s fourth Sustainable Development Report. The previous three reports were issued in June 2011, June 2012 and May 2013. Sinochem Group also published Corporate Social Responsibility Report in April 2007, June 2008, June 2009, and June 2010. REPORT PERIOD This report covers Sinochem’s activities between 1 January and 31 December 2013. In some instances content may reflect activities and data from previous years. REPORT PUBLICATION CYCLE This is an annual report. REPORT SCOPE This report includes Sinochem Group and its subsidiaries. REPORT REFERENCE The report follows the guidance of the Guidelines for Key State-owned Enterprises to Fulfill Corporate Social Responsibility, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1), the ISO 26000: 2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility issued by the International Organization for Standardization, and the CSR Reporting Guidelines for Chinese Companies (CASS-CSR 3.0) issued by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS). IMPROVEMENTS We have made improvements to this year’s report. We have: incorporate the management ideas into the report, so as to integrate the social responsibility concept into the whole process of the company's operation. respond to hotspot issues industry, strengthen substantive report. use two-dimensional code, small tips, etc. to introduce further knowledge, allowing interaction between the report and stakeholders. add various forms of report presentation, using graph design to promote readability. DATA SOURCES The data used in this report are from official documents and statistical reports of Sinochem. When applicable, the report offers corrections to past data. In case of any discrepancy, the information in this report shall prevail. REFERENCES TO SINOCHEM GROUP All references to “we”, “our”, “the company” and “Sinochem” refer to “Sinochem Group” unless otherwise stated. LANGUAGUE OF THE REPORT The report is published in both English and Chinese. If any inconsistency or ambiguity exists between the two versions, the Chinese report shall prevail. OBTAINING COPIES OF THE REPORT To read or download the report, please visit www.sinochem.com 01 Sustainable Development Report 2013 CONTENTS 5 05 President’s Message 70 Featured Social Responsibility Report 06 About Us 74 Outlook 08 Corporate Strategy and Governance 75 Expert's Comments 13 CSR Management 77 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact 64 Contribute to Public Welfare and 78 GRI Index Progress with the Society 82 Feedback Form 65 Poverty Alleviation 66 Making Donations to Health Care and Educational Causes 67 Win-win Cooperation 4 69 Community Services 1 56 Valuing Talents and Developing 18 Serving the National Economy with Employees and People’s Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity 57 Protecting Employees’ Rights and Interests 2 3 59 Realizing Employees’ Value 19 Safeguarding National Energy Security 61 Enhancing Employees’ Sense of Belonging 22 Safeguarding National Agrilculture Security 26 Promoting Progress of Chemical Industry 28 Serving People’s Lives, Improving People’s Happiness 38 Providing Value-Added Services to 48 Guarantee Safety and Protect the 30 Promoting Scientific and Technological Innovation Develop with Clients Environment to Reach Harmony 33 Creating the Highest Value for Shareholders with Nature 39 Improving the Service to Oil End Market 40 Improving the Service System for “Agriculture, Countryside, and Farmers” 49 Enhancing HSE Management 44 Providing Professional Comprehensive Chemical Business Services 50 Occupational Health 45 Providing High-quality Real Estate Projects and Property Services 50 Safe Production 46 Providing Reliable and Efficient Financial and Tendering Services 52 Emergency Management 52 Environmental Protection 02 03 Sustainable Development Report 2013 President’s Message President’s Message Sinochem Group is committed to becoming a respected, world-class enterprise. We provide quality products and professional services to the society, and at the same time, we incorporate social responsibility into the company's overall development planning, innovate new ways to achieve business growth, and respond positively to the demands of stakeholders, so as to achieve sustainable development. In 2013, faced with complex and challenging external environment, Sinochem Group actively implemented the approach of seeking progress while maintaining stability , pressed ahead with our strategy, tapped into our potential, built up our management skills, and promoted our management. As a result, we continued to maintain a steady, healthy and sustainable development, and our competitiveness and influence are constantly improved. In the course of development, we are keenly aware of our responsibilities and missions, and persistent in integrating social responsibilities with business development. We constantly reinforce the foundation for the development of our core businesses, enhance the ability to create value, and make new contribution to safeguarding China’s energy and agricultural security and promoting the chemical industry; continue to improve environment, health and safety management system, improve safety management, strengthen environmental protection management and occupational health management, and strive to achieve a harmonious coexistence between the company and nature; fully protect the interests of employees in employment equality , democratic management, pay and benefits, etc., and promote the development of talented people and their value; actively participate in social welfare undertakings in the world, carry out poverty alleviation programs, and develop together with local communities where we have operation. In 2014, we will continue to adhere to our core business philosophy of Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence , uphold the principle of positive, stable, sustainable and healthy development , follow the unique Sinochem’s path which is market-oriented, supported by resources and technology, and safeguarded by lean management, strive to enhance the quality and efficiency of development, and open up new chapters in our strategic transformation and the third “Long March”. We will make our sustainable development be conducive to the harmony and common prosperity of the stakeholders, and to show to the world an excellent image of global corporate citizen. President & CEO Sinochem Group 04 05 Sustainable Development Report 2013 About Us About Us Sinochem Group was founded in 1950. Its predecessor was China National Chemicals Import and Export Corporation, which was China’s largest trading firm. Industrial position Business overview Sinochem Group is the key state-owned enterprise under the supervision of Stateowned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council Sinochem Group is the fourth largest national petroleum company in China with more Energy business is able to provide services along the full industry value than 60 years of oil business operations. We are a large energy company with strong chain, covering exploration & production of oil and gas(E&P), oil refining, oil (SASAC). Sinochem’s headquarter is located in Beijing. international operations, a complete industrial chain, and outstanding marketing trading, storage & logistics, distribution & retails services capacity. We take an increasingly important part in energy market of China We are now non-operators or operators in specific projects, which are and the global. located both onshore and offshore; the business scope has expanded from Our core businesses span energy, agriculture, chemicals, real estate and financial mainly development to both exploration and development; our products include light oil, heavy oil and natural gas service. We are one of China’s four largest state oil companies, China’s biggest The three refineries we have invested have a combined processing agricultural input company (fertilizers, seeds and pesticides), China’s leading chemical capacity of nearly 30 million tons per year Provide premium crude oil together with professional services to clients service company. We also exert strong influence in real estate and non-banking Energy home and abroad ; and is now an important crude oil supplier for refineries financial services sector. As a market-oriented global conglomerate, Sinochem’s in China, Southeast Asia, Europe, North America; involved in the both import agent and self-operated businesses for jet fuel, naphtha, duty-free quality products and services is relevant to many aspects of mass economy and marine diesel and other light products Has a storage and logistic network covering the Bohai Bay, Ynagtze River people’s well being. Its brand enjoys high reputation and acknowledgement around Delta, Pearl River Delta the world. Has refined oil products distribution network covering major markets and core cities in Northeast China, North China, East China and South China Sinochem currently owns more than 300 subsidiaries inside and outside China. We control several listed companies including Sinochem International (SH, 600500), Sinonchem Group is the only central-government-owned company that operates the Sinofert’ s business covers the full industry value chain, including Sinofert (HK, 00297), Franshion Properties (HK, 00817) and and is the largest three major agro-inputs, including fertilizer, seed and pesticide. upstream resource, R&D, production, distribution, and agronomic services Sinofert Holdings Limited (Sinofert for short), the fertilizer flagship of Sinochem, is the China Seed integrates R&D, production, processing, marketing and shareholder of Far Eastern Horizon (HK, 03360). In June 2009, Sinochem Group largest fertilizer supplier and distributor in China. Sinofert plays an important role in technical services, and its business covers major crops such as rice, corn, stabilizing the domestic fertilizer supply and facilitating China’s agricultural development wheat, vegetable and oil seeds established Sinochem Corporation as the vehicle for potential group IPO. China National Seeds Group Corporation (China Seed for short) owned by The crop protection business covers R&D, active ingredient production, Sinochem is a national class seed company in China. With its overall strength taking pesticide formulation and repackaging, product registration, and brand the lead in China, it is devoted to becoming a company that integrates seed breeding, marketing Sinochem Group is China’s earliest entrant in Fortune Global 500 and has entered Agrilcuture production and popularization, with number one position in China and top ranking the list for 23 times, ranking 119th in 2013.Through years of strategic transformation worldwide, promoting the seed industrial upgrading of China Our pesticide business integrates R&D, production and sale, with its overall and management overhaul, Sinochem has maintained a sustainable, healthy and competitiveness ranking among the top players in China. We are an important force that drives China’s pesticide industrial upgrading rapid development. Sinochem received the Top A Corporate Performance rating from SASAC for nine straight years and three consecutive terms. Sinochem is China’ s the leading comprehensive service provider for chemical In the area of fluorine chemical, we have formed a complete industrial Sinochem’s vision is to become a respectable company with global influence, making products in China, and is competitive in fluorine chemical, natural rubber, chemical chain comprising of resources exploitation (fluorine spa and AHF), R&D, logistics, petrochemical feedstock , pharmaceutical and chemical distribution. We are production, sales and marketing;an industrial layout based on fluorite fortune to all the stakeholders and the society. Our 50,000 employees will follow the playing a constructive role in promoting technological upgrades and the safe, green, esources, led by ODS substitution, and supported by fluoropolymers and harmonious development of chemical industry. fluorinebased fine chemicals; the products include fluorocarbon chemical, doctrine of “Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence”, shoulder social responsibility as Sinochem Lantian Group Co., Ltd. (Sinochem Lantian) is a leading company in fluorine-based special chemicals, fluoropolymers and inorganic fluoride salt corporate citizen, and adopt scientific development approach to realize sustainable China in terms of R & D and production of fluorinated chemicals; it is designated by In the fields of natural rubber and rubber chemicals, we have established the Ministry of Environmental Protection as a Chinese company entitled to the a global industrial chain covering plantation, processing, distribution and business potency. Multilateral Fund set up by the United Nation’ s Montreal Protocol that protects the other value-added services ozone layer. Over a dozen varieties of its products enjoys the largest market share in Has strategic cooperation with international and domestic leading players the domestic and international markets on WPU, water-based functional material, polyether raw material, PU Sinochem International has developed into the strongest rubber business service products providers in China, and is also a competitive natural rubber resources operator in the In chemical logistics services area, we are involved in shipping, tank international market. Jiangsu Sinorgchem Chemical Technology Co., Ltd. (Jiangsu container multimodal transport, freight forwarding and warehousing, terminal Sinorgchem), controlled by Sinochem International Holdings is a leading supplier of and depot service etc. ，providing comprehensive chemical logistic solutions Chemicals rubber chemicals in the world to customer with high efficiency at low cost Our subsidiary Yangnong Group takes the lead and exerts global influence in the In the field of petrochemical feedstock, we main operate bulk chemical markets of chlorination and nitration of benzene, ECH, agro-used and sanitation-used and plastics dimethrin In pharmaceutical chemical field, we have formed a complete industrial Our shipping capacity and scale for liquid chemicals enjoys leading position in Asia, chain covering R&D, manufacturing and distribution while the tank container transportation capacity and fleet size is among the top in the Sinochem Basics world Our subsidiary Sinochem Plastics Co., Ltd. is one of the largest commodity chemical distributors in China Company Name Sinochem Group Pharmaceutical chemical business has had competitive edge in technology innovation, large-scale production, international operation and market distribution Registered Capital RMB 11.845 billion Time of Establishment March 1950 Sinochem Group is one of the central government-owned enterprises that have been Our business covers highend property project development, property Asset Scale RMB 317.8 billion ratified by SASAC to take hotels and real estate development as their main business. Our leasing, hotel investment and operation, retailing business development and Hong Kong-listed subsidiary Franshion Properties (China) Co., Ltd. (Franshion Properties operations; we have developed a series of high-end projects under the Headquarters Central Tower, Chemsunny World Trade Center, 28 Fuxingmennei Street, Beijing is one of the component stocks of the Hong Kong Hang Seng Composite Index, and has brand name of Jin Mao developed into a unique developer and operator of highend commercial real estates Real Estate Sinochem Group has formed a business magnitude with almost all the financial Our business covers financing leasing, trust, securities, investment funds, business licenses except banking, enjoys a good reputation with highly recognized life insurance, corporate finance, futures etc brands such as Far Eastern Horizon, FOTIC, Lion Fund, Manulife-Sinochem etc Financial service 06 07 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Corporate Strategy and Governance Corporate Strategy and Governance Corporate Governance Structure Sinochem strives to improve its operations and company rules in order to enhance its corporate governance and guarantee the company’s healthy and steady development. Our Vision To become a great respectable company with global presence We adhere to the principles of collective decision-making and democratic centralism in order to optimize our rational and democratic decision-making mechanism. Our group-level top executives are responsible for different segments of our business operations, and we have complete systems for the Party Committee Meeting as well as the Presidents Meeting. The Party Committee Meeting To be a role model in the industry with technology leadership，resource conservation and environmental protection is responsible for major political, business and key personnel issues, while the Presidents Meeting determines and manages the corporate strategy and operations. We also have specialized committees that review specific projects and make project proposals. Our Mission To be a mainstay for the nation’s energy security，agricultural safety and chemical technology advancement To be a great company fulfilling its social responsibility and a highly respected company with global influence Sinochem Group Corporate Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence Philosophy Sinochem Communist Party of China (CPC) Committee President’s Meeting General Office HR Dept. Strategic Planning Dept. Treasury Dept. Accounting Dept. Analysis & Evaluation Dept. Finance Dept. Project Management Dept. HSE Dept. Risk Management Dept. Science & Technology Dept. Audit Dept. Legal Dept. Information Technology Dept. Administrative Services Dept. Sinochem Management School CPC Work Dept. Discipline Inspection Dept. Retired Cadre Dept. Our Industrial Service Strategy We refer to our Industrial Service Strategy as the “One-Two-Three-Four-Five Strategy”. This is an extended and deeper version of Sinochem Corporation our previous “One-Two-Three Strategy”. Board of Directors Supervisory Panel HR Committee Strategic Planning Committee Board of Directors Meeting Management Budget Planning and Evaluation Committee Investment Committee One Ability Auditing and Examination Committee Sustainability Risk Management Committee HSE Committee Two Fundamentals Science and Technology Committee Internal management / External expansion Sinofert Holdings Ltd. Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry Sinochem International Corporation Sinochem Qingdao Co., Ltd. Sinochem Guangdong Co., Ltd. Sinochem Hebei Co., Ltd. Sinochem Jiangsu Co., Ltd. Sinochem Plastics Co., Ltd. Franshion Properties (China) Ltd. Sinochem Petroleum Exploration and Production Co., Ltd. Sinochem Oil Co., Ltd. Sinochem Industries Co., Ltd. Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical Co., Ltd. China National Seed Group Co., Ltd. Beijing Eastern Garden International Conference Center China Foreign Economic and Trade Trust Co., Ltd. Sinochem Finance Co., Ltd. Sinochem International Tendering Co., Ltd. Sinochem Hong Kong (Group) Co., Ltd. Sinochem Lantian Co., Ltd. Sinochem Liaoning Co. Sinochem Intemational Information Co. Far East Horizon Ltd. Sinochem Ningbo Ltd. Three Joints Resource / Technology / Market Four Measures Innovation / Integration / M&A / Collaboration Five Key Areas Enery / Agriculture / Chemical / Real Estate / Finance listed Companies 08 09 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Promoting Comprehensive Risk Management Promoting Comprehensive Risk Management Sinochem Risk Tree Sinochem is one of the first central SOE to implement professional risk management. As early as the late 1990s, Sinochem started Science and technology project risks Balance risks of production and marketing Project acceptance inspection risks Operating assets management risks Non-operating asset management risks System operation&maintenance risks Internal communication&report risks External communication&disclosure risks the management improvement projects. Following the principle of strengthening foundation, controlling risks, promoting upgrading, Grade Ⅲ Risks Backbone manager management risks Personnel recruitment and risks Compensation and benefit risks Purchase plan and balance risks Sales channels management risks Project technology/design risks Manufacturing technique risks Sales order and delivery risks maintaining and increasing value, enhancing capacity and pursuing scientific development raised by the SASAC, Sinochem put Knowledge capability risks Employee relations risks Process management risks Result management risks Purchase executive risks Purchase inspection risks Production&operation risks Market development risks Project investment risks Project cost control risks System develpoment risks Purchase quality risks Project progress risks System planning risks forward the idea of promoting continuous improvement of internal control system, enhancing continuous improvement of risk Product design risks Product quality risks Sales strategy risks Product service risks Project quality risks Confidentiality risks allocation risks Tendering risks Tendering risks management system”. Supplier risks We build a comprehensive risk management and internal control and the ability for self-development; form of a strong self-repair System and processes risks Production&Operation risks Engineering project risks Asset management risks system, which is based on one set of standards and two systems mechanism. Through continuous risk management system certification Grade Ⅱ Risks Technology/R&D risks Marketing&sales risks Information& Moral integrity risks and integrates comprehensive risk management requirements and for subordinate units, we conduct a comprehensive examination on the Procurement risks IT system risks quality control system, which is supported by risk and internal control risks they face; by assessing the results of these tests, we adjust the Logistics risks communication risks Audit risks Stability risks HSE risks management information platform, and which covers corporate power authorized by the headquarter to its subsidiaries; as a result, a HR risks headquarters and major business segments of subordinate units. closed-loop management process featuring finding shortcomings and We further optimize and upgrade existing systems. In December remedy them”; carry out investigation on potential risks, identify issues 2013, two guiding documents, Group Internal Control Standards and as early as possible and nip them in the bud, so that risk management Headquarters Internal Control Manual, which are in line with COSO capabilities of business units will be consolidated. standardized requirements, were officially published. We follow the principle of relying on ourselves and carry out independent Tips: Grade Ⅰ Risks Common risks Operational risks building”, and incorporate comprehensive risk management and internal control into Sinochem’s specific tasks, enhance the applicability of the results of all work. At the same time, we draw on the accumulated knowledge and experience of professional institutions, achieve the combination of applicability and advanced technology, so as to realize a great leap forward of the company’s risk management. Major risks We highlight the principle of integrating three systems, promoting coordinated progress , in a bid to achieve combination of overall coordination with emphasis on specific targets. Comprehensive risk management and internal control system support each other, and we make full use of the results of the quality management system. We employ a specialized information system to achieve a platform Significant risks integrating three systems , so as to lay a solid management foundation for the company’s sustainable development. COSO is the acronym of The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of The National Commission of Fraudulent We stress a sense of crisis—a pending danger is looming large. Financial Reporting Grade Ⅰ Risks Constantly strengthen self-diagnosis, self-adjusting, self-renewal Strategic risks Market risks Financial risks Legal risks Operating units examine themselves in accorAssemble a veriﬁcation team to do onsite meetdance with speciﬁc index and publish the results, ing, questionnaire survey, sampling … and form n Onsite natio scope, procedures, methods, and ways for ami ve rifi an evaluation report, give advice and delegate improvement based on existing problems x authority Interest rate and exchange Macro-environment risks Corporate governance Organizational structure Group control risks M&A risks Strategic Planning Risks Capital management risks Credit rating risks Budget management risks Tax risks Cost risks Accounting risks Compliance risks Contract management risks Legal dispute risks IPR risks Enterprise culture risks Corporate image risks Price risks Competitive risks Client risks Grade Ⅱ Risks Financial derivatives risks Self-e tion ca risks risks rate risks Continuous dju s t m e nt ion inspection I n s p e c t ti o n and assessment a Assessment and treatment results will be Risk control committee checks the certiﬁcation a n d e v alu ea included into performance evaluation. 10 points results, verify level of risk management system, Macroeconomic and policy risks Natural disaster risks Internal consolidation risks M&A risks Industrial structure risks Business model risks International operation risks Investment decision risks Strategic management risks Public relations risks Brand reputation risks Client credit risks Trust payment risks Basic risks OTC risks Operational risks Liquidity risks Financial investment risks Finance risks Guarantee risks Payment risks Capital security risks Budget planning risks Budget execution risks Budget execution assessment risks Tax design risks Tax declaration and payment risks Accounting risks Financial report risks ak Grade Ⅲ Risks will be subtracted if the certiﬁcation is degraded; M and adjust the authority of approval for operating A dd 15 points will be subtracted if the improvement ress shortfalls units. Increase credit for units rated above BBB-; does not meet standards and reduce credit for units rated below B Operating units formulate improvement plans in accordance with requirements, and report progress on a monthly basis. The Group will monitor and inspect the progress regularly 10 11 Sustainable Development Report 2013 CSR Management Enhance Anti-Corruption Education and CSR Management Tighten Anti-Corruption Measures Sustainable Development Model Sinochem upholds the guideline “wherever the strategy may go, anti-curroption measures will follow”. By controlling the source of corruption and stressing the effectiveness of anti-corruption measures, Sinochem combines its anti-corruption work with its strategic transformation, management improvement structure, and cadre training. By doing so, we have provided strong support and To become a great respectable company with global presence guarantee for the company to grow better, stronger, and more rationally. Based on CPC Central Committee’s Eight Provisions, we have leadership and work mechanism of inspections; regard production and formulated and implemented Sinochem Party Committee’s Concrete management as the core and management improvement as the target ND PEOPLE’S CONOMY A LIVEL NAL E IHO Measure on Further Improving Work Style and Closing Ties with the in carrying out performance monitoring. ATIO OD HEN FO G T RM Masses ; we regard the construction of the Party’s integrity and antiWe use education as the foundation to carry out anti-corruption RVIN UT UA SE LP corruption responsibility system as our core work, improve the antieducation for personnel in key and sensitive positions, and new RO SP corruption responsibility system. We identify responsibility items and employees; continue with training programs on personnel in projects, SS y Go ER nit ve IT RE rnm Y those who are responsible for them; and arrange, implement, inspect the marketing network and branch offices. G mu PR O /C om en t P and assess both integrity construction and operation and management We use quality management standards, rationalize and optimize antiSO blic Pu NG CI at the same time. corruption system, and form of 17 regulations and practices, which we AL VI DI RO We employ inspections and performance monitoring as a means to incorporate into the company's quality management system to publish TO FA Energy integrate supervision resources of Overall Internal Control system. and implement. CIL ED ITA The power to DD Constantly strengthen anti-corruption supervision system. Establish TE E-A drive the LU future VA SOCIALLY BENEFICIA LOP WITH CLI S TO DEVE nt Shar L AC onme Finance ENTS Agriculture TIVI VICE Sinochem’s Major Anti-Corruption Measures E n v ir e h o ld TIE To grow The hope to SER wealth Creating Value, seed for the S by wisdom ers green Pursuing MEASURES 2011 2012 2013 Excellence G IN Developed efﬁcacy supervision programs (items) 131 93 136 PATIN TICI PAR Group-level executives signed CPC Anti-Corruption Letter of Responsibilities (copies) 13 11 18 General managers of Sinochem subsidiaries signed Anti-Corruption Letter of Responsibilities (copies) 44 44 43 Real Estate Chemicals DE Creating harmony VE Em between architecture Making LO Key managers signed CPC Anti-Corruption and Self-Discipline Commitment Letter (copies) 237 235 274 life better PM EN pl and people s G T nt IN oy LU ie Discipline Inspection Department of Sinochem gave opinions on the appointment and removal VA ee of key managers (copies) 66 141 117 s Cl HA S RM NT ON LE IO Conducted workplace anti-corruption training for employees (people) 9162 10941 13806 TA US AN D DE AN D Conducted anti-corruption and self-discipline education across the group（times) VE N 144 155 222 LO Partners/Suppliers/Industry EE PI NG , GR WI FE TH SA T VE HE HIE EM PLO AC YEE T TO N S EME ANAG PRACTICING HSE M 12 13 Sustainable Development Report 2013 CSR Management Promoting Social Responsibility Communication with Stakeholders Sinochem has published sustainable development report for 7 consecutive years, and its subsidiary, including Sinochem International, Sinofert, Manulife-Sinochem Insurance, Sinochem Ningbo, Franshion Properties, also release their own social responsibility reports; we have opened official Sinochem Group considers corporate social responsibility as an integral part of the corporate, and incorporates social responsibility Weibo account and Weixin account of Sinochem to enhance communication with stakeholders; continue to introduce Sinochem through media into strategic management. We promote social responsibility through a top-down model, carrying out related work in the following four coverage; film promotional video for Sincochem International with the theme of “globalized Operation, Global Responsibilities”; and sum up lessons dimensions: concept shaping, system construction, guidance provision and communication with stakeholders, in a bid to create an image learned in classical cases of Sinochem US Agri-chemicals and plantations in Africa. of responsible corporate citizen for Sinochem. Concept shaping Forming a model of sustainable development with Sinochem characteristics by adhering to the company's strategy and mission; strengthening the Follow Sinochem concept of three compliance and three integration , namely, the concept of responsibility must be in compliance with the trends of international social responsibility development, with China's national conditions, and with Sinochem Group's development; and the concept of responsibility should Dear friends, this is Sinochem, Sinochem Group’s official wechat. be integrated into corporate mission, culture and values, into operation and management of each business segment, and into communication with all This account will bring you latest news and interesting stories about stakeholders. Sinochem. You can subscribe and forward it to your friends. Thank System construction you! In accordance with the Group's overall arrangement, all units will follow the guidance from the headquarters and coordinate with each other; various departments and business entities at all levels take the initiative to further strengthen the social responsibility system and standardize workflow management. Secondary units set up leadership team on social responsibility; and identify the personnel in charge of social responsibility and contact in each unit, so as to put in place a responsive working mechanism. Sina: http://weibo.com/sinochem Tencent: http://t.qq.com/sinochem Sinochem CSR Management Structure Welcome to follow Sinochem Group's official wechat Group Management Team Subsidiary Management Team Wechat ID:sinochem Other specialized CSR working teams Other specialized Group CSR Committee committees in the Group at subsidiaries committees at subsidiaries Supporting departments CSR leadership team Supporting departments Group CSR Ofﬁce CSR Honors of the Group at subsidiaries of subsidiaries Contact person at CSR lead of the CSR lead of Contact person Leader-member relation each department General Ofﬁce each subsidiary at each department Operational guidance relation In the Sixth International Symposium on Corporate Social Responsibility Report sponsored by WTO Guide, Sinochem Group Sustainable Development Report won Evergreen Award for Goldenbee Corporate Social Responsibility Report , and the reports is recommended as a long-term model for all quarters of Guidance provision the society. Emphasizing the important role of social responsibility in remodeling corporate awareness and management by holding social responsibility work training video conferencing; conduct subject training program on latest developments in the field of corporate social responsibility by central SOEs and on methods and requirements of compiling CSR reports. Subsidiaries determine social responsibility themes and carry out practices in line with The case Protecting Agricultural security, Promoting green the kind of business they operate. development sent by Sinochem is selected into 2013 outstanding cases of corporate social responsibility practices of central SOEs. The reedited overseas practice case Fifty Years of Commitment is selected into SASAC’s Central SOEs Outstanding Social Responsibility Practices (2009--2011). 14 15 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Sinochem’s CSR Matrix Stakeholders and Key Topics Sinochem’s CSR Matrix Principles While enhancing its own value, Sinochem Group is employing innovative ways to strengthen communication with stakeholders, promote effective implementation of social responsibility work, so as to achieve harmony and win-win outcomes with stakeholders. Sinochem’s CSR Matrix Serve national Provide satisfactory Conduct HSE Valuing employees’ Participate in social economy and people’s services to develop management to reach talent to develop beneficial activities to livelihoods for mutual with clients harmony with nature together facilitate social prosperity progress Pa y ta Protect national energy and Improve client service Enhance HSE management Respect and protect Conduct poverty xa c ith par cord agricultural security, promote system Carry out safety inspections employees’ rights alleviation programs tici ing nw ons pat chemical industry technology i c atio nizati t e in o the Enhance service capability Promote corporate Prod suppliers’ sense of u n g a pol la upgrading,commit to Cultivate environment m or icy w, re democratic management responsibility to fulfill om ial in c soc stu g die ularly improving people’s livelihood protection awareness a inta t and sa obligations M n nd repor Strengthen the culture of me pla t Carry out management ern nni work “Harmonious Sinochem” Innovate mechanism for gov ng , improvements and lean conducting community Ab Group management, optimizing Optimize compensation are elf ide undertakings es the by la al w system niti financial management, s oci mmu and natio ws an improving legal management, i n o ipa t e ve c peo nal e d ser rtic ser ple con om e v and enhancing information Pa s and ’s l Comm ive je c t liho y construction. pro unica ods report autho te wit Enhance oil and gas Improve services for end Safe production Help needy employees Prod suppliers’ sense of use re , etings h env resources acquisition users responsibility to fulfill rities sourc Gree production Improve employees’ skills ility, ironm prese rs me obligations and N and re es, sa rofitab port Improve oil storage facility Improve service quality ce, Protect the nature ental ve en nce p holde duce GOs, nual re ernan layout Promote industry develo ergy Enha Go emiss te gov c/ environment prote bli ver share learn ue an impro y development p a lo Pu unit Energy ions, nm rpora Build oil retailing network ction en from w-carb ve co ation, m Hold Protect biodiversity rly, iss ve pro m t Co impro o impro inform best p n eco e ductio Share nt and nt regula ve HS s nomy disclo onme ractic E ma creme n pro assets , Secure fertilizer supply Broaden service scope Green production Set up multi-tiered Promote industry work nagem the in es, holde wned cesse ensure employee training system development Envir ent tate-o nally Protect national seed Improve service quality Provide guidance on using s n of s rs industry security fertilizers Balance employees’ work Organize donations to rvatio Ratio and life welfare projects Em Improve pesticide R&D Develop green, low toxic, s pl oy nt system environmental-friendly Agriculture ie ee Partners/ Cl pesticides Suppliers/ A im bide s le s, pr Energy conservation and ab efit , t Industry pr ove y c b on en ing men ov o emission reduction as b n ide the mm Ho re nd trai iron m q e ide on a nal env ld ee sup ual rcia Co ity ov anti o td p ive orti ll of eth l Serve every aspect of Enhance R&D Green production Innovate training Organize donations to co Pr nsa cati king ss , rs n m ect s ic vo r e e g se erv s, pli c people’s lives programs for employees welfare projects pe o gr lle m ght w n de an lien ic Provide professional, Energy conservation and co li od co m rvic es, ts, ts h go es s, e an es co ’ op Improve rubber industry comprehensive services emission reduction Promote all-round Promote industry hig e a tiv vic Fair competition, promote ds , nd in t ta ning s’ ad uc ion value chain throughout the industrial corporate culture development ita en i industrial technology upgrades, ts s Recycle used plastic cil es e tra oye e at , se chain construction fa pr isf t Contribute to fluorine bottles Develop along with re oye mpl enhance the quality of industrial ac tle c Chemicals e l tio l industry development Provide customized services overseas local ye mp to e management, expand the industrial chain, n ient plo t e nd su rv ’ s and integrated solutions communities em duc spo improve industrial services ey n s co d re an co Develop high quality Broaden service channels Practice low-carbon Improve employees’ skill Prod suppliers’ sense of ct real estate projects development strategy responsibility to fulfill Enhance R&D capacity, enhance supply Consolidate property Care for employees obligations Promote healthy management business Build a brand featuring chain management and cooperation, development of the real “green and golden” Support local social attend industrial development fora Real Estate estate sector welfare undertakings Consolidate financial Provide high quality, Promote HSE skills Optimize compensation Conduct community social services for people’s all-round financial services system welfare activities Support replacement of livelihood Provide tailored services old buses with new ones Care for employees’ lives Promote multiple Support urban water Finance business development disposal system’s upgrading 16 17 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Safeguarding National Energy Security Sinochem Group constantly improves full industry chain operation and services, covering exploration & production of oil and gas(E&P), oil refining, oil trading, storage & logistics, distribution & retails; actively shoulders and has completed the construction and storage of National Crude Oil Strategic Reserve Base, and has begun receiving and storage of refined oil products for the country. Sinochem has now grown into a large global energy enterprise with a complete industry chain, contributing to help the nation build up diversified oil supply system and takes an increasingly important part in energy market of the global. Exploration&Production Oil Trading Oil Refining Storage & Logistics Distribution & Retails Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Energy Business YEAR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Serving the National Economy Crude oil trading volume (million MT) 01 48.02 52.53 55.61 55.00 56.00 and People’s Livelihoods for Equity oil and gas production (million barrels of oil equivalent) 13.74 17.74 22.01 23.34 25.13 Mutual Prosperity Reﬁned oil products (million MT) 4.61 4.12 4.28 4.55 6.89 Oil storage capacity (million cubic meters) 2.91 4.34 6.35 10.03 11.345 As a key SOE, Sinochem Group focuses on improving services throughout the industry Oil reﬁning capacity (million MT) 10.00 15.00 15.00 27.00 value chain of energy, agriculture, chemicals, real estate and finance, safeguarding national energy and agricultural security, propelling the development of the chemical industry, improving people’s livelihoods, promoting technological progress, enhancing management, financial and IT capabilities, so as to advance along with the nation. 18 19 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Exploration and Development Following the strategy of expanding upstream operation, we have begun oil exploration and Oil Refining Quanzhou Petrochemical project, which is able to process 12 million tons of crude oil a year, leads the country in development around the world, with the strategic focus on the Middle East and the Americas. We own 34 contracted oil and gas producing gasoline, which meets Euro V standard, and diesel, 80% of which reaches Euro IV standard and 20% of which meets blocks, and is granted the right to develop oil and gas in in the Permian Basin as large as 82,800 acres in the United States; we are Euro V standards; Dalian West Pacific Petrochemical Co., Ltd. is able to process 10 million tons of crude oil a year and produce over either operator or non-operator depending on specific project type, which may be onshore and offshore; we provide products such 10 varieties and over 30 branded products; Shandong Hongrun Petrochemical Co., Ltd. is able to process 5 million tons of crude oil as light oil, heavy oil and natural gas, and have become an important player in international exploration and development market. per year. Oil Trading By stabilizing our footing in both domestic and overseas markets, we give full play to our advantage of globalized and integrated operation, secured accesses to overseas oil resources, and good cooperative relationship with governments and oil companies of oil-producing countries, and maintain the supply-demand balance in domestic oil product market. In 2013, the total China Ecuador amount of crude oil and refined oil was nearly 60 million tons; the annual amount of long-term contract crude oil was over 40 million UAE tons, which include those produced by over 10 countries like Saudi Arabia and Oman. Storage and logistics The total storage space that we are currently operating, constructing and managing is around 25 million cubic meters. Our network now covers the Bohai Bay area, and areas in the Yangtze River Delta and Pearl River Delta, with supporting Syria docking facilities whose capacity ranging from 3,000 tons to 300,000 tons, and annual interim storage amount of more than 43 Colombia million tons. Storage and logistics Speciﬁc Measures Yemen Brazil Indonesia The storage tanks of Shandong Hongrun Petrochemical Co., Ltd. in the coastal area have a capacity of 4 Tunisia million cubic meters, and have oil bonded warehousing qualification Sinochem Xingzhong Oil Staging (Zhoushan) Co., Ltd. is located by one of China’s best deep-water ports and serves as an important international refined oil transit base. Our Aoshan Mountain base possesses tanks with capacity of 2.56 million cubic meters, 5 docks with 3,000-ton to 300,000-ton oil terminals , which are able to storage oil and petrochemical products like crude oil, diesel, gasoline, jet fuel and fuel oil; it is able to handle Peru more than 40 million tons of oil products annually, and is the largest commercial oil storage and oil product bonded Warehouse Foundation Sinochem Tianjin Petrochemical Storage Co., Ltd. owns 950,000 cubic meters of storage area, dedicated railway lines, loading and unloading stations, vehicle loading stations and a variety of supporting dock systems with the size ranging from 5,000 tons to 300,000 tons Sinochem Zhuhai Petrochemical Storage and Transportation Co., Ltd. owns storage tanks of 672,000 cubic meters and a 80,000-ton class dock, making it the largest petrochemical storage base in southern China Sinochem Oil serves as an agent for the storage of national strategic crude oil and refined oil and also provides commercial storage services. Some of its subsidiaries have oil depots that safeguard strategic Exploration and Production Speciﬁc Measures supply of refined oil. By the end of 2013, the total oil storage tank capacity of Sinochem Oil reached 11.345 million cubic meters Sinochem Brazil branch was granted Class A operator by Brazilian National Petroleum Agency, and is qualified to conduct operation onshore and offshore as well as in deep sea waters Qualifications Sinochem Exploration and Production has received gas reserve exploration and development (Class B) certificate by Beijing Municipal Bureau of Land and Resources, and is now qualified to explore domestic We have completed of the fourth stage of Oriental Storage and Logistics project, the second stage of Sinochem Nantong gas mineral reserves project, and Sinochem Nantong acrylic acid supporting storage and transportation project Development Sinochem Hongrun Huangdao-Weifang oil pipeline, which is 176 kilometers long and able to transport 15 million tons of oil every year, was officially put into operation in 2013. Sinochem Hongrun Petrochemical We have finished the process of Wolfcamp shale gas project with Pioneer Natural Resources Company, Industrial Park’s 4 million cubic meters storage area came into service officially in 2013. New project and has acquired 40% stake in shale oil and gas assets in the south of the Wolfcamp project We work with Columbian National Oil Company (Ecopetrol) to conduct exploration in the three new development blocks of Nogal, Cardon and Manzano; we own 50% stake in these new blocks, and is operator in Nogal and Manzano blocks Distribution and Retailing We continue to expand our gas station network in cooperation with our French partner Total Group in We apply the findings of Research on the potential and Arrangement of Hidden Oil Reserves in Old Yangtze River Delta region and the Bohai Bay region; Quanzhou Petrochemical have the ability to sell a full range of products and Tapping into potential Block in Emerald Columbia to production; old CR oil blocks now produces large quantities of oil, with oil the qualification to conduct refined oil wholesale business. and striving recovery rate increasing from 22.1% to 29.3%; a new drill in Vigia field of CR block generates high oil increase efficiency flow, producing 2,300 barrels of oil on the day it first operated, and containing only 1% of water; in addition, Gacheta oil layer up to 17 feet thick is also found in this drill 20 21 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Safeguarding National Agrilculture Security Case: Sinofert Develops Special efficient Fertilizers for Improving Saline-alkali Land around the Bohai Rim. Supported by the Ministry of Science and Technology, Sinofert takes part in Bohai Granary Technology Demonstration Project , Sinochem Group continues to strengthen R&D, production and marketing of three agricultural inputs: fertilizers, seeds and and conducts research on application of special fertilizers for food pesticides; consolidate the integration of research and sales to enhance the operation along the industry chain featuring “from crops. By adding organic matter, medium trace elements and other laboratory to the field . We are committed to becoming China's strongest, and world's leading provider of agricultural input integrated physical and chemical substances, Sinofert verifies the effect of service, so as to play a central role in protecting national agriculture security, and contribute to food safety and agricultural saline-alkali soil improvement and develop fertilizers, safeguarding development in the world. high yield and nutrient efficiency in low-yielding fields in the Bohai Rim, and contributing to the fulfillment of the target of 1 billion kilograms of extra crops in the region. Stabilizing Fertilizer Supply Sinochem Group actively cooperates with external partners to carry out R&D of efficient fertilizer products, and promotes Case: Sinofert Assumes the Task of Commercial Storage of Fertilizers in Slack Seasons. construction of science and technology centers; introduces and absorbs advanced technologies, provides high-quality products, and improves production efficiency; promotes strategic transformation of marketing strategy, enhances supportive marketing services, Sinofert participates in “Working Conference on Agreement Singing of 2013/2014 Commercial Storage of Fertilizers” organized by the National and constantly improves services throughout the whole fertilizer industry chain. Development and Reform Commission and Ministry of Finance, and wins the bid to storage 2.3 million tons of fertilizers. Since 2004, Sinofert has been participating in and completed the storage task for 8 years, making great contribution to stabilizing fertilizer prices and easing seasonal fertilizer shortages. This has demonstrated our role as the “national team” and as the major channel for distribution of agricultural means of production. Major Indicators for Sinochem Group’s Fertilizer Business YEAR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Case: Sinochem Yantai Experimental Center Wins CNAS Accreditation Total Output (million MT) 10.34 10.34 10.34 10.00 12.00 Total Sales Volume (million MT) 15.23 15.51 16.46 17.14 16.28 Sinochem (Yantai) Crop Nutrition Co., Ltd. (Sinochem Yantai) Experimental Center received certificate issued by China National Accreditation Service for Conformity Assessment (CNAS), which shows that Sinochem Yantai meets ISO17025 standards in the analysis of fertilizers. As of Total Distribution Outlets 2036 2106 2110 2110 2110 October 29, Sinochem Yantai will be able to carry out inspection on fertilizers independently, and is allowed to use marks licensed by CNAS and China National Accreditation Board for Laboratories (CNAL), and its test results will be recognized both in China and overseas. Fertilizer Industry Chain Speciﬁc Measures We have formed a technological innovation system that includes management structure, innovation platform and team, institutional mechanisms, and scientific and technological investment; set up phosphate and compound fertilizer engineering research center, nitrogen fertilizer engineering research center, and crop nutrition and plant protection research center, and are dedicated to improving energy-saving process of production techniques, seeking breakthroughs in key technologies, R&D of new fertilizers, and technology services and promotion. We have completed the application of the national key new product of environment-friendly chelate medium R&D trace element efficient compound fertilizer , which is recommended by the Petrochemical Association to be assessed by the Ministry of Science and technology. We work with South China Agricultural University to carry out research project of integrated water-fertilizer application, develop efficient water-soluble fertilizer products, as well as water-fertilizer application package for 12 kinds of crops, including cantaloupe, watermelon, banana, etc. We have completed hardware construction in collaboration with Huazhong Agrilcutural University, Nanjing Sinofert R&D, Tech University to build the National Biochemical Engineering Center Wuhan Branch. Production and We promote advanced manufacturing, and strive for technological upgrading and innovation through lean management process. The production and supply capacity of companies in which we have stake or control Marketing Production are further enhanced. By the end of 2013, the total annual production capacity exceeded 12 million tons Sinochem Shandong Fertilizer Co., Ltd. has introduced advanced technologies from School of Chemicals Integration from Sichuan University, commercialized it and used it to build industrialized equipment to produces potassium sulfate with K2O ≥ 52% and Cl ≤ 0.5%. We constantly strengthen the building of professional teams in branches, improve staff’s service and marketing capabilities, develop new primary-level customers, build China’s largest agricultural product distribution Marketing network that provides full range of products and strongest technological services. We provide not only agricultural inputs like fertilizers and pesticides, but also agrochemical services By the end of 2013, the sales and service network had included 17 branches and a total of 2,110 distributions 22 23 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Ensuring Security for China’s Seed Industry Researching and Promoting Environmental-friendly Pesticides Sinochem aims to build a world-class and China’s best national seed company, based on such core links in the industry line as By virtue of its strength in pesticide R&D, production, marketing and services, Sinochem strengthens the sharing of internal technological innovation, access to resources, marketing service enhancement, etc. and strives to consolidate the core competitiveness resources and effective use of external resources, resulting in steady progress of all links in the pesticides industry chain, and higher along the complete industry line that integrates breeding and marketing, foster commercial breeding system, fulfilling the obligation of quality of environmental-friendly pesticides. We make great contribution to China's agricultural industry upgrading. ensuring national food security and promoting the development of modern agriculture and seed industry upgrading. In 2013, China Seed Corporation was accredited China Star Seed Industry Enterprise Qualification by China Seed Association. Pesticide Industry Chain Speciﬁc Measures Seed Industry Value Chain Speciﬁc Measures Sinochem Agro, Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry and Zhejiang Research Institute of Chemical Industry have carried out 26 formulation R&D projects, including 17 new formulations, 9 recipe R & D Results We applied for 7 plant variety rights and 5 patents; cloned new source rice sterility restoring verifications; completed 17 new formulations, 7 recipe verifications and 2 pilot tests; submit 6 domestic field gene and applied for domestic invention patent; the gene contributes to the formation of independent property trial registration applications, two of which are qualified for foreign registration application rights in hybrid rice seed breeding system for China Seed Corporation. We developed 60K full rice genome China's first dual-amides pesticide products with independent intellectual property rights tetrachloro worm breeding chips with denser distribution of genome and more accurate detection, and applied for PCT internaamide (Code SYP9080) obtained temporary registration from the Ministry of Agriculture, breaking the current tional patent. We finished building genetic conversion system of three major crops—rice, corn and cotton, and foreign multinationals’ monopoly in the Chinese market for such products improved conversion efficiency Zhejiang Research Institute of Chemical Industry undertook the third subject “R&D of Pesticides for Noxious R&D R&D Platform China Seed Life Science and Technology Center was approved to establish post-doctoral Weeds” and the eighth subject “Research on Screening Technology for Pesticide Bioactivity” under the “R&D R&D research station, which will build a favorable platform for high-level seed industry technology innovation; a and Commercialization of Green Pesticides Project”, a key part of the technological projects during the “12th world-class biotechnological seed breeding platform consisting of transgenic breeding, genome-wide Five-Year Plan”. Subject 3 focuses on the design of guiding structure and optimization, and a total of over breeding, conventional breeding, quality analysis , screening tests and operation management systems have 3,000 compounds of 45 varieties have finished bioassay tests and screening; Subject 8 carried out standardtaken shape; China Seed Corporation applied and was approved as a partner for Key Laboratory of Corn and ized breeding research on more than 90 species of insects, fungi and grass targets, 21 of which are newly Rice Genetic Breeding of the Ministry of Agriculture” and is the only one in the three selected seed enterprises bred targets to engage in both corn and rice research. We made joint investment with Modern Seed Industry Fund and We work with the Institute for Drug Control of the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out Research on New Shandong Academy of Agricultural Sciences in Luyan Co. Ltd. as the leading company in wheat seed R&D Promotion Mechanism for Pesticide R&D , to establish viable mechanism for promoting the creation of new and industrialized development pesticides, foster independent pesticide innovation capabilities for the industry, and promote China's pesticide safety evaluation and management We have 650,000 mu (including those own by our subsidiaries and companies in which we have stakes) seed production bases, and a base network covering Northeast, northwest, southwest, the Yellow River-Yangtze Nantong Science and Technology Co. produces effective, low-toxic fungicides, herbicides, insecticides and Production River base, the middle and lower reaches of the Yangtze River, and southern China. We have established five other formulations, gradually develops advanced, environmental-friendly formulation like WDG, and is able to major crop production bases that cover main crop planting areas, and built 15 seed processing and storage produce 180,000 tons of all kinds of formulation products per year centers as supporting facilities. Production Shenyang Kechuang Co. produces more than 20 effective, low-toxic, broad-spectrum, environmentally friendly herbicides, fungicides, insecticides, and owns more than 100 production techniques with all three We have established 22 provincial-level marketing services centers, covering all the major agricultural regions required certificates of the country Marketing Six rice varieties, two corn varieties and four wheat varieties have been selected by the Ministry of Agriculture in the list of 2013 Main Agricultural Varieties and Recommended Techniques . We improve our strategic network in the Asia-Pacific region, setting up branches in India, the Philippines and Thailand. Currently we own 45 brands in Southeast Asia and have established a sound marketing system; we Marketing established Sinochem Australia to enhance our influence in the Asia-Pacific market We actively strengthen cooperation with countries in the Americas, and have signed strategic cooperation agreements with relevant agricultural departments in Bolivia and Venezuela Case: SOE Memo Demonstrates Sinochem Role in Protecting National Seed Industry Security The four th episode Flesh and Blood Connection of the level, in order to focus on biobreeding , with focus on biological documentary Memorandum of State-owned Enterprises gives an breeding, to promote independent research and development of account about the achievements made by China National Seed high quality seeds, so as to break the monopoly of high-end crop Group Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Sinochem Group, in the fields of seeds core technology by foreign companies. chip breeding, seed production, and other related areas, which We establish cooperative relationship with leading scientific demonstrates Sinochem’s important contribution, as an SOE, to institutions in major ecological zones in the areas of rice, corn , safeguarding China's seed industry safety and food security. wheat , vegetables and oil seeds We have designed and produced world's first whole genome We undertake a large number of national science and technology RICE6K of rice breeding chip projects, and jointly set up “Strategic Alliance of Crop Seed Industry We build China Seed Life Science and Technology Center to Technology Innovation with over 50 leading industrial, academic carry out biological breeding and conventional breeding which and research institutions, including the Chinese Academy of we have independent intellectual property rights; build a worldAgricultural Sciences, China Agricultural University. class commercial breeding platform to build a leading international 24 25 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Promoting Progress of Chemical Industry Case: Sinochem Taicang Environmental Protection Co., Ltd. independently Researches and Develops Green Refrigerant Products Sinochem Taicang Environmental Protection Co., Ltd. is an important fluorine chemical industry base affiliated to Sinochem Lantian. It As China's leading comprehensive service provider of chemical products, we strengthen our resource acquisition, R&D, production specializes in R&D, production and sales of ODS (Ozone Depleting Substances) substitutes HFC-134a, HFC-125 and other environmentally and marketing system in fluorine chemical and rubber industry, constantly improve our services along the whole fluorine chemical friendly refrigerant products. By increasing investments in technologies, the company achieved great breakthroughs in R&D of new products products and rubber products industry chain. We not only improve our strategic layout in the chemical industry, but also promote the and upgrading of production devices. The highly active fluoride catalyst and HFC-134a production techniques have broken up foreign progress of the industry. companies’ monopoly. And the company supplies more than 70% green refrigerants for vehicle-based air-conditioning market. Enriching Fluorine Chemical Products Improving Rubber Industry Value Chain Sinochem Group has a complete fluorine industry chain, covering fluorite resource development, research, production and sales. As the one company that owns the majority share of fluorite resources in China, Sinochem constantly develops fluorite resources; we conduct research on fluorine chemical products, constantly enrich product lines of fluoropolymers, fluorinated fine chemicals and other fluorine chemical products; research and develop more ODS substitute products, and continue to strengthen fluorine chemical Sinochem Group continues to extend its rubber industry chain to resource-based upstream. While we keep expanding planting product marketing system, and contribute to ozone layer protection and the development of new fluorinated materials. areas, we strengthen our control over self-production capacity, and sticks to the marketing strategy of “creating value for customers”. By the end of 2013, we had finished the global strategic layout of natural rubber business, the operation of which covers the complete industry value chain. Currently, we are China's No.1 provider of rubber marketing and services, as well as a competitive service provider of natural rubber. Fluorine Chemical Industry Chain Speciﬁc Measures Resources We own more than 30 million tons of fluorite reserves Rubber Industry Chain Speciﬁc Measures Sinochem Lantian has independently developed more than 40 proprietary varieties of ODS substitutes, and Sinochem International has an annual natural Rubber production capacity of 680,000 tons, with the planting its production capacity accounts for 30% of China’s total ODS substitutes areas exceeding 80,000 hectares We undertake two projects within the national 863 projects, formulate 2 pieces of national and 5 industry Resource Acquisition We acquired permanent use right to 45,000 hectares of land in Cameroon. The company, together with its standards, establish 6 new standards, draft China’s first fluorine chemical industry safety standard, and subsidiaries, is entitled to use 270,000 hectares of land in Africa and Southeast Asia, where the planting area receive 51 patents totals 180,000 hectares R&D The Ozone Depletion Potential (ODP) and Global Warming Potential(GWP) of HFC-161，under the brand name of“Fengleng”, is 0 and 12 respectively. It has excellent environmental performance, and is applicable in most circumstances in replacement of existing refrigerants We have basically completed our global processing layout in major natural rubber producing regions in West The report 8000t/a HFC-125 production technology Development and Application won the second prize of Africa, Southeast Asia, as well as Yunnan and Hainan within China: Technology Progress Award 2013 from China Petrochemical Association Teck Bee Hang Co., Ltd., which is controlled by GMG, owns 5 natural rubber processing plants in southern Thailand, and is the leading company of the industry in Thailand. It has a complete processing and quality Production assurance system, and its products represent the highest level in Thailand, which have received certification We are able to produce 160,000 tons of fluorocarbon chemicals 12,000 tons of fluoropolymers and fluorinated fine from all major high-end tire producers chemicals, and nearly 100,000 tons of inorganic fluorine compounds. And through cooperation with Solvay, Sinochem Hainan Rubber Co., Ltd. and Sinochem Xishuangbanna Rubber Co., Ltd are able to process Honeywell and other fluorine chemical companies, we keep moving up to high-end fluorine chemical industry 140,000 tons of natural rubber annually, 70% of which are for high-end radial tire Our aluminum fluoride project, the planned annual capacity of which is 80,000 tons, in Chenzhou, Hunan Production province, has come into operation. The aluminum fluoride it produces meets AF-0 Level 1 standards, and the anhydrous hydrogen fluoride reaches Level One grade goods standard, and it has achieved the application of low-grade ultra-fine fluorite powder in the production products We sold 750,000 tons of natural rubber, accounting for about 15% of the domestic market. And we are among The newly built HFC-125 device, which has an annual production capacity of 20,000 tons, has been put into the world’s top in terms of market share operation. The production capacity of trifluoroacetic is further raised, have reached annual output of 80000 tons of We have established a nationwide marketing network, central warehouses, logistics facilities, and a marketing Marketing anhydrous hydrogen fluoride and 30000 tons of trifluoroacetic platform in Singapore, all of which have enhanced our services for downstream customers We have strengthened our strategic cooperation with Top 10 tire producers, including Bridgestone, Michelin, Continental, etc Jin Cool HFC-134a and R4 series of products have become the most prominent brand in domestic vehicleused refrigerant and household and commercial air conditioning refrigerant markets. The products have been Marketing sold in more than 50 countries and regions in the world. The Kehua series trifluoroacetate products has a domestic market share of over 60% 26 27 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Serving People’s Lives, Improving People’s Happiness Clothing Chemical: we manufacture textile and dyestuff for garments, offering diverse choices of clothing to people Provide financial leasing services for educational equipment Build high-quality real Supply diesel and Food estate projects Provide financial leasing gasoline services for medical care equipment Agriculture: we breed new seed varieties for grains and vegetables, providing a more diverse diet to people; we develop green Provide AI for antipesticides and fertilizers to increase crop production and yield infective drugs Chemical: we develop and manufacture food additives to improve food quality Provide raw materials such as rubber and plastics for Housing the automobiles Provide food additives Chemical: we produce polyurethanes, HFC-245a foaming agent and air-conditioning refrigerants to enhance the energy-saving Provide textile raw function of our construction materials; we produce plastics such materials and dyestuffs as PP and PVC, which are widely applied in pipelines, doors, and windows Real estate: we built high-end buildings and provide thoughtful property services Breed new varieties for grain and vegetable; Provide agro-inputs, including Transportation fertilizers, seeds, and pesticides Chemical: we operate rubber, rubber products, plastics and vehicle air-conditioning refrigerants, which serve as the raw materials for tires and other accessories in automobiles to meet the demands of the auto industry Energy: we are expanding our gas station layout. Currently, we own nearly 600 gas stations, providing a stable diesel and gasoline supply to meet people’s transportation demands Education Medical Care Finance: Far East Horizon Education has become an important participant in and promoter for China’s education Chemical: as a professional operator of a pharmaceutical supply chain in China, we vigorously cooperate with globally recognized development. By the end of 2013, Far Eastern Horizon had provided services to more than 140 universities, over 220 biotech pharmaceutical companies to enhance our overall strength occupational training schools, more than 170 high schools, and more than 110 local bureaus of education Finance: we provide a comprehensive solution package for medical establishments in China, including financing, medical engineering, investment and development, management consulting, equipment and facility services, to help the medical care services develop in China. And we provided services to more than1800 hospitals 28 29 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Promoting Scientific and Technological Innovation Build a scientific and technological team Sinochem has strengthened its efforts to introducing and training scientific and technological talents, and established a scientific and technological innovation team with more than 3,000 talents in various fields. We have trained and introduced 6 talents in related national projects, including 2 in the “Recruitment Program of Global Experts” (“1,000 Talents Program”), and 4 in the “One Hundred, One Thousand and Ten Thousand Talents Program”. In 2013, our Shenyang branch newly introduced 1 talent in The company continues to promote the 123 scientific and technological support strategy. We aim to comprehensively improve the “1,000 Talents Program”. We now have 33 experts enjoying special allowance granted by the State Council. And we have finished the our scientific and technological innovation capability by enhancing the platform for innovation, team building, and strengthening evaluation and recruitment work of 6 batches of Sinochem senior experts, with 90 experts in total. management capacity. We have already become a national innovative enterprise, overseas high-level talents innovation and Build capacity for scientific and technological innovation and management Sinochem has strengthened the organizational building pioneering base, national intellectual property rights demonstration enterprise, and one of the key SOEs for the implementation of for scientific and technological innovation, improved the assessment mechanism, reformed the management mechanism for scientific and technological strategy. scientific and technological innovation projects, and realized the improvement of capacity for both scientific and technological innovation and related management. Scientific and Technical Employees ( unit: people ) Technological Innovation ( unit: billion yuan ) After restructuring, we established a professional multi-functional Before projects were approved, we mobilized staff in different 2011 0.75 1.18 1.14 committee responsible for R & D, production, operation, and functional professions and sectors to increase the possibility of the approval management, which has strengthened the collaboration of research, of projects. We gave HSE and IPR the veto power, strengthened 2,067 production, marketing and scientific and technological innovation. project planning objectives management, raised standards for We developed the evaluation index systems of enterprise scientific and project acceptance, and improved the quality of project research and 2012 technological innovation capability and technical level and scientific and development. We have established follow-up evaluation mechanism technological management capability , and we carried out evaluation after a scientific and technological project is completed, which covers based on them. We identified our shortcomings in terms of innovation, the follow-up evaluation for the approval, implementation, examination, 2,212 and came up with measures to improve them accordingly. The evaluation acceptance, achievements and fees of the project. The management 2013 results of innovation and management capabilities have been included as mechanism is continuously improved through follow-up evaluation. indexes for performance evaluation for secondary institutions. 2,572 2011 2012 2013 Scientific and technological management Innovation mechanism s In 2013, the company invested 1.14 billion yuan in technological innovation. We had 2572 scientific and technical employees. We mechanism building itie I Technology and talents ment capa Scientific and technological planning tion capac Output and efficiency age launched 279 new product (new technology) projects, undertook 59 government projects, won 16 provincial and ministerial level management ova scientific and technological awards, formulated 16 national standards and 37 industry standards, and implemented 66 international Scientific and Corporate technology expertise bil Research project management n ity nn Achievements transformation and cooperation projects, including 44 new projects involving creation of new products, technology development, introduction of others’ Scientific and technological technological a application achievements, and building scientific and technological teams, etc. achievements management Management of foreign scientific and Innovation Production technics and device quality Note: For five years, we have introduced 26 backbone R & D employees, developed 42 items with new technologies and 54 new products, achieved a total sales income of 1.78 technological cooperation Business efficiency and others billion yuan, made 223 patents and new products applications, applied 19 national projects based on the Group’s projects, and got 95 million yuan worth of national financial support. Over 1/3, 1/4 and 1/5 of main varieties of pesticides, fluorine chemicals and corns produced by China National Seeds Group Corporation, respectively, achieved technological or variety upgrading, and involved production capacity accounted for over 70%, 60% and 70% of total capacity, respectively. For rice, production capacity Intellectual property management M related to the research achievements of the Group projects took up more than 10% of total capacity. Improving the Scientific and Technological Innovation System Case: Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry Has Built a Platform to Share Information on Scientific and Technological Innovation The company has established a scientific and technological center covering many fields, such as energy, agriculture and Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry has built a platform to share information on science and technology, covering safety chemicals. We have improved our team of innovative talents, strengthened the building of innovation management mechanisms assessment, standardization and pilot scale experiment, which has supported and assisted the business development of the Group. and institutions, and gradually established a scientific and technological innovation system that can boost the high-speed and highThe Safety Evaluation Sharing Platform participated in the Ukrainian project of Sinofert and the Venezuelan project of Sinochem Agro Co., Ltd. quality development of our company. and ensured the smooth implementation of the projects; The working group for the building of a pilot scale experiment base has been established. And the construction plan for the pilot scale Build a scientific and technological innovation platform experiment base has been made and included in the Strategic Development Plan 2014-2016; Business of intra-group service of the experiment platform increased from 18.07% in 2010 to 49.13% in 2013. National Key Laboratory National Engineering Technology Engineering Postdoctoral Research Internationally Certified Research Centers Research Centers Centers Safety Evaluation Center Case: Sinochem Lantian Co., Ltd. Has Deepened Reform on Its Scientific and Technological System to Build Itself into A Science1 2 2 5 1 and-Technology-Oriented Enterprise Sinochem Lantian Co., Ltd. aims to become “a leading fluorine chemical industrial group with cutting-edge science and technology”. It has Sinochem Yunlong Co., Ltd. was carried out reform on its scientific and technological system under the guidance of strategic planning, so as to enhance its technological Nationally Certified Enterprise National High and New Tech Provincial-level Enterprise formally recognized by the Ministry Technological Center enterprises Technological Centers innovation capability, and improve the company's core competitiveness. In 2013, the company invested 160 million yuan in technology, and of Science and Technology as 1 12 9 a national high and new tech 126 million yuan in research and development. Throughout the year, it undertook 67 R&D projects, with 63 implemented smoothly, and projects enterprise. carried out as planned accounted for 94% of all projects. The company applied for 79 patents last year (with 64 patents of invention), and 51 patents were authorized (with 30 patents of intention). It broke its records both in the application and authorization of patents. 30 31 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Promoting Intellectual Property Rights Management Creating the Highest Value for Shareholders Sinochem has established an intellectual property rights (IPR) management model for large SOEs, featuring “internationality, Sinochem Group implemented the guiding principle of “making progress while ensuring stability.” The healthy, stable, and professionalization, strategic management, professional management and risk management.” This attempt aims to enhance the sustainable development was achieved by promoting business while strengthening management. In 2013, we were again named company's capabilities of creating, utilizing, protecting and managing intellectual properties. In 2013, we was listed among the first “Enterprise with Outstanding Performance” by SASAC, became a Grade-A Enterprise in SASAC’s performance assessment for batch of “National IPR demonstration enterprises”. We made 271 patent applications throughout the year, and 169 were authorized, the ninth year in a row, and a Grade-A Enterprise in its tenure assessment for the third year in a roll. In the “World's Most Admired a yearly increase of 32% and 90%, respectively. As of the end of 2013, the company has accumulated 654 active patents, with 78% Companies 2013” made by the Fortune magazine, we were No.1 in the list for the trade industry, representing the best performance being patents of invention, and 25% applied in the United States, Japan and Europe of Chinese enterprises in industrial lists. We formulated and issued Guiding Opinions on Strengthening the Protection of Proprietary Technologies, as well as a whole set of industrialized IPR Major Operational Indicators of Sinochem Group (Unit: 100 million of RMB) management standards. We have been following the developments of key patents such as the patent arrangements of the fourth generation of refrigerants conducted by YEAR 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Honeywell and DuPont in China. For key pesticides developed by Sinochem Agro and Zhejia Research Institute of Chemical Industry, we carried out analysis on the risks of patent Operating revenue 2430.29 3353.27 4589.53 4531.59 4669 infringement before industrialization. Net proﬁt 52.16 73.45 106.97 75.45 69.52 In Jiangsu Sinorgchem, we conducted trainings on the related systems, property registration, and operating procedures of assets assessment about state property management, copying the property management system of Sinochem International to Jiangsu Sinorgchem. Total assets 1716.03 2114.56 2581.89 2866.24 3178 Shareholders’ equity 667.24 763.79 873.27 974.19 1132.11 Number of Patents Authorized ( unit: item ) Conducting a Management Improvement Project Combining the requirements of SASAC and our own need for management innovation, we further and comprehensively promoted management improvement of the Group and laid a solid foundation for value creation, based on the “Sinochem Management System 2011 2012 2013 (SMS),” which takes corporate culture as foundation, internal control mechanisms as means, team building as guarantee, and strategic management as orientation, and also based on the lean management, which is our “basis of existence and measure of governance.” 69 117 169 Clarifying Principles As we further improved our management, we clarified the general principle of “proceeding from the reality of Sinochem, earnestly further improving management of our Group based on the schedule and requirements of SASAC.” We also pushed forward the concrete principle of “Six Combines”, including combining the promotion of lean management, combining the implementation of the annual Search for existing Tracking the situation of Selection of protection Foreign licensing and plan, combing the sector positioning in our headquarters building, combining the new project of parent company and subsidiaries Establishing a warning technologies to patent application of methods for patents or definition of patents mechanism for legal risks, management, combining the expectations of leaders and various sectors, and combining the practice of model enterprises. determine the focus of technologies being proprietary technologies or proprietary and comprehensively invention researched Patent drafting technologies analyzing infringement of Setting of prices for Making Progress Systematically Identifying obstacles in Patent portfolio strategy intellectual property rights patent application, and foreign licensing formulation making timely responses Patent valuation As we made efforts to improve our management, Sinochem Group always followed the instructions and requirements of SASAC, made thoughtful organization and arrangements, steadily improved specific programs, upheld collaboration, continuously improved Before project our work in various stages and made related summary and evaluation. We rectified problems in 13 specific programs and 4 key launching and R&D During R&D Achievement protection Before industrialization Foreign licensing breakthrough areas. Strengthening organizational leadership. We established a leading group and a working group for management improvement, identified the Office for Management Improvement. Each secondary unit and functional sector in the headquarters established institutions to organize activities on Rights protection Foreign exchanges and publicity Foreign cooperation Technology introduction management improvement to guarantee the smooth progress of all related activities. Improving working mechanism. We improved the communication mechanism, inspection and supervision mechanism, developed approaches to examining activities on management improvement, and carried out on-site inspection and supervision in various units on a regular basis. Tracking the IP dynamics of Making approval procedures for Making of management Carrying out IPR due diligence Formulating working programs. We developed targeted action plans, which included 158 questions from functional sectors, and 707 from units in operation. competitive partners publishing papers outside measures for cooperative Introducing business valuation Implementing grass-root diagnosis. We selected pilot units, organized grass-root on-site diagnosis, and carried out exchange meetings on Tracking the dynamics of Establishing a confidential proprietary technologies for technologies management diagnosis in grass-root units. competitive products in the market mechanism for classified Strengthening promotion. Through 25 issues of Briefing on Management Improvement Project of Sinochem Group, Sinochem Today, the Monitoring the market to see information in new products release management improvement module of the NOTES platform and other ways, we publicized special practices in various companies of our Group as we whether there are fake or counterfeit technologies or products carried out this project. We also enhanced our exchanges and communications, and promoted good practices and experience by launching special trainings on management improvement and holding summary and exchange meetings. 32 33 Serving the National Economy Sustainable Development Report 2013 and People's Livelihoods for Mutual Prosperity Realizing Tangible Improvement Implementing Lean Management Through the rectification of problems found in the 13 specific programs and 4 key breakthrough areas, we scored obvious Sinochem Group continued to strengthen the combination of lean management and management improvement, integrating ideas achievements in overcoming shortcomings, reducing costs and increasing effectiveness. of lean management into all aspects of operation, and vigorously implemented lean projects in order to achieve systematic cost reduction. In 2013, the company implemented and finished a total of 997 lean projects, including 91 Group level projects and 906 Speciﬁc Programs on projects at secondary and below levels. We saved 382 million yuan worth of costs. No. Management Improvement Achievements Details Investment decision-making We improved the information system for investment management, and clarified the rights 1 management and responsibilities involved in the hierarchical management of investment management See P36 Number of completed lean projects Saved costs Number（projects） (100 million of RMB) We improved overall budget management, and witnessed the initial formation of a new 3000 2821 4.5 2 Overall budget management See P36 3.82 framework system for overall budget management 2500 3.51 4 2111 3.5 3.06 We continuously improved the internal control system and the comprehensive risk management 2000 3 Comprehensive system, and combined comprehensive risk management with internal control so as to forge, in a 2.5 3 risk management systematic and phased manner, a comprehensive risk management and internal control system See P10-11 1500 2 997 version 2.0 with Chinese characteristics and in line with international standards 1000 1.5 1 500 Technological innovation We improved technological innovation system and mechanism, and the creation, utiliza0.5 4 management tion, protection and management of IPR See P30-31 0 0 2011 2012 2013 We strengthened team building in key positions, and improved the building and manage5 Human resource management ment of human resource integration teams See P58-60 6 Property management We improved property management, and established property management information system See P32 Case: Lean Management of Sinochem International Has Reduced Warehousing Cost Per Unit Ton for the Distribution and Trade of Chemicals 7 Legal management We strengthened the building of legal workforce See P36 Sinochem International took reducing warehousing cost per We adjusted the way of leasing, long-term contract and provisional 8 Procurement management We standardized key links in procurement management See P67 unit ton as a key lean project in 2013. Based on analysis of the tank capacity based on specific amount of shipment. We integrated constitution of warehousing costs and major factors influencing warehousing capacity by replacing basic long-term oil storage 9 Safe production management We improved the HSE management system, and built HSE teams See P49-50 the costs, the company clarified procedures and specific plans contract with provisional renting contract. And we reduced the for improvement. In 2013, the company spent 38.16 million yuan tank capacity of styrene, and adjusted structure of chartered tank, Information-based on warehousing, and warehousing cost per ton was 20 yuan / replacing larger tank with smaller ones. 10 We improved information-based organization structure See P37 management ton, a yearly decrease of 13%, bringing a direct financial gain of We adjusted the way of shipping. We tried to arrange shipment about 5.64 million yuan. from the Jiangyin area, and in Zhangjiagang city we mainly adopted 11 CSR management We established social responsibility organization system See P13-16 We implemented intensive procurement, and developed ladderland transportation. In ports and railway stations with intensive type rates, with the volume of procurement as the base. arrival of plastics and PVC, we carried out direct selling. 12 Party construction management We standardized and perfected our work in branches See P61 13 Anti-corruption management We established a discipline inspection and supervision mechanism See P12 Case: Shenyang Kechuang Has Reduced Consumption of Solvent and Production Costs Shenyang Kechuang implemented the lean project of “Reducing Consumption of Solvent and Production Costs.” Through the two ways Honors of workshop pre-treatment and whole factory comprehensive treatment, and taking the epoxiconazole production workshop as the starting point, the company gradually developed solvent control measures from the “point implementation” with single product and single workshop to the “plane implementation” with key products and the whole factory. By sorting out and improving solvent consumption, the We won the titles of “Outstanding Unit in the Management Improvement Project for SOEs”, “Outstanding Unit for the Improvement solvent consumption of major original drug products reduced 846.3 tons compared with the budget, a decline of 23.74%. of Investment Decision-Making Management”, “Outstanding Unit for the Improvement of Comprehensive Risk Management”, and “Outstanding Unit for the Improvement of Human Resource Management.” 34 35 Sustainable Development Report 2013 服务国计民生 与国家共繁荣 Optimizing Financial Management Taking value management as the core, we have continuously promoted the strategic transformation of our financial management, and established and improved a financial management system based on value creation. We have strengthened the construction of the internal control system, improved comprehensive budget management, strengthened management of domestic and overseas pool of funds, enhanced investment and financing capabilities, and strengthened liquidity management. We have actively explored the value-leading role of the financial system in the allocation of resources, and relevant management methods and means in the protection of value, so as to guarantee the healthy, stable and sustainable development of the company. Consolidating financial base We have established an efficient, multi-dimensional financial reporting system, improved internal and external financial reporting capabilities, and given play to the supervisory and controlling functions. Optimizing the allocation of resources We have improved the efficiency and ability to resist risks of capital through ways such as adopting innovative financing channels and ways, improving capital structure, and deepening the building of the centralized management system featuring global integration, etc. Raising the company's rating As of April 2014, the international credit rating agencies Moody's, Fitch and S & P all raised the rating of Sinochem Hong Kong (Group) Co., Ltd. from BBB + to A-, further enhancing the company’s image and reputation in global capital markets. Improving the budget and performance evaluation system We have established a closed loop of management covering budgeting, monitoring, evaluation, feedback, readjustment and examination, with comprehensive budget management as the core. We have designed a unique cost management system framework and a cost accounting system, and made cost management measures, so as to build a cost management system with Sinochem characteristics. Case: Improving the Investment Management System, and Strengthening the Whole-Cycle Management of Projects With the goal of “making our major business bigger and stronger, and maintaining and increasing the value of state assets”, we have always taken our development strategy as investment guidance, continuously optimized the allocation of capital and resources, and improved the whole-cycle investment management system, which involves pre-investment management, investment decision-making management, project construction management, and project operating evaluation and disposition management. In 2013, four projects Enhancing Our IT System were forced to stop, involving 6.4 billion yuan worth of investment, which effectively prevented and controlled investment risks, and promoted the transformation and development of our enterprise. The company took the year 2013 as IT Promotion and Building Year. Under the guidance of IT strategic development plan, we attached great importance to service, which supported our business operation and management improvement. We invested 430 million yuan, carried out 44 information-based projects, expanded system functions, promoted collectively built systems, improved Case: Optimizing Financing Channels operation and maintenance levels, strengthened security, and significantly improved the IT system. Sinofert won the honor of national demonstration enterprise for the in-depth integration of IT and industrialization. Sinochem has given full play to the advantages of diversified domestic and foreign financing channels so as to meet the funding needs of corporate for their strategic promotion, operation and development. We newly established a $300 million U.S. commercial paper program, issued of 9 billion yuan worth of domestic corporate bonds (10-year and 15-year terms) and $ 600 million worth of overseas perpetual hybrid bonds, and got 9 billion yuan worth of favorable loans for fixed assets from China Eximbank and U.S. $ 200 million worth of reserves financing We completed the development of Version 3.0 of our system, and rolled out and promoted 6 subsidiaries of a U.S. oil and gas project. Among them, the first perpetual hybrid bonds issued overseas gained, as the first case of investment perpetual Building of marketing under Sinochem Oil, 4 subsidiaries under China National Seed Group Co.,Ltd., 3 subsidiaries under capital securities issued overseas by a Chinese enterprise, 100% accounting equity and 50% international rating equity. and trade system Sinochem International Yangnong, and 4 subsidiaries under Sinochem Agro Improving Legal Management We established a server security zone and an Internet DMZ zone, and deployed intrusion detection devices. By doing these, we improved the security level of servers strengthened our monitor of and control over the Information Security servers. The Group’s ERP financial system and the financial company’s CB system have passed the Security Level Protection Assessment (Level-III) We have implemented legal risk management in an all-round manner, abided by various laws and regulations, further improved regulations on legal management and legal risk prevention mechanism, further standardized our work on legal affairs and made it more informationbased, guarded against law-related risks in mergers and acquisitions, and met the company’s need for legal management in its strategic transformation and business development. Core applications We have established ERP and TMS core application and disaster preparedness system, so as to ensure and off-site disaster continuity of our business, and strengthen the ability of the system to withstand unexpected disasters Making our legal work more standardized While improving management and quality system, we improved our legal risk prevention mechanism, preparedness clarified the working procedures and specific requirements of contract management, authorization management, litigation management, lawyer-hiring management, and project legal management, and formulated a legal internal control manual. In 2013, the rate of legally audited contract reached 100%. Improving the General Counsel System We increased the proportion of full-time general counsels, and established the General Counsel System in all important subsidies. Application of Using mature virtualization technology, we divided 139 virtual servers out of 12 physical servers for producStrengthening team building for counsels We comprehensively improved the quality of the team. In 2013, a total of 29 people passed the qualification virtualization technologies tion, development and system test, having saved 15 cabinets examination for corporate counsels. We strengthened professional training for counsels, and promoted resource sharing, communication and collaboration among counsels within the system. Throughout the year, we organized outside counsel special trainings for more than ten times, and conducted study, discussion and experience sharing for all legal staff in the system through video conferencing on a monthly basis. 36 37 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Providing Value-Added Services to Develop with Clients Improving the Service to Oil End Market Providing Value-Added Services to 02 Sinochem has given full play to its advantages of having business in the whole industry chain in the oil sector. While providing quality Develop with Clients services to clients, we improve oil product end retail service network, standardize our service, and provide clients with convenient and satisfactory refueling service. Sinochem upholds the business philosophy of“creating value for clients through value-added services, and creating value for our company through the satisfaction of Completing Our End-User Market Service Network clients”.We regard the needs of clients as the core of our work, continuously expand our service model, enrich our service portfolio, improve our capability in service, and Sinochem has adopted the marketing model of “integration of production and marketing, and self-management”, actively expanded the distribution and retail network of product oil, and initially established a strategic layout covering markets in North, East and develop with our clients. South China, with sales network covering 16 provinces and cities such as Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Liaoning, Heilongjiang, Shandong, Shanxi, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui, Fujian, Guangdong, Jiangxi, Hunan, and Hainan. With more than 20 regional sales companies and nearly 600 gas stations, we have been continuously expanding direct sales and end-user markets, and enhancing the company’s ability to service. In November 2013, Sinochem Oil officially stationed in Changsha city, And we plan to invest 1.2-1.5 billion yuan over the next five years in the construction of 120 gas stations in Hunan Province. Strengthening Our Service Quality Sinochem pays attention to client service, carries out client satisfaction surveys, and collects client service statistics on a monthly basis. We provide car wash, blowing-up, vacuuming, parcel-collecting and other convenient services to our clients free of charge, and keep improving our service quality. Case: Fujian Retail Gas Stations Providing Convenient Services Fujian flagship retail gas station has enhanced their service, and provided convenient services to clients. The station prepares convenient equipment for glasses cleaning, self-service shoe-cleaning, vacuum-cleaning, tire-inflating, phonecharging, and umbrellas. At non-peak hours, refueling staff provide front windshield cleaning service. The station has introduced the project of “convenient pay,” providing services such as credit card repayment, utility payments, mobile payment, and bank transfers. The station carries out service assessment through MMP unknown customer grading, customer satisfaction surveys and other means. 38 39 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Providing Value-Added Services to Develop with Clients Improving the Service System for Case: “Water and Fertilizer Integration Technology” Boosted Output Whiling Saving Fertilizers in Five Southern Provinces “Agriculture, Countryside, and Farmers” Subsidiaries of Sinofert in Hainan, Guangdong, Guangxi, and Anhui carried out, together with South China Agricultural University, the site demonstrations, 15 times of technology trainings for growers on crop cultivation, fertilization, and pest prevention and control, research project of “Water and Fertilizer Integration Technology”. and 11 times of home-visiting guidance service. By doing these, Taking advantages of the company’s marketing outlets and South we have applied the drip irrigation technology with the mix of water China Agricultural University’s research strengths and resources, and fertilizers to more than 10,000 mu of lands, and for each mu Adhering to the idea of “serving agriculture, countryside and farmers, and strengthening and benefiting agriculture,” Sinochem has we earned about 400 yuan because of saved cost and increased we developed efficient water soluble fertilizer products, explored built an integrated service system of agricultural inputs. We have farmers in our mind and serve them, and we are committed to a water-fertilizer integrated package covering 12 produces such yields, which has improved farmers’ enthusiasm for and capability growing together with China’s modern agriculture. as hami melon, watermelon, and banana, conducted water of scientific farming. Our goal is to save 30% of fertilizers in soluble fertilizer test demonstrations, and provided fertilizers and Southern China by 2015, and earn 600 yuan more for each mu of supporting fertilization programs to farmers. In 2013, we held 8 onland growing economic crops. Constituting a Scientific Fertilization Service System Sinofert, a subsidiary of Sinochem, focuses on the actual needs in the fields, continuously integrates resources, and has built a nonprofit fertilization service system centering on the “agricultural knowledge education system”, “field service and guidance system”, and “balanced fertilization service system” so as to help farmers use agricultural inputs in a scientific way, and achieve production and yield increase. Agro-chemical Knowledge On-site Service and Balanced Fertilization Spreading System Guidance System Service System We invite professors in China Worked together with the Department Built high-standard, modern and Agricultural University all the year round of Science, Technology and Education large-scale demonstration projects of soil to provide 400 and 800 telephone of the Ministry of Agriculture as well as and fertilizer technology hotline service, As the end of 2013, we provincial agricultural councils to Cooperated with formula fertilizer have cumulatively received more than provide technical services to farmers, to enterprises designated by the Ministry of 200,000 calls. help construction of technology Agriculture and undertook the project of demonstration counties, demonstration “one hundred counties, one thousand villages, farmer field schools, and to villages and ten thousand hamlets” to promote on-site guidance build soil and fertilizer pilot testing stations in Wen County of Henan, Baoding of Hebei, Dashiqiao of Liaoning, etc. resulting in a preliminary fertiliz Case: Small Courtyards of Technology in Pingdu City, Finishing the “Last Kilometer” of Agri-Chemical Service Case: Construction of Farmer Field School (FFS) Sinofert’s subsidiary in Shandong Province has cooperated with advanced technology and high-quality agricultural products, China Agricultural University and Qingdao Agricultural University Sinofert helps farmers solve problems in production, optimize Since 2011, Sinofert has been in cooperation with the Ministry As of the end of 2013, the company has altogether set up over 170 FFSs to build small courtyards of technology in Yinjiacun Village in the planting of grapes, and explore the marketized mode of of Agriculture to establish farmer field schools (FFS), a new type across the country, covering Hebei, Jiangsu, Southwest China, Heilongjiang, the Daze Mountains, Pingdu City, Shandong Province. Sinofert operation for technical services. In 2013, with the help of small of service, across the country. Being participatory, inspiring and Northwest China, Jilin, Shandong, Fujian, Hunan and other places, with over innovates the model of agri-chemical service, adhering to the courtyards of technology, the output of high-quality grapes interactive, FFS puts farmers first, makes fields classrooms, and 10,000 famers directly receiving training, and over 300,000 rural households service philosophy of “Four Zeroes,” namely, zero distance, reached 2,500kg/mu, which was highly appreciated by the teach farmers practical farming skills and technics. getting benefit indirectly. zero threshold, zero time difference, and zero fee. By combining farmers. 40 41 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Providing Value-Added Services to Develop with Clients Providing Satisfactory Services to Farmers Purchasing Seeds Case: Promoting the Service Network of “Sinochem Plant Hospitals” China National Seed Group under Sinochem adheres to the philosophy of “providing farmers with better seeds and more attentive Sinochem Agro has established a “Sinochem Plant Hospital” in Shou County, Anhui Province. The hospital has provided farmers services, and becoming a more intimate and trust-worthy friend with farmers.” The company has chosen and promoted high-quality, with systematic and advanced plant protection technology services through ways such as irregular free expert diagnosis, technique explanation, long-term consultation service for farmers, and free trial of plant protection products. The company has established high-yield, disease-resistant, insects-resistant, and stress-resistant varieties, actively carried out pilot demonstrations, and provided “Sinochem Plant Hospitals Website” in order to provide more farmers with online technical service and support. grassroots farmers with quality technical services so as to guarantee increase of output. The company carried out demand survey and growing demonstration organizations and large farming households, and promoted new varieties From July to September, the Sinochem Plant Hospital has invited experts from Anhui Provincial Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Liu’an Municipal before sales, conducted timely distribution according to demand during of quality crops and planting techniques by providing quality seeds and Center for Promotion of Agricultural Technology, and Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry to carry out the following activities: the process of sales, and provided training and guidance after sales. We practical planting skills. have spread massages via phone calls, texts, and leaflets so as to timely In the Huang-Huai-Hai Region (a region covering the basins of help farmers prevent plant diseases and insect pests, and done a good the Yellow River, Huai River and Hai River), we have introduced Technological lectures, introducing the prevention and control technologies for common local pests, identifica6Times job in field cultivation management. “Zhongzhong No. 8”, a lodging-resistant variety suitable for mechanical tion of counterfeit agricultural resources, and recognition of harms of pesticides The company has provided whole-process technical services, planting. In plot fields, we adopted technics such as mechanized Experts on-site diagnoses with the theme of “free diagnosis for farmers, education of product application established standardized plot fields for quality varieties in key counties, sowing, simultaneous sowing of seed and fertilizer, and mechanized technologies commonly seen in the market, and fighting the drought to ensure output increase” innovated model of cooperation with rural cooperative business grain yielding, and provided planting technical guidance to farmers. Case: Promoting a New Model of Land Transfer field management work such as planting, fertilizing, emasculation, 1Time Training on the prevention and control of false smut of rice China National Seed Group has adopted a new model of seed production. In Zhangye City, Gansu Province, we have transferred and harvesting. We have arranged technical personnels to carry 6,000 mu of transformed farmland, and assisted Village Committees out standardization guidance, realized standardized management establish farmers’ cooperative organizations, reemploying farmers and large-scale operation, so that we have significantly improved Farmers in the Baoyi Farm were provided with the following products for free: as “industrial workers”, so that they have rent and labor income as farmers’ income and quality of seed, and the efficiency of largetwo ways of income guarantee. The company has organized unified scale operation has gradually become obvious. 200Mu Demonstration fields using plant protection testing products Expanding Pesticide Service Network Our company has actively explored modern plant protection techniques, enhanced our multi-form cooperation with the industry’s best companies, and established an innovative service model with diversified channels. We have mainly depended on ourselves in making variety products, introduced external cooperative products, established a series product line, and provided clients with integrated solutions to problems of core crops. We have built a technical service team integrating marketing, closely cooperated with the National Agricultural Technology Promotion Center and plant protection stations across the country, and come to the fields to provide a full range of technical services and support for farmers. Case: Exploring a New Model of Technical Services for Modern Plant Protection Sinochem Agro has signed a strategic cooperation framework treatment programs, plant protection products, technical service agreement with Heilongjiang Provincial Plant Quarantine and and residues monitoring. By using efficient, low-toxicity, low-residue Protection Station, giving full play to its advantages in R&D and plant protection products and scientific and reasonable way of applied technologies of plant protection products. The two parties fertilization, so as to maximize the efficient use of pesticides, reduce jointly provided some of plot farmers in Heilongjiang with an the amount of applied chemical pesticide, protect the environment, integrated crop protection solution including plant protection and and help farmers increase output while saving cost. 42 43 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Providing Value-Added Services to Develop with Clients Providing Professional Comprehensive Providing High-quality Real Estate Projects and Chemical Business Service Property Services Sinochem centers around subdivided industries such as chemical logistics and plastics to continuously innovate business model, Franshion Properties sticks to the product philosophy of “releasing future vitality of cities” and the service philosophy of “being enrich service portfolio, and provide clients with professional comprehensive chemical business service. customer-centered and quality-centered”, pays close attention to the quality and living experience of buildings, and provides customers with efficient, high quality and butler-style service. The company is committed to the creation of a hotel service brand with “zero complaint,” making safe, comfortable and harmonious environment and atmosphere for customers. The Highest Security Standard for the Liquid Chemical Logistics Case: The Creation of Property Right Personalized Micro-hotel Group Sinochem International under Sinochem Group has a liquid chemical fleet and a fleet of tankers with the largest scale and highest security standard in China, covering fields such as shipping, tank container multimodal transport, freight forwarding and Franshion Properties has launched the Jin Mao Whisper of project has integrated the three innovative characteristics of warehousing, terminal and depot service, making us the only company in China that can carry high-risk liquid chemicals such as TDI Jade Dragon property right personalized micro-hotel group, “micro”, “personalized” and “independent.” and MDI. The company is in possession of national level-I freight forwarding and customs clearance qualifications and other relevant the first property right hotel project. Integrating personal tastes, The hotel group has carefully studied all links including integration of qualifications, and we have branches in all the major ports in the country. Besides, in major coastal port cities such as Tianjin, this project created seven themes, and established over 100 resources, room booking, customer landing, check-in, room service, Dalian, Shanghai, and Guangzhou, we have chemicals warehouse with fully qualified operators. personalized vacation homes of 33 categories. The company shops, etc. By following the owners’ vacation, self-living and investment has also introduced a building block-style model featuring full habits and making systematic management plans, the hotel group has Hainan Sinochem Shipping Co., Ltd., our subsidiary, is one of the traditional strengths of Turbo Maritime in the Australia and New Zealand line, openness, independent cooperation and free combination. The not only solved the problem of stagnate property prices in the short largest professional liquid chemicals shipping business entities. As DSCT provides better-quality service to clients all over the world. owners carry out independent positioning, independent pricing, run, but also provided tourists with quality holiday apartments, truly of the end of 2013, the company controls 66 ships, with more than Shanghai Safe-transport Chemical Logistics Co., Ltd., our subsidiary, and they decide the functions of property by themselves. This realizing win-win for owners and tourists. 850,000 tons of capacity, providing liquid chemicals transport service is the largest owner of professional tanks. As of the end of 2013, the along domestic coasts and international far and near sea routes. number of tanks possessed by the company reached 8,412, in which The company, together with Japan’s fourth-largest ship owner Turbo 25% were special tanks. In 2013, the company established a joint Maritime Ltd., established Dorval SC Tankers Inc. (DSCT), a joint venture with venture with NEWPORT, taking advantage of NEWPORT’s resources to Sinochem International FZE holding 51% of shares. Taking advantage of the further strengthen global operating platform. Tailored Plastics Services for Our Clients Sinochem Plastics, our subsidiary, is a trade marketing company specialized in bulk petrochemical raw materials, which has established a prudent business model with key clients at the core and is based on resource acquisition, product marketing, and risk management. The company provides clients with tailored product and service integrated solution. According to supply and demand of the market, we timely adjusted product mix, developed products with high Case: The Establishment of a Comprehensive Maintenance Team for Professional Services for Customers growth potential, and eliminated those with excess capacity. Products such as styrene, methanol, and aromatic Improving have increased with a certain proportion, which has greatly increased the performance of petrochemical business In 2013, Kaichen World Trade Center chose engineering and technical personnel that were good-looking, responsible and able to solve Product Mix We cooperated with intra-system companies such as Yangnong, and developed PNCB and PPP into core a full range of technical problems to establish a professional comprehensive maintenance team, so as to guarantee the timely service products, gradually forming the core product portfolio including EA of clients’ maintenance need and their satisfaction. The Center promised to arrive at the clients’ places within 10 minutes, and the daily completion rate of maintenance work was 100%. Meanwhile, the Center arranged staff to carry out inspection and examination on VIP floors after 18:00 on a daily basis. Except for emergency maintenance accidents, all inspection and maintenance work were completed Reinforcing We further optimized and upgraded the management mode for the supply chain of automotive materials, establishafter work, improving the service of “non-interference” inspection and maintenance. Management of ing quality management platform for General Motors, conducting systematic management from the production of Supply Chain raw materials to the production of parts 44 45 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Providing Value-Added Services to Develop with Clients Trust Services that Take Trustee’s Needs as Paramount FOTIC’s business covers many fields, including asset securitization, family trust, securities investment trust, inclusive finance, real estate trust, infrastructure trust, directed additional stock, fund, futures, etc. The company upholds the business philosophy of “thinking of changes in a sound and moderate way, treating customers and talents in a sincere and respectful way.” Through continued brand service upgrading, extensive investment channels, the efficient construction of information technologies and professional wealth advisors, the company has created a comprehensive and integrated platform of marketing services, and is committed to providing customers with high quality and professional financial products and services. The company has for many times won awards such as the “Best Wealth Management Trust Company of the Year”, “Best Wealth Management of the Year”, and “Best Trust Wealth Management of the Year”. In 2013, FOTIC created more than 20 billion yuan of trust income for its clients. Case: FOTIC won the 2013 Best Comprehensive Service Trust Company Award In June 2013, at the 21st Century Asset Management Annual Meeting2013& the Sixth China Asset Management Golden Shell Award Ceremony sponsored by 21st Century Economic Report, FOTIC won the Best Comprehensive Service Trust Company 2013 Providing Reliable and Efficient Financial and award. FOTIC adheres to the business philosophy of “thinking of changes in a sound and moderate way, treating customers and talents in a sincere and respectful way”, and is committed to Tendering Services providing customers with high quality and professional financial products and services. This award shows that the service concept, team quality, profitability and brand image of FOTIC has been With multiple financial services, Sinochem builds a relatively complete development framework of non-banking financial business. widely recognized by the society. And influential brands in the industry have been created, such as “Far East Horizon”, “FOTIC”, foreign trust , “Lion Fund” and “Manulife.” We continuously improve our service capabilities through enhanced business development and risk management. The Financial Leasing Services Promoting Industrial Advance Far East Horizon, our subsidiary, is a leading comprehensive financial services institution in China. The company adheres to the industrial operation service strategy, and upholds the business philosophy of “financial + industry.” Through continued innovation of products and Full-course Quality Tendering Service services, the company provides customers with one-stop service solution. In the medical, printing, shipping, construction, industrial equipment, education, textile, electronic information, utilities and many other fields, the company centered around the need of customers Sinochem International Tendering Co., Ltd.’s business mainly include international and domestic tendering and related technology to carry out integrated industrial operation services involving finance, trade, consulting and investment. and equipment import agent, procurement management, and international business consulting. The company continuously improves the quality of service and business, upholding the philosophy of “standing firmly rooted with credibility and integrity, putting talents Case: Boosting the Construction of Urban Public Facilities first, pursuing excellent service and innovation.” Through rigorous and standardized operation, the company provides customers with full-course quality procurement consulting services to help customers improve procurement efficiency and reduce risks of project In our response to the central and provincial governments’ policies We have already provided nearly 780 million yuan to over 20 cities execution. The company has won the “ Top Ten Chinese Tendering Agencies” for six consecutive years, and has for many times won on new energy vehicles, we have provided funding to urban public including Changsha, Suzhou, Changzhou, Yangzhou, Taixing, Baoding, China’s “Ten Most Competitive Tendering Agency Award”, and “5A Tendering Agent of Integrity and Excellence”. transport companies to help them update buses and raise vehicle Wuxi, Zhuzhou, and Pingdingshan. emission standards. We have updated over 1,000 buses inclding LNG, LPG, CNG, BSG and other new energy buses in more than 30 The company successfully obtained the Class B Qualification of Material and Resource Procurement granted by the Ministry of Commerce, and cities including Nanjing, Fuzhou, Guangzhou, Zhongshan, Baoding, smoothly conducted foreign aid business. The company has explored business such as overseas business consulting, overseas project management, Yangzhou, Putian, Changde, and Nantong, with a total value of 680 and integrated procurement and import of overseas parts, and undertook the loan service of foreign procurement of the Austrian government. million yuan. We have also carried out a loan program for new energy The company focuses on serving pillar industries of national economy, such as the aerospace, military equipment, railway equipment, iron and steel vehicles with the Asian Development Bank, with the value of the project metallurgy, petrochemicals, industrial machinery, shipbuilding, energy conservation and environmental protection, and has participated in national amounting to about 650 million yuan. key projects of many large enterprises, institutions and government agencies. The company has conducted in-depth exchanges with clients such We have provided funding to urban sewage treatment enterprises as Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, Qinghai Salt Lake Group, and Department of Navy Equipment, and introduced laws and regulations on and drainage companies to help cities complete the upgrading and tendering and procurement, practical business experience, knowledge of international trade, and risk control measures, so as to make tendering and renovation of water treatment systems, promote the development procurement more standardized. of urban drainage, and improve the living environment of cities. 46 47 Guarantee Safety and Protect the Environment Sustainable Development Report 2013 to Reach Harmony with Nature Enhancing HSE Management Sinochem Group takes management improvement activities as the main line, keeps in mind the HSE responsibility and mission, and focuses on the strategy objectives of “building a good team, establishing a good mechanism, creating a good system, fostering good culture, and making good performance” as well as the working objective of “zero accident.” We continue to maintain “an iron fist grasping safety,” pay close attention to the front line and fulfillment of responsibility, pursue effectiveness of management, raise management level, and ensure that HSE situation remains stable. Continuously Improving HSE Management We strictly follow relevant regulations, identify our shortcomings and gap with the others, clarify objectives and measures to improve, develop and implement practical HSE improvement programs, and make efforts to improve HSE management level. In accordance with laws and regulations, we found new problems and carried out correction, with 7 items of Strengthening the rules revised, and 3 items added Building of Quality Through regular meetings and internal certification, training, education and implementation of decisions, we Management System conducted many self-examination combining our internal audit work. By doing this, rules and regulations of units of all levels have been in line with and covered by those of the Group’s We developed benchmarking tools combining the 13 elements, with 21 secondary units and 98 tertiary units Strengthening HSE realizing overall benchmarking, and 2,053 problems found and solved Benchmarking Through various ways such as regular meeting, monthly newspaper, HSE audit and inspection, we carried out Management following guidance, and improved the HSE self-management capabilities of units at all levels The “Whole Life Cycle HSE Management Information System” of our Group won the award of “National Outstanding Informationbased Safe Production Solution” at the Safe Development Forum sponsored by the National Safe Production Month Organizing Committee, and organized by www.xinhuanet.com. Strengthening HSE Capacity Building Establishing HSE Talents Development System By HSE staff counting and assessment of professional sequence, we have constructed an HSE professional development channel, established an HSE professional talents e nsibl team, and realized the organized construction of institution and effective spo e ns HS Guarantee Safety and Protect the training of personnel Major er so E R 03 . ff Environment to Reach Harmony Establishing HSE Capacity Building System With the goal of improving P Sta Strong HSE capability, we have established and improved an HSE training system with Nature featuring top leaders taking the overall responsibility, and members of leadership team and managers at all levels shouldering dual responsibilities Inte Links in one post. We continuously strengthen HSE leadership and building of Sinochem Group takes“building a responsible Sinochem to achieve sustainable professional capabilities, and earnestly improve HSE abilities and level, by way rna rs development”as our mission, upholds the healthy, safe and environment-friendly de of implementing internal certification and trainings for personnel in key posts lTra in ea management mechanism, adheres to the principle of“putting people first”, continuously in L and HSE professionals, and launching the training program of “100 internal gS a m taff Te improves the working environment of our employees, protects the surrounding trainers, and 1,000 team leaders.” By strengthening training management, environment in a scientific way, guarantees the development of the Group with innovative we promote HSE training matrix, carry out comprehensive trainings, and way of work, and has achieved a harmonious coexistence between the Group and nature. continuously improve the HSE awareness and skills of our employees. 48 49 Guarantee Safety and Protect the Environment Sustainable Development Report 2013 to Reach Harmony with Nature Case: Sinochem Organizing HSE Certification Training for Major Leaders We strictly strengthened review and check on investment projects Various channels to enhance We increased the intensity of troubleshooting fundamental safety guarantee Sinochem has invited senior the senior experts of State We increased safety investment and strengthened rectification of hidden dangers capabilities Administration of Work Safety and Ministry of Environmental We comprehensively promoted the safety automation reform on hazardous techniques Protection to give lectures. Through HSE laws and regulations, interpretation of HSE management requirements of the company and analysis of accident cases, major leaders got to know that Realizing the promotion of We implemented the management strategy of “iron fist for safety” “safety responsibility is extremely heavy.” management through examinations We improved the assessment mechanism on safe production, and increased the difficulties of examination by “iron fist for safety” Occupational Health Case: Sinochem Carrying out Safe Production Inspections Sinochem organized experts in enterprise safety, equipment, production such as equipment technology, management of Sinochem Group continuously strengthens basic management of occupational health. We have further improved management technology, electric meter, and fire prevention and fighting, and construction projects, fire prevention and production, food hygiene mechanism, and standardized management by doing works such as improving occupational health management system, divided them into 13 inspection teams for safe production. With and implementation of flood prevention work and so on. standardizing occupational health records management, reporting occupational hazard projects, improving occupational members of the leadership team leading them, these 13 inspection The Safe Production Inspections feature unprecedentedly strict hazard identification and monitoring, implementing technical reform on occupational hazards, strengthening protection against teams conducted cross inspections on 5 major fields and 31 requirements, tough measures, strong implementation and wide coverage. occupational hazards, regulating the use of personal protective equipment, standardizing health monitoring of staff, and enterprises, covering their daily management of safe production, The fact that all leaders of the Group went to the front-line is not only normalizing related education. monitoring and control of direct operation links, rectification of a safety education activity, but also a practice of leadership with safety hidden dangers for safe production, professional areas of safe awareness. Mainly combining the basic building of occupational health, we comprehensively carried out specific troubleshooting and rectification. We organized experts to provide on-site guidance on all business segments. Taking into consideration of both problems found in corporate selfexamination and feedback of expert on-site guidance, we optimized and implemented infrastructure promoting program Mainly conducted comprehensive standardization and rectification of personal protective equipment to ensure that the whole process from type selection to discard of personal protective equipment is standardized, achieving real protection for employees. Safe Production Sinochem Group takes safe production as one of its key works. We keep a close eye on problems, remain result-oriented, constantly reinforce basic management, and strive to improve the level of safety management to ensure that risks are under control. We won the awards of “Outstanding Unit” at the “Fighting and Treating Rule-violation” Knowledge contest held by the safe production field of the country, and the National Emergency Rescue Knowledge Contest for Enterprises. Warning and Reflection We comprehensively promoted leadership with safety awareness, and strengthened the organization and leadership of safe production In 2013, we earnestly learnt from lessons of the major safety accidents in the petrochemical industry, took them as warnings for us and carried A number of initiatives to We clarified job responsibilities for safe production, required employees to sign safe production letters out earnest reflections, identified our own problems and shortcomings in HSE management, and analyzed our hidden dangers and problems improve safe production of responsibility on various levels of leadership, and comprehensively promoted linear responsibilities in HSE integrated management, operation site management, enforcement of rules and regulations, management of techniques and equipment, leadership and management of responsible areas and management of contractors. And we made clear the following four key requirements for our work: We implemented the safety qualification access system, and comprehensively improved the managers’ capability for safe production We should implement responsibilities, establish and improve a safe production responsibility system covering all employees, all process and all dimensions. We should strengthen safety assessment, and resolutely implement the safe production “veto” system. We should optimize processes and strengthen source control. We should earnestly sort out problems in organization and management We strongly promoted the activities of improvement for safety A variety of activities to process seriously affecting safe production, and carry out prompt rectification. We carried out front-line safety team-building improve the safe operation of We should consolidate the foundation of management, strengthen the building of HSE leadership of leaders at all levels, and do a good job in We carried out safety standardization operations the front-line We introduced the safety philosophy of DuPont to improve our safety culture all-employee training and education. We should strengthen emergency management, make efforts in areas such as risk identification, emergency plans, emergency response teams, emergency drills, emergency resources and crisis response. We should improve emergency plans to guard against risks. 50 51 Guarantee Safety and Protect the Environment Sustainable Development Report 2013 to Reach Harmony with Nature Emergency Management We conduct strict examination on energy consumption for newly invested projects, make energy consumption as an important indicator, carry out energy assessment on projects, and implement energy saving measures Energy Sinochem Group further improves the emergency management system, optimizes emergency plans, carries out training exercises, We strengthen capacity building for energy measurement, and carry out regular energy audit and energy Conservation establishes and improves emergency response information platform, and constantly enhances emergency management capabilities. balance testing for key energy-consuming enterprises and Emissions Improving the procedures for the management and distribution of corresponding emergency fund, and refining emergency instruction lists of each team Reduction We actively carry out project financial reporting and new technologies application, construct demonstration Upgrading emergency platform, comprehensively keeping in line with the construction standards of national emergency platform, and adding GIS projects for energy conservation and emissions reduction, and build a demonstration enterprise map platform to realize the visualization of emergency resources Carrying out census on emergency resources, conducting comprehensive research on related teams, equipment, materials and expert resources, analyzing shortcomings, and finding loopholes Case: Franshion Properties Has Completed the First Carbon Emission Quota Trading Contract in the Construction Industry of China Case: Shenyang Research Institute of Chemical Industry Held Fire Emergency Drill China has become the largest carbon emitter in the world, so first carbon trading contract in the construction industry of China. Sinochem Shenyang Institute held fire emergency drill within its it is of great significance for the sustainable development of This case has served as a shining example to promote energy premises. Fire Brigade officers of Shenhe district of Shenyang the Chinese economy and society as well as environmental conservation, emissions reduction, and environmental protection were invited to provide on-site guidance to enhance employees’ protection to reduce carbon emissions. Statistics show that, of the whole industry. fire safety awareness, improve their emergency response among all China’s carbon emissions, emissions from the capabilities, familiarize them with basic knowledge of escape real estate and construction industries have taken up 40%. from fire, and help them learn the proper use of firefighting On November 28, the opening ceremony of Beijing Carbon equipment and so on. Emissions Quota Trading was launched. This event was held by the Beijing Municipal Government, and co-organized by Beijing Development and Reform Commission, Beijing Finance Bureau, and the Climate Department of National Development and Reform Commission. During the forum, Franshion Properties and China Energy-conservation and Green Carbon Company (Beijing) signed an agreement to purchase 1,000 tons of carbon emission quota of Sinochem Jinmao Properties each year, constituting the Environmental Protection Case: Sinochem Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Company Vigorously Promoting Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Sinochem has made great efforts to build itself into a resource-saving and environment-friendly enterprise. We have set high standards Sinochem Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Company’s core work is to serve the energy conservation and emissions for ourselves, kept clean production, taken the initiative to carry out environmental protection verification, continuously strengthened the reduction efforts of energy-consuming companies both inside and outside the Group. It has integrated domestic and foreign technology, markets, and capital and other resources, actively expanded energy conservation business in the industrial and construction field, EIA and the “Three Simultaneous” management, strengthened operation and management of environmental protection facilities, ensured continuously provided quality energy conservation products and services to energy-consuming companies both inside and outside the stable pollutant emission under the regulated limit, strengthened control over significant risks of environmental protection, and achieved Group, and contributed to China’s efforts to build a resource-saving and environment-friendly society. In 2013, the company saved more the harmonious development of economic efficiency, environmental protection, and resource conservation. than 10,000 tons of standard coal for enterprises directly and indirectly, and reduced carbon dioxide emissions by at least 20,000 tons. Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Case: Jiangsu Sinorgchem Technology Co., Ltd. Integrating Green and Low-carbon into Every Production Link Taking low energy consumption and high output value as our thousand ton Comprehensively Used of General Industrial Solid Wastes With the new mission of guiding the green development of rubber goal, technological innovation as a means of measure, and 900 chemicals industry , Jiangsu Sinorgchem has always put energy 822 project reform as the key, our company comprehensively 800 conservation and emissions reduction at an important position of 708 promotes energy conservation and emission reduction to 700 the company’s development, and integrated this concept into every establish a good example for the industry. In 2013, for each 600 603 link of production. The company promotes source reduction, which 10,000 yuan of output value, we altogether consumed 0.76 adopts the philosophy of environmental protection and energy 500 tons of standard coal, and comprehensively used 602,942.69 conservation from the technical source, avoiding the possibility of 400 tons of general industrial solid wastes. passive treatment after pollution. Meanwhile, through the development 300 of recycling economy and reducing waste emissions, the company 200 makes great efforts to build a modern, environmentally friendly and responsible chemical enterprise. 100 0 2011 2012 2013 52 53 Guarantee Safety and Protect the Environment Sustainable Development Report 2013 to Reach Harmony with Nature Properly Disposing Waste Promoting a Low-carbon Lifestyle We continuously apply innovative technologies to the disposal of waste, making efforts to “turn waste into treasure,” reduce waste emissions, and We advocate the concept of low-carbon life, and have taken a series of effective measures to build a green lifestyle with our staff. relief pressure on the environment. We implemented official vehicles reform, and standardized official vehicles management. By the end of 2013, 15 out of our 23 secondary units have Sinochem Fuling uses 233,462 tons of phosphogypsum to produce cement corrosion inhibitor and gypsum blocks, and further studies ways already implemented official vehicles reform, and reduced 73 vehicles, with more than 2.8 million yuan saved annually. of using phosphogypsum. The company has been identified as the “National Laboratory of Comprehensive Utilization of Phosphogypsum in the We strengthened the management of the office area. We have repaired more than 30 pieces of office furniture, reduced air pollution problems after Petroleum and Chemical Industry.” renovation, adjusted configuration of plants leasing, and provided air purification equipment. Sinochem Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Company explores new technologies for the treatment of fluorine wastewater. It recycles hydrofluoric acid through technical ways such as specific oxidant, extraction and baci-extraction, which was successful in the on-site test, and has effectively reduced the amount of sludge as hazardous waste. Case: Smart Recycling Machines Produced by the Incom Company The smart recycling machine independently developed by so as to ensure that waste bottles can enter the right, safe Protecting the Ecological Environment the Beijing Incom Renewable Resources Recycling Company, and environmentally friendly treatment channel from the very with Sinochem Plastics holding its shares, is the first selfbeginning. Besides, this also reduced white pollution caused by We integrate the philosophy of eco-environmental protection into our development plans. While pursuing economic efficiency, we continuously increase service machine innovatively combining the technologies of the random discard of garbage, and water and soil contamination Internet of things and renewable resource recycling system in caused by illegal recycling channels. The smart recycling capital investment in and efforts on eco-environmental protection, realizing harmony and win-win between economy and the environment. China. Since October 21, 2013, the machine has been used in machine has built a public platform for resource recycling and Beijing’s subways, airports and schools conducting timely and education of recycling economy, and promoted propaganda of effective sorting, storage and recycling of beverage bottles, green consumption concept of . Case: Sinochem Petroleum Exploration & Production Paying Close Attention to Protecting Bio-diversity Sinochem Petroleum Exploration & Production paid close attention to protecting marine lives as it carried out the Perenco project, so as to ensure the harmonious coexistence of oil exploration and marine ecology. When drilling the Caju-1 well, in order to prevent seismic waves caused by the VSP drilling operation from affecting the echolocation of nearby dolphins, workers suspended operation until the Brief Background: dolphins swam away. The “bottle to bottle” recycled polyester chips project of the 300,000 tons of crude oil and reduced 160,000 tons of Incom Company takes waste PET bottles as raw material, carbon dioxide emissions. processes them into polyester chips, and re-uses them in the production of beverage bottles, which has established a recyclable economic model featuring “full resource recovery, homogenized renewal and clean production,” and realized win-win between resource utilization efficiency and eco-environmental protection. In 2013, the company was included in the Beijing “City Mineral” base demonstration e n t e r p r i s e s . T h e c o m p a n y ’s y e a r l y a b s o r p t i o n o f w a s t e plastic bottles was approximately 50,000 tons, accounting for about one-third of all in Beijing. Meanwhile, Incom saved Case: Sinochem Group Actively Participating in the “Million Tree Planting Project” Sinochem actively participated in the tree planting activity of “Million Tree Planting Project” held by “Roots and Shoots,” an international environmental organization, and donated 2,400 saplings. The project is committed to arousing public awareness of environmental protection, and calling on individuals to involve in actions to reduce the negative impact on the environment. By planting trees in Inner Mongolia, the project aims to establish a reliable protection screen for the local population and social development. Meanwhile, through community and educational activities, the project aims to enhance environmental awareness of the local people, improve their livelihood, ensure the long-term healthy development of the project and play an active role in the process. 54 55 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Valuing Talents and Developing with Employees Protecting Employees’ Rights and Interests Sinochem Group attaches great importance to the protection Employee Gender of the rights and interests of employees, sticks to legal employment, comprehensively guarantees employees’ rights Valuing Talents and Developing and interests in equal employment, democratic management 04 and salaries and welfare, promotes diversified development with Employees of talents, and provides strong support for the sustainable Female 31.37% development of the Group. Male 68.63% Sinochem adheres to the talent philosophy of“human resource is the primary resource of the company, and corporate value should be raised together with the value of our employees.”We see our employees as the most valuable resource of the company, Protecting Rights and Interests supporters of business development, and promoters of the third round of business venture. So we provide all-dimensional support for the work and life of our employees, We strictly comply with international norms and laws and Nationality Structure regulations of countries where we have business, continuously striving to achieve the harmonious development of both the employees and the Group. regulate labor management, improve the form and rules of employment, and enhance labor management mechanism. We sign labor contracts with employees in accordance with Foreign Employees 18.22% related laws, with a signing rate of 100%. We insist on equal Chinese Employees 81.78% employment, guard against discrimination, and see employees of different nationalities, colors, races, gender, religious and cultural backgrounds as equals. In 2013, we had 553 newly recruited fresh graduates. We resolutely resist child labor and forced labor. We advocate gender equality, providing women employees with equal promotion channels. There are 49 female Posts Structure (only Chinese employees) managers in our Group, accounting for 16.2% of personnel in key positions. By the end of 2013, we had 50,199 employees. The average Manufacturing 50.69% age is 35. Female staff account for 31.4%, and foreign staff Technology 23.85% make up 18.22%, up by 2.6% year on year. Management 25.73% Employees by Age Employees Education 56 and above 2.51% Doctor Degree 0.54% 46-55 12.34% Master Degree 8.30% 36-45 25.27% Bachelor Degree (including Double 25-35 46.27% Bachelor’s Degree) 22.72% 24 and below 13.61% Below Occupational Training 68.45% 56 57 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Valuing Talents and Developing with Employees Democratic Management Realizing Employees’ Value The company actively improves our democratic management system with the Employees Representative Conference as the basic form, Sinochem Group continuously increases its efforts to train staff to improve their business capabilities through colorful training makes public company affairs, supports staff in participating in management, safeguards the lawful rights and interests of employees, programs, expand the space for their career development through innovative platforms and mechanisms, promote their career builds harmonious labor relations, and promotes the sustained and healthy development of the Group. development, and maximize the value of employees. In view of the reality of the company, and in accordance with related laws They provide opinions on the implementation of publicizing company Diverse Training and Regulations on the Management of Labor Union of Sinochem Group, affairs, and examine and approve major events to be made public. we developed the Sinochem Group Democratic Management Rules. Through channels such as the Joint Committee, Labor Union Committee, The Labor Union has set up a president mailbox. It holds employees seminar Employees Representative Conference, Sinochem Today, Sinochem LAN, Human resource is the primary resource of the Group. We have always been committed to enhancing the professional competence and irregularly, and conducted a survey on the work of Labor Union each year to publicity showcase, and ERP, we, in accordance with procedures, make the overall quality of the staff. In accordance with the principle of “being systematic, regular, internal, and tailored,” we continuously refine keep abreast of demands of employees and their reasonable suggestions. public major events about the production, operation and management and improve the construction and implementation of a multi-level and multi-category training system in order to achieve the common We have established the Company Affairs Publicizing Leadership Team of our company, rules and regulations related to the interests of the development of our employees and our company. and Office (the Office is set in the Labor Union) consisting of heads of employees, and the honesty of managers. We hear from the employees Party Organization, Labor Union, and Disciplinary Inspection Committee. and accept their supervision. We have enriched our training. We are committed to building a training system covering corporate culture, management skills, professional skills, general skills and so on. We have made our ways of training innovative. We use sand table simulation, field trips, topical research, mentoring system and other ways to improve Case: Sinochem International Adhering to “Two Hands” Grasping Democratic Management training efficiency, inspire employees’ enthusiasm, and expand training results. We have made our training more targeted. For different levels of trainees, we set up different curriculum and adopt different ways of training, so as to Sinochem International always adheres to the “Two Hands” strategy: one hand promotes the corporate democratic management system with the Employees promote the improvement of the quality of the personnel in the Group as a whole. Representative Conference as the basic form, and two Employees Representative Conferences are held each year to discuss major issues affecting the vital interests of employees. The other hand promotes the publicizing of company affairs with the leaders of the Labor Union Groups at the core. The company has set up 23 Labor Union Groups in each business area and functional departments, with each appointed a leader to facilitate the spread of ideas of the Case: China National Seed Group Developing WellCase: Sinochem Guangdong Innovating Training Model structured Training System Labor Union and the implementation of tasks. In new employees training, Sinochem Guangzhou combined the China National Seed Group is committed to establishing a introduction of business with business simulation. After the lecture multi-level, multi-phase, and multi-priority training system, with Salaries and Welfare and training of responsible people in various departments, new employees were assigned business topics. They should divide “strengthening team building” and “improving business level” being the main line. For “strengthening team building,” the company themselves into several groups, search materials, conduct research conducted a series of training sessions such as “key post training The company advocates the value of pursuing excellence, adheres to a market-oriented principle, and establishes and improves a competitive and discussion, and finish the subject report within a day and a half. session,” “sapling planting plan training session” and “new recruit market-oriented salary system based on the value of posts, and individual ability and performance. We continuously improve the multi-level and Business departments organized judging teams to ask questions camp,” and for upgrading the level of business , conducted youth multi-angle employee benefit system, encourage employees to create value, make the efforts and created value of employees deserve the salaries, and make comments. This innovative way of training has enabled backbone training , so as to improve the professional competency and realize the common improvement of the value of the company as well as the employees. Sinochem attaches importance to improving the salary new employees to quickly get familiar with the company’s business, of key personnel in the production and marketing sectors. and enhanced their participation and operation. communication mechanism, keeping them aware of the change of their salaries. We pay, in accordance with the law, pension, medical, work injury, maternity and unemployment insurances and public housing fund and other statutory social insurance for employees. Case: Sinochem Qingdao Conducting “Convergence Plan,” a Training Session for New Employees Case: Sinochem Developing the Plan of Talents Specific Pool of Fund, Introducing High-level Talents In 2013, Sinochem Group further improved the salary incentive mechanism. We took out a certain amount of fund in the salary pool to Sinochem Qingdao conducted training for new employees through establish a specific fund for talents to encourage and support various units to introduce high-level talents in urgent need. The Shenyang the “Convergence Plan,” of which the theme is the integration of the Research Institute of Chemical Industry used this fund to introduce 2 experts in the“1,000 Talents Program” in 2013. new employees into the company. The plan included three phases: work introduction and Outward Bound; internal collective training, and summary, improvement and post experience. Many ways of Case: Sinochem Oil Optimizing the Salary Management System training and kinds of activities were conducted to accelerate the changing of roles of new employees. In terms of the salary management system, Sinochem Oil referred to the salary sum management model for subsidiaries suggested in the reform of sum management policy of the Sinochem Group, effectively followed the direction of the Group in the distribution of salary, and gave full play to the subjective initiative of the subsidiaries in optimizing performance incentive mechanism. The company made salary and welfare handbook for the oil product marketing and warehousing sectors, strengthening the construction of the intra-sector standardized incentive Case: SINOFERT Establishing Excellence Institute system. Through a series of optimizing measures for the salary management system, the company further satisfied the need of the employees for the development of career, and enhanced their sense of fairness and belonging. SINOFERT established the Excellence Institute, which aimed at improving the capacity of staff, promoting business development, facilitating strategic landing, and inheriting corporate culture. We organized trainings such as “marketing transformation” and “100 people marketing,” so as to promote the idea transformation and ability Case: FOTIC Improves Salary System According to Market Reality improvement of marketing staff, and the marketing transformation of the company. Based on market reality and principles, FOTIC promotes the reconstruction of the salary system, which aims at promoting “gradual and rational We established a public platform on WeChat called “Backyard Garden of the Excellence Institute” to create a learning atmosphere. docking with the market, and the improvement and optimization of income structure.” FOTIC attaches importance to adjusting the fixed-salary We strengthened internal experience sharing and exchange with excellent benchmarking enterprise. We organized activities such as the Stanley to floating-salary ratio of salaries and the corresponding salary zones for each rank and position, which has effectively stabilized the workforce. Operation and Management Experience Sharing Meeting. 58 59 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Valuing Talents and Developing with Employees Improving the Development Pipeline Enhancing Employees’ Sense of Belonging The company constantly improves the construction of career development pipeline of our employees. Relying on the “professional department building” project and production skills identification, as well as the three career development pipelines of “smooth management, Sinochem Group adheres to the philosophy of “putting people first”, and puts forward the life mode of party branch organization professional skills and production skills”, we have established a platform and mechanism where “everyone can be excellent”, strongly with distinct characteristics of Sinochem (i.e., the “8+4” organizational life mode) based on strengthened corporate culture building. promoting the team building for young talents. We carried out employee helping activities, showing care for the life of employees in various ways, care for retirees, and constantly enhance employees’ sense of belonging. For newly recruited outstanding fresh graduates, we develop tailored personal cultivating programs, arrange special instructor to conduct one-on-one guidance, carry out front-line rotation, involve new employees in key projects of operation, scientific research, management and production, and promote their fast growth. 8 stipulated activities: situation and task education, strategic planning lectures, daily party work, lessons on party affairs, organization of meetings We constantly strengthen the training of young people around the age of 35, enhance their understanding of the company’s strategy and culture, broaden their discussing daily life, suggestion offering activities, commitment honoring activities, planning and summarizing work. horizon, create a positive working atmosphere of personnel training, stimulate young people’s enthusiasm, and effectively retain some backup backbone. 4 free activities: topical educational practice, exchanges of learning experience about political affairs and business, joint construction of the party and the people, front-line service, building of corporate culture and team, public good, etc. Case: Sinochem Group Carrying out Assessment on the Project Management Profession In order to strengthen the building of project management team, Project Management Manager (T4-B), and 1 was appointed as and expand the career development pipeline of non-managers, the Project Management Senior Manager (T4-A). Project Management Department and Human Resource Department Building Corporate Culture of Sinochem Group jointly launched the construction of project management profession in 2013, dividing related professionals into We continue to promote the building of corporate culture with the core of “being a person, one should be honest, cooperative and good five levels according to their different capabilities, namely, Project at learning; in doing things, one should be careful, innovative, and pursue excellence.” Relying on mature working system and rich Management Assistant (T1), Project Management Officer (T2), organizational resources, we make this culture firmly rooted in our company. Project Management Director (T3), Project Management Manager (T4-B) / Project Management Senior Manager (T4-A), and Project Management Senior Consultant (T5). Case: Sinochem International Comprehensively Carrying out Corporate Culture Building According to the Rules on the Management of the Project Management Profession of Sinochem, and after the assessment of the Expert Assessment Committee, 3 employees passed the We have conducted in-depth summary of the cases in areas such as clean corporate, dedication, safety and environmental protection, went deep assessment for T4 in 2013. Among them, 2 were appointed as into factory front-lines to dig news with profound significance, enriched the implications of the core value of Sinochem International’s culture, and established a diversified and multi-level grass-root corporate culture. We have planned strategic transformation, managed, controlled, and reshaped topical publicity related to the building of business core competitiveness, sought for materials, and strengthened specific publicity of the company’s brand business. Case: Franshion Properties Establishing Dual Channel Development Mechanism to Broaden the Path of Professional Development We have conducted inter-department exchanges among our employees and those from Sinorgchem, Yangnong Chemical, and GMG, promoting the communication of our employees and the integration of management. We have established the platform for company publicity, created a brand new “Sinochem International Window”, and carried out internal In order to satisfy the development need of different employees, Franshion Properties has built a dual channel development mechanism. By publicity by using the OA portal. establishing qualification standards for professional departments, the company carries our work such as professional assessment to improve the employees’ professional capabilities, and promote their career development. The mechanism has covered 15 categories of departments, including design, engineering, marketing, finance, audit, human resources, cost tendering and procurement, strategic operations, investment, law, party discipline inspection, information technology, HSE, administration and customer service. The company has completed making qualification standards for the professions of design and cost tendering and procurement, carried out assessment for the design department for two consecutive years, and finished the first round of assessment for legal, HSE and financial departments. 11 employees in the design department won T4 qualification, and 2 won T5 qualification. Management Professionals General Manager Vice-General Manager Financial Manager Deputy Financial Controller Assistant to General Manager Level 6 General Manager of a Division Vice-General Manager of a Division Level 5 Vice-General Manager of a Division Assistant to General Manager of a Division Level 4 Professional manager Level 3 Director Level 2 Sinochem International and Jiangsu Sinorgchem jointly organized basketball competition “Sinochem International Window” Assistant Director Level 1 Assistant Pre-starters 60 61 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Valuing Talents and Developing with Employees Caring Employees’ Life Case: Sinochem Group Launching the “Happy Station” Project The company continues to promote the employees caring project, helping those living with difficulties, enriching employees’ life, and The Labor Union and Communist Youth League of Sinochem launched the “Happy Station” project, covering “six caring services,” filling health improve their happiness index. and happiness into our employees’ hearts. By the end of 2013, there have already been hundreds of people ever consulted physical and mental problems through the “Happy Station” hotline. We have created a people-centered atmosphere. We actively organized holiday visits and various cultural and sports activities to enhance employees’ sense of belonging. We introduced the Specific Measures on Providing Employees Working Abroad with Caring Service, trying our best to help all of our staff resolve their possible concerns. Physical Health Counseling Mental Health Counseling Psychological Crisis Intervention Senior health experts across the country will Senior psychological counseling experts Senior psychological counseling experts Group / Unit Employees Caring Actions provide you with professional counseling across the country will provide you with across the country will provide you with and guidance by telephone, and they are professional counseling by telephone, and professional and scientific comfort, and Sinochem Group Improving service in staff restaurants; building Sinochem health platform for employees in the Labor Union always ready to answer your questions and they promise absolute confidentiality offer timely support for psychological crisis confusion Carrying out “Sunshine House” series activities to provide staff with platform for exchange and learning China National Seed Group Organizing and carrying out “Colorful Seeds” series brand activities to enhance the employees’ sense of belonging Health Lectures and Heart Salon Health Tips Education of and Guidance on Health Promoting the construction of neighborhood apartments for employees; coordinating and solving the Quanzhou Petrochemical employment of family members of our staff VHS will pick senior experts or celebrities We will regularly sent you email reminders We will provide multi-angle and multiin various fields to provide you with a on physical health and tips on mental dimensional education and guidance on SINOFERT Founding the VSP Club; launching the “Love Vegetable Basket” project range of quality courses on physical and health which combine the change of solar health. Happy life starts from the right view mental health terms and seasons on health Sinochem International Tendering Holding collective birthday parties for employees; carrying out the “30 Minutes Afternoon Tea” activity Far East Horizon Building a families of rights protection, health, love, culture and sports, and fraternity Eastern Garden International Six Caring Services Building new sheds; establishing teams of ball games Conference Center Caring for the Retirees We care for our retirees in an all-dimensional way. We show them respect politically, seriously consider what they think, care about their life and offer them psychological care. We carried out the “visit and care” activity, with nearly 200 people being visited. And 4 seminars of different styles were held to send the care of the party organization of the Group to the hearts of our old retirees. We carried out a number of innovative recreational activities beneficial for the old retirees’ physical and mental health benefit, enriching their old age life. Health lecture for female stuff Birthday party of our staff President Liu Deshu visiting retirees of our Group Health Activity in July Football game Tug-of-war 62 63 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress with the Society Poverty Alleviation Sinochem Group actively helps the poor, improves means of poverty alleviation, and broadens the channels of assistance, so as to provide means of reducing poverty instead of giving material things, improve farmers and herdsmen’s living and working conditions, and promote local economic and social development. In Tibet, Sinochem Group, based on its own advantages, actively carries out infrastructure building, contributes to public welfare, and conducts training programs. We invested 10 million yuan in the year to promote economic development in Gangba County, Tibet. We build the Sinochem Avenue to speed up the development of Gangba We invested 2 million yuan as financial assistance to help 50 farmers and Case: China National Seed Group Donated Vegetable herdsmen renovate their housing and improve production and living conditions Seeds to Gangba County We provide financial assistance to 6 training programs, including that of Gangba County new employees, first secretary of village China National Seed Group donated vegetable seeds totaling Party branches, and college-graduate village officials. A total of 416 465 kg, to Gangba County, Shigatse, Tibet, including those of personnel participated in the training programs, and the quality and Cabbage, Zucchini, cabbage, cucumber and tomato, which can skills of cadres and of farmers and herdsmen are improved. be planted in 3620 Mu of land, contributing to enriching the food choices of Tibetan farmers and herdsmen and improving local dietary structure. In Inner Mongoli, Sinochem Group promotes projects of industrial development, education and health, infrastructure, charitable contributions, etc. that benefit farmers and herdsmen, contributing to poverty alleviation in Ar Horqin Banner and Linxi county. We implement aid projects, and donate money to build schools, hospitals, agricultural facilities, so as to improve local residents’ living standards. We help local authorities seek funding support. We help seek projects and funding from the central government, contribute to local investment promotion, so as to help secure funding for local development. We promote local scientific and technological development. We build scientific and technological platforms, organize application for scientific and technological projects, participates in technology fairs, and help build science and technology exhibition centers. Case: Sinochem Group Launching Dream-fulfilling Initiative Sinochem Group combines poverty alleviation with employees’ donation to launch Sinochem Dream-fulfilling Initiative . Through personnel sent to Ar Horqin Banner and Linxi county, we collect data of needy students, and call on our employees to make long-term voluntary donations for them, and to help them fulfill the Chinese dream of completing education, acquiring knowledge and building 05 Contribute to Public Welfare and hometown . The standard is set at 800 yuan a year for primary school students, 1,500 yuan and 1,800 yuan for junior high and senior high Progress with the Society school students respectively. By the end of December 2013, 73 impoverished students in the two districts had received the support. Sinochem Group is a moral and law-abiding enterprise, which brings benefits to the In Qinghai, Sinochem assigns priority to improving people's livelihood as the core of its support to Qinghai. We actively coordinate welfare public, actively contributes to public welfare causes, and develops together with projects, including schools, hospitals and so on, focusing on solving the most direct, the most tangible and most pressing problems for people of partners in the spirit of win-win cooperation. It promotes social harmony and progress on the basis of its own development. We increase investment in this regard, and have secured 15 million yuan as supporting funds, and have conducted key projects, including schools and hospitals to contribute local residents’ livelihood. We improve our institutional organization. We have set up a Qinghai supporting group, formulated Sinochem Group Plan for Supporting Education in Da Qaidan Administrative Region” to put in place a long-term aid mechanism. We strive to become part of local communities, and through field investigation and donation, to increase financial support to needy people, and have given care to more 30 persons including impoverished party members, local residents and students totaling 20,000 yuan. 64 65 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress with the Society Making Donations to Health Care and Win-win Cooperation Educational Causes Sinochem Group actively promotes its partners to fulfill their social responsibilities, contributes to industrial progress, supports local development and achieves win-win cooperation with its stakeholders. Sinochem Group coordinates various kinds of resources to make donations and promote the development of health care and education, based on the principle of openness and transparency, and supported by a variety of forms and channels. Help Supplier Fulfill Social Responsibilities We innovative supplier management mechanisms, and use innovative approaches to urge contractors to fulfill responsibilities, so as to Case: Sinochem Initiated and Launched Fudan Case: Sinochem Ningbo Has Donated over a Million effectively help them fulfill responsibilities. Premium Fund of Management yuan to Charitable Causes Sinochem participated in initiating Fudan Premium Fund of Since Sinochem Ningbo set up the charitable fund in 2005, it makes Management, contributing to the development of China's donation every year; and in 2005, 2006, 2011, it organized 582 Check investors resource input on a regular basis Overall Process management subject. The fund has now become one of the most person-times to donate a total of 172,925 yuan. By December 25, Monitor and manage the status of “safety, quality, process and investment” of contractors Monitoring Mechanism 2013, the total amount made by Sinochem Ningbo to education had Monitor and manage contractors’ subcontracting, examine and approve the scope and list of subcontracting influential awards in the field of management discipline. reached 1,052,425 yuan on a cumulative basis, and the target of a million yuan in charity cause of the fund is fulfilled. With assistance from Ningbo Charity Federation and Haishu District Charity Award contractors who provide outstanding services Federation, the company has helped 680 university, middle school Reward and Punishment Give warning, notification, cancel qualification for entering database, or fine contractors who have violated and primary school students finish their education. for Contractors agreements Case: Sinochem International Universal Love Health Case: Far East Horizon Scholarship Program Help Station Send Free Medical Care to Rural Areas Outstanding Students Case: Sinochem Ningbo Develops Together with Suppliers Sinochem International cooperates with local Red Cross organization to Since Far East Horizon initiated its scholarship program give free diagnosis in Universal Love Health Station in Mingxing Village, since in 2011, it has awarded nearly 600 students in 17 Informs suppliers of market demand; jointly develops marketable Matian township, Yongxing county, Chenzhou, Hunan Province. The key colleges and universities, which are located in areas new products; and develops new export markets. station was donated by Sinochem (Holdings) Co., Ltd. in 2011. Since which the company is headquartered or has presence. FEH Actively helps suppliers solve technical problems; improves 2009, Sinochem (Holdings) Co., Ltd. has been cooperating with China scholarship is known for its high amount, and candidates product quality so as to meets market demand. Red Cross Foundation to donate 17 health stations in central and west are selected on the basis of margin election and academic Helps suppliers achieve more stable and reliable supply in target China, which greatly facilitate the local villagers in seeking treatment for performance, and therefore the scholarship is highly valued markets, and successfully expands global market. minor illnesses. among students. Actively introduces advanced foreign production management philosophy and experience to suppliers; introduces advanced production technology and equipment; improves product quality and production efficiency; assists supplier to become industry leaders. Case: Franshion Properties Promotes Cooperation through Enhancing Procurement Management In order to improve procurement and cost management, Franshion Properties specifies supplier's management evaluation system, assessment principles, grade classification and incentive system; establishes performance evaluation platform; standardizes key aspects in procurement management, and constantly improves suppliers’ ability to promote long-term cooperation. 66 67 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Contribute to Public Welfare and Progress with the Society Promote Industrial Progress Community Services We strengthen cooperation within the industry, actively participate in industry standards formulation, initiate industry dialogues, exchange experience, and promote healthy industry development. Sinochem Group actively organizes and participates in various forms of community service activities, contributing to community development. Case: Sinochem Exploration and Production Co., Ltd. Co-initiated the Unconventional Oil and Gas Industry Alliance Case: Sinochem International Tendering Volunteering for Babbling Story Case: Franshion Properties’ Public Services Under China Energy Net Consulting Co. Ltd.’s proposition, Sinochem Exploration and Production Co., Ltd., together with China Huadian Engineering (Group) Co., Ltd., Honghua Group, Institute of Shale Oil and Gas of Peking University, China International Capital Corporation Ltd., launches the Unconventional Called for by the Youth League of Sinochem International Under the theme of care for orphans, be grateful for growth , Oil and Gas Industry Alliance, which is an independent civil organization and an open club aimed at promoting dialogues between its members and Tendering, five employees volunteer to participate in the Franshion Properties organized young employees to carry out government agencies, boosting cooperation in business, investment, technology, research and other areas along the industry chain, and facilitate healthy Babbling Story event, which is an interactive game featuring City Survival Challenge event in Changsha. Within specified and sustainable development of China’s unconventional oil and gas industry. parenting, games and social intercourse . The game aims to time, participants should collect at least 400 yuan donation, help hearing-impaired children and their families, and stimulate which will then be changed into moon cakes and sent to children's hearing potential and will for communication through a Changsha N.1 Social Welfare Institute variety of activities. Case: Jiangsu Sinorgchem Industry Standards Accredited Model Petrochemical Industry Standards An industry standard-HG/T 4231-2011 “4-Aminodiphenylamine”--that Jiangsu Sinorgchem participated in formulating, was accredited 2013 National Petroleum and Chemical Industry Model Standard . The project was jointly carried out by Jiangsu Sinorgchem and Sinopec Nanjing Chemical Co. Ltd. As a national industry standard, “4-Aminodiphenylamine” specifies product quality, testing instruments and testing methods, and promotes healthy industry development. Case: China National Seed Group Contributes to Industry Development China National Seed Group fully mobilizes market resources, carries out industry research, enhances the level of research and contributes to the development of the industry Participate in amending the Seed Law under the Committee on Agriculture Organization of the National People's Congress Participate in drafting State Council Office’s Opinions on Deepening Seed Industry Reform to Improve Innovation Capability” Case: Sinochem International Contributes to Development of Harmonious Community in Africa Participate in policy seminars on industry and enterprise' law of development, key bio-breeding projects, seed industry innovation capacity building, and variety evaluation and management system, etc. organized by the NPC Agriculture Committee, NDRC, Ministry of Finance, Sinochem International contributes to harmonious community building in its rubber plantations in Africa, ensuring that its business growth should Ministry of Agriculture, and Ministry of Science and Technology be synchronized with local community development, and promoting win-win cooperation among local residents, local governments and itself. For instance, the HEVECAM plantation in Cameroon provides jobs for 5833 local residents, and the community co-built with the local government accommodates more than 30,000 people. The community has 13 kindergartens, one middle school, 13 primary schools, one technical school, and one general hospital with 120 beds; the schools and hospitals within the community are the best in southern Cameroon. With the plantation, workers receive stable salary, and have access to safe tap water and TV, and enjoy much higher living conditions than outside the plantation. Case: Zhejiang Chemical Industry Research Institute Led the Formation of China’s first Mixed Refrigerant Working Group China's first mixed refrigerant working group, initiated by Zhejiang Chemical Industry Research Institute, was approved by the National Standardization Technical Committee. The group consists of personnel from Zhejiang Chemical Industry Research Institute, Beijing Chemical Industry Research Institute, Shandong Dongyue Federation, Zhejiang University, etc. covering research institutes, universities, and enterprises of production and applications. It mainly explores mixed refrigerant testing methods, and provides technical support to domestic R&D of mixed refrigerants. Improvement of testing and analysis technology for China’s refrigerant industry will accelerate standardization of mixed refrigeration industry and promote international standardization process. 68 69 Featured Social Responsibility Report Sustainable Development Report 2013 Green Development, Sincere Communication Featured Social Responsibility Report Lead Green Development of the Industry with Advanced Technologies We employ world-class hydrotreating residue oil + delayed coking + hydrocracking techniques, advanced equipment and Green Development, Sincere Communication technologies, together with leading desulfurization, denitrification, dust-clearing measures and precautionary measures, to ensure the project's environmental performance achieve national and even international leading level. Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical refinery, which is able to process 12 million tons of crude oil a year, is a key project listed by the government in the oil sector planning during the 12th Five-Year Plan period. The project is characterized by economy of scale, advanced Advanced Equipment and Technologies technology and environmental friendliness; its environmental, safety and occupational standards are on a par with highest domestic Environmental-friendly Overall Hydrogenation Technological Process and international standards, and clean production level reaching domestic and international advanced level. Quanzhou Petrochemical The total capacity of hydrogenation unit reaches 12.35 million tons a year, is significant in that it will further improve China’s national energy industry layout, and stimulate regional development by promoting the and the proportion of hydrogenation capacity in primary crude oil processing development of middleand down-stream petrochemical industries in Fujian, Guangdong, Zhejiang, Jiangxi , Hunan, Hubei , Shanghai as capacity is the highest in China; the secondary processing focuses on well as related industries like agriculture, machinery manufacturing, transportation, etc. and other related industries , achieving the effect of hydrotreating residue oil and hydrocracking, which further improve the oil industrial cluster and boost economic development of Fujian and neighboring provinces. quality and enhance intensive oil processing to minimize pollution. Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical Co., Ltd. is committed to building a major modern petrochemical enterprise featured by advanced Clean Fuel Technology We use desulfurized clean gas fuel; the density technology, resource efficiency, environmental friendliness and sustainable development . To fulfill the objective of building “China’s best of pollutants in the emission is far less than the level required by the national and world-class” project, we have hired the best designing institutions to optimize the project’s overall design and assume the overall standard; and the overall level reaches international advanced level. Sophisticated Production Equipment Among our 19 technological contract of EPC project , and hired experienced , top domestic construction unit as a construction contractor to ensure project quality. process units, 5 employ most advance foreign technologies, and the rest of them are domestically advanced. The equipment of residue Quanzhou Petrochemical project’s continuous reform equipment Milestones hydrotreating, hydrocracking, continuous catalyst reforming, SLHT, gasoline selective hydrogenation, isomerization, polypropylene, PSA, CFB boiler flue gas desulfurization and denitration devices use introduced advanced techniques; atmospheric and vacuum, and December 2008 August 17, 2011 August 20, 2012 catalytic cracking adopts the most advanced domestic techniques. Efficient Recovery Equipment We use the most advanced Claus sulfur recovery process, raising the recovery rate to 99.8%; we are National Energy Administration T h e p r oj e ct’ s envi ron me ntal The project was officially approved equipped with domestically advanced sewage treatment plants, and approved the preparatory work for impact assessment report was by the NDRC wastewater reuse rate exceeds 80% ; the dock, railway, highways Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical approved by the Ministry of 12 million t/a refinery project Environmental Protection loading units are fitted with domestically advanced oil and gas recovery systems, with the recycling rate reaching more than 90%. A assessment made by KBC of Britain places the energy consumption indicator BT at 131.2%, a domestically leading level. Quanzhou Petrochemical project’s power station The project was put into operation Quanzhou Petrochemical refinery the installation of 142 large pieces project began trial operation of equipment (total weight of 28,000 tons) for the project had been completed Advanced Environmental Protection Measures 2.2 billion yuan, which accounts for 7.6% of the total investment of the project, has been invested in environmental protection facilities We employ three most advanced waste treatment techniques, namely, EDV wet scrubbing desulfurization, ozonation + EDV wet scrubbing 2014 December 25, 2013 August 15, 2013 denitration, and bag-type dust collector + flue gas wet scrubbing, resulting in a 95% desulfurization rate, a 80% denitration rate, and a 99.94% dust removal rate; all the environmental indicators have reached domestic and international advanced level. 70 71 Featured Social Responsibility Report Sustainable Development Report 2013 Green Development, Sincere Communication Production and Construction Phase We establish a quality control and management system and provide necessary contractors, subcontractors and service providers, the development and operation testing equipment and professional technical personnel for the supply of equipment of institutions and systems, and specify the responsibilities for each individual. and materials; set up the quality management file archive, enhance quality traceability We conduct HSE training for related personnel before they enter the worksite, include such and accountability system, and provide technical guarantee for the quality control of matters as security, relations with neighboring villagers, waste disposal in work sites and living supply. areas into HSE assessment contractors, and urge contractors to perform duties as required. In terms of construction, we improve safety management system for the main We urge all contractors to sign contracts with their employees, so as to ensure the interests of employees can be protected. Take a People-oriented Approach and Build Platform for Employees’ Development Improve Compensation and Incentive Mechanism In accordance with the principle preferable treatment to front-line staff and to outstanding contributors , performance bonus and incentive rewards, such as “bonus for Hundred Days Campaign”, will be given based on reasonable assessment. Forward-looking Precaution Measures Provide Diversified Training Programs We conduct 11 training programs, such as leadership training program and that for hazardous substance production enterprises. A total of 1.065 million yuan has been invested in this regard for 157 times and 2,413 personnels. We have invested 298 million yuan on underground leakage prevention project, and have taken precaution measures against seepage of hazardous substances into the Improve Employees’ Career Development Management We formulate Methods on Improving Employees’ Career Development” to further improve the design of the three surface, and to prevent hazardous substances into the ground and polluting underground water. channels, which are for employees to be promoted vertically or in other business units; combining with talents checking, identify basic standards and promotion procedures We have adopt a “three-tiered” hazardous water control system: we install cofferdam and firewall in main device area and tank area; build rainwater monitoring pools, for each sequence of positions, and set up a talent pool by putting in place employees’ career archive, to standardize individual employee’s career development track. sewage (caused by accidents) pools, and sewage (caused by accidents) collection pools of different levels in main plant area and Qinglan Mountain Repository area; and Caring for Employees We organize activities for female employees, such as Women’s Day activities and health care for female workers; we promote the construction of categorize, monitor and storage sewage caused by accidents to prevent the sewage from polluting external water bodies. residence for employees, and coordinate efforts to solve work for their couples. In 2013, we assisted 121 employees in getting children enrolled by schools, so as to ease their We have commissioned a professional oil leakage emergency services provider to undertake prevention work for possible oil spill in Quanzhou Petrochemical Terminal, and biggetst concerns; we give care to our employees on such occasions as child birth, marriage, hospitalization, blood donation, funeral, etc.; we provide aid for impoverished are equipped with 500-ton level oil recovery boats, skimmers, oil spill monitoring and alarming devices, and oil containment booms, oil absorbent felt, oil spill dispersants, etc., employees; organize parent-children activities on Children’s Day, employee sport activities, birthday celeberations and recreational activities, etc. so as to effectively control oil spill risks in the dock area.. Strengthening Management to Ensure Safety and Quality Conduct Sincere Communication to Address Public Concerns We draw on valuable experience from our peers, optimize the organizational structure, assemble an operating team in accordance We know that economic development is for the people and by the people, so people's right to know must be respected. An enterprise with international PMT mode, and set up four production operation departments, so as to conduct production and operation can only win public understanding and support by increasing public understanding of the company. We adhere to the principle of management with advanced concepts. positive, stable, sustainable and healthy development , and constantly strengthen communication with surrounding communities. Enhance Sense of Responsibility We firmly follow the principle of Who is in charge is responsible for safety , and who runs business must be responsible for safety , In designing the pipe rack for the project, we invited local government departments, representatives of villagers to carry out a number of joint investigations on the site. identify safety responsibilities of all parties in construction design, procurement, construction, production and operation and make sure they will be hold accountable, promote We have set up billboards of environmental protection knowledge on oil refining in surrounding villages, issued brochures, and broadcasted Quanzhou Petrochemical project employees’ HSE awareness and sense of responsibility. environmental protection commercials in Hui'an television station, so as to ensure villagers will better understand the project. Improve Management We develop HSE management and control system and business processes, as well as rules and regulations required in normal production and We have invited the public to visit the plant and held seminars to introduce basic oil refining process, the project’s advantages in 7 areas, and gave detailed introduction to operation of the plant, to ensure stable operation of the devices; strengthen bill and ticket management, establish and improve mechanism for inspection and maintenance the environmental initiatives of the project; we have also answered questions raised by the participants about safety and environmental protecction. and mechanism for inspection and verification of work involving flames; develop contingency plans to ensure operation safety; strengthen NDT quality control to ensure the accuracy of test results . Strengthen Monitoring and Inspection For specific characteristics of cross-operation, overloaded work, and above-ground work, we carry out daily, weekly and monthly inspection to nip any potential risks in the bud; enhance on-site investigation and treatment of risks, and organize joint inspection, special inspection on hazard in key projects, conduct timely review, and give corresponding awards or punishments, and conduct HSE management in the process of trial operation; carry out regular quality inspection, address key quality issues, and constantly improve quality control . Conduct Responsible Procurement to Promote Suppliers to Fulfill Responsibilities We strengthen procurement management, use information technology to ensure the transparency of procurement process; actively promote the localization of procurement; strengthen supplier management, and improve safety and quality management and control capabilities. Serve the People and Build a Harmonious Community Procurement Phase We actively participate in various kinds of community activities and community building to contribute to community development. Based on the principle of fair competition, we not only pay attention to price of purchased track record and permanently retrospective When the plant is put into operation, the annual sales volume is expected to reach We actively conduct supporting activities with local traffic police, border control, goods, but also make comprehensive analysis and assessment on the function and lifespan of We promote independent manufacturing of key equipment and materials, with about 60 billion yuan, and expected tax of about 12 billion yuan. An industrial cluster and public security units, and work together to promote related work. materials, their maintenance costs, reserve funds, transport, logistics and energy consumption, localization rate reaching over 95%, reversing the overreliance on imported equipment will be formed with a large number of midand down-stream industries developed. In addition to their own fire prevention and inspection work in Qinglan Mountain, technological progress, environmental protection features, and even value for recycling. and the passive situation, significantly reducing the procurement cycle and costs. We co-built the seawall for villiage of Ducuo to provide convenience to local fishermen. Sinochem Quanzhou Petrochemical’s takes initiative to assume responsibility for We apply IT technology to procurement, publishing the whole process online; we We sign Safety Management Responsibility Agreement with contractors to We provide training resources for local schools to enhance their teaching abilities. surrounding towns and villages. For 16 times they have put out fires in surrounding establish a monitoring mechanism featured by open and controllable processes, with full enhance their safety responsibility awareness. We support national defense building, conduct supporting activities with the local areas, effectively protecting the safety of local residents. army garrison, and donate books, so as to support their cultural construction and enrich cultural life in their spare time. 72 73 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Expert’s Comments Outlook Expert’s Comments In 2014, we are faced with both challenges and opportunities, and feel both pressure and impetus. Sinochem Group will firmly Sinochem Group Sustainable Development Report 2013 is the eighth report of its kind released by the group. With concise text, grasp the overall principle of making progress while maintain stability, and pursue reform as well as innovation. We will continue to concrete data and clear diagrams, the report fully demonstrates the concept, practices and performance of the company in fulfilling follow the development path with Sinochem’s characteristics, which is a oriented toward the market, supported by resources and social responsibilities and promoting sustainable development in 2013, and reflects the positive efforts and outstanding contributions technologies, and safeguarded by lean management approach. We strive to improve the quality and efficiency, and constantly open it has made to ensure national energy security, agriculture security, and the development of the chemical industry. up new chapters in our strategic transformation and the third “Long March”. Sinochem Group regards sustainable development as the core, and constantly improves its capability to create comprehensive Innovate Management Mechanism to Build a Lean Enterprise economic, social and environmental values, resulting in significantly enhanced corporate sustainable development capacity. In 2013, We strive to achieve lean management system, operating structure and institutional process, which are based on our corporate faced with complex and challenging external environment, Sinochem unswervingly pressed ahead with strategic transformation culture, achieved through internal control, safeguarded by teambuilding, and directed by strategic management, so as to build and vigorously implemented lean management. As a result, it has achieved sound and stable growth, and was awarded the title of Sinochem into a lean management with stronger market competitiveness. Outstanding Performance Enterprise by the SASAC and World's Most Admired Company 2013 by Fortune magazine. Sinochem continues to improve health, environmental and safety management system, strengthen environmental operation and management, Increase innovation Investment to Consolidate Our Industry Position and vigorously promote energy conservation and emission reduction, and has achieved harmonious development between the We continue to press ahead with the 123 strategies, improve our overall scientific and technological innovation capabilities through enterprise and the environment. It vigorously strengthens management of procurement and suppliers, and strives to improve product strengthening the scientific and technological innovation platform and teambuilding, as well as enhancing scientific and technological and service quality, and has achieved unified interests of customers and itself. It protects employees' interests in an all-round way, management. We strive to improve our services along the industry value chain of the five business segments of energy, agriculture, and promotes diversified development and value promotion of employees, and has achieved development of the enterprise and the chemicals, real estate and financial services, and to become an industry model. employees together. It actively participates in social welfare undertakings, and has been carrying out poverty alleviation programs, and achieved win-win outcomes and common development between the company and communities where it has presence. Enrich Services to Enhance Customer Satisfaction We enhance our service concept, consolidate service network, standardize service protocol, improve service quality, and develop Sinochem sees corporate social responsibility management enhancement of central SOEs as an opportunity, constantly strengthens with our customers. the management of social responsibility, resulting in improved corporate social image and brand influence. It strengthens social responsibility organizational and institutional building, strives to incorporate the concept of social responsibility into corporate Enhance Security Management and Protect the Environment mission, culture and value, and into the entire process of production and operation. It innovates ways of social responsibility We strengthen management at different levels, focus on the primary level, promote implementation of work, and improve HSE communication to achieve harmonious interaction and win-win outcome with stakeholders. In the construction of Sinochem performance by means of target management, competence building and improvement of safe practice; we increase investment in Quanzhou project, Sinochem has adopted a variety of measures to improve communication with local governments, communities training, strengthen professional emergency response management; reduce waste emissions and promote low-carbon life-style. and residents, and actively responds to public concerns, and has won understanding and support from stakeholders. It attaches great importance to social responsibility in overseas operation, protects local environment, contributes to local communities, and Optimize Resource Allocation to Promote Employees’ Development strives to build an image of a responsible corporate citizen. We innovative talent selection and incentive mechanism, focus on talents building, care about employees’ feelings, create an open and inclusive atmosphere in which cohesion and guidance is improved. We care about employees’ tangible benefits, share the The Third Plenary Session of the Eighteenth CPC Central Committee has proposed the overall objective and main task of deepening interests generated through enterprise reform, and promote the value of employees and of the company together. the reform of state-owned enterprises, and regards the fulfillment of social responsibility as an important step to deepen the reform. As the backbone of the national economy, central SOEs should strive to become model for fulfilling social responsibilities. We expect Fulfill Social Responsibility to Achieve Win-win Results Sinochem Group to adhere to its core philosophy of Creating Value, Pursuing Excellence , earnestly implement the harmonious We constantly integrate resources to conduct a wide range of activities for public welfare and build a positive cooperate image based development strategy of central SOEs in the twelfth Five-Year Plan period, and constantly enhance its capacity for sustainable on the principle of openness and transparency, relied upon a variety of forms and channels, and by integrating industry features and development, so as to create value for the country, contribute to social welfare causes, and build a respected, world-class company. our unique advantages. Deputy Director, Research Bureau State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission Hou Jie 74 75 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact Expert’s Comments Implementation of the United Nations Global Compact This report is the fourth sustainable development report published by Sinochem Group. It clearly demonstrates the efforts made by As a member of the UN Global Compact, Sinochem has reported the implementation annually since 2010. In 2013, positive Sinochem to become a respected, world-glass company , illustrates the company’s practices and performance in the process of progress was made in this regard. providing quality products and services, and establishes the image of a responsible corporate. Incorporating responsibility management concept The concept of responsibility management is well incorporated into the report. The section Creating the Best Value for Topics Principles Progress in 2013 Shareholders describes the principles, measures and management initiatives of Sinochem in the process of implementing management improvement, and demonstrates the efforts made by the company in incorporating social responsibilities into its Businesses should support and respect the protection of Protect women’s rights and hold a series of activities on Women’s Day management activities in various business segments, and realizing organic integration of corporate social responsibility with its internationally proclaimed human rights Attaches importance to the development of young employees Never management and operation. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses have any bearing on human rights violators Human Rights Enhance the compensation and benefit scheme for expatriate employees Demonstrating solid responsibility practices The report shows the practices and performance of the company from five aspects, including serving the national economy, providing value-added services, practicing safety and environmental protection measures, respecting human values, and promoting Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Strictly abide by international code of conducts and the law of host welfare undertakings. The Environmental Protection section shows that the company strengthens environmental risk prevention, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining countries where we have presence; standardize labor management, specify labor forms and improve management mechanism and attaches importance to biodiversity protection. In the Caring for Employees section, the company launches Happy Station The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Publish company affairs on a daily basis in definite form; encourage project to provide all-round care and services to employees. In the Community Involvement section, the report illustrates the efforts The effective abolition of child labour Labor employees to participate in democratic corporate governance made by the company to build harmonious communities in African rubber plantations and develop together with local communities. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Hire university graduates and disabled people occupation Highlighting practical meaning The report responds to hotspot issues. In Safe Production part, the report analyzes risks and problems in HSE management, Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Promote clean production demonstration projects and energy environmental challenges conservation projects onsite management, regulation implementation, process and equipment management, contractor management, etc. in the light Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Employ innovative technologies and reduce waste emissions of major safety accidents in petrochemical industry, and specifies requirements for key tasks. In the section of Conduct Sincere responsibility Pay attention to the protection of biological diversity Communication to Ease Public Concerns , the report elaborates on the measure taken in Quanzhou Petrochemical project and Environment Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally ensures stakeholders’ right to know, in response to their concerns over safety-related matters. friendly technologies Implement reform on using official business vehicles; participate in environmental protection activities and advocate low-carbon lifestyle Innovating ways of communication In the sections of Responsibility communication and Risk Management , two-dimensional code and further knowledge are Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Combine anti-corruption with strategic transformation and provided for extended reading. Readers can better understand company policies and services by scanning the two-dimensional including extortion and bribery management improvement code; the knowledge provided will remove barriers for readers, narrowing the distance between the company and the readers, and Improve the anti-corruption accountability system with the core of party integrity accountability system facilitating the value of equal communication. Integrate monitoring resources for “greater internal control” and strengthen anti-corruption monitoring system by means of onsite Improving the report’s comparability Anti-corruption inspection and efficiency supervision In such sections as Improving Anti-corruption and Promoting scientific and technological innovation , the report discloses data Use quality management standards to rationalize and optimize over the last 3 years or more, facilitating analysis and comparison of the company's responsibility performance by stakeholders. anti-corruption system Enhance education for new personnels in key positions and sensitive I hope that Sinochem will regard fulfilling corporate social responsibility as the starting point, open up new chapters in its strategic positions, as well as for new employees transformation, continue to develop best practices, and achieve harmony and win-win outcome between itself and all stakeholders. Editor in Chief, WTO GUIDE Chief Expert, GoldenBee CSR Consulting Yu Zhihong 76 77 Sustainable Development Report 2013 GRI Index GRI Index NO. GRI Content Index Extent of Disclosur Where Reported (Catalog of Report) Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 P9 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer.( (and, if so, their function 4.2 within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance 4.4 P9 body Note: Fully disclosed, Partly disclosed, Not disclosed, N Not applicable Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental Extent of Where Reported performance) NO. GRI Content Index (Catalog of Report) Disclosur 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided P11 Strategy and Analysis Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 P9 body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization P5 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities P5 4.8 P8 environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation Organizational Profile Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of 4.9 economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 2.1 Name of the organization P6 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services P6-7 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures P9 environmental and social performance Location of organization's headquarters 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization P10-P11 2.4 P6 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that 4.12 P77 P20,P27 organization subscribes or endorses 2.5 are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report P54,P69 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in 4.13 which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides P77 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P6 substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,and types of ustomers/beneficiaries) P7 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization P16 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization P6 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership P20 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.16 P16 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period P15 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 P16 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Parameters Economic 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided P1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, EC1 P33 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) P1 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) P1 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents P1，P78 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations P58 Process for defining report content EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government P30 3.5 P17 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI EC5 operation 3.6 P1 Boundary Protocol for further guidance EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation P67 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report P1 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant EC7 locations of operation Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations EC8 P66 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts P10 3.9 P1 estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. Environmental Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such EN1 Materials used by weight or volume P52 3.10 P1 re-statement (e.g. mergers/acquisition, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source P52 3.11 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source P52 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosure in the report P78P80 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance 3.13 report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy EN6 P53 explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). requirements as a result of these initiatives 78 79 Sustainable Development Report 2013 GRI Index NO. GRI Content Index Extent of Where Reported Extent of Where Reported NO. GRI Content Index Disclosur (Catalog of Report) Disclosur (Catalog of Report) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved P53 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and LA11 P59 assist them in managing career endings EN8 Total water withdrawal by source LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews，by gender. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age LA13 P57 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Ratio of basic salary and remunerations of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of LA14 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity operation. EN11 N value outside protected areas LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Human Rights EN12 P54 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 N human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. EN13 Habitats protected or restored Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity HR2 N screening, and actions taken. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant EN15 HR3 to operations, including the percentage of employees trained N operations, by level of extinction risk HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken P57 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Operations and signifi cant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 N EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight bargaining may be voilated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved P53 HR6 P57 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, HR7 P57 and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight P53 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human HR8 N EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken N EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method P52 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills HR10 assessments N Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance EN24 HR11 N mechanisms. Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Society Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN25 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff SO1 programs. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation P53 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption P12 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures P12 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption P12 EN28 environmental laws and regulations SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying N Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organizaSO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country N EN29 tion's operations, and transporting members of the workforce SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and SO8 regulations Labor Practices andDecent Work Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities SO9 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. P57 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts SO10 P53 on local communities LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region P57 Product Responsibility Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and LA3 P58 PR1 locations of operation. percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures P44 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements P57 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements P58 Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products and services PR3 P40 subject to such information requirements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that LA6 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by LA7 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction P42 region Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including PR6 P22 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their advertising, promotion, and sponsorship LA8 P51 families, or community members regarding serious diseases Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communiPR7 cations, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions P58 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of PR9 products and services. 80 81 Sustainable Development Report 2013 Feedback Form In order to improve Sinchem Group’ s CRS work, we look forward to your feedback, which will be an important basis for our improvement. We hope to receive your valuable advice on our report and our work Your Information Name: Company: Telephone: E-mail : Your Comments 1.In your opinion, the report is: Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad 2.In your opinion, the information disclosed in the report is: Very Informative Informative Medium Somewhat Informative Not Informative 3.In your opinion, the quality of the information disclosed in the report is: Very High High Medium Low Very Low 4.In your opinion, the structure of the report is: Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad 5.In your opinion, the layout design of the report is: Very Good Good Medium Bad Very Bad 6.You thoughts and suggestions on Sinochem Group’s CSR work as well on the compilation and publication its sustainable development report: Contact Sinochem Group Address：Central Tower F11, Chemsunny World Trade Center, Fuxingmennei Street 28, Beijing, China Post Code：100031 Telphone：010-59568926 Fax：010-59568890 E-mail：csr@sinochem.com 82 Sustainable Development Report 2013 This report is made by recycled paper www.sinochem.com Sinochem Group's official Sinochem Group's official Sina Weibo Wechat 84
