NXR the principles of the Global Compact and broader UN goals. feedback on its contents. COMMUNICA ION ON PR FOR TH E YEA :2013 GENERA Inc. GLOBAL COMPACT Contents THE IMPLEMENTATION OF OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT IN cRoATlA..... ABOUT GENERA INC. ...... STATEM ENT OF CONTII NU ED HUMAN RtGHTS................. TABOUR STANDARDS ENV!RONMENT .................... ANTFCORRUPTION .............. CONTACT INFO GENERA INC. GLOBI\L COMPACT REPORT 2013 The tMpLEMEt[TATtON OF PRTNCIPLES of the United Nations Global coripPacl: in the Republir: of Croatia The Global Contpact Communication on Progress The Global Cclmpact asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the United Nations. lt has Srown to become a criticall platform for the UN to Engage effectively witfr enlightened global business. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon pact's Genera lnc. is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. The UN Global Con principles are clerived from: / The Universal Declaration of Human Rights ,/ The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Princip and Rights ,/ The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development ./ The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to: ,/ lmplenrenrt the ten principles in their business activities and make them part of threir culture and business practices ,/ Advocate the Global Compact and its ten principles in public ./ Report in their business reports on the manner in which the compnny sup the Global Compact and the progress achieved in the implementation of the pri iples, using a policy known as the Communication on Progress ,/ Promote transparency and progress The UN Globall Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, wlthin their of influence, a set of core values defined in the ten principles divided in fourr key area GENERA Inc. GLOETAL COMPACT REPORT 2013 ABOUT GENEttA Inc. Genera is the only Croatian manufacturing company conrprising different types of bqrsiness operations all ,of which are aimed at protecting human health, animals and the environment. A wide portfolio of Genera Group includes human pharmraceuticals, animal health prqducts, feed additives, rdisinfectants for human and veterinary usage, as well as plant protection products. Havinrg hundred years of history and tradition, Genera Inc' is the leading manufacturer of animal health products in Croatia and its neighbouring countries. GEnera''s history dates lback to 190L when the Royal Croatian-Slavonian Bacteriological Institute was founded. Genu'ria's seat is in Kalinovica where all of its production plants, development and analytic laboratpries as well as storage and administrative premises are located covpring a surface of 25Ct,000 m2. In 2009 the Company was listed on the first quotation of the Zagreb Stock Exchang;e, and since then it has operated under its current name Genera Inc. penera holds two GtllP certificates (Certificate of Good Manufacturing Practice) that confi[m the compliance ofall production processes and quality standards with the highest requirfments of EU regulatiorrs. As all Genera's business activities are focused on the health of people, animals and the environment, the company promotes the One Health concept. Tl]le One Health concept is defilned as the multidisciplinary collaboration on a local, natiorJral anrd global level trc attain optimal health of people, animals and the environment ' Tfe One Health concept is supported by international organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Organization for Animal Health (OlE) and the and Agriculture Org6nization (FAO), since the social and ecological interdependence of and animals has been long recognized. ln all of its bus;iness activities Genera strives to implernent the best European practices and to promote corporate and social responsibility. Basic info Company: Genera lnc. Country: Croartia Sector: pharmaceutical industry Membership date: 22 September 20LL Date of submission of COP for 2Ot2:26 September 2014 GENERA Inc. GLOEIAL. COMPACT REPORT 2013 STATEMENT OF COIITINUED SUPPORT In 2011 Genena Inc. has joined the UN Global Compact firmly believing that joiniqg this respectable initiative will enable Genera to be a part of a growing business netrruiork o,f socially resporrsible companies in Croatia. Therefore, in2Ot2 Genera continued to adl]rere to the principles iand to implement them on a daily basis in all business activities. Despite the fact that the year 2012 was an extremely challenging year, total con d revenues of ttre Genera Group increased byTo/o in comparison to the same period year before. Furthrsrmore, during 2012 the Genera Group increased its export by 3 L% in comparison to tlne same period the year before, while the export share in the total es of Genera wa:; !i1..4%. Since one of the main goals in the following years is to inc the share in total revenues by increasing sales revenues in export markets, Genera ans to enhance all brusiness activities that contribute to the inr:rease of export' Regardl of the aforementionc'd facts, the realised results in 2OLZ were affected by adverse omrc circumstances in Croatia, especially by a decrease in livestock and general insol , and consequently, by a difficult collection of receivables and a decreased den'land for G ra's products on the domestic market. In spite of unfavourarble economic circumsta in the preceding period, the Genera Group has continued to inv'est significant financial reso iin p's technical moclernisation of production processes and irr the improvement of the product portfrclio with the aim of increasing competition on more demanding dom ic and foreign markets. The key investments in the preceding year were investm tn laboratories, portfolio expansion and the increase of production capacities. The ples of the United t\lations Global Compact have been implemented, in accordance th or.rr possibilities, in allthe activities undertaken in 20t2' We have joined this initiative because sustainability cultulre should be developed bo locally and globally. 'We are trying to integrate the international Global Compact principles our own corporate tradition. We are proud of our results, but we are aware that th is still room for im;crovement. We have a clear vision of tihe future of our company and a continuous ernployment of L0 principles of Global Compact is a part of our long-term an. Marko Smeti5ko GENERA Inc. GLOEIAL COMPACT REPORT 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS 1. PRINCIIPLE Companies should support and respect the protection of proclaimed human rights within their field of their influence 2. PRINCIPLE Companies should make sure they are not complicit i hum right abuse Description of'practical actions in the year 2013: In the Republic of Croatia human rights are protected by the Constitution Of the blic of Croatia, by international treaties to which Croatia is a signatory and by the Law. In Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia respect for human rights ts ed as being of the highest valrre in the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. ch ill of the Constitution guarantees all basic human rights and freedoms in addition to large number of individual rights. Croatia has ratified the main international instruments in the field of human rights, uding the six main UN conventions and their pertaining protocols obligating reporti and advocates consistent co-operation with the UN contracting bodies founded in ance with these conventions. Crroatia actively contributes to their activities by means of expert at the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). In addition to the full compliance with Croatian legalisation, and qonsequ the aforemention,ed international treaties and conventions, Genera has adopted its own bylaws stipulating the protection of human rights in the field of labour. lts general bylaw g this field is named the Code of Business Conduct, wlhile some other bylaws d the procedures forr employee protection, especially non-discrimination procedures. Ge has established iits own Rules of Procedure which include the procedules of ployee protection, such as salaries, other benefits of employee bonuses related to job requirements and substanttial rights of employees regarding financial aid. In addition, Genera has designated a person in charge of employee digtttity whom employees can complain if they experience any form of discrimination or Until now, therre have been no complaints of any kind. Genera activerly supports ,the employment of disabled persons and devotes a rable amount of attention to employees with health problems. Disabled employees been given the possibility to werk in such workplaces which cannot endanger their in any way. Also, threy are entitled to financial aid and additional vacation days. At the ent, 5.5% of Genera's employees are people with disabilities. The employees who are a sick leave for a longer period qf time receive financial allowarnces which are higher than ones prescribed by the law. In case the sick leave period is longer than 90 days, a single nancial aid is paid off. Genera provides financial aid to employees who have chlldren wit severe 6 GENEM INC. GLOE|AI. COMPACT REPORT 2013 medical problems and they are also entitled to have additional vacation days. The employera or his family is entitled to financial aid in case of deatlr of an employee or death in thre immediate fanrily of employees. Genera also provides financial aid, that is not prescribed by the law, for new-born babips of employees. Genera has implentented a process of annual performance appraisal and within all managers go through interview with their employees. During that interview, employee$ have opportunity to exSrress their desires and plans or to gilre a review of their previoup work results. They can make suggestions for improvement of working conditions. WE have organized a serries of workshops for managers the purpose of which is to train managers on how to have constructive communication with employees, on how to give feedback, pnd on general imprclvement of their leadership skills. We have created a structured dlan of introducing all newly-employed people into the business. Also, emplolere satisfaction surveys was conducted and 85% employees were resp{ndent. The results o1F the survey are published in Genera's bulletin, and internal measufes are conducted to improve employee satisfaction. Planned activiities for the year 2014: ln year 20L4, we plan to continue with process of penformance appraisal and in ividual interviews. Aga[n, we plan to conduct a survey of employee satisfaction. Further to the results of emprloryee satisfaction survey from 2013., we plan to make some improve .iln collaboration wiith managers, we plan to determine the characteristics of the organi ional climate we want, and agree on an action plan to achietve such a climate. The aim is that managers ber:ame promoters of desired climate and encourage employees to behaviour. We plan to organize a series of workshops for managers the purpose of which is train managers on general improvement of their leadership skills. We plan to formalize a tem of rewards for good performance and reward innol'ation and improvement i work. Furthermore, we prlan to strengthen the sense of loyalty and involvement of every ployele through projects such as Children's day, the Day of Genera and other informal gat GENERA INC. GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR STANDARDS 3. PRINCIPLE Bus should uphold the freedom of association recognition of the to collective bargaining 4. PRINCIPLE The nation of all forms of forced and compulsory 5. PRINCIPLE The ive abolition of child labour 6. PRINCIPLE ThC imination of discrimination in respect occupation Description of practical in the year 2013: The Republic of Croatia adopted the provisions on the prohibition fqrced a child labour and has ratified ILO Conventions 29 and 182. The Croati labour also prohibits the employment of persons below the age of 16 or 18 if they r$gular p ls or students. Genera's Bylaw on Rules and Procedures stipulates that the not employ persons below t age of 18, which is the legal age in Croatia. All uman policies and procedures available to all emPloyees. Genera employs almost equal number of women and men, s the prin gender equality. 1 Chart 1: Number of male fermale employees in Genera Women and men are lly represented in the management sector There is age discrimination. 25 males 23 females in the Genera Group work in topwhile 9 males and 11 wqrk in lower-level management. t statur on september 15 GENERA Inc. GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 Chart 2: Employees bY aget r !l I r <30 . 31-45 x46-60 Although the majoritY ol ernpl ,yees are aged between 46 and 60 higher educatic )n Genera's emPloYees is 44. Over, L% of employees hold Chart 3: EmploYee qual ations r higher education r lower education t' Status on September 15 Status on September 15 GENERA Inc. GLOB,AL COMPACT REPORT 2013 Additionally, there are three trade unions active in Genera. Their representatives h important role in decision,making, such as work regulation, vacations planning, b reorganization, etc. Genera is committed to gfanting each employee the opportunity to gain the kn required for his/her work position. Genera Academy is tlre company's internal e ional channel. lt is a project that allows us to transfer the knowledge and the best front the best employees who are experts in their field of work. The basic aim is to imp e the level of the existing knowledge and understanding of business processes of all era's employees, and to positively influence the organizational climate and employee We would like to emphasize the fact that Genera full'y complies with the pri les of equality of salaries for men and women, provided that they occupy identical sas categorized by' relevant bylaws. This categorization is nron-discriminating because takes into account the nature and characteristics of particular jo,b positions, while it dis age or any other characteristic of employees occupyfrng such positions. Genera is committed to safety at work. lt is reflected inr the appointment of al safety and health compliance officers, constant improvements of safety at work t safe working conditions, reduction of occupational injuries, and the creation of pleasa and satisfying working envi ron ment. Genera has arranged a protection system at work, which is based on the fulfilmen of all legal requirernents regarding health and safety of employees and the co uous improvement of working oonditions. Company regulations on occupational health & safety ensure the employees innplementation of all elements regarding safety at wo . The representatives of employees, an occupational physician iand company's occupational ealth & safety experts are activefy involved in the Occupational Safety Committes. The ittee provides an objective approach and compliance with all safety measures. Also, ra's employees working in special working conditions have re5;ular medical exarninations order to maintain their physical and mental health. The examination of the conditions the working envirclnment and tools creates safe working conditions. Regular safety ents decrease the risk from injuries to the lowest possible level. Regular training of all em including evacuation and rescue drills, raise awareness of the importance of safety work. During the winter period all employees who work in unfavourable temperature are enabled to have hot beverages (2 dl of tea twice a day). All employees who wo than 4 hours a day at the cpmputer are entitled to have an eye examination. Additionally, all employees are entitled to hot meal that is provided at Genera's and Genera pays half of the prize. Also, all employees have a right to use Gener transportation on their way to work or back home. Different activities and organized sport events aim to create a pleasant working envi and a sense of security and belonging to the company cornmunity. I GENEM lnc. GLOBAL pOMPACT n rl tt 1 Planned activitiei for the I liil r. During the year 2014 we contirnue with regular nriedical examin specific working conditir r regular med]ical review of the healtl employee we wifl try to each employge with the working plac I endanger his/hert health way. Genera Inc. is plarlning to impr conditions by prpsenting rr employee Qrganization in the prodr investing in proddction faci itiep rd in productien equipmerJt, and by cont ]i of employees on lhe safety il J I jr I l :l rl :l r1 llil il -: ii ll lt I' l, I lill tr -] li tl tl I GENERA Inc. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2013 ENVIRONMEN'I 1-' PRINcIPLE Busine$ses shourd support a precautionary approach to environ ental challenges 2' PRINcIPLE undertqke initiatives to promote greater environmentat responsibi 3' PRINCIPLE EncourPge the development and diffusion of environrnentally fr technologies Description of practical actipns in the year 2013: Genera Inc. has established an environmental management system based on the of sustainable development and is continuously working onr improving the sygtem. Although the company hal set high standards in environmental protectipn in all its business processes, Genera fnc. has always been striving to increase these standards in er to achieve absolute environ 4rental reliability. Environmental reliability is {chieved by meeting all legal conditions and the rbasic pri les of environmental protectiort which form the framework for a successful and ecolt cally sustainable business. Geneqa Inc. strictly abides by all legat provisions and conti sly invests in the quality of wqrk and organization with a clear plan for business ope ns development according to b4sic principles of environmental protection. Genera identified, categorited and assessed all environmental aspects of its b operations' These aspects afe industrial waste production, air and water emi6sions, ?8€, use and transport of hazardqus materials and products, water and energy consumptio . All of these aspects are regulafly monitored and evaluated ln order to prevent any rse impact on the environment. water, air and waste analyses are regularly made by ce ified laboratories. Enrvironmental reports and analyses are being submitted to regu ry authorities. Annual environrlental objectives are pre-planned and their implementati is monitored. All clbjectives arF focused towards the increase of environmental aware ess, promotion of environmentafly sustainable business and cleaner industrial production not hazardous for the environment. Waste management is alwayp a challenge in terms of trying to affect a variety of activiti to reduce the total amount of ppoduced waste and increase the proportion of reusable typ of waste by sorting and recylling. In 2013 the total amount of the produced industriaf waste was reducef, by L9% compared to the previous year. The total prod ced quantity of non-hazardous irldustrial waste increased by 6%, which is explained by fact that the undertaken activitiep activities resulted in the desired reduction of hazardous u,rcra an( hazarrlauq waste the increase of the share of no{r-hazardous waste, which can be substantially recovered and recycled rather tlran incinerated. GENERA Inc. GLOBAL COMPACT ,oRT 2013 Chart 4: Waste by charact tics 20134 I hazardous waste r non-hazardous waste ln 20L3, 74o/o of total amr nt of the produced non-hazardous industrial wa was and designated for recyr tg. MAjor on-going activities carried out tn to uce industrial waste are edu tion of employees, on-site supervision annd, selection. Genera continu to implement the activities on managing u from t enduser of its products, throu out an organized disposal system for contam pa ng of the products. Chart 5: Industrialwaste in 13s r usable industrial waste r other indusffial waste status on september 20 Status on September 20 GENERA Inc. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2013 Effective measures (such as control and eas{Jrement devices) which con consumption of water and energy have been i allowing the reduction of consumption and the incrrease of energy iency. Continued use of gas as production fuell has resulted in cost savings the reduction of emissions carbon d emission levels. Storage, use and transportafion of hazardous su ances and products are egtablished n the system in such a way as tp avoid the adverse impact on the environm The company also continuously works on the in uction of less hazardous materi tn production to protect its safety and custom safety, in a way that used raw rials meet safety and other stangards and their ally harrmful effect on the environ ts reduced to minimum. GenEra continuously s its customers about the life eof products in order to raise environmental awa and proper treatment of the that remains after the use of a product. Conservation of natural resources is imptemen on multiple levels by optimizing and energy consumption in the production tech (loss of water and energy in di ion) according to the principles of sustainabl development and energy The company aims to increase environmental ness of its employees with a v of activities and educational coprses applicable in life. Genera Inc. is arware of the importance of iversity and tries as much as possi eto preserve the beauty and biodiversity of its spaces. Certain protected es periodically appear at the eflges of the prod site. In 2013 one of the emp has found the protected plant Fritillaria meleagris. lt s a speciers of flowering plant in the f, ilv Liliaceae. lts common names include snake's fritillary, snake's head (the original E sh name), chess flower, frog-cup, guinea-hen flower, leper lily (because its shape resem the bell once carried by lepers), Lazarus bell, lily or, in northern Europe, si ply fritillary. The flower has a chequered pattern shades of purple, or is sometimes re white. lt flowers from March to May and grows en 15-40 cm (6-16 in) in height The plant has a button-shaped gulb, about 2 cm in iameter, containing poisonous al Fritillaria meleagris is native to Europe but in places il. is an endangered species is rarely found in the wild but is commonly grown in rdens. In Croatia, the flower is kn as Kockavica and is associated by some with the cou ry's naticlnal symbol. With the aim to optimize the quality of wa , Genera has begun investi in Wastewater Treatment plarlt according to w er permit. ln order to meet the legislation and criteria set by tthe Water Rights it on the one hand, and Genera's id to construct the optimal filtering device on the hand, the analysis of the al wastewater filtering methods has been out in the process of the of wastewater filtering device cqnceptual design ( inienjering Ltd and others, 2013). GENEM Inc. GLOBAL COMPACT ?013 on the conclusions of the phase construction of device has been chosen as ry technical solution. The construction of wast device shall be the phase after which the device shall be in accord with the Water Rights it wh shall be obtained in earrly 20L4. Planned activities for the ln accordance with both, ands of Rights Permit in relatio release, and Genera,s Antilution M it shall be necessary the folfowing activities in 2OL4: cre the filtering device the building pernrit, carry out on equipment installati testin and technical review, obtain the it and put device into operation. ANTI.CORRUPTION 4. PRINCIPLE Busine ses should work against corruption in all its forms, extortion and briber Description of practical in the year 2013: As of 2009 when Genera listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange we have publicly announce our fina been dto results, business processes and business agrqements. I that way our business operati are completely transparent and diminished qf any a of fraud and corruption. G Inc. strictly adheres to the Laws on the prevention of Laundering and the Fi of Terrorism, the acts of competition rules, tlle crimina laws and all other relevant Croatian regulations which regulate the operati of companies. Also, we have uced anti-corruption policies within our intdrnal rate Code as well as in which we strictly forbid bribery, demand data procedures and information rity maintenance. By joining the European gnion, institutions have become to exercise strict control and are continuopsly su sed by higher European insti Furthermore, a trend of delisting from the Zagreb Exchange has developed i Croatia recently, which enables companies business reports which in t to submit less decreases their business transparency. Neverdheless, era intends to remain listed on Stock Exchange and punctually inform the gublic t its business activities. Planned activities for the Genera Inc. is aware that th is always a room for improvement. We are determined committed to our goals, wh are raising awareness of our employees through dissemination of posters and other materials, continuous training and educalion. Our goal remains the same, and is a zero-tolerance approach to corruption qombined the strengthening of all forms of corruption prevention. With the aim to even more mprove transparency, Genera will create interrial man on how to deal with material in rmation. Material fact or information is defined as any or information that has not yet been published and is not otherwise generally Available. e purpose of the manual is to improper trading by insiders (trading basqd on undisclosed information) a to ensure compliance with all securities lqgislation guidelines issued by bodies. Internal trading rules are designqd to pro investors who are not insiders They seek to ensure that there is timely disclosqre of m information by companies to all their investors thereby securing and safeguprding a 3 tformed invesiment decisions. In additio e who has accpss to matefial non-public ,articipate in, irr assist in the participatic rnt of other investors generally. r --1 llil ri il tir litl ti f-t il i\ li I li i-l i-r t-1 I GENERA Inc. GLOBAL COMPACT CONTACT INFO Genera Inc. , L0436 Rakov Potok, Croatia Ana Bagarii Executive Directori of Phone: +385 1 33 88 603 E-mail:ana. Ana Prelog Head of Corporat Phone: +385 1 33 E-mail:ana. I : I I l l: ,'. lt l
