10 Principles to Stakeholders Sustainability Report 2013 KYOBO Life About This Report 10 Principles to Stakeholders This is the fourth Sustainability Report published by Kyobo Life Co. (KLI). Under our slogan of “pursuing co-development with all stakeholders” and to communicate with our stakeholders regarding Kyobo Life Co.'s sustainable development Sustainability Report 2013 activities, we have been publishing this report annually since 2011. The most KYOBO Life recent series of this report was released in June 2013. Report Period This report deals with Kyobo Life's sustainability management activities during the 2013 fiscal year (April 2013 – December 2013) after applying the life insurance companies’ modification of their term of the fiscal year (Previous: April – March → Modified: January – December). To facilitate understanding of the progress in quantitative performances, the last three years' worth of previous data has been enclosed, and the data outside of the report period has been separately Investors labeled. & the Future Report Scope The scope of the report covers the head office of Kyobo Life, its branch offices throughout the nation, and customer PLAZAs, and does not include offices situated abroad. Some environmental data does not include all domestic workplaces; Customers this has been noted when this was the case. Kyobo Life will gradually widen the & the Future scope of the report. The currency used in the report is Korean won (￦), and other Employees values have been quoted together when using other currencies. & the Future Government ·Communities & the Future Publishing Standards This report has been published in accordance with the international guidelines of sustainability management reports, the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1, and ISO 26000. The report also reflects prominent issues raised through the participation of our stakeholders, as well as the suggestions from the 10 principles of Financial Planners the UNGC (UN Global Compact). & the Future 24-33 48-53 Accreditation Customers and the Future Investors and the Future To increase credibility, the report has been inspected according to the three principles provided by AA1000AS (2008) (inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness), We will listen to the customers and manage the company from the We will continue to produce exceptional proﬁt through the accreditation standard for sustainability management reports required by the customers’ perspective. 26 the good growth. 50 KSA( Korean Standards Association), and has also been certified by the GRI for Application Level Checks. The written third-party accreditation opinions and the We will enhance service quality throughout the policy life cycle, from underwriting to persistency and to beneﬁts payment. 28 We will increase the value of company through preemptive risk management. 52 66-78 GRI Application Level Check Statements can be found in the appendices. Appendix 02-23 Kyobo Life’s Code of Professional Ethics 67 Humanity and the Future Overview 34-39 40-47 54-65 Third Party Assurance Report 68 GRI G3.1 and ISO 26000 Application Standard 70 People matter the most in the world, and corporations CEO’s Message 02 Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Signing and Support of the UN Global Compact 74 exist for people. Therefore, we are dedicated to people-oriTop 10 News of Kyobo Life’s FY2013 04 We will continue on our corporate culture of joy, pride and trust. 36 We will continue on our corporate culture of joy, pride and trust. 42 Awards and Associations Regarding Sustainability ented management. The image on the cover embodies We will actively carry out corporate social responsibility activities to and expresses Kyobo Life's pledges and 10 principles to its Company Overview 06 We will provide employees with equal opportunities and reward grow together with our communities. 56 Management 76 We will provide Financial Planners with equal opportunities and stakeholders (customers, financial planners, employees, Governance 13 reward them based on fair evaluation policies. 38 them based on fair performance evaluation. 44 We will manage our business in terms of conserving nature GRI Application Level Check Statement 77 investors, the government and communities). Sustainability Management Framework 15 We will help our employees to become the experts. 46 in a manner reﬂective of the nature of our business. 60 We will help our Financial Planners to become the experts. 38 Summary of Financial Reports 78 Stakeholders Engagement 18 We will grow together with our partners through fair competition. 64 2 Sustainability Report 2013 CEO Message Greetings to the respected stakeholders! 2013 has been a year in which the Korean Economy highly dependent on export and import experienced many difﬁculties caused by domestic and overseas events, , such as the reduced consumer spending, lukewarm growth of employment rate, and a decrease in corporate investment, due to the prolonged international recession. Despite these difﬁculties, Kyobo Life strived to accomplish its business policy of “innovation of insurance coverage to customers and advancement of proﬁt generation” through the hard work of all its employees. We focused on achieving our long-term goal of becoming the company that “provides the best insurance coverage to customers” by 2015. As a result, Kyobo Life became more competent in creating proﬁt and maintaining ﬁnancial soundness and subsequently earning greater level of trust from you. I am deeply grateful for our stakeholders’ unfailing trust and faith in Kyobo Life and give them all the credit for allowing us to achieve what we have until today. Kyobo Life values human life and believes that their values should be respected and realized. In this respect, Kyobo Life is presenting its fourth edition of the Sustainability Management Report titled, the “People and Future.” This is to put in practice the basic process of listening to the stakeholders, focusing on their needs, delivering the pledges we made every year after listening and focusing with our utmost sincerity and sharing the results and progresses with all of you, the stakeholders. Overview 3 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Pledge: We will become a company that is good at providing insurance coverage to customers. The continued promotion of the “Lifelong Care Project” started in 2011 to boost our competitiveness in providing insurance coverage to customers improved the quality of our insurance service, throughout all processes, including subscription, persistency, and payment, resulting in earning a higher grade in the customer complaint evaluation by the Financial Supervisory Service. This grade, however, is still not as high as we wish it to be: we will work harder to listen to the various opinions of customers and swiftly apply them to our service policies. Pledge: We will become a company that succeeds together with its Financial Planners. We accepted the requests of Financial Planners aspiring to become the expert in providing insurance coverage to customers and built training centers that offer programs that will help them develop the ability to design insurance coverage and sell and service the insurance policies. In addition, I, the CEO, myself frequently visited the ﬁelds of sales service and gathered their suggestions for improvements for better communication, to provide a greater opportunity to the Financial Planners and support their development into the experts. Pledge: We will become a company that grows together with its employees. We endeavored to cherish our human resources and build a company where employees are rewarded according to their performance and supported for their growth, so that they would enjoy working for the company. To this end, we strengthened our training on the marketing of insurance to help employees better understand the life insurance business, and promoted the rotation and expansion of positions to provide greater opportunity for the employees to develop their careers. Pledge: We will become a company that is attractive to investors. Kyobo Life has consistently increased its investment in long-term bonds in anticipation of prolonged low interest rates and focused on securing a steady ﬂow of proﬁt by increasing investment in high-yield assets within the limit of manageable risk. As a result, Kyobo Life earned an A+ rating from Fitch Ratings, one of the three major international credit rating agencies. Kyobo Life has also maintained a rating of A2 for six consecutive years from Moody’s and the AAA rating, the highest rating by NICE Rating, a Korean credit rating agency, for seven consecutive years. We will maintain the momentum of growth supported by a healthy proﬁtability, by securing new growth engines and more precise risk management. Pledge: We will become a company that grows together with the government and communities. In order to materialize the sprit of neighborly love inherent in the insurance business, we labored to practice the wisdom of coexistence, focusing on social contribution activities to help the less fortunate to overcome the difﬁculties caused by illnesses, ﬁnancial hardship and lack of education. We will strengthen our partnership with expert and transparent nonproﬁt organizations and promote with them the projects that local communities need and at which Kyobo Life can excel. Kyobo life’s diligent work over the past year received much recognition, earning the top place among all life insurance companies for four consecutive years in the Korean Sustainability Management Competition sponsored by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy and Korean Standards Association. We were also awarded the 2013 Consumer Grand Award from the Korean Society of Consumer Studies and recognized as the best family-friendly corporation. These accomplishments encourage us to faithfully and continually honor our pledges with stakeholders and push ourselves to a higher standard. Additionally, Kyobo Life would like to express its enduring support of the 10 Principles involving human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, suggested by the UN Global Compact, as a member of the Compact. The volatility of the global economy has risen higer than ever since the global economic crisis. Especially in the life insurance business, the negative spread due to prolonged low interest rate will have a negative impact for the next several years. Kyobo life, however, is determined to keep its business policy of growing together with all stakeholders under any circumstances, in pursuit of sustainable development. We will continue our journey to becoming “an admired company that will thrive for hundreds of years to come” with the help of all stakeholders. Thank you. Chang-Jae Shin, CEO & Chairman Kyobo Life 4 Sustainability Report 2013 Top 10 News of Kyobo Life’s FY2013 Kyobo Life’s Major Activities in Pursuit of Co-development with All Stakeholders Honoring the Entrepreneurial Spirit of Founder Yong-Ho Shin on the 10th Anniversary of his Death The month of September 2013 was designated as the “month of remembering Founder”, as the 10th anniversary of his death was approaching, to commemorate his business philosophy and entrepreneurial spirit. A company-wide memoSole Winner of “2013 Consumer rial ceremony and photo exhibition were schedGrand Prize” uled, followed by a series of various programs Kyobo Life became the sole winner of the including an academic symposium, memorial “2013 Consumer Grand Prize” in October 2013 dinner, and economic and educational volunfrom the Korean Society of Consumer Studies. It teer works. The family of the founder along with was nominated as the best company in protectvisitors from the business, academic, cultural ing its consumers. Our “customer assurance” and art ﬁelds attended the memorial dinner to to protect customers and protect their rights pay tribute to the life and accomplishments of through the development of customer-oriented the founder, who expressed his love for people products and marketing geared towards them Customer Satisfaction Hall of through education. The Korean Insurance Acawas highly praised. Hang Sang-man, president demic Society held an academic symposium to Fame Reopened of the society, shared that, “Kyobo Life is setting highlight the accomplishments and entrepreThe physical veil that has been covering the cusneurial spirit of the founder. an example for other companies with its contomer satisfaction management grand prize sistent promotion of the ‘Lifelong Care Project’ hall of fame from the public since June, last year which is an after-care service for customers and has been ﬁnally removed. It has been two years the protection of its customers.” since November 2011 that a veil was put on the award to represent the company’s resolve to recover its image as the best customer satisfaction management company. All ﬁnancial planners and employees strived together to reduce the number of customer complaints, succeeding in securing First Place in the funds perfect sales evaluation last year and claiming First Place in the perfect sales evaluation of variable insurance. The Financial Supervisory Service awarded a higher grade in the Civil Appeals Evaluation to Kyobo Life, adding to the list of visible successes of its customer satisfaction management. Acquired A+ from Fitch Ratings, One of the Three Major International Credit Rating Agencies “Asia Best Customer Service First Place in the Business for Kyobo Life acquired a credit rating of A+ from Center” Awards Variable Insurance Perfect Sales Fitch Ratings, one of the three major internaKyobo Life’s Customer Service Center was honThe Financial Supervisory Service awarded tional credit rating agencies, in November 2013. ored as the “2013 APCCAL Best Customer SerKyobo Life with First Place in the life insurance The credit evaluation calculates the general vice Center” in November 2013. APCCAL (Asia business for its perfect sales of variable insurInsurer Financial Strength (IFS) in terms of profPaciﬁc Contact Center Association Leaders) is ance. Kyobo Life’s ﬁnancial planners’ ability to itability of insurance company, ﬁnancial soundan association of 12 customer service centers make perfect sales of variable insurance was ness and risk management skills. This achieveleaders from 12 Asian-Paciﬁc countries. Kyobo recognized as the best in the industry, another ment, earning a rating of A+, is a ﬁrst among Life was recognized for its speedy and accurate splendid feat that follows last year’s accomplishKorean life insurance companies. Fitch stated, customer-oriented customer service and effecment of being named as the best ﬁnancial com“The rating incorporates Kyobo Life's strong tive and advanced infrastructure. pany in terms of perfect sales of funds. This is market franchise, as well as its consistently signiﬁcant since Kyobo Life’s customer-oriented sound ﬁnancial fundamentals with stable proﬁtbusiness culture and its consultants’ ability to ability and manageable ﬁnancial leverage.” make perfect sales of variable insurance gained recognition from in and out of the country as being the best in the industry. Overview 5 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix “The One I Am Deeply Thankful for”, Lifelong Care Project TV Commercial A new Lifelong Care Project TV commercial aired on three major TV stations and radio stations for three months starting July 2013. The commercial had the theme, “the one I am deeply thankful for”, and was produced as a Claiming First Place for Four Conmusical in which a customer visits a ﬁnancial secutive Years in Sustainability planner that provides lifelong care service and then expresses his gratitude with a surprise perIndex in the Field of Life Insurance formance. World-famous conductor MyungKyobo Life was selected as the best company Whun Chung appeared in the series, giving a in the sustainability index among all life insursense of legitimacy to the campaign. The narance companies in the 2013 Korea Sustainabilrated slogan, “The one I am deeply thankful for, ity Awards. Kyobo Life has secured First Place ﬁnancial planners of Kyobo Life will meet you”, for four consecutive years since 2010, proving in the commercial implies the meaning of our that Kyobo Life is renowned as a model comcompany’s lifelong care project. pany in sustainability management in pursuit of co-development with stakeholders. Kyobo was also acclaimed for its efforts in increased Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) this year and continued promotion of fair competition and co-development that are receiving much attention lately. “Reading, Walking, and Experiencing in Gwanghawmun”, the Online Humanities Service An Online humanities service, “Reading, walking, and experiencing in Gwanghawmun” was introduced in October 2013. This is Kyobo Life’s unique service to provide customers with high-quality humanities content in a digital environment. The website was created to thematically express a resting place, found in the free moments in daily lives. This is a place where one can refresh himself with wisdom and inspiration, as if strolling through Gwanghawmun. The service offers 10 different activities, including e-book “Reading”, web magazine “Walking”, and videos and ofﬂine lectures “Experiencing”. IIS Seoul General Assembly, Relations with Global Insurance Industry Leaders Kyobo Life actively interacted with global insurance industry leaders in the 49th Annual International Insurance Society General Assembly (IIS) held in Seoul, June 2013, 26 years since the last time this *The Top 10 News of Kyobo Life were narrowed assembly was held in Seoul. This annual general assembly was attended by CEOs and employees of life down to 15 news items among numerous articles insurance companies, insurance scholars, and major supervisory authority personnel from 50 countries after surveying organization leaders of Kyobo Life around the world, totaling approximately 500 participants. CEO and Chairman Chang-Jae Shin joined about the weighty issues of FY 2013 and were the ‘global leadership panel discussion shortly after the opening ceremony and exchanged ideas about finally selected reflecting the in-company electhe future outlook of the insurance industry and risk management with international insurance industry tronic surveys. A total of 6 ,983 including 1, 419 leaders. The 30 IIS board of directors visited the Gwanghawmun headquarters to open doors to more employees and 5,564 financial planners particiglobal relations. pated in the surveys. 6 Sustainability Report 2013 Company Overview Overview Kyobo Life is a ﬁrm specializing in life insurance, striving to achieve its vision of becoming the company that “offers the best in customer assurance (Customer Assurance No. 1)” by providing “peace of mind” and “ﬁnancial assurance” above all expectations. We are actively carrying out our mission of “helping all people overcome future ordeals”. The Kyobo Life headquarters is made up of 3 regions, 4 divisions, 3 departments, 52 teams (including 2 centers), and 1 ofﬁce, and the company operates 650 branch ofﬁces and 66 customer PLAZAs nation-wide. We also operate foreign ofﬁces in New York, Beijing, and Tokyo, and an asset-managing local corporate body in the U.S. Primary Business Indexes Establishment Date 0August 07, 1958 Personnel 4,753 Headquarters Location 01, Jong-ro, Jongro-gu, Seoul, Korea Capital 6.0 Trillion Won CEO 0Chang-Jae Shin Total Assets 73.7 Trillion Won Number of Financial Planners 20,602 Premium Income 8.7 Trillion Won History Kyobo Life is paving the way to the future as a strong life insurance company based on our 55 years of knowhow, leading the Korean insurance ﬁeld under the principle of “Education is the future of a nation”. 1980 1991 1992 1997 Establishment of Establishment of Establishment of Establishment of “Kyobo Life Education and “Kyobo Book Centre Co., Ltd.” “Daesan Rural Culture “Daesan Culture Foundation” Culture Foundation” Foundation” 1958 1964 1983 1994 1996 Establishment of “Korean The First Savings Day ExcelFounder Yong-Ho Shin Wins Renamed as “Kyobo Life” Founder Yong-Ho Shin Education Insurance Co., lence in Savings Awards “Presi‘World Insurance Grand Prize’ Inducted into the IIS “InsurLtd.”, World’s First Education dential Honors” from International Insurance ance Hall of Fame” Insurance, “Jinhak Insurance” Society (IIS) Overview 7 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Operation Locations KYOBO LIFE NEW YORK KYOBO LIFE TOKYO REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE KYOBO LIFE BEIJING REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE KYOBO LIFE ASSET MANAGEMENT CO., LTD (AMERICA) Category Branch Ofﬁce Customer PLAZA Category Branch Ofﬁce Customer PLAZA Seoul 181 16 Gyungbuk 37 4 Incheon 34 4 Daejeon 16 2 Gyunggi 127 12 Chungnam 18 1 Gwangwon 20 2 Chungbuk 17 2 Busan 44 5 Gwangju 18 2 Gyungnam 39 4 Jeonnam 20 3 Daegu 29 3 Jeonbuk 23 3 Ulsan 18 2 Jeju 9 1 Organization Chart CEO Chief FP Distribution Chief Marketing Chief Investment Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer Ofﬁcer Retirement & Pension Gangbuk FP Center AM Center Product Support Investment ManageInsurance Service Customer Satisfaction ment Support Center Gangnam Special Bancassurance Institutional Sales 1 Direct Operation FP Center Center Headquarters Retail & Loan Management Support Service Recovery Institutional Sales 2 Center Kyungin FP Center GFP Operation Corporate Finance Business Support Institutional Sales 3 Headquarters Busan FP Center Institutional Sales 4 FA Operation HeadJungbu FP Center quarters Daegu FP Center Honam FP Center 2002 2004 2010 2011 Establishment “Kyobo Dasomi Won “Customer Satisfaction Joining UN Global Compact Declaration of “Kyobo’s Social Service Works Group” Management Grand Prize” (for (International Compact for CorVISION 2015” ﬁve consecutive years) and porate Social Responsibility) inducted into the “Hall of Fame” 2000 2001 2009 2012 2013 Enactment of “Kyobo’s Ethics Declaration of “Kyobo’s VISION Selected as the “Best Asian CEO Chang-Jae Shin Wins Nominated as the Best in Life Charter” and Declaration of 2010” and “CI” Life Insurance Company of “Insurance Executive of the Year Insurance Industry in “Korean Change and Innovation the Year” in 2009 Asia InsurAward” in 2012 Asia Insurance Sustainability Index (KSI)” for Four ance Industry Grand Prize Industry Grand Prize Consecutive Years Attained “A2” rating from Moody’s (U.S.) for six consecutive years and “A+” from Fitch Ratings (U.K.) 8 Sustainability Report 2013 Ownership Kyobo Life maintains transparent and clear ownership for a stable management system. The largest shareholder is CEO Chang-Jae Shin with 33.78% of the share, and other primary shareholders include OTTP (Ontario Teacher’s Pension Plan, 9.93%), Corsair Capital (9.79%), Afﬁnity (9.05%), and the Export-Import Bank of Korea (5.85%). Shareholder Composition Chang-Jae Shin 33.78% Standard Chartered PE 5.33% OTPP 9.93% IMM 5.23% Corsair Capital 9.79% Baring PE 5.23% Afﬁnity 9.05% GIC 4.50% Export-Import Bank of Korea 5.85% AXA 2.24% In-Jae Shin and Two Others 5.65% Goldman Sachs 1.07% Employee's Stock Ownership 1.02% Meiji Yasuda Life 1.00% Others 0.33% Affiliates Kyobo Life has 11 afﬁliates related to life insurance business. Together with them, we pursue synergy effects to enhance our brand and corporate values. Kyobo Life established “Kyobo Life Planet”, an online insurance company in December 2013. Afﬁliate Ownership Financial Non-Financial Kyobo Securities Kyobo AXA Investment KCA Claim Adjustment Saengbo Real Estate Kyobo Book Centre Kyobo Realco Managers Trust Financial Investment Other insurance and Retail in Books and Management of Date Founded 1949.11.22 Asset Management pension related services Real Estate Trust Magazines Commercial Real Estate Capital 1,800 Million Won Date Founded 1988.7.7 Date Founded 2002.7.5 Date Founded 1998.12.8 Date Founded 1980.12.24 Date Founded 1979.11.15 Ownership 51.63% Capital 300 Million Won Capital 20 Million Won Capital 100 Million Won Capital 17 Million Won Capital 22 Million Won www.iprovest.com Ownership 50.00% Ownership 100.00% Ownership 50.00% Ownership 89.55% Ownership 100.00% www.kyoboitm.co.kr www.kcasonsa.co.kr www.sbnet.co.kr www.kyobobook.co.kr www.kyobobldg.co.kr A&D Credit Information Kyobo Life Asset Kyobo Life Planet Kyobo Information & Kyobo Data Center Management Communication Credit Check & Debt (US local corporate body) Life Insurance Leasing of Commercial Collection Computer System Real Estate Marketable Securities Date Founded 2013.9.27 Integration Consultation Date Founded 2002.2.28 Date Founded 2008.10.8 Investment Capital 320 Million Won and Creation Capital 50 Million Won Capital 360 Million Won Date Founded 1996.10.21 Ownership 74.50% Date Founded 1971.7.24 Ownership 19.50% www.lifeplanet.co.kr Ownership 99.99% www.andamc.com Capital US$ 1 Capital 50 Million Won Ownership 100.00% Ownership 89.83% www.kico.co.kr Overview 9 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Kyobo Vision The Vision of Kyobo is comprised of our core purposes, core values, and a visible future. The core purposes are what we must permanently pursue as long as Kyobo Life exists, and our core values are the foremost values that affect all personnel's decision-making processes and actions. The “visible future” is the basis of our strong objectives on which all employees must concentrate their best efforts to achieve during a certain period of time. Kyobo Life’s goal is to become a company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services in Korea by 2015. Provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services means providing “peace of mind and ‘ﬁnancial security” above all expectations to actively fulﬁll our core purpose of “Help people not to despair with hardships in their lives”. Kyobo Life will serve customers’ beneﬁts according to our core value, be honest and sincere, and meet bigger and bolder challenges through creative thinking. Kyobo Life established a strong foundation to accomplish our vision in 2013 by focusing on “innovation of customer assurance” and “reinforced creation of proﬁts” to realize Vision 2015. Kyobo Vision 2015 Core Purpose The Company that Provides Optimum Insurance Our mission is to help people not to despair with hardships in Coverage and On-going Services their lives [ No.1 Provider in Insurance Coverage and On-going Services] Core Value Customer Customer Centricity Centricity We give top priority to our customers Challenge and Creativity We strive to accomplish challenging goals with a sense of creativity to develop both the company and ourselves Honesty and Sincerity We are fully accountable and always endeavor to serve our Our mission is to help customers in an honest and sincere manner people not to despair with hardships in their lives Vision 2015 Honesty and Challenge Sincerity and Creativity Our Vision is to become a company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services by 2015 10 Sustainability Report 2013 Business Overview and Primary Products The Life Insurance Process can be organized into 3 stages: sign-up, retention, and payment. The sign-up stage involves a recommendation of the best plan for customers, meeting their needs and budget with detailed explanations. The retention stage involves the introduction of contract terms and future coverage details to customers and handling of related matters. In the event of a case calling for payment, the beneﬁts promised in the insurance contract will be paid to assist the customer to overcome ordeals during the payment stage. The premiums paid by customers are under stable management for a longterm basis. Kyobo Life entered into a total of 718 thousand cases of new contracts, provided retention service to 4,485 thousand customers, and paid 4.8 trillion won in 1,829 thousand cases as of the 2013 ﬁscal year. FY2013 Life Insurance Business Process Subscription Persistency Payment Subscription Retention Payment 718 Thousand Cases 4,485 Thousand People 1,829 Thousand Cases New Subscription Customers Payment Initial In-force Claims Premiums 975.5 Billion Won Premiums 7,756 Billion Won Paid 4,840.5 Billion Won Asset Management Loans 15.6 Trillion Won Real Estate 11.8 Trillion Won Securities 36.6 Trillion Won *Claims Paid are classiﬁed into damages (death, disability, hospitalization), advance payment (school loans, hospital bills, monetary gifts), living beneﬁts (contract refund, withdrawal, dividends), expiration and pensions (expired insurance, living pensions), and others (insurance contract loans, retirement payments, income compensation). Overview 11 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Kyobo Life provides diverse ﬁnancial products for individuals and corporate entities, such as insurance, loans, funds, and trust. By focusing on “family life assurance” and “elder life assurance”, which are the most important areas of life insurance, we help customers rationally prepare for potential future ordeals. Primary Products Integrated CI Insurance Whole life Term Insurance This product supports the entire family This product provides the beneficiary with a single contract, and a CI (Critiwith benefits should the insured percal Illness) insurance policy consists of son die. There are diverse forms, such paying a portion of the beneﬁts when as universal lifetime insurance which a critical illness occurs and providing allows the customer to change premithe rest of the beneﬁts upon the death ums or opt for advance payments, or of the insured customer. This combines periodic insurance in which a certain the strengths of both health insurance period is targeted. and life insurance. Pension · Deposit Insurance Education · Child Insurance This product is used for customers' This product helps customers prepare accumulation of assets and to secure for their children's academic funds. their lives after retirement. The cusCustomers can be paid annual acatomer can choose to designate when demic funds according to their chilto be paid or may ask to be paid with dren’s age and choose a special conpensions until death. The deposit tract that is prepared in the event the insurance is utilized by customers to child suffers disabilities, diseases, or accumulate their assets or to create a accidents. This is a product with more target amount of funds. coverage for the child's illness and accidents. Health · Accident Insurance Retirement Pension Insurance This includes health insurances that This product is provided based on the provides compensation should there law for the guarantee of retirement be any diagnosis or surgery regardpayment for laborers. Retirement pening a disease, long-term recuperasion management and asset managetion insurance that provides for daily ment services are provided. disabilities or dementia, and actual medical insurance that pay benefits concerning direct medical costs, and others. *Additional details for each product can be found at Kyobo Life's webpage (www.kyobo.co.kr). 12 Sustainability Report 2013 Creation and Distribution of Economic Value New economic value created from insurance revenue from insurance operations and investment proﬁts from asset management are distributed to Kyobo Life’s primary stakeholders. The total revenue of Kyobo's 2013 ﬁscal year is 11.0 trillion won, and this has been distributed as 9.3 trillion won in insurance payment to our customers, 484.5 billion won for commissions paid to ﬁnancial planners and education costs, 343.2 billion won for employee wages and welfare costs, 57.4 billion won for dividends paid to investors, and 334.8 billion won for taxes paid to the government and donations to communities. Creation of Economic Value and Distribution Among Stakeholders 9,301.3 billion won 484.5 Customers billion won Financial Planners Claims Paid, Income from Reserve Funds Commission, Education Cost 343.2 460.2 billion won billion won Employees Others Wages, Welfare Cost Proﬁt, Miscellaneous Costs 334.8billion won Government, 57.4 Communities billion won Investors Taxes, Donations Dividends 11.0 trillion won 2.3 trillion won 8.7 trillion won Total Revenue Investment Proﬁts Premium Income Overview 13 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Corporate Governance Kyobo Life established a transparent governance structure to boost our corporate value. The General Meeting of Stockholders and the Board of Directors are the two main decision-making bodies of Kyobo Life. Active participation from outside directors secures a check on the management. A compliance offer and independent audit committee are in place, as well as operations to perform thorough internal regulations and improve our corporate value. Corporate Governance Chart General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Director Audit Risk Management Management Compensation Outside Director Committee Committee Committee Committee Recommendation Committee Board of Directors The Board of Directors decides issues designated by the legislation or its articles, issues delegated by the General Meeting of Shareholders, and those related to the company's basic policies or business operations, and supervises the directors' execution of their tasks. Board of Directors Composition The Board of Directors consists of three executive directors and four outside directors; there are no female directors as of now. Each director is selected through having their qualiﬁcations evaluated by the standards provided by the relevant industry regulations, and is then appointed through the General Meeting of Shareholders. Outside directors in particular are closely investigated by the Outside Director Recommendation Committee regarding their expertise as well as their stake in the management; this fair and thorough screening is intended to increase the management’s transparency. Board of Directors Composition Category Name Position Expertise Chang-Jae Shin (Born 1953) CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors Inside Directors Euisun Hwang (Born 1952) Auditor Seokki Lee (Born 1965) CFO Pil Wha Yoo (Born 1954) Dean of the Graduate School of Business, SungKyunKwan University Marketing Hyung Chul Kim (Born 1953) Former CEO and Vice President of Jeil Fire & Marine Insurance Planning, Business Management Outside Directors Nicholas B. Paumgarten (Born 1945) President of Corsair Capital Finance Young Taeg Park (Born 1959) Afﬁnity Equity Partners, Managing Partner Finance, Accounting 14 Sustainability Report 2013 Operation of the Board of Directors Kyobo Life’s Board of Directors operates through annual January Regular Board of Directors Meetings and Special Board of Directors Meetings when the Chair or the Board requests them. There have been 25 board meetings during the 2011~2013 ﬁscal years. The Company posts the participation of Board members by committee, opinions of Outside directors regarding the agenda, and voting results on its website (www.kyobo.co.kr > Notice > Outside Directors). Board of Directors Operation Primary Board of Director Agenda Related to Sustainability Management Category 2011 2012 2013 Category Agenda Number of Meeting 9 10 6 1st (April 19,2011) Establishing Preventative Labor-Board Relationship Measures Following (Meeting) Changes in the Labor Environment Voted/Reported Agenda 17/33 28/27 19/19 2nd (May 19, 2011) Results of Operation Evaluation of Internal Accounting (Case) FY2011 Management System for FY2010 Board of Directors 84.9 92.4 93.0 Promotion Status of Anti-money Laundering Measures Participation Rate (%) 9th (March 27, 2012) Promotion Status of the Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program Results of Internal Regulatory System Operation for the First Half of FY2011 Outside Directors 80.0 88.0 90.5 Participation Rate (%) FY 2012 8th (Nov. 20, 2012) Revision of Internal Regulatory Standards 1st (May 31, 2013) Result of Performance Review of FY2012 Internal Financial Regulatory Management System 4th (Oct. 08, 2013) Revision of Internal Regulatory Standards FY2013 Providing FY2014 Operating Expenses to Public Corporations 6th (Dec. 13, 2013) Established by Kyobo Life Promotional Status of FY2013 Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program Subcommittees Under the Board of Directors Kyobo Life’s Board of Directors delegates all business-related functions except for matters of General Meetings of Shareholders and matters falling under the directors and the Board to its subcommittees. All committees have outside directors on board to increase the expertise and efﬁciency of the decision-making process. Subcommittees and their Meetings (Unit : Number of meetings) Category Role 2011 2012 2013 Evaluates and improves the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Company's general internal regulatory system Plans various internal audits such as ﬁnancial audit, business audit, compliance audit, management audit, and IT Audit Committee audit and evaluates the results to suggest subsequent measures and improvements 6 6 5 Three members out of four are composed of Outside in order to maintain independence from the Board and other executive institutions Risk Management Sets up and conﬁrms major policies concerning risk management 12 8 7 Committee Regular brieﬁng of risk analysis, management measures, and monitoring results to the Board Management Establishes short & long-term management policies and plans, makes decisions regarding new business expansion, 6 5 3 Committee important business and ﬁnance issues, and evaluates the directors and executives’ performance Manages compensation and reward programs for those in the Board as well as certain employees, and makes decisions regarding its appropriateness of design and operation Compensation All committee members are Outside directors in order to maintain its independence, and a member from the Risk 3 3 2 Committee Management Committee is on the committee to manage compensation programs in relation to risks Designs compensation programs so that they abide by international guidelines and ultimately achieve soundness Outside Director Searches for, evaluates, and nominates candidates for Outside directors Recommendation Outside directors are ﬁrst nominated by the Outside Directors Recommendation Committee and are selected 2 3 1 Committee through the General Meeting of Shareholders Performance Evaluation and Compensation The management is compensated according to the evaluation of their accomplishments compared to the annual objectives reported to the Board at the close of each ﬁscal year. The executives’ salaries are decided in the General Meeting of Shareholders and the compensation for Outside directors are disclosed on our webpage (www.kyobo.co.kr > Notice > Outside Directors). Overview 15 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Sustainability Management Framework Kyobo Life’s sustainability management means “the fulﬁllment of our pledge to grow together with all stakeholders”. In last June’s regular meeting of shareholders, the message of “the corporation pursuing long-term co-development with all stakeholders” was incorporated into the preface of the articles of association. The executive conference room of the Gwanghawmun Headquarters has two incense burners: one of them is supported by three balanced legs while the other one is tilted and in danger of collapsing because its three legs are all different lengths. This signiﬁes Kyobo Life’s resolve to carry out sustainability management, keeping in mind that the continuous and stable growth of corporation requires the balanced growth of all stakeholders. Sustainability Management Framework Sustainability ManPursue Shared Growth with All Stakeholders agement Philosophy The Company that Provides Optimum Insurance Coverage and On-going Services VISION 2015 [No.1 Provider in Insurance Coverage and On-going Services ] A company that is good at A company that succeeds A company that A company that is A company that grows Pledges providing insurance covertogether with its grows together with attractive to investors together with the governage to customers Financial Planners its employees ment and communities We will listen to the cusWe will continue on our corWe will continue on our We will continue to proWe will actively carry out cortomers and manage the porate culture of joy, pride corporate culture of joy, duce exceptional proﬁt porate social responsibility company from the customand trust. pride and trust. through the good growth. activities to grow together ers’ perspective. with our communities. We will enhance service We will provide Financial We will provide employees We will increase the value We will manage our busiPrinciquality throughout the polPlanners with equal opportuwith equal opportunities of company through preness in terms of conserving For ples icy life cycle, from undernities and reward them based and reward them based on emptive risk management. nature in a manner reﬂective Stakewriting to persistency and on fair evaluation policies. fair performance evaluation. of the nature of our business. holders to beneﬁts payment. We will help our Financial We will help our employWe will grow together Planners to become the ees to become the experts. with our partners through experts. fair competition. Persistency (13th Month) Level of satisfaction by Level of satisfaction Total assets Social contribution Financial Planners by employees ratio/amount Level of Satisfaction by Return on Equity (ROE) KPIs customers Retention rate Training hours per Weight of Socially Financial Soundness Ratio (13th month) employee Responsible Investment Market Share (RBC) Energy Consumption Operation of Sustainability Management Council Kyobo Life operates a consultative group to support top management efforts to pursue sustainability management and to foster active communication. The “Sustainability Management” Council facilitates the executives’ discussion of major issues related to sustainability management resulting in the drawing of agreements which supports the decision-making process of the Chairman. Issues that are brought to discussion are addressed in “Sustainability Management” working-level conferences to collect the opinions of the heads of each department to maximize the operation efﬁciency of the “Sustainability Management” Council. Operation Status of the “Sustainability Management” Council Category Agenda The 6th (Apr. 25, 2011) Final Report of Sustainability Management Project FY2011 The 8th (Aug. 1, 2011) Results of collected opinions from stakeholders The 10th (Nov. 3, 2011) Analysis of Current Status of Sustainability Management KPI The 11th (Jan. 3, 2012) Result of Shareholders’ Meeting FY2012 The 14th (Jun. 15, 2012) The adoption of socially responsible investment (SRI), simulation of aid for public interests The 16th (Nov. 2, 2012) Progress report of main issues following the collection of opinions from individual stakeholders The 17th (Jun. 7, 2013) Report of Sustainability Management Long-term KPI Status FY2013 The 18th (Dec. 20, 2013) Report of Major Issues Regarding Sustainability Management 16 Sustainability Report 2013 Promotion Status of Sustainability Management Major Issues Stakeholders Pledges Principles Appropriate Receipt and Treatment of 1. We will listen to the customers and manCustomer complaints age the company from the customers’ -Strengthening Protection of Customer A company that is good at perspective. Customers providing insurance Information 2. We will enhance service quality throughcoverage to customers Improved Retention Service of Customer out the policy life cycle, from underwriting Assurance to persistency and to beneﬁts payment. 3. We will continue on our corporate culture of joy, pride and trust. Increased Financial Planners Satisfaction Rate for Product Competitiveness Financial A company that succeeds 4. We will provide Financial Planners with Planners together with its Financial equal opportunities and reward them Strengthening Communication for Planners based on fair evaluation policies. Commission System 5. We will help our Financial Planners to become the experts. Increased Two-way Communication 3. We will continue on our corporate culExpansion of Corporate Culture Balancing ture of joy, pride and trust. between Work and Life A company that 4. We will provide employees with equal Fair Performance Evaluation/Compensation Employees grows together with opportunities and reward them based its employees on fair performance evaluation. Job-centered Human Resource System Management 5. We will help our employees to become the experts. Expansion of Labor Rights Developing New Market 6. We will continue to produce exceptional A company that is proﬁt through the good growth. Increased Proﬁtability of Asset Investors attractive to investors Management 7. We will increase the value of company through preemptive risk management. Risk Management Social Service Works Practicing “the Spirit of 8. We will actively carry out corporate Love” Inherent in the Insurance Industry A company that grows social responsibility activities to grow Government · together with together with our communities. Supplying Social Good and Eco-Friendly Communities the government 9. We will manage our business in terms of Service and communities conserving nature in a manner reﬂective Increased Trade Transparency of the nature of our business. 10. We will grow together with our partners through fair competition. 1) Persistency Rate = (Contract maintenance fee / Underwriting fee) × 100 2) Market shares are based on Premiun Income, and 2013 is derived from data acquired up until November 2013. 3) Financial Planner Retention Rate = (Settled Number of Financial Planners / Registered Number of Financial Planners) × 100, Financial Planners Settled in the 13th Month: Signed more than one more new contract and retained more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month 4) The Level of satisfaction by employees of the 2011 year was not surveyed due to internal circumstances. Overview 17 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Kyobo Life established 10 principles centering around five stakeholders under the vision of becoming “the best in customer assurance (Customer Assurance No. 1)” and continuously evaluated the performance result. We have also reported the annual promotion status of sustainability management regarding major issues for each stakeholder and KIP for a systematic management. Kyobo Life will enact constant efforts to be the financial corporation representing Korea, practicing social responsibilities at a higher level by communicating and sharing with stakeholders. KPI Major Activities of FY2013 Page Accelerating VOC Management -Recertification of Consumer-Oriented Management Persistency (13th Month)1) Level of Satisfaction by customers Market Share2) (Unit: %) (Unit: Points) (Unit: %) Earning a higher grade in the Civil Appeals Evaluation by the Financial 2011 84.6 2011 74.5 2011 12.2 Supervisory Service 25 Operating Information Protection on 2012 84.6 2012 75.9 2012 11.0 Business Sites 2013 84.1 2013 72.4 2013 11.3 Enhancing Customer Information Protection Education Establishing and Operating Lifelong Care Support Centers Level of satisfaction by Financial Planners Retention rate (13th month)3) -Establishment of Products for Risks of (Unit: Points) (Unit: %) Each Life Cycle 2011 70.0 2011 40.9 Obtainment of Exclusive Right of Use for New Products (Kyobo Grandchildren 35 2012 69.6 2012 39.2 Care Insurance) Strengthening Communication for Com2013 72.2 2013 41.1 mission on Business Sites Family-friendly Excellence Corporation Level of satisfaction by employees4) Training hours per employee Award (Unit: Points) (Unit: Hours) Variety of welfare and benefits for 2011 2011 102 employees Maintaining performance manage41 2012 64.9 2012 110 ment system and work-centered human resources system. 2013 63.7 2013 75 Establishing Occupational Safety and Health Committee Total assets5) Return on Equity (ROE)6) Financial Soundness Ratio (RBC) Establishment of Kyobo Life Planet (Unit: %) (Unit: %) (Unit: Trillion Won) Targeting Upper Class (Increased nobili2011 11.3 2011 247.1 2011 62.4 aire service) 49 Continuous finding of high-profitable 2012 10.6 2012 258.3 2012 70.0 asset 2013 8.8 2013 292.2 2013 73.7 Increasing risk management activities Continuing social contribution activities Social contribution ratio/amount7) Weight of Socially Responsible Investment8) Energy Consumption9) concerning health, finance, and knowl(Unit: Hundred Million Won) (Unit: %) (Unit:TOE) edge related to life insurance industry Continuous sales of small sum insur2011 2.6% 143 2011 7.6 2011 19,480 ance, donation insurance, and products 55 for the disabled 2012 3.2% 184 2012 8.1 2012 20,013 Clean Contract System, Strengthening Communication with Business Partners 2013 3.2% 125 2013 8.6 2013 19,554 5) Return on Equity (ROE) = Net Profit/ {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period) / 2} × 100 6) Risk Based Capital (RBC) Ratio = Usable Capital for Insurance Payment (Payment Capability) / Capital Needed for Risk Management (Total RBC Risk) × 100 7) Social Contribution Ratio = Social Contribution amount / Net Income 8) Weight of Socially Responsible Investment(SRI) : (SRI amount / Total Assets) × 100 9) TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent): Energy produced through the combustion of 1 ton of oil * “Employee Training Hours per Head” and “Energy Use” was calculated based on CY(Calendar Year). 18 Sustainability Report 2013 Stakeholders Engagement Kyobo Life identified customers, financial planners, employees, investors, and the government and local communities as key stakeholder groups according to their legal responsibilities and influence on management. To realize the sustainable philosophy of “growing together with stakeholders”, Kyobo Life is collecting opinions from different stakeholders through diverse communication channels to analyze the major issues and apply them in the management activity. Stakeholder Survey Classiﬁcation Subject Method Period Details page 3,500 Life Insurance Policy · Determining Satisfaction Levels Compared to Holders Who Applied in the Last Competitors Customers Customer Satisfaction 17,27 Three Years (Including 2,500 · Determining of Customers’ Needs Other Company s Policy Holders) ’ · Analyzing Financial Planning Activities · Determining Recognition and Preference Indexes of Life Insurance Brands Financial 1,500 Ordinary People Brand Jul.~Aug., 2013 · Determining of Needs for Insurance (Company) Planners (Ages 20~59) · Examining the Images of Kyobo Life’s Brand and its Financial Planners · Examining Financial Planners’ Satisfaction Rate Level 1,800 Financial Planners (Includ· Discovering Comparative Advantages/Disadvantages Financial Planners Employees ing 950 Working for Other ComRegarding Financial Planner Activities 17 Satisfaction panies) · Determining of Inconveniences and Needs of Financial Planners · Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI): 14 factors 1,794 Employees Employees · Corporate Vision, Competence Improvement, Investors (589 Headquarter Employees, July 08~16, 2012 17 Satisfaction Performance Evaluation/Management, Welfare and 1,205 Sales/Service Employees) Beneﬁts, Working Environment · Awareness toward Kyobo Life (CEO), positive image, Government· 180 Opinion Leader in Insurance Reputation Sept.~Oct., 2013 respective reputation per aspect, methods to improve Communities Industry images Meetings Category Participants Method Period Details · Gathering Ideas Regarding Improving Sign-Up Planning Forms Customers Panel of Customers Discussion Open · Ideas to Improve Retention Service Quality · Gathering Ideas Regarding Developing New Products · Developing Capabilities of Financial Planners Prime Leaders Financial Planners Discussion, Workshop Open · Gathering Ideas Regarding Insurance Products Club Members · Gathering General Suggestions Employees Onsite Employees Field Discussion June, 2013 · Matters Regarding Human Resource Management Investors Credit Rating Company Interviews, Phone/ Open · Proﬁtability/Potential/Stability Issues Personnel, Analysts Email Exchanges · Improving Tax for Insurance Products and Deregulation Recent Major Policies and Analysis and MonitorAll-Year-Around · Modiﬁcation of Insurance Product Operating Expense System System ing of Major Issues Monitoring · Enactment of Financial (Insurance) Laws Government· · Strengthening Financial Soundness Regulations Communities · Gathering Opinions on Kyobo Life’s Social Contribution Nonproﬁt Organization Discussion September, 2013 Activities Personnel, Professors in · Gathering Opinions on Policies and Programs for Teenage Social Service Field Runaways Overview 19 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Materiality Test Kyobo Life performed a materiality test based on the two axes of “stakeholder interests” and “company interests”, creating a two by two matrix analysis of the significance evaluation. The results drawn from the evaluation are the main contents of this report. Materiality Test Process Step 2 Step 3 Step 1 Selecting Major Issues Analysis of Stakeholder Interests Identifying Main Issues Analysis of Company Interests Step1 Identifying Main Issues By analyzing internal and external environments, we have identified issues that Kyobo Life must consider during its promotion of sustainability management. Identifying Issues through Environmental Analysis Method Content Number of Identiﬁed Issues Searching the web using the keyword “Kyobo Life” Media Analysis 2,305 articles during April ~ July 2013 (1,583 valid articles) 33 Grouping 40 issues that were handled at least 10 times Analysis of Major Issues from 5 Domestic Financial Corporations’ Sustainability Financial Business Management Reports 34 Report Analysis S Life, S Fire Insurance, K Banking, S Banking, H Banking Grouping of 52 Issues Identiﬁed Index Analysis of Sustainability Management such as GRI and ISO 26000 Related Index Analysis Grouping Based on 2013 KSI (Korean Sustainability Index) and Issues (Impact 40 and 79 Trend 39) Issues from the Previous Report Issues from the Previous Report 88 Total 234 20 Sustainability Report 2013 After analyzing the contents of the 234 identified issues, they were grouped into 180 issues. Through an internal evaluation in consideration of the importance of these issues as well as the distribution of each stakeholder group, 88 issues were finally drawn in accordance with the 10 principles of Kyobo Life's sustainability management. Issue by Principle Category Principle Issue Receiving customer dissatisfaction effectively Active communication with customers Strengthening customer information protection Customized customer control reﬂecting customer traits Principle1 Strengthening efforts for customer satisfaction Developing superb product that meet customer expectation Improving customer response quality Fair supply of information and marketing Customers Strengthening customer assurance and maintenance services Diverse and convenient insurance payment services Making peremptory notice of payment clear Providing easy-to-understand documents upon signing Simplifying paperwork for insurance payment demands and the Accurately guiding the rates of returns for equity-linked life insurance Principle2 process of its payment Abiding by full-membership processes Providing accurate information about products/service upon Signing Communication between the company and its ﬁnancial planners Better working conditions for ﬁnancial planners Welfare for ﬁnancial planners B2B2C marketing support Better guidelines for ﬁnancial planners if new underwriting/ Protection of ﬁnancial planners’ human rights Principle3 payment evaluations are delayed Operating programs to decrease conﬂicts between ﬁnancial planners Increasing ﬁnancial planners’ satisfaction rate for product Financial competitiveness Planners Strengthening communication for commission systems Educational programs for ﬁnancial planners Strengthening support for ﬁnancial planners that volunteer to Customized education for individual ﬁnancial planners Principle4/5 work on site Providing ﬁnance-speciﬁc education Supporting ﬁnancial planners with excellent performance Training program for new ﬁnancial planners Strengthening support for new ﬁnancial planners Strengthening intra-company communication Improving welfare system and working environment Spreading corporate culture of balancing between work and life Fair and appropriate consideration of quality of working conditions Principle3 Expansion of labor rights Expansion of welfare and beneﬁts Labor-management relations for coexistence Developing and running retired employee management programs Employees Fair performance evaluation/rewards Expanding opportunities for educational training and self-development Principle4/5 Operating a work-centered human resources system Job security Maintaining appropriate personal placement Guarantee of human resource development and training at work Prohibiting discrimination Expansion of labor rights Targeting developing markets Increasing asset management proﬁtability Principle6 Establishing on-line subsidiary companies Equal distribution of economic values created Developing new businesses Establishing and executing ways to increase proﬁtability Improving brand value Initial Public Offering (IPO) Investors Transparency of corporate management Risk management activities IT Security Preventing/Discovering insurance fraud Principle7 Preventative risk management Insurance payment ability AAA Preventing ﬁnancial accidents Fair trade, Observation of rules and regulations Operating social contribution programs that support the “value of Operation of youth support program love” from insurance policies Support of Kyobo Environmental Awards, Scholarly Awards, Scholarly Principle8 College students’ Northeast Asia trip Achievement Awards Operation of social service programs in support of family Advertisement in Gwanghawmun Development/Operation of youth leadership program Providing social goods and ecofriendly service Increasing socially responsible investment (SRI) for Environment-friendly activities with stakeholders environment-friendly areas Providing environment-friendly insurance and service Government· Strengthening efforts to decrease energy usage Efforts to prevent environment contamination Communities Principle9 Expanding environment-friendly contributions to society Efforts to use sustainable resources Operating programs to expand environment protection perspectives Participation of various stakeholder groups Spreading co-development with partners Increasing transaction transparency Prohibiting discrimination against the venerable class Principle10 Communication efforts between partnering companies and agencies Maximizing job opportunities Strengthening programs to voluntarily practice fair trade Never ﬁxing prices with other life insurance companies Overview 21 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Step2 Analyzing Stakeholder Interests Stakeholder interests were evaluated based on the responses to surveys for each group of stakeholders. To increase the credibility of the surveys, we only asked questions regarding sustainability management principles that were relevant to each stakeholder group. Survey of Stakeholders Category Customers Financial Planners Employees Investors, Government · Communities Content Principles 1, 2, 8, 9, 10 Principles 3, 4, 5 Principles 3, 4, 5 Principles 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Target Online Panel of Customers Randomly Selected from Financial Planners Randomly Selected from Employees Opinion Leaders No. of People 500 1,000 1,000 200 Method e-mail Exclusive Intranet for Financial Planners Exclusive Intranet for Employees e-mail Period Sept. 24~28, 2013 Sept. 11~12, 2013 Sept. 23~27, 2013 Sept. 16~24, 2013 Responses 190 people (38%) 171 people (17%) 261 people (26%) 27 people (14%) Survey of Corporate Interests “Company interests” were evaluated based on questions related to issues for each principle regarding their significance in the eyes of the company. The questions were asked to the executives and chiefs in the head office. Analyzing Corporate Interests Number of People Method Period Responses 85 People Exclusive Intranet for Employees Oct. 1~7, 2013 33 people (39%) Step3 Selection of Major Issues Through the analysis of “shareholder interests” and “company interests”, 16 out of the total 88 issues were selected as major issues. The details of each issue can be found in the respective pages in this report. 2013 Major Issues Customers Appropriate Receipt and Treatment of Customer Complaints 26p 2012 Major Issues Reinforced Protection of Customer Information 27p Strengthening Customer Assurance and Retention Service 30p Customers Appropriate Receipt and Treatment of Customer Complaints Financial Increasing Financial Planners’ Satisfaction Rate for Product 37p Strengthening Customer Assurance and Retention Service Planners Competitiveness Reinforced Protection of Personal Information Strengthening Communication for Commission System 39p Financial Increasing Financial Planners’ Satisfaction Rate for Product Employees Improving Corporate Culture Balancing between 42p Planners Competitiveness Work and Life new Strengthening Communication for Commission System Strengthening Two-way Communication 43p Employees Strengthening Two-way Communication Expansion of Labor Rights new 45p Prohibiting Discrimination (Based on Gender, Age, Fair Performance Evaluation/Compensation 45p Hometown, School) Job-centered Human Resource System Management new 46p Fair Performance Evaluation/Compensation Investors Improving Asset Management Proﬁtability new 50~51p Investors Prevention of Financial Accidents Developing New Market new 50p Preventing/Discovering Insurance Fraud Risk Management 52p Risk Management Activities Government · Social Service Works Practicing ‘the Spirit of Love’ Inherent in 56p Government · Social Service Works Practicing “the Spirit of Love” Inherent Communities Insurance Industry Communities in the Insurance Industry Supply of Social Goods and Ecofriendly Service new 59p Increasing Trade Transparency Increasing Trade Transparency 65p Reinforced Operation of Voluntary Compliance with Fair Trade Program Refusal to Fix Prices with Other Life Insurance Companies 22 Sustainability Report 2013 Experts Meeting Kyobo Life hosted meetings of outside sustainability experts to secure the efﬁciency of sustainability management. A part of the discussion is contained in the report while the remaining part will be used as a guide for the future sustainability management of Kyobo Life. Meetings Theme | FY2012 Review of Sustainability Management Time | Oct. 1, 2013(Tue) 14:00~16:30 Report and Future Direction of the Sustainability Place | Conference Room 17th ﬂoor, Kyobo Life Gwanghawmun Ofﬁce Management and Report Host | Jae-Eun Kim Director (The Institute for Industrial policy Studies) 1. Eui-Chan Jeon _ Sejong University 2. Tae-Hyung Leem, Chief _ Korea National Council _ Social Welfare Community Relations Center 1 2 Sustainability Management “Most of the report is about accomplishments and results. Sustainability management should focus on mistakes and shortcomings, and it would be a better report if it detailed both improvements and reports should be written failures, though it is understandably not easy for the corporation to do so. The environmental managewith a sense of balance ment activities initiated by Kyobo Life are lacking. This can be resolved through active generation of ideas, which will help set new goals that must be followed through.” Eui-Chan Jeon, Professor Sejong University We should demonstrate “Three years of social service work is reported in terms of numbers, which is discouraging. If the speciﬁc performances are stated, then it will be easier for the stakeholders to understand. It is importcontinuous results of social ant whether social work is a one-time event or an ongoing commitment. The last 10 years of results, service work not the last three years, should be reported. It would also be easier to understand the consumption of water or energy if such information is accompanied by additional explanations for increases.” Tae-Hyung Leem, Chief Korea National Council Social Welfare Community Relations Center Overview 23 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix 3. Hyung-Gu Jo,Director_ Welcomm Publicis Worldwide 4. Young-Jae Ryu, CEO_ SUSTINVEST 5. Dae-Chel Jang_ KAIST 3 4 5 Communication in con“The Lifelong Care Project and its connection to sustainability management should be explained in the report. The advertisement should not exist separately from sustainability management; it nection with Sustainability should be included within the general communication strategies. The current reports are published Management is necessary in the print version and PDF version on the website, and it will be more interesting to stakeholders if pictures, graphs, and diagrams are added and the reports are published on the internet webHyung-Gu Jo, Director pages and in mobile versions. ” Welcomm Publicis Worldwide “There is not enough explanation on how socially responsibly investments are made. We should We should provide useful provide useful information from the point of stakeholders that is based on the strategies for socially responsible investment. The reasons and answers for sustainability management KIPs that information from the point are lacking or falling should also be provided. Kyobo Life’s own values and philosophies embodied of stakeholders in the value chain appropriate for the life insurance industry should serve as the source for Kyobo Life’s sustainability issues. Energy management of buildings and electricity saving are important, Young-Jae Ryu, CEO but an environmental screening in the outsourcing process can help realize better environmental SUSTINVEST management.” We should lead the path “The word ‘sustainable’ should deal with preparation or direction for the sustainable future. On the contrary, the reports are mainly about the present management activities. The ‘sustainable’ report to a sustainable future should talk about possibilities for the future. The question of higher sustainability or lower sustainability should be answered in a simple conclusion within the report, not posed as a question for Dae-Chel Jang, Professor readers to judge and interpret.” KAIST Customers & the Future Pledge to Customers A company that is good at providing insurance coverage to customers Principle 2 We will enhance service quality throughout the policy life cycle, from underwriting to persistency and to benefits payment Principle 1 We will listen to the customers and manage the company from the customers’ perspective Kyobo Life’s most precious assets are our customers. We will satisfy customers by faithfully providing insurance services regarding sign-up and throughout retention and payment to maximize their benefits and protect customer information and rights from their point of view. Chief Marketing Ofﬁcer, Your-Hyun Yun Materility Test Results * The outline of the signiﬁcance evaluation can be found on page21. 2012 2013 Major Issues Major Issues · Appropriate Receipt and Treatment of Customer · Appropriate Receipt and Treatment of Customer Complaints Complaints (26p) · Strengthening Protection of Personal Information · Strengthening Protection of Customer Information (27p) · Strengthening Customer Assurance and Retention · Strengthening Customer Assurance and Retention Service Service (30p) General Issues General Issues · Strengthening Customer Satisfaction Efforts · Improving Customer Response Service Quality · Improving Customer Response Service Quality · Strengthening Customer Satisfaction Efforts · Developing Superb Products Meeting Customer · Developing Superb Products Meeting Customer Expectations Expectations · Compliance with Perfect Sign-up Process · Providing Accurate Information about Products/ · Providing Accurate Information about Products/ Service upon Signing Service upon Signing · Clear Peremptory Notice of Payment of Premiums · Various and Convenient Insurance Payment · Exact Explanation of Variable Insurance Proﬁt Rate Service Major Activities of Year 2013 Future Plans Accelerating VOC Management Development and Providing Project to Increase Acquiring Consumer Centered Management System (CCMS) Customer Value Certification Leading Customer Protection Culture Earning a higher grade in the Civil Appeals Evaluation by the Advancing Lifelong Care Practice Financial Supervisory Service Operating Information Protection on Business Sites Enhancing Customer Information Protection Education Establishing and Operating Lifelong Care Support Centers and Providing Combined Service in Lifelong Care for Each Generation * Departments For Customer Management: Channel Support Team, Marketing and Planning Team, Product Development Team, Nobiliaire Support Team, Customer Retention Support Team, Customer Satisfaction Center, Service Restoration Center, and Others. 26 Sustainability Report 2013 We will listen to the customers and manage Receipt and Treatment of Customer Complaints the company from the Kyobo Life received the Customer Satisfaction Management Grand Prize for ﬁve consecutive years customers’ perspective. from the Korea Management Association in 2004 and was inducted into the Hall of Fame, but the number of customer complaints dramatically increased compared to other companies. This led to the decision to physically veil the award for the Customer Satisfaction Management Hall of Fame in November 2011. We vigorously fulﬁlled our core value of “customer-orientation” by the end of ﬁscal year 2012 to greatly reduce the number of customer complaints for the purposes of restorFinancial Supervisory Service’s Civil ing our reputation for customer satisfaction management and unveiling the award. Kyobo Life later Complaints Evaluation Result regained the second grade in 2012 civil complaints evaluation through these efforts to improve our Unit 2011 2012 processes for resolving customer complaints resulting in the removal of the veil. Grade 3 (Average ) 2 (Satisfactory) First Grade First Grade (Excellent): 0 (Excellent): 0 Related Organizations Kyobo Life has established and is operating service recovery centers Second Grade Second Grade whose job is to resolve customer complaints in seven regions (Gangbuk, Gangnam, Gyungin, State of Other (Satisfactory): 5 (Satisfactory): 4 Busan, Jungbu, Daegu, and Honam) nation-wide. The 45 employees that work in each service Companies Third Grade Third Grade recovery center as of December 2013 directly visit customers so that the processing of their comin the (Average): 7 (Average): 5 Business plaints takes place in a fair manner. Such service recovery activities allow speedy processing of Fourth Grade Fourth Grade (Unsatisfactory): 2 (Unsatisfactory): 5 customer complaints as well as experts' sympathetic responses to those with problems. PrevenFifth Grade (Poor): 5 Fifth Grade (Poor): 5 tion measures as well as speedy and fair processing of complaints are promoted. Visiting customer protection services and ﬁeld case studies are provided to prevent complaints from occurring, and *Result of 2013 schedule to be released in July 2014 on-site coaching and education ensure the establishment of a progressive insurance culture. VOC Processing We have also started utilizing SRM(Service Recovery Manager) that are specialized in dealing with Category 2011 2012 2013 complaints in customer service centers that receive the most complaints (60% of all channels of Number of Cases complaints) in the hope of providing an active consultation of early customer complaints to prevent Received (Number) 2,369 1,846 the spread of discontent among customers. Kyobo Life’s efforts earned recognition with the honor Average Processing Time (Days) 3.9 6.6 of being awarded “2013 APCCAL Best Customer Service Center Award in November 2013. Kyobo’s VOC Processing Satiseffective and advanced infrastructure providing speedy and accurate customer-oriented consultafaction Rate (Points) 74 74.7 tion service with excellent human resources was highly praised producing fruits for our continuous *According the regulations to unify the business notifiefforts to protect customers and improve customer service. cations of insurance companies, the results have been disclosed since the 2012 ﬁscal year (www.kyobo.co.kr > Announcements > Business Announcement > Periodic Accelerating VOC Management VCO management involves establishing VOC reception Business Announcements) *Processing for 2013 was delayed due to the exclusion of channels to collect customer opinions in and out of the company, quickly responding to the colusual cases from the number of VOC cases received. lected VOC, storing and analyzing them in a systematic way, and applying them to the management to raise the customer value based on their needs. Kyobo Life runs “ Soritgwi”, which is an integrated system for handling the opinions of customers from various channels such as the customer satisfaction center, company intranet, and webpage. The VOC issues assessed through the system are fully applied to the management for the improvement of products and services. Additionally, the annual on/ofﬂine panel of customers identiﬁes the needs and issues of customers to be applied to the company policy. Reopening of Customer Satisfaction Hall Recertiﬁcation of Consumer Centered Management (CCM) Kyobo Life earned the recertiﬁcation of the Consumer Centered Management (CCM) from the Fair Trade Commission in July 2013. CCM evaluates corporate activities from the consumer perspective to certify if they have designed and improved on a continuous basis from a consumer-centered standpoint. The Fair Trade Commission examined Kyobo Life’s leadership, consumer-centered management system, consumer information system, consumer complaint management process, and performance management and made the certiﬁcation decision. Asia Best Customer Service Center Awards Overview 27 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Reinforced Digital Communication with Customers (Reading Gwanghawmun) Kyobo Life is providing distinct customer service by utilizing the ever evolving digital environment. We operate “Reading, Walking, and Experiencing in Gwanghawmun” (www.kyobostory.co.kr) to help customers educate themselves and provide high-level customer service and communication by offering high-quality “humanities” content that cannot be ordinarily accessed. “Reading GwangReading, Walking, and Experiencing in Gwanghawmun hawmun” is comprised of content that allows customers to enjoy the “humanities” while traveling in both past and present Gwanghawmun. The major content includes steady sellers in literature, history, and philosophy, prominent areas of the humanities, and users can check out books out of the digital library in the “Reading” section. The ‘Walking’ section offers literature to spark the imagination and stories about philosophy and history to cultivate judgment and personal values in the format of an easy-to-read web magazine. The last ”Experiencing” section uses the latest trend of digital media with videos and lectures for fun and hassle-free enjoyment of the humanities to avoid the pitfalls of boredom. Increased Education of Customer Information Protection Customer information Protection Efforts As a response to increasing social interest in customer information protection and customer demands, Kyobo Life has established a department solely dedicated to customer information protection, and has been operating its Digital Rights Management (DRM) and Green Zone System to further carry on its efforts to actively protect customer information. After designating information protection personnel for each department from the 2011 ﬁscal year Customer Information Protection Education Results (Unit : Hours) and implementing ”Customer Information Protection Evaluation” throughout the entire company from January 2013, we have assigned “Information Security Personnel” to protect customer inforCategory 2011 2012 2013 mation in workplaces where the information is actually handled. Each information security perFinancial Planners 4 10 9 sonnel member placed in the workplace carries out tasks such as monitoring information security Executives 4 4 9 measures in the business and service sites, on-site information security education based on monEmployees 10 4 9 itoring data, ﬁnding threat factors to information security, and more. The performance analysis of Employees IT Personnel 13 4 14 customer information protection according to their life cycle from July through November 2013 Information Protection 13 4 16 was conducted, and the results will be established into tasks to be realized in 2014. We also reinPersonnel forced the management of customer information when it is offered to outside contractors. A uniform investigation of all consignments were conducted, and the outside contractors also checked their management of customer information. The CEO provided education on customer information Satisfaction Rate in Each Field (Unit: Points) protection via live nation-wide satellite broadcasting in January 2014, and monthly education will follow. No complaints regarding customer information leakage or violation of information protecCategory 2011 2012 2013 tion laws were reported during the covered period of this report. Corporate Image 76.9 77.2 71.8 Insurance Products 73.9 76.0 70.3 Sign-up Procedure 74.4 76.2 72.4 Customer Satisfaction Rate Survey Loan Products 74.0 76.0 75.5 Kyobo Life has been carrying out annual customer satisfaction surveys since 2000 to effectively carry Attitude in Customer out our core value of being “customer-centered”, which can be realized through analyzing the extent Response 77.9 79.0 74.9 to which the needs of customers are satisﬁed and quickly responding to the changes in the market. Retention Service 73.9 77.1 72.5 Insurance Payment 76.5 77.9 78.7 The customer satisfaction survey of the 2012 ﬁscal year was conducted on 3,500 men and women Response in Customer that signed up for life insurance in the past three years in the country. The results showed a satisPLAZA 77.4 83.7 79.3 faction rate of 72.4, which is a 3.5 point decrease from the last year, continuing the trend of minEnvironment in Customer PLAZA 78.0 82.9 77.8 imal decrease since 2010. Opportunities for improvement in terms of corporate image, insurance Response from Call products, and the attitude in customer response were conﬁrmed in the survey, and we are estabCenter 74.5 80.3 77.1 lishing measures to enact such improvements. 28 Sustainability Report 2013 We will enhance service quality Accomplishing Vision 2015 begins with the practice of perfect throughout the sign-up policy life cycle, Kyobo Life’s Vision 2015 of becoming the best in customer assurance begins with perfect sign-up. First, we help customers accurately recognize the value of life insurance and sign up for from underwriting products meeting their needs. Perfect sign-up involves practicing compliance with the three printo persistency and ciples, explanation of everything that customers need to know, and convenient notice of requirements before the contract. to benefits payment. Kyobo Life set “Renovation of Customer Assurance” as one of our business principles of 2013 to offer the best suggestions for customers. Kyobo Life’s idea of customer assurance entails “customers receiving ﬁnancial security and peace of mind through life insurance products and service”. Customers can prepare for lifelong ﬁnancial security and earn peace of mind by signing up for systematic family life insurance, health insurance, and retirement insurance. Kyobo Life has repeatedly educated all our ﬁnancial planners about perfect sign-up and assisted with the sufﬁcient practice to achieve perfect sign-ups with the application system as many times as necessary. In-company censorship for the full sign-up is implemented to enforce faithful comPractice of Perfect Sign-up pliance with the process. As a result, the rate of incomplete sales has been on the continuous Category Details decline annually. Signing by the Contracting Party and Compliance with Insurance Applicants the Three Delivery and Comprehensive Reinforced Customer Confirmation during Sign-up Kyobo Life established a confirmation Explanation of Contract Terms Principles Delivery of Application Forms for system in response to the increased responsibility for customer conﬁrmation following the revision Applicants of the Financial Transaction Report Act and to fulﬁll effective customer conﬁrmation requirements Sincere Notice Guiding the Customers to Fill out of Requirements Requirements Before Signing the on business service sites by improving the customer conﬁrmation process during the sign-up and before Contract Contract verification process. All new contracts are thoroughly scrutinized to check whether the requireExplanation of All ments for customer conﬁrmation were fulﬁlled, not just parts of new contracts. The managers on Detailed and Accurate Explanation That Customers about Products and their Beneﬁts business sites, not the Observance of Law Department from headquarters, are handle the duty of Need to Know checking. Monitoring by using the newly-developed customer conﬁrmation veriﬁcation management system ensures reduced risks of legal disputes. Rate of Incomplete Sales (Unit : %) Education for customer conﬁrmation requirement is also provided, not only to a portion of ﬁnanKyobo Life 0.96 cial planners who made incomplete sales, but also to all ﬁnancial planners who failed to fulﬁll the Average for 0.85 Life Insurance 0.62 customer conﬁrmation requirements and new ﬁnancial planners to reinforce the process of perIndustry 0.53 0.49 fect sales. 0.49% Product Advertisement/Brochure Examination System Insurance products are intangible, 2011 2012 2013 and therefore advertisements and brochures for insurance are very important when we explain our * 2013 Average of Life Insurance Companies Scheduled to Be Released in July services to customers. It is essential that we use advertisements and brochures that provide accurate and unexaggerated information. Examination of Product Advertisement/ Kyobo Life operate an advertisement examination system to seek authorization for products, civil Brochures (Unit : Cases) complaints, and legal departments from law-abiding motoring agents from the initial stage of making 2011 600 brochures and advertisements ﬁnancial planners use. The examination system checks if the product advertisements and brochures satisfy the requirements of the relevant regulations and revises the ﬁne 2012 609 print into much more legible large print, rephrasing difﬁcult terms so that they are easy to understand. 2013 509 Our advertisements and brochures are written and designed from the customer’s perspective. * The numbers for 2013 are from April through December, 2013. Overview 29 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Efforts for Convenient Insurance Payment Insurance payments require a separate submission of documents proving the cause for payment, unlike other ﬁnancial products. Customers tend to feel uncomfortable in receiving insurance payments for this reason. Kyobo Life is endeavoring to make convenient and accurate insurance payments to customers. Operation of Reception Ofﬁces in Addition to CustomerPLAZA 66 locations of CustomerPLAZA in the country are in charge of receiving and sending insurance payments. When customers, however, do not live near a Kyobo Life’s CustomerPLAZA or cannot visit the location for personal reasons, they will have a difﬁcult time requesting and receiving insurance payments. Kyobo Life operates 92 ofﬁces that receive insurance payment requests in addition to CustomerPLAZA to resolve these situations. The payment request papers received in the ofﬁces are forwarded to the nearest CustomerPLAZA to send the payments. 43 of these offices are capable of making simple payments to increase customers’ convenience. Reception Ofﬁces Opened in Each Region (Unit : Number) Reception Ofﬁce Reception Ofﬁce Reception Ofﬁce Category (Sending Payments) Category (Sending Payments) Category (Sending Payments) Seoul 3 (1) Gwangju Chungnam 9 (6) Incheon 1 (0) Jeonnam 10 (2) Chungbuk 3 (1) Gyunggi 19 (12) Daegu 1 (1) Jeonbuk 7 (3) Gangwon 9 (4) Ulsan 2 (0) Jeju 2 (1) Busan 2 (1) Kyungbuk 13 (6) Total 92(43) Gyungnam 11 (5) Daejeon 0 Visiting Service Financial Planners visit customers, collect payment request papers, and deliver them to CustomerPLAZA on behalf of customers under the “ Financial Planners’ Reception of Payment Requests as Agent” system. When Customers cannot visit CustomerPLAZA and make a request, employees or ﬁnancial planners visit the customers and make payments as part of the “ Visiting Service of Insurance Payment” to help customers that have difﬁculty visiting the ofﬁces for personal reasons. Financial Planners’ Reception of Payment Requests as Agent Paid Amount (Unit : Hundred Million Won) Number of Use (Unit : Cases) 2011 3,189 306,534 2012 3,818 364,603 2013 4,357 405,862 * Financial Planners’ Reception of Payment Requests as Agent Calculated Based on Calendar Year (CY) Visiting Service of Insurance Payment Paid Amount (Unit : Thousand Won) Number of Use (Unit : Cases) 2011 222,749,014 47,740 2012 264,694,354 63,513 2013 166,978,471 50,382 * The numbers of visiting insurance payments are from April ~ Dec., 2013 30 Sustainability Report 2013 Lifelong Care Project Kyobo Life has promoted the “Lifelong Care Project”, an innovative service project for assurance retention, since the 2011 fiscal year to achieve Vision 2015 of offering the “best in customer assurance”. The three years of promoting the “Lifelong Care Project” resulted in other insurance companies following Kyobo Life’s example, starting a shift in the life insurance industry from focusing on sales to retention. The “Lifelong Care Project” broke the long-standing norm of the insurance industry that concentrated on securing new contracts, and started to provide a standardized service, a “lifelong care service”, through which ﬁnancial planners regularly visited retained customers. In this way, companies can honor the value of “customer assurance” promised when customers signed the contract, and this satisﬁes customers beyond their expectations. This is ultimately in line with Kyobo Life’s core purpose of “helping customer to recover from future ordeals, and not be defeated by them”, which is also part of Kyobo Life’s pursuit of our management policy of meeting customer’s expectations. Kyobo Life established the four assurance retention principles and a roadmap by which ﬁnancial planners can successfully fulﬁll the project. Four Assurance Retention Activities Category Details Explanation of Existing Contract Terms Reminding Customers of Contract Terms Notice and Explanation of Conﬁrming and Paying Missed Insurance Payments Unrequested Insurance Payments Organizing Customer Information Conﬁrming and Correcting Changed Customer Information Notice of Assurance Analysis and Suggestion of Optimal Product/Service for Changed Product/Service Life Cycles “Lifelong Care Project” Roadmap Stage 1 (2011~2013) Stage 2 (2014~2015) Accomplishing VISION 2015 · Development and Stabilization of Assurance · Advancing Efforts to Enhance Assurance · Agreement on the Object and Necessity of Retention Services Goals Lifelong Care Project · Leading New Trend in Domestic Life Insur· Creating Results by Finding the Activities at ance Industry Which Kyobo Life Alone Can Excel Leading Assurance Pledges with Customers · Initiating Exclusive Face-to-Face Meeting · Expanding All Channels Channels Improvement of Image · Directly Connecting Standardized of Life Insurance’s and · Adoption of a Point System for the Activities for Lifelong Care Service and Method its Credibility Standard Activities of Lifelong Care Financial Planners’ Commission Project Service1) (Commission + α) · Full Execution of the Lifelong Care Improving Customers’ · Adoption of the Lifelong Care Project Project Service Qualification Exam Quality of Life Service Qualification Exam (Fiscal Year of (Relevant Awards to be Determined) 2012) 1) Point System for the Standard Activities of Lifelong Care Project: Awarding points for activities in each ﬁeld of assurance retention and calculating points into payment of cash. Overview 31 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Business Projects for the Fiscal Year of 2013 During the 2013 fiscal year, we focused on increasing the number of customers to experience the value of lifelong care service by targeting the group of customers that have not had the opportunity. In addition, new customers to be contacted were additionally developed so that the individual retention service was transferred into an integrated service for each generation to increase satisfaction. Customers that had difﬁculty visiting service centers beneﬁted from the operation of “lifelong care support centers” and various retention services, including online loyalty programs that do not require face-to-face meetings. Such programs were provided to meet the different needs of customers for the purpose of acquiring a distinct competitive edge. After promoting the lifelong care project through 2013, a total of 2.19 million customers experienced lifelong care service; 78.8% of them responded that they were “satisﬁed” with it. Lifelong Care Project’s KPI (Unit : %) Rate of Experience with Lifelong Care Service1) Satisfaction Rate in Lifelong Care Service2) 2011 41.1 2011 75.2 2012 51.7 2012 80.9 2013 41.1 2013 78.8 1) Rate of Experience with Lifelong Care Service: Rate of customers who experienced the standard activities of lifelong care service 2) Satisfaction Rate in Lifelong Care Service: The rate of responses of ‘satisfactory and very satisfactory’ among customers who experienced the standard activities of lifelong care service Lifelong Care Project Support Center and Ombudsman The Lifelong Care Support Center is established in Gangnam Customer Satisfaction Center that exclusively deals with non-face-toface retention service. 20 consultants performed the four assurance retention activities to customers. Their purpose was to ﬁnd parts that are easy to miss to continually provide high-quality assurance retention service to more customers by developing various tools and a consultation system for lifelong care service such as a new DM and script. Furthermore, a regular quarterly Lifelong Care Project Ombudsman meeting is held to gather opinions from the ﬁeld and suggestions while an ombudsman is operated to perform on-site monitoring and ﬁnd excellent examples. Winning Consumer Grand Prize Kyobo Life became the winner of the 2013 Consumer Grand Prize from the Korean Society of Consumer Studies. The Consumer Grand Prize is awarded by a team of judges consisting of consumer studies professors organized by the Korean Society of Consumer Studies to the most consumer-oriented organization of the year. It is the most prestigious award in the academic ﬁeld of consumer studies. Consumer Grand Prize The criteria were the development of consumer-oriented products, customer satisfaction, consumer-oriented strategies, social responsibilities and execution, and brand image. Kyobo Life won the highest reviews in each category out of all corporations. This adds to the series of Kyobo Life’s accomplishments, including winning the Financial Consumer Protection Award from the media at the end of 2013 and earning CCM certiﬁcation from the government agencies in 2013. Kyobo become the ﬁrst company in the industry to win recognition for consumer protection and consumer-oriented management from the ﬁelds of academia, media, and government. 32 Sustainability Report 2013 Product Development Kyobo Life develops products based on scientiﬁc rationale including the Law of Large Numbers1) and Balance of Earning and Expenditure2). The fair design of the newly developed products is approved by the Financial Supervisory Service. The expected experiential rate and actual experiential rate are compared over a certain period of time after the release of products for repricing to maintain fairness in product design. 1) Law of Large Numbers: Under the law, the increase in which an event is observed leads to a certain probability of occurrence and an average probability. This principle helps deﬁne the uncertain individual probability of events. 2) Law of Balance of Earning and Expenditure: The law determining the amount insurance premiums to match the insurer’s total amount of premiums and the insurance company’s payment of beneﬁts and expenses. Product Development (Unit : Cases) Product Development/Management Process Release of Main/Special Products 01 02 03 04 2011 16 Planning Product Product Design Pricing Review 2012 17 Development Application of Customers’ Examination of 2013 14 Insurance Fraud, Product Needs Development WorkLevel Committee, Risk Management Committee, Marketing Committee 05 06 07 08 Approval Release Monitoring and Modiﬁcation or (the Financial Repricing Suspension Supervisory Service) Submission of Manual, Product Proﬁts and Loss Insurance Agreements, Management Committee Calculation of Insurance (Established in November Premiums and Liability 2012) Reserve Papers, Results of Insurance Fraud Effect Evaluation Providing Specialized Service Kyobo Life has developed and provided various specialized serKyobo Health Care Service (Unit : Person) vice for our customers. Kyobo Health Care Service offers supplementary health service to our cus2011 612,340 tomers who regularly pay a certain amount of premiums. Kyobo Edu Care Service examines the education of the children of our customers who hold a policy according to their developmental 2012 644,987 stages. In addition, Kyobo Silver Care Service helps to prepare for happy and healthy retirement. 2013 658,237 Beneﬁts of Health Care Service 교보헬스케어서비스 Kyobo Healthcare Service Kyobo Edu Care Service (Unit : Person) Usual Health Physical Consultation (Phone Consultation with Physician), Supply of 2011 160,265 Management Service Health Information (Internet, Text Messages, E-mails), Reservation of Health Examination 2012 171,307 2013 157,660 Treatment (When diagnosed with cancer/cardiac/cerebrovascular/high-blood presAssistance Service sure diseases), Suggestion of hospital/medical team, nurses’ visit, secondary opinion, medical law consultation (cases for medical malpractice) Kyobo Silver Care Service (Unit : Person) Treatment and Nurses’ Visit for Education about Disease Treatment (Provided before and Education Service after surgery to reduce implications and side effects), Providing the Latest 2011 77,201 Information on Each Disease 2012 82,408 Family Support Nursing of Premature Babies by Visit, Reservation of Physical Examination 2013 82,701 and Preferential Treatment, Supply of Information Regarding Cancer Service Overview 33 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Kyobo Life has developed and offered the Mom’s Care Service since July 2012 to provide a mentoring service to teach about pregnancy, delivery, and nursing for a healthy child. The service was designed to meet the need of customers that have difﬁculty ﬁnding a nursing specialist nearby due to the increasing age of the pregnant women and rapidly dwindling size of families. This service obtained an exclusive use right that is similar to patents in ﬁnancial products and services in July, 2012 as a recognition of its excellence. Kyobo Mom’s Care Service (Unit : Person) Beneﬁts of Kyobo Mom’s Care Service 2011 Phone Consultation Regarding Pregnancy, Health of Fetus, Babies, and 2012 8,400 Reliable Phone Children, and Nursing (Explanation of Hospital Treatments and ReservaService tion when Necessary) 2013 17,825 Alarm Service for Pregnancy, Delivery, and Nursing (Weekly Information Alarm Service on Pregnancy, Customized Information after Delivery) Mentoring Customized One and One Management Service for Pregnancy, Delivery, Service and Nursing (Regular Customized E-mails and Phone Calls from Nurses) Click-Mom Supply of Information Regarding Pregnancy, Delivery, and Nursing Service (Individual Sign-Up and Use of the Webpage www.kyobomoms.com) Help-Mom Nurses’ Visit and Education for Premature, Smaller, and Sick Children Service (Explanation of Hospitals and Reservation) Kyobo(Platinum) Women’s Care Service This service is exclusively for women to provide health care service based on the concept of “Health & Life”. With the increase of women’s diseases and social issues lately, this product was developed in October 2013. Kyobo(Platinum) Women’s Care Service Beneﬁts of Kyobo(Platinum) Women’s Care Service 교보우먼케어서비스 Kyobo Womanthcare Service (Unit : Person) 2011 Health Management according to Menstrual Cycle, Women’s Self Health Examination, Women’s Physical Examination/Beneﬁts, Nurses’ Visit, 2012 Second Opinions and Medical Legal Consultation, Information on Pregnancy and Delivery 2013 13,218 Stress Management (School/Education/Job/Prenatal & PostparLife tum Depression), Safe Way Home Service (SMS Alerts for Missing Women), Emergency SOS (Current Location Notiﬁcation), Healthy Family Diet Planning (Diet, Family Health) Housemaids for Hospitalization due to Serious Surgeries, 16-Week Women Help Health Programs in Each Field, Car Rides for Serious Surgeries, Overseas Medical Care financial planners & the Future Pledge to Financial Planners A company that succeeds together with its Financial Planners Principle 4 We will provide Financial Planners with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluation policies Principle 5 Principle 3 We will help our Financial Planners to become We will continue on our the experts corporate culture of joy, pride and trust Kyobo Life will respect its financial planners as business partners and trust them to help them grow into experts by safely carrying out sales and service activities. Chief FP Distribution Ofﬁcer, Byung Seong Lee Materility Test Results * The outline of the signiﬁcance evaluation can be found on page21. 2012 2013 Major Issues Major Issues · Increasing Financial Planners’ Satisfaction Rate for · Increasing Financial Planners’ Satisfaction Rate for Product Competitiveness Product Competitiveness (37p) · Strengthening Communication for Commission · Strengthening Communication for Commission System System (39p) General Issues General Issues · Support for Financial Planners · Communication between the Company and it · Communication between the Company and Financial Planners its Financial Planners · Protection of Financial Planners’ Human Rights · Better Guidelines for Financial Planners for (Preventing Sexual Harassment, and etc.) delays in new contract/payment evaluations · Better Guidelines for Financial Planners for delays · Strengthening Onsite Employees’ Support of in new contract/payment evaluations Financial Planners · Training Program for New Financial Planners · Providing Special Financial Education · Customized Education for Each Financial Planner · Education Programs for Financial Planners · Providing Finance-Speciﬁc Education Major Activities of Year 2013 Future Plans Establishment of Products for Risks of Each Life Development and Supply of Products to Increase Cycle Satisfaction Rate for Product Competitiveness Obtainment of Exclusive Right of Use for New Reinforcing Process to Suggest and Executing Products (Kyobo Grandchildren Care Insurance) Creative Ideas Strengthening Communication for Commission Strengthening Communication with Financial on Business Sites Planners * Departments for Financial Planners: Channel Support Tem, Organization Proﬁt Earning Support Team, Sales Education Team, Financial Planner Protection Center, Gyeseongwon and Others. 36 Sustainability Report 2013 We will continue on our corporate culture Supporting Financial Planners’ Activities of joy, pride and trust. Kyobo Life is striving to create a culture of joy, confidence, and trust through communication between the management and financial planners. There is a total of 20,602 financial planners working for Kyobo Life as of the end of FY2013, and 85.4% of them are female. Status of Financial Planners (Unit : Person) Female Male 2011 3,050 16,430 19,480 2012 2,956 17,237 20,193 2013 3,011 17,591 20,602 Communication with Financial Planners Kyobo Life regularly participates in the workshops of excellent ﬁnancial planner’s meetings called the “Prime Leaders Club” to directly listen to their opinions. The workshop is a quarterly meeting of approximately 100 members to share difficul1. Prime Leaders Club ties and ideas about the major corporate issues with the management. The matters discussed are 2. Honorary Executive Meetings applied to the policies according to their signiﬁcance and immediacy. The Honorary Executive Sys3. Overseas Language Course for Children of Excellent Financial Planners tem of ﬁnancial planners system is implemented to hold biannual meetings with the management, and employee ID cards are delivered as an expression of a resolve to pay more attention to ﬁnancial planner’s opinions. Honorary Executive The Honorary Executive System of ﬁnancial planners is implemented to proSystem of Excellent vide more challenging opportunities to excellent financial planners and to 1 Financial Planners raise their self-esteem. The financial planners that set examples in light of Kyobo Life’s core purposes and values are named “FP Honorary Executives” and treated accordingly to build ideal models of excellent ﬁnancial planners and to establish a culture of result and performance. FP Honorary executives are selected after an impartial review of performance, effectiveness, experience, and result. They are provided with certiﬁcation from the CEO, a name2 plate and name card, business expenses, capability growth programs, and the beneﬁts including being invited as guests to major corporate events. Support System for Financial Planners Kyobo Life supports regular rallying events of ﬁnancial planners to boost their conﬁdence for insurance sales and operates various support programs for 3 ﬁnancial planners and their children. Support for Financial Support of Accident Support of Support of Funeral Support of Congratulations Planners and Injury Insurance Scholarship Supplies and Condolences 100~120 million won Maximum 1.4 million won Funeral Supplies for 100~200 thousand won payment for death during payment in scholarship Financial Planners, payment for the weddings of Support for Financial Planners employment, 10~100 million annually for the children of Spouse, and Immediate ﬁnancial planners and their For the Children of Financial won for injuries and disability ﬁnancial planners meeting Family Members children, the 60th birthdays Planners during employment requirements for more than of ﬁnancial planners and 13 months of appointment their spouse, the 70th birthdays or death of parents Support of Veteran Holiday Gifts Happiness Child Support Overseas Language Financial Planners: Annual Gifts to All Preparation Support for new ﬁnancial Course Prize worth 200~1000 Financial Planners on Exclusive saving planners with less than Support for children of thousand won to ﬁnancial New Year’s Day insurance to ﬁnancial one year of appointment ﬁnancial planners with planners with more than ﬁve planners meeting certain that meet certain less than one year of years of recorded excellence requirements requirements appointment and excellent recruiting ﬁnancial planners Overview 37 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Increasing Financial Planners’ Satisfaction Rate for Product Competitiveness Kyobo Life offers various insurance products for risks of each life cycle. To suggest the optimum product meeting customers’ needs, Kyobo Life analyzes insurance in terms of the speciﬁcs of each product to educate financial planners on customized insuring methods. By offering education opportunities such as this, we can provide authentic customers assurance to help them overcome life’s ordeals. Acquiring Exclusive Right of Use of New Products An exclusive right of use is a type of patent right prohibiting other companies from selling similar products for a certain period of time to protect the pioneering profits of the companies that develop such new products. Kyobo Life released “Kyobo Grandchildren Love Insurance” in 2013 and was recognized for introducing a product and service that contributes to the growth of the insurance industry by expanding into a new market, following changes in social structures and family relationships and improving customer’s understanding of insurance products. Kyobo Life now has 10 exclusive rights of use in total, Kyobo Grandchildren Love Insurance earning them to become the company with the largest number of patented products and gaining recognition for its superiority. We will increase ﬁnancial planners’ satisfaction rate for product competitiveness and continue to provide innovative products and services. Products for Risks of Each Life Cycle Major Life’s Risks Products Group Products Early Death/Fatal Disease Assurance of Family Life · Kyobo Primer Life Insurance, and Others · Impact on Entire Family · Whole life Insurance · More Trustworthy Kyobo VUL Integrated Life Insurance, and Others · Signing Up Out of Concern for · Term Insurance Family · More Trustworthy Kyobo Integrated CI · CI Insurance Insurance, and Others · Children’s Insurance · More Trustworthy (Non-dividend) Kyobo My Child’s Insurance, and Others Old Age Assurance of Life · Pension Saving Kyobo Pension Insurance, After Retirement and Others · Preparing for Old Age · Pensions · The Dream Kyobo Pension Insurance, and · Signing Up Out of Concern for Oneself Others or Spouse · Variable Annuities · The Dream Kyobo Variable Annuities Insurance, and Others Health Assurance of Healthy Life · Kyobo Dream Insurance, and Others · Treatment for General Sickness · Health Insurance · Kyobo Silver Care Insurance, and Others and Injury · Accident and Injury · Kyobo Cancer Insurance (Renewable), Insurance and Others · Kyobo Group Insurance, and Others Reserve Fund Forming Reserve Fund · Kyobo Variable Saving Insurance, and Others · Saving for Reserve Fund · Investment (UVL Accumulation) · Kyobo Big Plus Saving Insurance, and · Saving (Education Saving) Others · Kyobo My Child Education Insurance 38 Sustainability Report 2013 We will provide Financial Planners Improving Education Program for Customer Assurance Innovation with equal Kyobo Life offers systematic education programs that are essential for the growth of professional ﬁnancial planners. To improve the education programs for “Customer Assurance Innovation”, one opportunities and of the management principles of the 2013 ﬁscal year, the education system was improved with betreward them based on ter customer assurance concepts for each month of the education program of ﬁnancial planners. fair evaluation policies. Education Program of New Financial Planners Financial planners need to receive systematic education for their level from the beginning to gain expertise and provide the best customer assurance. The new ﬁnancial planners that completed the “life-long care beginner’s course” receive monthly sysWe will help our tematic education along with the BTP (Basic Training Program) for two years in each location. Financial Planners to Monthly Education Program System for New Financial Planners become the experts. Lifelong Care Draft Process Application Experienced Application Beginner’s Course in the FP HeadRegistration Worker’s Kyobo Registration 2 Months/ quarters before Meeting 25H, Entry Course Cyber 25H FP Support Center Appointment Cyber 5H 3 Days/Gyeseong1 Day/FP Headwon, 1 Day/FP quarters Headquarters 2~3 Months 4 Months 5 Months 6 Months 10 Months Lifelong Care Customer AssurCustomer AssurRetirement PrepaCustomer AssurExtensive Course ance Elementary ance Intermediate ration Course ance Advanced (4 Weeks/FP Course (2 Days/ Course (2 Days/ (2 Days/ Course (2 Days/ Support Center FP Headquarters) FP Headquarters) FP Headquarters) FP Headquarters) 7~12 Months 12 Months 4~24 Months Financial Planning Challenge Leaders BTP Course M-Learning Course (Weekly 1H/ (10 Minutes×25 (3 Days/ FP Regional Ofﬁce) Sessions) Gyeseongwon) Education of Experienced Financial Planners Financial planners with more than a year of appointment grow into experts by completing regular improvement and in-depth education to increase their ﬁnancial planning ability. Education System of Experienced Financial Planners Customer Assurance Applicant Financial Veteran FP Specialized FP Course Maintenance Course Planning Advanced Course Conference 6 Weeks/FP Support Team Biennial/Cyber 25H 3 Days/Gyeseongwon 2 Days/Gyeseongwon Retirement Pension Retirement Pension Variable Exam Successful Candidates of Variable Insurance Specialized FP Specialized FP Applicants Variable Examination Sale FP Retirement Pension System Retirement Pension System Entire Process of Variable Perfect Sign-up of Variable Variable Insurance Sale Applicant Registration Applicant Continuing Insurance Insurance Improvement Manager Improvement Education Education Qualiﬁcation Exam Course Course Meeting 8H, Cyber 12H Meeting 4H, Cyber 6H 20H/Meeting, Cyber 6H/FP Headquarters Yearly 4H/FP Support Center Prestige Course VIP Marketing VIP Marketing More than 3 Years as Specialized FP Specialized FP Prime Leaders Weekly 6 Session/ FP Headquarters VIP Marketing Specialized VIP Marketing Specialized Business Administration FP Course FP Improvement Course Course for Executives (Semiannually 3 Days/ Semiannually 1 Day/FP Outside/6 Months Gyeseongwon) Headquarters) Overview 39 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Operation of Customer Assurance Specialist Financial Planners Course Kyobo Life established a “Customer Assurance Specialist Financial Planners Training Center” to offer a “Customer Assurance Specialist Financial Planners Course” at all support centers in the country to faithfully fulﬁll our goal of “offering customer assurance value” through perfect sign-ups of life insurance by improving the ability of ﬁnancial planners. The “Customer Assurance Specialist Financial Planners Course” intends to produce legitimate customer assurance specialists that are committed to the essence and basics of the job of ﬁnancial planners and equally equipped with our four established virtues of knowledge, attitudes, skills, and habits. The 6-week course for each class emphasizes improving execution ability of the life cycle planning process for perfect sign-ups and getting familiarized with the execution process based on improving professional mindsets, such as a personal sense of duty and challenge. Five classes completed the course during the ﬁscal year of 2013. Contents of Customer Assurance Specialist Financial Planners Course Knowledge Habit Increasing Comprehension Competencies for Execution Regarding Products Process Understanding the Strengths Selecting Customers and Weaknesses of the Product Knowledge Preparing for Visits Visits Increasing Signing Up Ability of Feedback Family Life Insurance Products Life/CI Insurance Sign-up Expansion Method Attitude Back to the Habit Basic Health Knowledge Regarding CI Insurance Skill Capability for Life Planning Attitude Skill Process Execution Phone Calls, Analysis of The Essence of Job, FP-SHIP Original Contract, Analysis Establishment of Objectives of Family Insurance Sense of Ownership Lifelong Care Service 7 Habits of Successful People Capability to Plan for Each Status of Financial Planners' Commission Customer’s Characteristics (Unit: Ten Thousand Won) 1,036 Communication for Financial Planner Commission System Financial planner commissions are paid based on previously set rates, so it is extremely important that 629 486 ﬁnancial planners accurately understand the commission system during their employment. Financial 414 344 planner commission systems are occasionally revised according to changes in the business service 243 environment. When this happens, diverse methods are used to share information about its purpose, direction, and details through the intra-company communication methods such as satellite broadcasting, education provided by business managers, and communication by the relevant departments from Hope Reward Second First Master KyoboMaster headquarters. *Based on the performance of ﬁnancial planners with more than one year of experience in Dec., 2013 commission payment In 2013, Gyeseongwon (Company Training Institute) communicated the details during its educational *Hope, Reward, Second, First, Master, and orientation process for the convenience of ﬁnancial planners, and future communication with sites will Kyobo-Master are categories of ﬁnancial planners according to their individual performances continually remain active. employees & the Future Pledge to Employees A company that grows together with its employees Principle 4 We will provide employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair performance evaluation Principle 3 We will continue on our corporate culture of joy, pride and trust Principle 5 We will help our employees to become the experts Employees are important stakeholders developing together with Kyobo Life. Kyobo Life will provide diverse opportunities for growth and fair evaluation and rewards based on a corporate culture of 50 years to become a company that “grows together with its employees” in earnest. Head of Management Support Division, Seokki Lee Materility Test Results * The outline of the signiﬁcance evaluation can be found on page21. 2012 2013 Major Issues Major Issues · Strengthening two-way communication · Spreading corporate culture of balancing work and life (42p) · Fair performance evaluation/rewards · Strengthening two-way communication (43p) · Prohibiting discrimination (Based on gender, age, hometown, and academic background) · Operating a work-centered human resources system (45p) · Fair performance evaluation/rewards (45p) General Issues · Expansion of labor rights (46p) · Spreading corporate culture of balancing work and life · Human rights protection General Issues · Labor-management relations for coexistence · Labor-management relations for coexistence · Expanding opportunities for educational · Improving welfare system and working training and self-development environment · Maintaining appropriate personal placement · Expansion of welfare and beneﬁts · Operating a work-centered human resources · Maintaining appropriate personal placement system · Prohibiting discrimination (Based on gender, age, hometown, and academic background) · Job security Major Activities of Year 2013 Future Plans Family-friendly Excellence Corporation Award Creation of desirable working environment Variety of welfare and benefits for employees Settling work-centered human resources system Maintaining performance management system Increasing communication with employees and work-centered human resources system Establishing Occupational Safety and Health Committee * Departments for Employees: Human Resource Support Team, Labor-Management Cooperation Team, Human Resource Development Team, and Others 42 Sustainability Report 2013 We will continue on our corporate culture Balance between Work and Life of joy, pride and trust. Kyobo Life is striving for employees to maintain a balance between work and life to produce a culture of joy, conﬁdence, and trust. Family-friendly Excellence Corporation Kyobo Life operates diverse programs so that employees can maintain a balance between work and family, allowing the individual and the organization to grow together. We opened a workplace childcare facility, “Kyobo Dasomi Nursery”, to create an environment where employees with young children can alleviate the burden of childcare and enjoy greater work stability. We also allow holidays for long-term employment and half-day leaves. By adopting telecommuting, we allow employees to manage their working hours themselves to increase autonomy and satisfaction. We also provide childcare leave, payment of child fostering costs, spousal maternity leave (paid, three days), fetus checkup leaves, protection of pregnant workers, and operation of childcare information centers to create a working environment that Number of applicants for emphasizes the protection of expectant mothers and their children. childcare leave (Unit : Person) Classiﬁcation 2011 2012 2013 These efforts earned recognition by earning a recertiﬁcation as a 2013 family-friendly excellence Male 2 2 corporation. The family-friendly certiﬁcation system evaluates corporations that operates example Female 119 130 95 cases of family-friendly policies and awards certiﬁcations. Kyobo Life also received an award from the Minister of Gender Equality and Family for producing a family-friendly working environment and raising the standard for employee beneﬁts. Return rates of applicants of childcare leave (Unit : %) Desirable Working Environment Given the nature of our business, none of our employees Classiﬁcation 2011 2012 2013 work in a job that has a high rate of accident or disease outbreak, and there is no discrimination Male 100 100 against gender regarding wage systems. The basic wage levels of new college-graduate employFemale 93.6 91.2 97.5 ees as of December 2013 was 314% compared to the minimum wage rates of 2013. In order to * Return rates are in terms of those that returned increase productivity through full employee concentration of work and improve the quality of life, within the given FY many welfare systems are available. Healthcare Support Employee Welfare Systems Classiﬁcation 2011 2012 2013 Classiﬁcation Contents Flu Vaccines (Person) 2,207 1,682 1,583 Legally mandated welfare (4 major insurances), academic scholarships, travel expenses, life insurance for employees, supporting personal pension membership, supporting Utilization of the Life stability family events, commemoration gifts for retiring employees, clothing support, support“Healthcare Counsel20 10 13 ing childcare expenses, Kyobo Life Dasomi childcare operation, funeral support ing Channel” (Case) Residence House purchase loans, house renting loans, provision of company housing and training stability camps, monthly rent support Employee Health Checkups (Unit : Person) Healthy cultural Health control, recovery centers, intra-company athletics competition, intra-company activities clubs 2011 2,734 2012 3,614 Pension Support for Elder Life Stability Kyobo Life pays 50% of our employees' national pension payment and a portion of their personal pension insurances. According to the Retiring Employee 2013 3,669 Pension Payment Guarantee Law, our company runs a retirement pension program (defined wages or deﬁned pension plans) in which we save 1 month of average wages for an employee per year of time spent in the company in a safe ﬁnancial institution, and the company pays the employee through either a pension or a lump sum. Supporting Healthcare of Employees and Family We have all employees take an annual health checkup, and we also support employees, their spouses, and children to receive ﬂu vaccinations at a reasonable price. We have also opened a “healthcare counseling channel” where employees can easily Family-Friendly Excellence Corporation Certiﬁcation seek advice from Kyobo Life's healthcare center experts. Ceremony Overview 43 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Two-way Communication Kyobo Life is reinforcing two-way communication between the company and its employees to create a culture of joy, conﬁdence, and trust. Operation of Compliment Corner By running a “Compliment Corner” on the company's Participation for “Compliment Corner” Intranet, where it is possible to send “compliment points” along with the reason for compliments, we are facilitating mutually sound communication between employees. We also invite employees Classiﬁcation 2011 2012 2013 with the most compliment points to the “Compliment Luncheon” supervised by the CEO. From 1999 Number of to December 2013, a total of 770 employees were invited to this event. Employees who agreed Participants 4,451 4,115 4,106 to donate their annual complement points have been donating 10 won per point. These dona(Person) tions totaled 6.06 million won from 2008 through 2013, and 1.41 million won was donated to the Points (Point) 136,059 157,160 175,214 “Purume Foundation” in 2013 to help construct rehabilitation hospitals for handicapped children. Participation 98.3 87.5 86.4 Rate (%) Business Performance Brieﬁng Kyobo Life has held business performance brieﬁngs to increase comprehension and strengthen communication regarding current issues of the company by employees. This ﬁscal year, the main issues were the company’s policies and tasks under the environment of increased volatility of the ﬁnancial market and tightened regulations of ﬁnancial soundness following the outlook of the decreased U.S. quantitative easing. Business Performance Brieﬁngs in 2013 First Second Details · Business performance and business environments Sept. 10, 2013 Sept. 12, 2013 · Communication of Policies Regarding Insurance Policies Location : Location: · CEO communication Resom Spa Castle Headquarter Intra-company Satellite Broadcasting System and Newspaper Through producing and broadcasting in the intra-company satellite broadcasting system and publishing company newspapers, we are sharing important company issues and information with our ﬁnancial planners and employees. The inter-company broadcasting system communicates major company policies and issues without delay, and the company newspaper, “Kyobo Community”, published its 266th edition in December 2013 to provide various information to ﬁnancial planners and employees. Labor-Management Relations for Coexistence The advancement of the labor-management relationship is the foundation of corporate competitiveness. Kyobo Life established the infrastructure for this purpose and actively communicated management information so that labor and management can become strategic partners. Through Kyobo Life's membership of the UN Global Compact, the company has made it clear that it supports the right to create unions and the right to collectively bargain. The number of members in the labor union is 3,481 as of December 2013, which accounts for 73.3% of all employees. Compliment Luncheon Kyobo Life's laborers and management hold quarterly councils and seminars to discuss important issues for employee working conditions such as employment, safety, and welfare. Annual wage negotiations and biennial collective negotiations take place, and all employees are affected by their results. If major changes occur in the company, then Article 7 of the Collective Regulations stipulates that the labor union be swiftly notiﬁed of the changes. By sharing the progress of major issues beforehand, a cooperative labor-management relationship is maintained. In the 2013 ﬁscal year, agendas such as the adoption of incentives on the organizational level and the development of Business Performance Brieﬁng employees’ experience were discussed through the labor-management committee. 44 Sustainability Report 2013 We will provide employees with equal Current Personnel opportunities and As of the end of the 2013 fiscal year, the number of regular workers employed in Kyobo Life is reward them based 4,753. 45.8% of the regular workers are female, and there are 57 employees with disabilities. During the 2013 ﬁscal year, 88 employees retired, showing a retirement rate of 1.9%. on fair performance evaluation. The personnel needed at the nation-wide business service sites are “ﬁeld employed”: they undergoing a part of the process in the relevant area before they are ﬁnally employed. Regular Workers (Unit : Person) Number of Female Managers Male Female Person Ratio(%) 5.9 6.0 4,529 4,704 4,753 5.4 46 47 49 2,511 2,665 2,577 2,018 2,039 2,176 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Regular Workers_Disabled (Unit : Person) Non-regular Workers (Unit : Person) 2011 60 2011 223 2012 57 2012 188 2013 57 2013 185 2013 18 3 23 13 Call Center IT Field Headquarter Representatives Professionals Employees Employees Employed (Unit: Person) Retired Person Ratio(%) Total Field Employed 3.6 374 373 2.8 234 165 1.9 131 30 88 7 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Overview 45 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Expansion of Labor Rights Kyobo Life strives to uphold the human dignity of workers and basic labor rights protection, and supports and respects the internationally declared human rights by joining the UN Global Compact in September 2010. Abolishing Discrimination in Employment and Work Kyobo Life offers fair opportunities in employment regardless of applicants’ gender, age, religion, and place of origin. We provide fair opportunities in promotion, rewards, education, and retirement without discrimination in terms of anything other than individual competencies and results. Programs to Prevent Sexual Harassment in the Workplace By recognizing sexual harassment as one of the major cases of human rights violations in the workplace, Kyobo Life is doing its best to prevent it from happening. When training surveillance personnel, we put special emphasis on this issue, and we carry out prevention programs for all ﬁnancial planners and employees under the supervision of each organization's head. Prohibiting Child Labor and Forced Labor Not only do we prohibit children under 15 to work, but we have restrictions against adolescents under 18 from being employed. We also prohibit all forms of forced labor that go against workers' rights of free labor. Establishing Occupational Safety and Health Committee Kyobo Life established the Occupational Safety and Health Committee under Article 19 of the Occupational Safety and Health Law according to the supplementary agreement on wages and regulations in 2013. The committee is in Law Observance Personnel Communication charge of matters concerning worker’s safety and health, evaluation and improvement of the working environment, and worker’s health management such as physical examinations. This committee consists of three members from the labor union and three members from management. Evaluation Process Fair Evaluation Kyobo Life introduced our performance-centered human resource system in 2003 and established 1 2 3 a company-wide integrated performance-centered system in 2009. Our ﬁeld-oriented high-perforSelfEvaluation *Evaluation of mance culture reminds employees of our vision, strategies, and performance responsibilities and Evaluation Interview the Interviewer objectives and encourages them to devote themselves to their work to produce the best results. We also hold periodic evaluations regarding the competencies and performance for all employees. 4 Veriﬁcation by 5 Notiﬁcation of Competency measurement deals with individually demanded competencies for achieving goals Identiﬁer (Secondary Evaluation Results and executing tasks such as knowledge, technology, and attitude. Performance evaluations assess Head of Organization) the results of fulﬁlling individual objectives that are set in accordance with the objectives of the * By High Executives company or high-level executives. It is possible to raise objections against the process and results of the evaluation for fairer outcomes. When Objections are Raised Performance Management System for the Establishment of High-performance Culture 1 2 3 Kyobo Life is executing continuous performance management led by the head of the organizaWriting / Review from Individual tion, along with the top executives, to clearly determine the performance responsibilities for each Submitting the Human Notiﬁcations position. We support the members to establish a performance management system and gradually Paperwork for Resources of the Results Objection Executives establish the program, from setting performance objectives to evaluations, so that they may ﬁnd Committee joy in their jobs and develop dedication to their work. 46 Sustainability Report 2013 We will help our employees to become Operation of Work-centered Human Resources System the experts. Kyobo Life has operated our capabilities and result system since 2002 under the human resources principle of “placing people in positions according to capabilities and rewarding according to results”. The results-oriented awareness was improved through the establishment of our high-performance culture in 2006, and the evaluation, rewards, and promotion system were also improved to help renovate our corporate culture and work methods. This was expanded and developed into a human resource system centered on position in 2010 and was strengthened into the foundation of our human resource management system based on rotated placement, promotion, and compensation management according to each position in 2011. Work-centered means that work can be systematically divided to clarify which responsibilities are assigned to each position. This system is implemented to secure excellent human resources, analyze individual capabilities, and match (appointment, transfer, and promote) the right work (position) with the right person (person taking the position). We also carry out the relevant activities to create the best results and support members to develop their capabilities. We will continue to increase our efforts in building a fair and objective “work-centered human resources management system” and “result-oriented compensation system”. Job Management System Company / HR Strategies Job Management · Job Categorization System · Standard Job Description · Job Evaluation/Job Category Appointment Transfer Promotion Development Evaluation Rewards Core Personnel Management Kyobo Life is clearly aware of the importance of core personal management to our organization’s competitiveness. We have established a system of selecting and growing core personnel and introduced and operated the “Assessment Center” to objectively examine their capabilities in hiring from outside and promoting within. For cases in which experts are required, such as products/accounting, asset management, and risk management, an internal open call and outside hiring are both used to increase opportunities for ﬁnding and growing talented employees in and out of the company. Systematic Competency Development System for Employees Kyobo Life seeks to develop all employees’ capabilities and maximize their performance for the purpose of fulﬁlling Vision 2015 by establishing a company-wide system of competency development and middle and long-term human resources development plans. Educational processes for all levels, from new employees to executives, voluntary competency development, a learning support sysCompetency Development and Learning Process Establishing Carrying out Feedback on Utilization of annual Plan educational plans Do education programs See results of educaUtilize educational results tional Programs Establishing competency development plans, checking Taking courses according to enterprise eduCoaching and counseling by Annual feedback on learning individual competencies and identifying weak points cation plans, carrying out voluntary studies organization head results by organization head Establishing learning plans Applying what was learned in work Feedback on learning results Reﬂecting learning results (counseling and approval done by organization head) Overview 47 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix tem, and a domestic MBA program to produce core and special talents are provided. We will lead the efforts to reinforce the development of core personnel and support employees to take the initiative to systematically and continually develop their capabilities. Employees’ Competency Development Program Kyobo Life has “Compulsory Education Competence Development Programs Programs” for all employees, as well as specialized classes for certain classes and levels of employees. We also have “Team Learning Programs” that instruct through Action Learning: these proCompulsory grams deal with the organization’s current issues through mutual learning, Community of PracFor All Employees or a Certain Education Programs Class or Level of Employees tice (CoP), a learning club about the company’s performance and production, and Socio Drama, where intra-company conﬂicts and solutions are demonstrated through role play. Furthermore, we also established and operated “Voluntary Learning Programs” that include cyber courses, reading Team Action Learning communication courses, programs at insurance training institutes, programs for acquiring special Learning Learning Club licenses, and business organization revitalization programs provided by the company. Programs Socio Drama Employee Education (Unit : Hour) Cyber Course Category 2011 2012 2013 Voluntary Learning Reading Communication Courses Annual Learning Hours 472,056 507,100 355,559 Programs Acquiring Special Licenses, Etc. Learning Hours Per Person 102 110 75 Male 110 115 89 Female 85 104 64 Competency Development Support Costs Organization Leaders 58 44 30 (Unit: Thousand Won) Organization Members 102 110 75 1Per Person Total Amount Educational Expenses Per Person (Thousand Won) 880 1,040 987 2011 312 * The data for 2013 was converted for an annual approximation. 1,077,867 2012 245 Continuous Training Courses for Business Managers Working in the Headquarters 850,909 We have initiated continuous training courses for business managers working at headquarters 2013 206 to attain effective cooperation between the headquarters and its business sites, as well as to 694,328 retain personnel that are qualiﬁed enough to become branch heads at all times. Not only do these * The data for 2013 was converted in terms of courses induce work cycles for people to become business managers through systematic education years (numbers for 9 months modiﬁed to numregarding the insurance business, but it also increases the comprehension of branches and actual bers for 12 months), and 2012 was readjusted. business sites of headquarters employees. We have operated work knowledge courses, process initiation courses, and branch operation courses for one month each, and all headquarters employees with no experience as business managers until December 2013 have received the same training. The Birthplace of Human Resources Development, Gyeseongwon Kyobo Life’s training institute, Gyeseongwon, means “a birthplace of new talents that are the foundation of management by encouraging voluntary understanding of reason and renewing the roots of the mind”. The common sense yet unique “Five Management Principles”-“eat well, rest well, sleep well, play well, and know well”-are used to reduce the discomfort of trainees and maximize the effect of the education. Kyobo Life Socio-Drama Learning Club Gyeseongwon investors & the Future Pledges to Investors A company that is attractive to investors Principle 6 We will continue to produce exceptional profit through the good growth Principle 7 We will increase the value of company through preemptive risk management Creating long-term and stable results is a crucial principle in Kyobo Life’s management. Kyobo life will continue to create exceptional profits through positive growth and raise corporate value by not only administering profitability in all business sectors, but also preemptively dealing with risks to become a “company that is attractive to investors”. Head of Management Support Division, Seokki Lee Materility Test Results * The outline of the signiﬁcance evaluation can be found on page21. 2012 2013 Major Issues Major Issues · Preventing ﬁnancial accidents · Developing new business (50p) · Risk management · Improving asset management proﬁtability · Preventing and uncovering insurance fraud (50~51p) · Risk management (52p) General Issues General Issues · Establishing and executing ways to increase · Targeting new markets proﬁtability · Improving brand value · Improving asset management proﬁtability · Equal distribution of economic values created · Targeting developing markets · Transparency of corporate management · Maintaining sound corporate governance · Preventative risk management · Responding to the expansion of reverse mar· Preventing ﬁnancial accidents gins stemming from low interest rates · Strengthening IT security Major Activities of Year 2013 Future Plans Establishment of Kyobo Life Planet Reinforcing response to asset management market Targeting Upper Class (Increased nobiliaire service) Company-wide response to improve RBC ratio Continuous finding of high-profitable asset Increasing risk management activities * Departments for Investors: Relevant organizations under asset management, insurance service support team, management support team, and business support team. 50 Sustainability Report 2013 We will continue to produce exceptional Developing New Business profit through the Kyobo Life strengthened the Nobiliaire service for the upper-class market with huge growth potengood growth. tial to actively and voluntarily respond to rapid market changes. We connected retirement and pension customers with financial planners to expand the B2B2C market. We also established a new subsidiary (online life insurance company), reﬂecting customer’s needs and market tends to develop distinctive products and services. Targeting the Upper Class Market: Nobiliaire Service Kyobo Life established distinctive marketing strategies targeting the upper-class market, and created the Nobiliaire Support Team in charge of providing general ﬁnancial consulting service in regard to insurance and inheritance for the upper class from the national Nobiliaire centers in 2011. We are providing our loyal customers with asset management consulting service (tax, real estate, inheritance, investment, retirement plan) and Nobiliaire programs (art and cultural events, golf tournaments, gifts, Nobiliaire Society). Employee Quartet Kyobo Life founded an employee quartet to support the ﬁeld by building harmony amongst employees and is led by the CEO. The quartet is conducted by the CEO, accompanied by Myung-Whun Chung, and consists of 15 employees from the headquarters. They performed in Nobiliaire chamber concerts for loyal customers in Daegu and Daejeon in August, Gwangju in September, and Seoul and Busan in December as special guests at the end of the concerts featuring Conductor Myung-Whun Chung and international-acclaimed musicians. The CEO himself held the baton to conduct the team to express our thanks to customers and deliver a message of working in harmony with all employees. Supporting B2B2C Marketing B2B2C is a combined abbreviation of Business to Business (B2B) and Business to Customer (B2C) and describes a form of transaction in which corporations become the primary customers and the employees working for the company become secondary customers. When Kyobo Life becomes a primary customer, the employees in the organization become second1 ary customers receiving service from Kyobo Life’s ﬁnancial planners. The strengthening of B2B2C marketing expands the scope of result-producing activities of ﬁnancial planners to retired pension customers. The employees who have applied for B2C were assigned B2B tasks to improve business efﬁciency in 2013. Online Life Insurance Company Kyobo Life established and operated Kyobo Life Planet Life 2 Insurance Inc. (www.lifeplanet.co.kr) in December 2013 to actively and voluntarily respond to market changes, such as increased online financial transactions following the global advances in IT development and an increase of consumer-initiated rational sales. Kyobo Life Planet Life provides better insurance products at more reasonable prices through the renovation of our distribution system and assists customers in signing up for insurance anytime and anywhere, easily and conveniently through the internet. All processes including sign-up, retention, and payment are completed 3 on the internet, and it provides the most basic life insurance products such as life and retirement 1 Nobiliaire centers insurances. Other various services include five-second insurance design in which customers can 2 Nobiliaire Quartet quickly and conveniently check insurance premiums at a glance and target pension pacemaker ser3 Launching of Kyobo Life Planet Life Insurance vice, a new concept for the retirement preparation service. Asset Management Proﬁtability (Unit : %) Improving Asset Management Profitability Category 2011 2012 2013 With the high ratio of bonds in the assets held by life insurance companies, the difﬁculty of managAsset Management ing assets directly affected by the long term low interest rates since 2009 is worsening. Therefore, 5.47 5.05 4.75 Proﬁtability Index the principles of long-term asset management should be abided while still mindfully maintaining Overview 51 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix the ﬂexibility for responding to changes in the market situation. The decrease of retained proﬁtability should be continuously prevented, and the source of capital proﬁts should be secured and diversiﬁed. The ﬁnancial authorities are tightening regulations including the increased rate of ﬁnancial soundness out of a fear of insurance companies lacking capital. The balance between proﬁt maximization and risk management in the area of asset management will bring about corporate ﬁnancial soundness and improvement of net proﬁts. Kyobo Life is seeking sustainable growth through these asset management strategies and is striving to preserve the assets entrusted by our customers in a secure manner. The uncertainty in and out of the country following the global ﬁnancial crisis is leadProﬁtability Index ing to volatility in the ﬁnancial market, so we are focusing on increasing our readiness in the asset Net Proﬁt (Hundred Thousand Won) management market. The quantitate reduction of the U.S. is leading to the rise in interest, which can ROA1) (%) be used as an opportunity to improve the retained proﬁtability. Asset management of domestic and 0.91 0.87 international stocks in a preemptive response to the market violability to secure excess proﬁts will 0.70 result in enhanced asset management profitability. Selective merging of domestic assets in good 5,723 standing and establishing international alternative investments will secure the source of future asset 5,455 3,933 management profits. The ratio of apartment security loans will be maintained at an appropriate level, and our credit loan portfolio will be improved to actively respond to family loan risks. 2011 2012 2013 Profitability Kyobo Life has achieved the top levels of net proﬁts in the industry since the 2008 global ﬁnancial crisis through excellent risk management and long-term and stable asset management, one of our major Growth Index (Unit: Trillion Won) strengths in proﬁtability. Despite the management challenges in and out of the company, Kyobo Life Capital Business Proﬁts 2) recorded a Return on Assets (ROA) of 0.70% and a net proﬁt of 393.3 billion won in FY2013. 12.7 10.6 Return on Equity (ROE) (Unit : %) 8.8 38.7 5.9 6.0 32.4 5.1 20.6 16.6 17.8 15.6 15.1 8.4 11.0 11.1 10.8 8.8 2011 2012 2013 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 Stability Index_ Growth Weighted weak asset ratio 3) (Unit : %) In 2013, the Korean economy that relies heavily on the international market suffered less consumer 0.14 spending, low employment rates, and reduced corporate investments following the long-term global economic recession. Kyobo Life, however, constantly increased its assets through growth based on 0.05 0.05 proﬁtability to achieve a total asset of 73.7 trillion won, capital of 6.0 trillion won, and sales proﬁt of 8.8 trillion won as of the 2013 ﬁscal year, proving it is one of the top businesses in the country. 2011 2012 2013 Total Asset (Unit : Trillion Won) 70.0 73.7 57.9 62.4 1)ROA(Return on Assets) = net proﬁt for period / {total 46.2 50.0 54.1 assets at the start of period} + (total assets at the 35.5 38.5 43.0 29.8 32.4 end of period) / 2} × 100 2)Business Proﬁts(Insurance Proﬁts + Investment Profits), equivalent of sales for regular companies '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 3)Weighted weak asset ratio (ratio of weak assets among all assets) = (Weighted weak assets) / (Total assets to be considered) × 100 Stability * Total Assets to Be Considered: Assets that need to be considered under the provisions of the statue for The new financial soundness ratio (risk based capital ratio) that was implemented in 2011 was insurance company asset soundness 292.2% in the 2013 ﬁscal year, a 33.9%p increase from the previous year, and is far above 100%, * Weak Assets: The total value of 20% of “ﬁxed assets”, 75% of “questionable for collecting” assets, which is the supervisory regulatory standard. The weighted weak asset ratio, an index that shows and 100% of “assumed to be lost” assets the soundness of asset management, was 0.053% which was the lowest among all companies. 52 Sustainability Report 2013 We will increase the value of company Risk Management through preemptive Risk Management is one of our core competitiveness strengths in the life insurance industry. By risk management. quantifying risks and systematically integrating and managing them, we strive to reduce and improve management uncertainties in advance and improve stability. Kyobo Life’s strict risk management has contributed to the middle and long-term improvement of corporate value, and we will continue to create new business opportunities in the future. Strategic Risk Management to Maximize Corporate Value Kyobo Life set the extent of risks possibly impacting the corporate capital and monitored our compliance with it to secure and maintain financial soundness. General corporate non-financial risks such as management/strategy/ reputation risks are incorporated into management subjects for risk control evaluation for each business unit as a part of the efforts to build and improve relevant policies and the infrastructure to smoothly operate our company-wide risk management system. Systematic Risk Management Activities Measuring risks that can potentially appear in regular management activities such as insurance business and asset management can give estimates of acceptable risk levels for sustainable and continuous management activities within a company’s ability to pay. Even when various risks occur simultaneously, we have established and operated guidelines to secure the minimum amount of regulatory capital required by the supervisory authorities. Preventative risk management methods such as risk acceptance, reduction, transfer, and avoidance are used, and periodic propriety checks, monitoring, and limit regulating process are executed to control and manage the total and separate risks within the limit and at an appropriate level set by the guidelines. Risk Management Organization and Risks Risk Management Process Risk Management Committee Monitoring/Feedback Risk Recognition Decision-making regarding risk Are all risk factors at a manMonitoring What are some risks that management and ﬁnal responsibilities ageable rate? /Feedback deter business objective Are risk response/control accomplishment? ALM Committee Risk Management Council mechanisms appropriately What factors cause losses? operated? Are there any probResponse Long-term, Risk lems? Financial Affairs Risk Management /Control Persistent Proﬁt Recognition Team Support Team Accomplished ALM Integrated Integrated Risk Response/Control Evaluation/Measurement Management Management What are some ways to elimEvaluation/ Can risk be quantiﬁed? Asset Portfolio Management Team inate, spread, minimize, and MeasureIf it can be quantiﬁed and/or transfer risk? ment measured, then how much Market Risks risk do we have? Investment Asset Evaluation Team Credit Risks Risk Management Organizations The risk management committee, the highest authority in the Financial Affairs Team area of risk management, consists of one internal directors and two external directors and makes Interest Rate Risks, Volatility Risks the decisions on major risk management issues. We have held 7 meetings in the 2013 ﬁscal year, Insurance Risk Manger Team Insurance Risks and the agendas and voting results can be seen on our homepage (www.kyobo.co.kr > public announcements > outside director public announcements). Equity-linked Products Team Equity-linked Insurances Guarantee Risk Team The risk management committee is an organization that discusses factors regarding the agreements Each Department within the risk management committee and other relevant factors, and the ALM(Asset Liability ManNon-ﬁnancial Risks agement) Committee examines main issues regarding interest rate risks and risk margins. The “Plans (blueprints)” and “Sees (evaluation)” for risk management is the responsibility of the Risk Management Support Team, and “Do (execution)” takes place in each risk management department. Overview 53 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Promotion of ALM Policy for Long-term Risk Management Kyobo Life promotes the ALM policy to safely manage financial risks despite the changes in the financial environment and to secure gain and loss on interest rates. To continually improve the structures of assets and debts, we are managing a product portfolio of equity products and result-distributed products in the ﬁeld of debts and an asset portfolio of increased scales and duration of interest rates with higher asset management proﬁtability in the ﬁeld of assets. We are continuously improving the ALM system by improving our accuracy in calculating the ﬂow of asset, debts, and cash. Internal Control Internal Control is related to all systems, procedures, and tasks carried out continuously by all employees to fulﬁll our business objectives. Kyobo Life has designated the basic items necessary for compliance with laws, sound ﬁnancial management, and protection of insurance policy holders as the ‘internal control group’, and abides by them. We check whether we follow the internal regulatory standards, and we also appoint an auditor to report the investigation result of violations to the audit committee for incorporation of our internal regulatory system and institution. Preventing Financial Accidents Financial accidents are law violations and unlawful acts that Status of Financial Accident Occurrence result in damage to the corporation or insurance policy holders and acts and accidents that disturb Category 2011 2012 2013 the ﬁnancial order. Kyobo Life carries out thorough internal regulatory activities and doubled its Number of Cases 3 2 efforts to provide prevention education to prevent ﬁnancial accidents from happening. When they do actually happen, the person responsible is dealt with according to internal regulations. Amount (Million Won) 56 21 Money Laundering Prevention Money laundering is an activity through which people falsify their acquirement or disposal of assets to avoid taxes or to hide their assets altogether. Money Audits from Financial Authorities and its laundering prevention activities refer to preventing ﬁnancial companies from being used in money Results laundering practices that increase social risks. Kyobo Life thoroughly carries out activities that Category 2011 2012 2013 are deemed necessary by the “special ﬁnancial transaction reporting law”, such as “duty to check Penalty (Million Won) customers” to check the status of customers that provide transaction and services, “reporting Fines (Million Won) 366 suspicious transactions” in any cases of transactions that seem like money laundering activities, Censures (Person) 2 6 and “large transaction reports” in which all transactions that exceed 20 million won are directly reported to the Korea Finance Intelligence Unit. The law observance personnel is in charge of reporting activities of money laundering prevention, and we educate our employees about money laundering once a year so that realistic actions to respond to money laundering are maintained. Business Auditing Activities We carry out procedures to audit our business activities to protect customer’s valuable assets and evaluate our company’s general internal regulatory system for the purposes of minimizing management risks and suggesting rational solutions. The audit procedures are systematically and periodically conducted on an annual basis under the authorization of Insurance Risk Management (Unit : %) the Audit Committee. The audit’s efﬁciency is improved by selecting central observation points on which to focus through screening and reviewing based on the risks. Periodic reporting of the audit Category 2011 2012 2013 results to the audit committee and board of directors ensure the independence of the auditing Danger rate proﬁt rate 1) 16.4 15.5 18.1 body, and objectivity is secured through impartial audit activities. We also undergo regular inspecDanger rate proﬁt rate tions from ﬁnancial authorities. 10.7 11.3 13.2 (average in industry) 1)Danger Rate Proﬁt Rate = (Risk Insurance–accident insurance) / risk insurance fee} × 100 Insurance Risk Management Insurance risks are the possibility of losses that occur when insurance is paid at a higher level * Risk Insurance Fee: Fees given from customers for the company to pay them insurance when accidents compared to when the insurance payments were initially calculated. Insurance risk management that require insurance payment occur ensures complete compliance with the basic principles of life insurance to protect the interests of * 2013’s number is as of September 2013. good customers. Kyobo Life recognizes the importance of insurance risk management and man* Source of Industry Average: Financial Supervisory Service ages insurance risks on a company-wide level. Government · CommunitIES & the Future Pledge to the Government and Communities A company that grows together with the government and communities Principle 10 We will grow together with our partners through fair competition Principle 9 We will manage our business in terms of conserving nature in a manner reflective of the nature of our business Principle 8 We will actively carry out corporate social responsibility activities to grow together with our communities Kyobo Life will practice “the spirit of love” inherent in the insurance industry and carry out long-term and continuous social service works for the beneficiaries to acquire a basis for self-sustenance. We will actively participate in activities that benefit the public in a meaningful way to become “a company growing together with the government and local communities”. CSR Director, Chi Soo Park Materility Test Results * The outline of the signiﬁcance evaluation can be found on page21. 2012 2013 Major Issues Major Issues · Social Service Works Practicing “the Spirit of Love” · Social Service Works Practicing “the Spirit of Love” Inherent in the Insurance Industry Inherent in the Insurance Industry (56p) · Increasing Trade Transparency · Providing social goods and eco-friendly service · Reinforced Operation of Voluntary Compliance (59p) with Fair Trade Program · Increasing Trade Transparency (65p) · Refusal to Fix Prices with Other Life Insurance Companies · Preventing/Discovering insurance fraud General Issues General Issues · Advertisement in Gwanghawmun · Providing social goods and eco-friendly service · Support of Kyobo Environmental Awards, Scholarly Awards, Scholarly Achievement Awards · Employee voluntary service works · Environmentally friendly · Eco-friendly social contribution works · activities with stakeholders · Increasing socially responsible investment (SRI) forenvironmentally friendly areas · Increasing socially responsible investment (SRI) for environmentally friendly areas · Operation of programs reinforcing practice of employee professional ethics · Maximizing job opportunities · Communication efforts between partnering · Never ﬁxing prices with other life insurance companies and agencies companies Major Activities of Year 2013 Future Plans Continuing social contribution activities concernContinuing social contribution activities concerning health, finance, and knowledge related to life ing health, finance, and knowledge related to life insurance industry. insurance industry. Continuous sales of small sum insurance, donation Continuously increasing trade transparency insurance, and products for the disabled. Clean Contract System, Strengthening Communication with Business Partners * Departments for the Government and Communities: Management Planning Team, General Affairs Team, Kyobo Dasomi Support Center, and Others 56 Sustainability Report 2013 We will actively carry out corporate Social Contribution Activities Practicing “The Spirit of Love” social responsibility Inherent in the Insurance Industry activities to grow Kyobo Life is improving the value of coexistence by focusing on the areas of health, finance, and knowledge related to the life insurance business and carrying out social contribution and public together with interest activities to practice “the spirit of love” inherent in the insurance industry. We will strengthen our communities. our partnership with nonproﬁt organizations possessing expertise and transparency to concentrate our efforts in the projects that local communities need and at which Kyobo Life can excel. Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Work Kyobo Life’s ﬁnancial planners and employees participated in various volunteering activities to help people facing ordeals due to lack of money, knowledge, and health to encourage them through their ordeals. The volunteering activities are individual choices, and the 261 volunteer teams consisting of ﬁnancial planners and employees carry out their activities by working with national social welfare institutes. Leadership Education of Volunteer Activities Annual leadership education that supports the revitalization of voluntary management of each volunteer team is provided. Case presentations of exemplary volunteer activities, lectures by guest speakers, and discussions foster the capabilities of the participants as volunteer leaders while they seek the right guidance in their volunteer activities. Social Contribution Support Social Contribution Support Amount (Unit: Hundred Million Won) Ratio of Social Contribution Support Amount (Unit: %) 10.9 4.4 3.5 4.8 3.2 3.2 1.9 2.5 3.7 2.0 1.9 2.6 184 150 139 143 125 97 101 106 110 118 92 69 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Volunteer Leader Education 2013 Expenses by Area (Unit: Million Won) 2011. 5. 24~25 Education Culture Other Social Welfare Environment (Citizen Finance) 2011 Gyeseongwon 80 volunteer leaders and social welfare specialists Issue | Creating beneﬁciary7,305 3,032 1,785 75 258 centered volunteer programs Expenses by Area (Unit: Million Won) Kyobo Dasomi Volunteering Activities 2012. 9. 19~20 2012 Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Yang Pyeong, Gyunggido Social Welfare1) 9,762 14,191 7,305 Registered Number 40 volunteer leaders of Volunteer Teams 217 232 261 Education 1,442 2,470 3,032 Issue | Strengthening competencies (Number) to increase volunteer program quality Culture 1,528 1,247 1,785 Annual Volunteer Environment 487 296 75 Hours (Hours) 52,465 45,087 37,457 2013. 6.12~13 Other (Citizen Annul Participants Finance) 1,103 176 258 12,134 10,900 9,880 2013 (Number) Nami Island, Chuncheon Total 14,322 18,380 12,455 Employee 44 volunteer leaders Participation Rate (%) 50.1 51.1 50.1 1)Social Welfare includes joint social contribution of life Issue | Strengthening competencies insurance association and global social works. to increase volunteer program quality * 2013’s numbers are from April through December 2013 Overview 57 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Kyobo Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Team Kyobo Life provided job opportunities to female Caregiving Volunteer Team Activities heads of families to work as caregivers and free nursing service to low-income patients neglected (Unit: Number of People) by the medical community with the operation of the “Kyobo Dasomi Nursing Service Team”. Female Category 2011 2012 2013 heads of families who want to work as caregivers are paid for the jobs, and low-income families or Caregivers 296 319 390 deserted elderly patients can beneﬁt from their free nursing and care service. Beneﬁciaries 10,591 12,375 14,260 The “Kyobo Dasomi Nursing Service Team” was started in 2004, and was selected as the ﬁrst social Annual corporation in Korea with the establishment of the Dasomi Foundation in 2007. It also won a PresNumber of 111,553 138,602 150,735 Beneﬁciaries idential Award in the group category of the Job Opportunity Creation Awards in 2013. The Dasomi Foundation provides nursing and caregiving service for a fee to general patients as well as the existing free caregiving service while also actively promoting education and consulting projects. A total of 390 caregivers are in operation as of 2013, and 150,735 patients received their service annually. Kyobo Life Cup Youth Athletics Competition Kyobo Life hosts various events to help the youth, the dream and hope our society, to grow into excellent talent leading the future. The annual Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Competition is held to ﬁnd and foster youth talent to lead Korea’s sports. It has sponsored a youth national competition of 7~10 unpopular fields for 29 consecutive years since 1985 and awarded scholarships to outstanding athletes and organizations. 110,000 young athletes were recorded in the participation of the 2013 competition, and over 300 athletes from this group were selected to play for the country. Tae-Whan Park, who won the gold medal for the ﬁrst time in the history of Korean swimming, Jae-Beom Kim and Gi-Chun Wang in Judo, Hong-Cheol Yeo and HanSeok Yang in gymnastics, and Sang-Wha Lee and Soong-Heun Lee in ice skating all represented their ﬁelds and competed in the competition, building the international reputation of Korea’s athletes. Kyobo Life JA Economic Education Volunteers Kyobo Life promotes volunteer Kyobo Life JA Economic Education Volunteer Work Results work utilizing the ﬁnancial expertise of our ﬁnancial planners and employees. Kyobo Life -JA Economic Education Volunteers, in a joint effort with JA Korea, a non-profit orgaCategory 2011 2012 2013 nization, strives to help children and adolescents understand the basic concepts of the Volunteers economy and ﬁnance through education regarding the market economy, business man192 245 521 (Number of People) agement, and so on. Such activities form bonds between Kyobo Life and local schools, Institution beneﬁciaries improving the sense of reward and meaning of volunteer work. 7 80 12 (Case) Class beneﬁciaries 130 299 353 Operation of Global Social Contribution Program Kyobo Life operated the “Hope (Case) Tree Project” supporting the self-sustenance of poor Vietnamese farmers by developStudents beneﬁciaries ing a civil-government cooperative project with Korea International Cooperation Agency 4,550 8,977 9,468 (Number) (KOICA). To increase extremely poor Vietnamese farmer’s proﬁts, improved breeds of economic crops (palm trees and grapefruits) were sowed and advanced agricultural technologies were taught to provide a stable harvesting environment. The first harvests of the farmers were jointly sold and manufactured into specialty products to secure price competitiveness, thus contributing to increased proﬁtability by 20%. 1,400 farming families (5,320 people) in Ben Tre Province, Vietnam beneﬁted from the program to increase their quality of life and educational opportunities. Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Team Youth Athletics Competition JA Economic Education Volunteers Hope Tree Project 58 Sustainability Report 2013 Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run To provide undergraduates a chance to travel to the countries of our historic/economic partners and rivals in northeast Asia and by supporting their leadership and fellowship, we are operating an “Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run” program. A total of 100 college students have participated since 2002, all of whom have broadened their vision for the future. Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run Category 2011 2012 2013 Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run 2013 Date Aug. 04~11, 2011 (8 days) Aug. 06~14, 2012 (9 days) Aug. 01~08, 2013 (8 days) Venue China, Tibet Mongolia, Russia From Downstream to Source of Hwangha River Participants 78 100 100 Catchphrase Embrace dreams toward Interact with new visions Open the civilization’s map the future in Mongolia, of the future from the plain the Hwangha with a where challenges and teaus of Mongolia, in Lake 5,000km long river in the open cultures await! Baikal where our people land with 5,000 years of originated! history. Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi “Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi” is the only program that sup“Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi” Results ports premature babies born in low-income families. This support includes hospital and rehabilitation Category 2011 2012 2013 costs, and emotional support for the babies’ families. Partnering with the non-profit “Areumdaun Financial planner Foundation”, the funds for the “Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi” program are supported by Kyobo participants 5,834 5,500 5,580 Life's financial planners' periodic funds, donations from Kyobo Life, and donations from citizens to (Number of People) the “Areumdaum Foundation”. From September 2004 to December 2013, “Dasomi Jageun SumSupport fund amount geul Saligi” has raised 5,572 million won and has supported the healthy growth of 1,708 premature (financial planner funds + donations from 6 6 6 babies. Our efforts earned recognition by receiving the “Best Practice Award” in the 2013 Value Grand Kyobo Life) Prize sponsored by the UN Global Compact. (Hundred Million Won) Supported babies 145 146 147 Hope Factory Senior Social Contribution Project Kyobo Life and the Life Insurance Social Contri(Number of Babies) bution Committee sponsor Hope Factory’s “Senior Social Contribution Project” for retirees (or people *The numbers of supported babies for 2011 and 2012 were readjusted. scheduled to retire), not only giving them job opportunities simply based on work, but by using their experience and abilities. The retirees can come up with ideas, seek methods of execution, and partici1 Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi pate in social corporations, collaborative agencies, and volunteer groups, or establish their own orga2 Community Sharing Award nizations. The expertise of retirees, in areas such as accounting, management, translating, and writing, can be utilized in the areas demanded by local communities. Major projects include senior nonprofit organization education and support and senior social contribution ideas and support. Professional Social Contribution Activities through Public Foundation Kyobo Life is expanding more professional and efficient social contribution projects through three 1 public foundations: the Daesan Agricultural Foundation, Daesan Cultural Foundation, and Kyobo Life Educational Cultural Foundation. Daesan Agricultural Foundation This is the first agricultural, agricultural support public foundation established in Korea in 1991, and it is the sponsor of the Daesan Agricultural Award, the highest honor in the field. It also engages in various public interest projects such as research projects, overseas agricultural training, agricultural experience, scholarships, cultural events, and education to raise 2 the value of our agriculture and towns so that urban and rural areas can grow happy together. Overview 59 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Daesan Cultural Foundation This foundation was established to contribute to the globalization of Korean literature in 1992 and supports literature translation and international research of Korean literature, as well as international relations. It sponsors the Daesan Literature Award and Daesan Youth Literature Award, which are the highest honors in Korea. Kyobo Life Educational Cultural Foundation Established in 1997, this foundation builds a society where the value of life is respected, learning opportunities are fairly distributed, and happiness is shared together. It is striving to restore ethics and morality that have been declining after the nation’s advancement into an industrial society and to achieve a rich and sound mental culture in our society. Developing Social Products and Providing Ecofriendly Service Donation Insurance Overview Kyobo Life is making efforts to develop insurance products to satisfy the government policy of supporting the neglected class and sharing social value. In this regard, we are indirectly contributing to Donator Signing-up of Donation society by developing various insurance products for the socially disadvantaged and providing practiPractice of (Insurer) Insurance cal insurance to more customers. We are also promoting a variety of eco-friendly activities. Donation (Payment of Premiums) Donation Insurance Donors choose organizations they want to sponsor and the insurance paySocial Organization ment after the death of the donor goes to the organization. By making small insurance premium payReligious Organization Kyobo Life ments, a large amount of insurance money can be donated to the organization of their choice without (Designation of Beneﬁciary) undergoing other legal processes. Payment of Life Insurance Small Amount Insurance for Children in Low Income Families (Non-Divined) Kyobo Life Hope and Love Insurance uses dormant insurance payments to benefit children in low income families. Smile Micro Credit Bank (www.mif.or.kr) selects the beneﬁciary children and notiﬁes Kyobo Life, and Donation Insurance Sales 95% of the insurance payments are paid by dormant insurance payments by the Dormant Deposit Number of Sales (Unit: Cases) Management Foundation for the sign-up. This product was developed in 2008 and has signed a total Contract Life Insurance Payment (Unit:Million won) of 5,343 cases of contracts as of 2013 and made insurance payments of 1.87 billion won. 2011 58 9.0 Products for the Disabled Kyobo Life does not discriminate against the disabled at the signing of 2012 12 1.7 insurance. They are equally treated in terms of deciding acceptance. We have, however, developed and sold products for the disabled in consideration of the fact that they receive relatively fewer insur2013 3 0.3 ance beneﬁts. *Numbers for 2011 and 2012 were readjusted. Sales of Products for the Disabled (Unit: Case) Small Amount Insurance Business: (Non-Divined) Kyobo Life Hope and Love Insurance 2011 215 Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) Smile Micro Credit Bank 2012 244 Self-governing Body (Dormant Deposit Management Foundation) 2013 144 Agreement to Business Contract Management, Management Submission of Signing of Supervision, of Low Income Insurance Sign-up Insurance Contract Selection of Families’ Children Documents Beneﬁciaries, Insurance Payment Delivery of Insurance Securities Low Income Families’ Children Kyobo Life Providing Assurance 60 Sustainability Report 2013 We will manage our business in terms of Conservation Activities conserving nature in Kyobo Life understands that the environment is a pressing material issue that directly and indirectly a manner reflective has signiﬁcant impact on life insurance. The environment has substantial effect on the health and life of people. Kyobo life obtained ISO 9001 certiﬁcation for our quality management system from of the nature of our goods and service to process. Kyobo Life also attained ISO 14001 for establishing environmental business. management as one of our basic principles of corporate management by deﬁning its structure and process and operating the organization according to it. Kyobo Life also carried out eco-friendly activities reﬂective of the life insurance business and supports the principles provided by the UN Global Compact, which involves preventive environmental measures, increasing environment responsibility, and the development of eco-friendly technology and their expansion. Ecology Tour Educational Institution: “Supjarami” Kyobo Life trained retired workers to be forest experts in 2003 and launched the “Kyobo Dasomi Forest Expert Volunteer Association” to educate teenagers about the environment. The forest experts explain various facets about ecology, living in environmental harmony, and the relationship between the forest and humans and help What is ISO 14001? teenagers experience this firsthand. The retired workers were provided jobs as forest experts so When an organization (corporation) receives ISO that they could enjoy a worthwhile retired life while the teenagers were able to experience nature’s 14001, it means that the organization adopted beauty, developing a deeper appreciation for the environment. “Supjarami” is an educational instienvironmental management of one of its printution focusing on the ecology experience that was developed from the “Kyobo Dasomi Forest ciples of corporate management, based manExpert Volunteer Association”. agement on the requirements of ISO 14001, set speciﬁc and detailed objectives, redeﬁned its structure and process to achieve the objectives, Eco-friendly Dasomi Family Volunteers Kyobo Life carried out various volunteer activities to distributed material resources effectively, built a preserve the environment. Kyobo Life supported eco-friendly family volunteer programs and offered system to systematically manage, and continued this opportunity to the public so that participating families can understand the value of family and to improve the environment. learn the importance of protecting the environment. Supjarami Activities FY2013 Eco-friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Activities Participating Supported Expenses Category 2011 2012 2013 Program Date Location Details Families (Million Won) Education Planting Tree of Planting trees with the 2013.4.13 Jeonju 15 7.5 Participants 20,319 31,476 84,194 Hope disabled as family (Number of People) Seonung, Building a healthy Reviving City Soil 2013.4.20 Gyunggido ecosystem by restoring 15 5.6 Supported Expenses 300 280 50 polluted forests (Million Won) Drawing town environGreen Town Youngdeung2013.5.11 mental maps, Creating 15 6.6 Guard po-gu, Seoul recyclable plant pots Green Town YoungdeungCultivating healthy 2013.8.31 15 6.6 Guard po-gu, Seoul town, Drawing murals Making Friends 2013.11.16 Chungnam WildFeeding and monitoring 15 11.2 with Wildlife ~17 life Rescue Center winter birds Electronic Subscription System in Consideration of the Environment A large amount of Supjarami Orientation paper is consumed in the process of insurance subscription. Kyobo Life uses an electronic subscription system to reduce the consumption of paper during the subscription process not only reducing costs, but also carbon emissions. Everything from the planning stage and the subscription is handled in a one-stop method, and the papers are delivered to customers through e-mail to improve business efﬁciency and customer convenience. In addition, more people are using tablet PCs, and so an electronic system exclusive for tablet PCs was built to revitalize the use of paperless documents. Overview 61 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Efforts to Reduce Greenhouse Gas Emission Kyobo Life is actively participating in energy conservation activities as a part of the efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emission. Efforts to Decrease Energy Usage The buildings designated as high-energy consumption buildings (more than 2,000toe) such as Gwanghawmun Building and Kyobo Tower Building are subject to 30 minutes of air conditioning suspension each hour in turn from 14:00~17:00, and the electricity consumption during the peak hours are capped. The headquarters has limited the number of elevators in operation to a minimum outside of rush hours and lunch hours during the summer, and the temperatures in buildings nation-wide, including Gwanghawmun headquarters, are kept above 26℃ during the summer and below 20℃ during the winter to reduce energy usage in air conditioning and heating. The luminosity of areas closer to windows is relatively higher, so ﬂorescent lights near windows are uniformly turned off with the option of turning them on when necessary. All employees are practicing the “three main voluntary saving of energy and supplies campaign” which consists of turning off unnecessary lighting, unused computers, and saving ofﬁce supplies. Promotion of Eco-friendly Remodeling of Ofﬁce Buildings To create eco-friendly ofﬁces, we remodeled our headquarters in 2010 to be more eco-friendly. The Daejeon and Gwangju Numundong company buildings were remodeled in the same way in 2012. Furthermore, the ecofriendly remodeling is in progress for the Incheon and Jeonju company buildings in 2013 and scheduled for Ulsan, Busan Bujeon-dong, and Daegu Suseong-dong buildings in 2014 to reduce energy consumption. In particular, Gwangju Numundong company building won the highest honor of ‘the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Resources Award’ in 2013 Korea Green Building Competition. The Korea Green Building Competition selects and awards green buildings that use recyclable energy and minimize greenhouse gas emission. The Numundong company building, ﬁnished in March 2013, was recognized for its ecofriendly design and energy-saving effect. Kyobo Life plans to promote ecofriendly remodeling of its seven branch ofﬁce buildings by 2015 over the course of three stages. Minimizing Emission through Improved Transportation In addition to various activities to save energy, Kyobo Life is working hard to reduce the travel of employees and encourages them to use eco-friendly means of transportation to reduce direct emissions of greenhouse gas. For this, all business/service sites in the country have installed a satellite broadcasting system to participate in major corporate events, enabling employees to remotely watch new ﬁscal year assemblies instead of attending in person. The video conferencing system built on the third ﬂoor of the headquarters is used to hold major business meetings such as board of directors meetings, and the training institute (Gyeseongwon) located in Cheonan pays for employee’s travel expenses based on KTX fare and prohibits them from using their own cars during training to reduce CO2 emissions occurring during travel and save energy by minimizing environmental impact. Earth Hour Support and Participation Kyobo Life has participated in and supported the launching of the “Earth Hour” campaign, designed to increase awareness regarding climate change. This event began in Sydney in 2007 and is one of the largest sustainable development campaigns to have international participants from all over the world. We are participating in the light-out camHonam Company Building Earth Hour” Campaign (Numundong) paign in ofﬁces and landscape from 20:00~22:00 every month. 62 Sustainability Report 2013 Managing Environmental Data The life insurance business is less susceptible to dangers and opportunities stemming from climate change. Despite this, Kyobo Life has decreased costs through managing environmental data and is striving to decrease negative effects on the environment. Energy (Direct, Indirect) Water Ofﬁce Papers 19,539 TOE 573,650 TON 4,016 BOXES *This is based on the data of 53 company buildings managed by Kyobo Realco out of Kyobo Life’s total of 66 company buildings. Ofﬁce paper, toner, and waste data was only collected for the headquarters. *TOE: Amount of energy produced when burning a ton of oil, standardized in calorie units. CO2 Recycling Water Waste Recycling 40,469tCO 2 7,141TON 379 TON 328 TON Energy Consumption (Unit: TOE) Ofﬁce Papers and Toner Usage Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Gas 2,114 2,237 2,201 Ofﬁce Paper (Box) 3,819 3,662 4,016 Direct Energy Oil 757 642 586 Toner (Number of Units) 3,921 4,352 4,273 Total 2,871 2,879 2,787 Electricity 16,554 17,084 16,718 Water Usage Indirect Energy Regional Heating 38 35 34 Category 2011 2012 2013 Total 16,592 17,119 16,752 Total Usage (TON) 545,169 571,189 573,650 Total 19,463 19,998 19,539 Recycled Amount (TON) 13,295 7,816 7,141 Compared to Previous Year 130 535 -459 Recycled Ratio (%) 2.4 1.4 1.2 *Modiﬁcation of oil TOE output coefﬁcient resulted in adjustment of numbers for *Numbers for 2011 and 2012 are partly readjusted. 2011 and 2012. CO2 Emission (Unit: tCO2) Waste Emission Category 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 Direct 6,575 6,499 6,270 Total Emission (TON) 703 381 379 Indirect 35,627 34,948 34,199 Recycled Amount (TON) 281 301 328 Total 42,202 41,447 40,469 Recycled Ratio (%) 40 79 87 *Modiﬁcation of CO2 emission calculation method (application of output coefﬁ*Waste refers to standard ofﬁce waste from company buildings. cient) resulted in adjustment of numbers for 2011 and 2012. Overview 63 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Kyobo Life Environmental Award The Kyobo Life Environmental Annual Award is an integrated environmental award that nominates and awards those individuals who have contributed as inspiring citizens to protect the environment, realizing social values related to environmental protection. In the four different ﬁelds of environmental education, life culture, ecological alternatives, and global, we select recipients based on the sustainability of their actions, social meaning and impacts, and speciﬁc and visible results. 15th Kyobo Life Environmental Award Recipients and Their Activities, 2013 Category Recipients Activities Environmental Daegu Guimal Environment and ecosystem school as a community activities Education Nature School model by ecosystem and agriculture education Life Culture Ji-Seung Shin Movie director, producing movies about communities, life, and nature Ecological Wetland and Wetland conversation group in Busan contributing to public Alternatives Friend of Birds awareness Kyobo Environmental Awards CNIC Playing a critical role since the Hokushima Nuclear Power Global Plant Accident * CNIC: Citizens' Nuclear Information Center Strengthening SRI (Social Responsible Investment) Kyobo Life is continually participating in SRI (Social Responsible Investment), and applying social responsibility investment principles to its asset management to create long-term and stable proﬁts and contribute to the public good. As part of social responsibility investments, we are expanding investments in ecofriendly social infrastructure such as water treatment plants, waste incineration facilities, and development of new recyclable energy. Social value is continually considered as well as ﬁnancial outcome in reviewing investment targets. As of FY2013, SRI investment portions to normal standards assets are 8.63%, which showed an increase of 0.53%p compared to FY2011. Investments for the environment as well as the portion of SRI are all steadily increasing. SRI Investment Amount SRI Amount (Unit: Hundred Million Won) 8.6 Portion to Normal Standards Assets (Unit: %) 8.1 7.6 6.7 4.1 2.1 45,869 51,332 1.6 38,286 30,912 0.8 17,192 5,206 7,611 1,955 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment-related Investments 26.6 Environment-related investment (Unit: Hundred Million Won) 23.6 Portion of above amount in SRI (Unit: %) 17.4 13,634 10,843 6,671 2011 2012 2013 64 Sustainability Report 2013 We will grow together with our Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program partners through fair Kyobo Life established a fair and transparent organizational culture based on the founder ’s philosophy that “nothing is for free nor remains a secret in the world”. Building on this culture, we competition. declared voluntary compliance with fair competition in September 2006 and operated a fair trade voluntary compliance program to nurture a transparent competitive culture. The “Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program” is a series of mechanisms that encourage voluntary observance of fair trade regulations and systems. Contents of the Fair Trade Compliance Program Improving Strengthening advertisement review through advertisement review regulations Systems and (August, 2013) Processes Improving internal regulatory process in industry meetings (November 2013) Disclosing current progress of fair trade voluntary observance operation on the webpage (September 2013) Education Education of Employees: Voluntary observance personnel (twice a year), organization head (annual), new employees (upon recruitment) Collusion Prevention Education: Head office organization heads, primary employees in the product development and accounting teams Education to Prevent Violations of the “Life Insurance Advertisement Law” : Personnel for advertisement projects Education Regarding Kyobo Becoming a “Mutual Investment Restriction Company” : Employees in subsidiaries and other relevant personnel Monitoring Monitoring meetings to prevent collusion (monthly) Monitoring procedures that inspect advertisements for retirement pensions Prior auditing of illegal trade activities when trading with subsidiaries Workplace Ethics Education (Unit: Hours) Realizing Workplace Ethics Kyobo Life provided “Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics” to employees based on Kyobo Life's core objectives and values, as well as a rulebook, “Kyobo WorkCategory 2011 2012 2013 place Ethics Practice Regulations”. In February of 2013, we have also enacted “special rules for Manager 16.5 12.4 9.2 workplace ethics practice” regarding presents, entertainment, and expenditures for congratulatory Non-managers 18 13.2 9.6 and condolence events between employees and between employees and stakeholders to provide more speciﬁc and clear guidelines for action on this issue. Educating Company Guards Workplace Ethics Education To increase the power of execution for employees, we are operating diverse programs for workplace ethics. Periodic conventions and tours are held to increase Category 2011 2012 2013 communication between management and employees as well as encourage them. An organizaNumber of Guards tional level “education for law observance and ethics” course is operated monthly to share compli198 192 182 (Number) ance and workplace ethics issues as well. In FY2013, we operated cyber learning programs about Education Participation practice of workplace ethics and ﬁeld-oriented internal regulatory activities for law observance per100 100 100 Rate (%) sonnel in each department. Reporting Violations Reporting violations is an internal reporting procedure of Kyobo Life where illegal or unjust conducts in the course of business are found or employees are ordered to engage in unfair/illegal business activities or become aware of them. They can report it the CEO or law observance personnel. It is to find and prevent hidden or potential unjust and illegal activities within the company and to build core-value oriented culture. Preventing Collusion Since June 2006, Kyobo Life has banned the sharing of information such as applied interest rates, and other data that can imply prices or insurance claim—conditions that may be seen as collusion. When participating in business meetings, it is mandatory to get advance approval from the law observation personnel. We will further ﬁne tune our internal control processes and continue to eduKyobo's Resolve to Practice Workplace Ethics cate and monitor our employees regarding fair trade regulations. Overview 65 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Industry Meeting Reporting System Industry meetings are regular or irregular (including oneFair Trade Violation Reports (FY2011~2013) time meetings) meetings of more than two competitors where employees participate to run the business of corporations, regardless of any objectives. This includes meetings supervised by the Item Date Measure Reasons governmental supervisory agencies and leave room to be misunderstood as collusion. Kyobo Life Colluding in applied its internal regulatory process in these industry meetings and prevented risks in terms of interest rates Dec. 15, Fines of individual collusion and unfair trade activities in advance. 1,34.7 2011 insurance Billion Won Collusion and publicly announced rates Fixing Increasing Trade Transparency Fines of March 21, commissions for Kyobo Life strives to grow together with its partners through establishing transparent trade cus4.1 2013. equity-linked Billion Won toms. When we select our partners, we consider not only price, quality, and other conditions, but insurances also their observance of the law. Their personal information management, work ethics, and other ethical business activities, along with audit reports are also considered. All purchases and contracts are paid in cash so that we can help our partners circulate their capital. Cyber Purchase System Kyobo Life manages a transparent and fair purchase process by using a cyber-purchase system for managing business partners, notifying estimates and bids, submission of estimates, participating in bids, entering contracts, and making payments. Cyber-purchase system is free from physical limits of time and space and process purchases. Non face-to-face bidding secures a transparency in selecting businesses. Community Purchase Kyobo Life purchases goods from local communities to contribute to proﬁt creation in the communities as part of its various social contribution efforts. We are purchasing service and goods in the amount of approximately 282 million won from farming experience towns and farms through the Family Love Farm Life Experience Program. “Dasomi Family Volunteers” was expanded into other areas to support the purchase of local goods and service and to vitalize local non-proﬁt organizations. The 650 local branch ofﬁces and 66 CustomerPlazas are also promoting community-based purchase campaigns. Business Partners Communication Kyobo Life communicated to the representatives and sales managers from 67 business partners in July 2013 about the purchasing policies of Kyobo Life, importance of information security, and operation of Clean Contract system. This signiﬁes Kyobo Life’s resolve to publicize its transparent and fair purchase process and to grow together with its business partners. Kyobo life will continue to ﬁnd promising business partners and communicate with them to establish a foundation of co-development. Clean Contract Kyobo Life strives to observe transparency and fairness in entering contracts with business partners. ‘Clean Contract’ system means that we will not request or receive good or other treats during the process of purchasing products, labor, construction service, and any other period of contract performance. We have established ‘Clean Contract System Operation Guidelines’ internally and reﬂect them in standard terms of contract. The law observance personnel provides explanations about the system during the bidding process. Also, we sent the notices about the Clean Contract system to companies with more than 20 million won of trade volume as of the past over year over the New Year Holidays and Thanksgiving Day. Present Returns (Unit: Cases) Present Return Center In accordance with the “Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics”, we do 2011 14 not accept any presents from outside stakeholders. When this inevitably occurs, it is mandatory to 2012 8 return them right away. If immediate returns are difﬁcult, then we have a Present Return Center where we register the present and send it back with polite comments. If the giver refuses to take it 2013 3 back or returning the present is impossible in any way, then we donate it to social organizations. Appendix Kyobo Life’s Code of Professional Ethics 67 Third Party Assurance Report 68 GRI G3.1 and ISO 26000 Application Standard 70 Signing and Support of the UN Global Compact 74 Awards and Associations Regarding Sustainability Management 76 GRI Application Level Check Statement 77 Summary of Financial Reports 78 Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics The mission of Kyobo Life is to help all people prepare for Any hardship they might encounter in their lives. Since Kyobo Life's foundation in 1958, this mission has Been steadfastly pursued; we have been earning customer Trust; and this is our priceless and irreplaceable asset. Our vision is to inherit such a tradition, to put first the Interest and benefit of honorable customers, to ceaselessly Pursue audacious goals for the development of the Company And ourselves in a creative spirit, and to become the best company In customer assurance in the Korea life Insurance industry by 2015. To fully achieve this vision in a manner reflective of high Ethical awareness and conduct is no doubt the most for All stakeholders, including customers, financial planners, Employees, investors, and the government and communities, To prosper together and for the Company to Progress perpetually. We, employees at Kyobo Life, solemnly pledge that, even if The vision should seem daunting at times, or an opportunity To make an inappropriate profit should arise, we will always Abide by social regulations, practice Kyobo Life's core Objectives and values, and create a win-win situation for all Stakeholders by achieving the vision. 68 Sustainability Report 2013 Third Party Assurance Report Messrs. Kyobo Life's Board of Directors and Stakeholders Foreword The Korean Standards Association (hereafter 'Assurance Provider') was asked for an independent assurance request regarding its 'Kyobo Life 2013 Sustainability Management Report (hereafter 'the Report')'. The Assurance provider provides an independent assurance opinion based on the data included in the Report and the validity of the evidence related to performance and relevant systems. The Assurance Provider's responsibility is to provide to the Board the results that came from the assurance procedures. The purpose of this assurance report is as follows: to investigate the existence of serious mistakes or prejudice in the Report, to investigate whether or not the information collection system works, and to review the selection process and results of the sustainability management materiality test in order to provide opinions that can increase the quality of the Report. The accountability for all assertions in the Report as well as the collection, analysis, and organization of data for publishing the Report lies with Kyobo Life. Independence The Assurance Provider does not have any common, proﬁt-related interests with Kyobo Life regarding its business activity except the tasks regarding the provision of the Third Party's Assurance. As an independent assurance institution, we hold no other interest that may decrease our independence. Assurance Standards and Levels With the AA1000AS 2008 Assurance Standards at the core, the Assurance Provider has also applied GRI G3.1 guidelines as well as ISO 26000. We have identiﬁed the scope of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness according to the assurance standards of AA1000AS 2008 as well as the credibility of the data that was included in the 2013 Report. The credibility of the data included in Kyobo Life's Sustainability Management Report was found to be of a 'Moderate Level' of assurance. Assurance Types and Scope The Assurance Provider carried out Type 2 assurance according to the AA1000 Assurance Standards (AA1000 AS). Type 2 assurance means that the exactness and quality of the sustainability management performance information and Kyobo Life's assertion were evaluated under the accountability principles of AA1000 2008 Assurance Standards. The scope of assurance was during FY2013 (April 1st, 2013 to December 31st, 2013). The Assurance Provider has carried out assurance activities regarding Kyobo Life's sustainability management policies, objectives, business activities, standards, and performances, mostly within their systems and activities. We have also assured its environmental, social and ﬁnancial data relating to its broad sense of performance, and the involvement of the Assurance Provider regarding stakeholder participation was limited to the review of the materiality tests. Assurance Methods and Performance The Assurance Provider has used the following methods to collect necessary information, data, and evidence related to the assurance scope, and has performed the assurance procedures. · Reviews of the selection process of major issues used in sustainability management performance improvement and the Report · Review of the selection of Kyobo Life’s major stakeholder groups and stakeholder participation process · Analysis of major issues in sustainability management through benchmarking of companies in the same industries or those with excellent sustainability management · The gathering of performance information and written questions and answers to evaluate the coherence of reported information · On-site interviews with personnel that manage the sustainability management team and work-site departments by visiting Kyobo Life's Headquarters · Evaluation of the correspondence of the financial performance data and FY2013 audit reports in the sustainability management report with the publicly announced data · Compliance with the reporting principles of content and quality based on GRI G3.1 guidelines and application standard · Tracing and reviewing of internal documents and basic data Assurance Results and Opinion The Assurance Provider has reviewed the contents of the Report's draft, given opinions, and when needed, proposed its revision. Also, we have been unable to identify any grave mistakes or inappropriately written portions in the Report through our assurance activities. The Assurance Provider has conﬁrmed that the Report has an A+ application level of the international reports standards of the GRI G3.1 guidelines, and would like to give the following opinion regarding Kyobo Life's Sustainability Management Report. Overview 69 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Inclusivity Has Kyobo Life included the stakeholders during its process of strategically dealing with sustainability management? The Assurance Provider has conﬁrmed that Kyobo Life has recognized the importance of core stakeholder participation within its pursuit of sustainability management and is putting efforts into the creation of a participation process. It has selected core stakeholder groups such as customers, ﬁnancial planners, employees, investors, government and local communities and has operated customized channels for each stakeholder trait, and we would like to speciﬁcally give credit to how the committee regarding sustainability management is operated so that collecting the Board's opinions and supporting its decision-making process is carried out on a periodical basis. The Assurance Provider has not found a major group of stakeholders excluded from the participation process of stakeholders operated to promote Kyobo Life’s sustainability management. Materiality Has Kyobo Life incorporated material information so that stakeholders can make sound decisions? The Report has examined the issues that need to be considered in the promotion of sustainability management through internal and external environmental analysis and drew major issues according to the core groups of stakeholders and 10 principles of sustainability management. The Assurance Provider has decided that Kyobo Life has not omitted nor excluded any important information from the stakeholders. As a recommendation, Kyobo Life should precisely complement the materiality test process so that it reﬂects daily tasks in the current business and sustainability trends that can create future value appropriately to promote Kyobo Life’s sustainability management strategies in connection with such issues. Responsiveness Has Kyobo Life appropriately responded to stakeholders' demands and interests in the Report? The Assurance Provider has conﬁrmed that Kyobo Life has carried out diverse activities to appropriately respond to issues related to sustainability management and they were adequately stated in the Report. It is worth noting that sustainability management tasks were reported by connecting them to pledges, principles, and KPIs for individual stakeholders, and DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) performances were reported in a time series development, which is worth highly positive remarks in that Kyobo Life continuously responds to stakeholder opinions and interests. As a recommendation, we believe that Kyobo Life lacks the connectivity between reporting issues to stakeholders and suggest building the structure of future stakeholders’ expectations and demands, pledges (responsibilities), and accomplishing plans to publish reports based on stakeholders’ principles. Opinions by Area and Recommendations for Improvement In order for Kyobo Life to further pursue its company-wide sustainability management strategically and to create a basis for continued responses toward core issues, we would like to give recommendations to review the following. Sustainability Management Processes We think highly of Kyobo Life’s efforts in its promotion of company-wide sustainability management by establishing major sustainability management issues in terms of pledges to the core groups of stakeholders, principles, and KPIs to produce and disclose results and future plans. We advise Kyobo Life to include global sustainability management trend issues in the selection of future reporting issues and engage in more in-depth communication with stakeholders to reﬂect their demands directly and publish the results in the reports for the completion of a two-way reporting process. Sustainability Management Results Kyobo Life obtained an A+ Credit Rating from the Fitch Ratings for the ﬁrst time among domestic life insurance companies by maintaining a sound ﬁnancial structure. We advise Kyobo Life to publish objectives and rate of accomplishment in each ﬁeld to reveal their efforts in honoring their pledges with stakeholders in the reports. In consideration of the promotion of ﬁnancial corporation’s sustainability from the point of ESG, an explanation of the governance structure is essential. Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is based on the CEO’s strong resolve and the founder’s philosophy, which is different from other domestic corporations, and it is advisable to be more speciﬁc and to put more emphasis in the reporting and reporting standard of the governance structure. Kyobo Life is not directly related to the industry dealing with greenhouse gas and energy, but is leading efforts to manage energy consumption and CO2 emission. We hope to see Kyobo Life develop and manage quantitative indexes for the reduction of greenhouse gas as part of direct regulatory measures to strengthen its position as the leader in the ﬁeld of climate change. March 4, 2014 Kim Chang-Ryong, President of the KSA (Korean Standards Association) 70 Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 and ISO 26000 Application Standard Reported Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Proﬁle ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Reporting Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Subjects & Themes Page Level Stakeholder Inclusiveness Principle 6.8.2 Community involvement 18 ● Promoting social responsibility in the Boundary Protocol 6.6.5 value chain About this Report ● Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 6.2 2~3 ● Organizational Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6.2 2~3, 52~53 ● Organizational Proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organization. 6 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 10~11 ● Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, sub2.3 sidiaries, and joint ventures. 6.2 Organizational Governance 6~8 ● 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 6 ● Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 6~7 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 8 ● 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneﬁciaries). 6~7, 10~11 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6~7, 50~51 ● 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 8 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Appendix ● Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., ﬁscal/calendar year) for information provided. About this Report ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About this Report ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this Report ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report ● 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content. 19~21 ● Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. About this Report ● State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness princi3.7 ple for explanation of scope). About this Report ● Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other 3.8 entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. – Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. About this Report ● Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 3.10 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, – nature of business, measurement methods). Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 methods applied in the report. – 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Appendix ● 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 7.5.3 Veriﬁcation Appendix ● Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 body responsible for speciﬁc tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 6.2 Organizational Governance 13~14 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive ofﬁcer. 6.2 13 ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members 4.3 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 6.2 13 ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 highest governance body. 6.2 43 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior manag4.5 ers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance 6.2 14 ● (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided. 6.2 13~14 ● Process for determining the composition, qualiﬁcations, and expertise of the members of the 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other 6.2 13~14 ● indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 4.8 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 6.2 9, Appendix ● Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 4.9 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of 6.2 13~14 ● conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with 4.10 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 6.2 14 ● Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 organization. 6.2 64~65 ● Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initia4.12 tives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 6.2 Appendix ● Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Par4.13 ticipates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership 6.2 Appendix ● dues; or * Views membership as strategic. Overview 71 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Reported Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Proﬁle ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Reporting Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Subjects & Themes Page Level 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 Organizational Governance 18 ● 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 6.2 18 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 4.16 by type and by stakeholder group. 6.2 18, 21~23 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engage4.17 ment, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and con6.2 25, 35, 41, 49, 55, ● cerns, including through its reporting. Economic (Disclosure on Management Approach) Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operCommunity involvement and development / CommuEC1 ating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community invest6.8/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 nity involvement / Wealth and income creation / Social 12 ● ments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. investment Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organizaEC2 tion's activities due to climate change. 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and action 60, 63 ● Conditions of work and social protection / Community EC3 Coverage of the organization's deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations. 6.4.4/6.8 involvement and development 42 ● EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Conditions of work and social protection Community EC5 minimum wage at signiﬁcant locations of operation. 6.4.4/6.8 involvement and development 42 ● Promoting social responsibility in the value chain / CommuEC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at 6.6.6/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 nity involvement and development / Employment creation 44, 65 ● signiﬁcant locations of operation. and skills development / Wealth and income creation Community involvement and development / EmployEC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 ment creation and skills development / Wealth and 44 ◐ the community at signiﬁcant locations of operation. income creation Economic, social and cultural rights / Community involveDevelopment and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided pri6 .3.9/6.8/6.8.3/6.8.4/ ment and development / Community involvement / EduEC8 marily for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 6.8.5/6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 cation and culture / Technology development and access / 56~59 ● Wealth and income creation / Social investment Economic, social and cultural rights / Community 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ involvement and development / Community involveEC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, includ6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.6/ ment / Education and culture / Employment creation ○ ing the extent of impacts. 6.8.7/6.8.9 and skills development / Technology development and access / Wealth and income creation / Social investment Environmental (Disclosure on Management Approach) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 62 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 62 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 62 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 62 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvements. 61~62 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable energy based products and 6.5/6.5.4 The Environment / Sustainable resource use EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 61~62 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 62 ● EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 62 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, proEN11 tected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. The Environment / Protection of the environment & It is not relevant to 6.5/6.5.6 biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitat Kyobo Life's business EN13 Habitats protected or restored. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 62 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5/6.5.5 The Environment / Climate change mitigation and action EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 61~62 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5/6.5.3 The Environment / Prevention of pollution 62 ● EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazEN24 ardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and The Environment / Sustainable resource use / Protection EN25 related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting organization's dis6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 of the environment & biodiversity, and restoration of charges of water and runoff. natural habitat Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and The Environment / Sustainable resource use / Promoting social EN26 extent of impact mitigation. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 responsibility in the value chain / Sustainable consumption 61~63 ● Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed The Environment / Sustainable resource use / SustainEN27 by category. 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 able consumption Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sancEN28 tions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. 6.5 The Environment No violations ● 72 Sustainability Report 2013 GRI G3.1 and ISO 26000 Application Standard Reported Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Proﬁle ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Reporting Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Subjects & Themes Page Level Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods EN29 and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting mem6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 The Environment / Sustainable resource use / Promoting 61 ● bers of the workforce. social responsibility in the value chain EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 The Environment 63 ● Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work (Disclosure on Management Approach) Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broLA1 ken down by gender. 44 ● Labour Practices / 6.4/6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age LA2 group, gender, and region. 44 ● Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Labour Practices / Employment and employment relaLA3 or part-time employees, by major operations. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 tionships / Conditions of work and social protection 42 ● Labour Practices / Employment and employment relationLA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/ ships / Conditions of work and social protection / Social 43 ● 6.3.10 dialogue / Fundamental principles and rights at work Labour Practices / Employment and employment relaLA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant operational changes, includ6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 tionships / Conditions of work and social protection / 43 ● ing whether it is speciﬁed in collective agreements. Social dialogue Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 43~44 ● health and safety programs. 6.4/6.4.6 Labour Practices / Health and safety at work Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and numLA7 ber of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. ○ Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Labour Practices / Health and safety at work / ComLA8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/6.8.3/ munity involvement and development / Community 42, 57~58 ● regarding serious diseases. 6.8.4/6.8.8 involvement / Education and culture / Health LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 6.4/6.4.6 Labour Practices / Health and safety at work 42, 45 ● Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee Labour Practices / Human development and training in LA10 category. 6 .4/ 6.4.7 the workplace 47 ● Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continLabour Practices / Human development and training in the LA11 ued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 workplace / Employment creation and skills development 38~39, 46~47 ● Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developLabour Practices / Human development and training in LA12 ment reviews, by gender. 6.4/6.4.7 the workplace 44~45 ● Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Discrimination and vulnerable groups / FundamenLA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3 tal principles and rights at work / Labour Practices / 13, 44 ◐ indicators of diversity. Employment and employment / relationships Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Fundamental prinRatio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee cate6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3/ ciples and rights at work / Labour Practices / Employment LA14 gory, by signiﬁcant locations of operation. 6.4.4 and employment relationships / Conditions of work and 42, 45 ● social protection Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Economic, social LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 6.3.7/6.3.9 and cultural rights 42 ● Social: Human Rights (Disclosure on Management Approach) Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements and conHR1 tracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have 6.3/6.33/6.3.5/6.6.6 Human Rights / Due diligence / Avoidance of complicity / ○ undergone human rights screening. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Human Rights / Due diligence / Avoidance of complicity / HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers, contractors and other business partners 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ Employment and employment relationships / Promoting ○ that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. 6.4.3/6.6.6 social responsibility in the value chain Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the per6.3/6.3.5 Human Rights / Avoidance of complicity 64 ● centage of employees trained. Human Rights / Resolving grievances / Discrimination and HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ vulnerable groups / Fundamental principles and rights at No ● 6.3.10/6.4.3 work / Employment and employment relationships discrimination Human Rights / Due diligence / Human rights risk situaOperations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed in which the right to exercise 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/ tions / Avoidance of complicity / Civil and political rights HR5 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at sig6.3.8/6.3.10/6.4.3/ / Fundamental principles and rights at work / EmployNo violations ● niﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 6.4.5 ment and employment relationships / Social dialogue Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for Human Rights / Due diligence / Human rights risk situations HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/ / Avoidance of complicity / Discrimination and vulnerable 45 ● abolition of child labor. 6.3.7/6.3.10 groups / Fundamental principles and rights at work Operations and signiﬁcant suppliers identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for Human Rights / Due diligence / Human rights risk situations HR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the 6 .3/ 6.3.3/ 6.3.4/6.3.5/ / Avoidance of complicity / Discrimination and vulnerable 45 ● elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 6.3.7/6.3.10 groups / Fundamental principles and rights at work Human Rights / Avoidance of complicity / EmployHR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or pro6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 ment and employment relationships / Promoting social 64 ● cedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. responsibility in the value chain Human Rights / Resolving grievances / DiscriminaHR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ tion and vulnerable groups / Civil and political rights / and actions taken. 6.3.8/6.6.7 Respect for property rights Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human HR10 rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 6 .3.3 /6.3.4 Due diligence / Human rights risk situations ○ Number of grievances related to human rights ﬁled, addressed and resolved No HR11 through formal grievance mechanisms. 6.3.6 Resolving grievances complaints ﬁled ● Overview 73 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix Reported Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Proﬁle ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Reporting Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Subjects & Themes Page Level Social: Society (Disclosure on Management Approach) Economic, social and cultural rights / Community involvement SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented community engagement, impact 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7/ and development / Employment creation and skills development 56~59 ● assessments, and development programs. 6.6.7 / Wealth and income creation / Respect for property rights Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to SO2 corruption. 64~65 ● Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies 6.6/6.6.3 Fair Operating Practices / Anti-corruption SO3 and procedures. 64 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 64~65 ● Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and SO5 lobbying. ○ 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 Fair Operating Practices / Responsible political involveTotal value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politiment / Community involvement SO6 cians, and related institutions by country. ○ Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Fair Operating Practices / Fair competition / Respect for SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 property rights 64~65 ● Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sancFair Operating Practices / Respect for property rights / SO8 tions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 64~65 ● Operations with signiﬁcant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 communities. Community involvement and development Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with signiﬁSO10 cant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Community involvement and development Social: Product Responsibility (Disclosure on Management Approach) Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services PR1 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and 32~33 ● services categories subject to such procedures. Economic, social and cultural rights / Promoting social 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/6.7.4/ responsibility in the value chain / Consumer Issues / ProtectTotal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 6.7.5 ing consumers’ health & safety / Sustainable consumption PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage Consumer Issues / Fair marketing, factual and unbiased PR3 of signiﬁcant products and services subject to such information requirements. information and fair contractual practices / Protecting 28~31 ● 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7.5/ consumers’ health & safety / Sustainable consumption Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.6/6.7.9 / Consumer service, support and complaint and dispute PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. resolution / Education and awareness No violations ● Consumer Issues / Protecting consumers’ health & safety Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys mea6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.6/ / Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, support PR5 suring customer satisfaction. 6.7.8/6.7.9 and complaint and dispute resolution / Access to essen26~27 ● tial services / Education and awareness Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Consumer Issues / Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 28 ● information and fair contractual practices / Consumer Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.6/6.7.9 service, support and complaint and dispute resolution / PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promoEducation and awareness 28 ● tion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Consumer Issues / Consumer data protection and priPR8 privacy and losses of customer data. 6.7/6.7.7 vacy 27 ● Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulaConsumer Issues / Consumer service, support and comPR9 tions concerning the provision and use of products and services. 6.7/6.7.6 plaint and dispute resolution No violations ● GRI Description Page Reporting Level Financial Services Sector Supplement FS1 Policies with speciﬁc environmental and social components applied to business lines. 15 ● FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. 52~53 ● FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions. 28~30 ● FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines. 28, 39, 56, 60 ● FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. 58~60 ● FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by speciﬁc region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. 10~11 ● FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a speciﬁc social beneﬁt for each business line broken down by purpose. 59 ● FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a speciﬁc environmental beneﬁt for each business line broken down by purpose. 63 ● FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures. 52~53 ● FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. 63 ● FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. 63 ● FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. ○ FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. 29 ● FS14 Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial services for disadvantaged people. 29, 59 ● FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of ﬁnancial products and services. 30~33 ● FS16 Initiatives to enhance ﬁnancial literacy by type of beneﬁciary. ○ 74 Sustainability Report 2013 Signing and Support of the UN Global Compact Kyobo Life joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC) in September 2010, thereby makes public its will to abide by the 10 principles of the UNCG. This sustainability management report contains practice principles for 24 criteria required by the Advanced level of the UN Global Compact. UNGC Field Criterion Report Content (or Future Plan) Page Announcing the Resolve, Results, and Future Plans of Sustainability 2~3 Management through CEO’s Message. 1. Discussion of Strategic Side of UNGC Practice on the Top Management and Executive Level Establishment of Company-Wide Sustainability Management System and 15 Strategy, Promotion Organization(Sustainability Management Support Team) Governance and 2. Sustainability Decision Making Process and Deﬁning Major Stakeholder Groups and Collecting Opinions 18 Engagement Governance System (External Experts Meetings, Stakeholders Meetings) 3. Participation of Major Stakeholders Application of Stakeholders’ Opinions in Establishing Management Strategies 16~17 Drawing and Reﬂecting Major Sustainability Issues from Stakeholders 19~21 UN Goals Providing Fair Development of Human Resources 45 4. Activities to Support UN Objectives and Issues and Issues Programs for Socially Vulnerable Class 45 5. Pledges, Strategies, and Policies in Human Rights Application of Human Rights Protection Principles in Kyobo Life’s Code of 67 Professional Ethics, Regulations to be Practiced, and Employment Rules 6. Efforts to Incorporate Human Rights Principles into Management System Discussion of Labor Rights through Management-Labor Meetings 43 Human Rights 7. System to Monitor and Evaluate Integrated Internal Reporting System, Counseling Center 64 Implementation Results of Human Rights Principles Gathering Opinions through Regular Meetings with Business Partners 65 8. Application of Standardized Index of Results Employee Education of Preventing Sexual Harassment 45 in Human Rights (Supporting Observance with the Law/Free Trade Part) Observing ILO Labor Agreement, Domestic Labor Law, and Social Security Law Clear Statement of Mutual Right and Duty through Collective Agreements 9. Pledges, Strategies, and Policies in Labor Deciding Major Labor Agenda through Labor-Management Meeting 10. Efforts to Incorporate Labor Principles into Reporting System of Unfair Labor Practice Management System Labour Principles Open Communication between CEO and Employees (Communication through 11. System Monitoring and Evaluating InteCEO’s Field Trips, Complementary Luncheons, and Intercompany Mails) 42~45 Implementation grated Results of Labor Principles Prohibition of Child Labor and Forced Labor by Employment Rules 12. Application of Standardized Index of Results Establishment of Occupational Safety and Health Committee in Labor by Labor-Management Agreement Promoting Family-Friendly Management (Guaranteeing Women’s Rights through Intercompany Child Care Facility) 13. Pledges, Strategies, and Polices in Environment Clear Statement of Compliance with Pledge to the Government and 15,60 Local Communities Reflecting Characteristics of Corporation 14. Efforts to Incorporate Environmental Environmental Principles into Management System Promotion of Regular Energy Saving Activities 61 Stewardship 15. System Monitoring and Evaluating Results Regular Motoring of Environmental Index(Energy consumption) by 62 Implementation of Environmental Leadership Environmental Departments 16. Application of Standardized Index of Results Announcement of Environmental Results Index(Energy Consumption) 17 in Environment through Sustainability Management Reports and Webpage Overview 75 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix 1. All internationally proclaimed human rights shall be supported and respected. Human Rights 2. Businesses shall make efforts to not be complicit in human rights abuses. 3. The freedom of association and collective bargaining rights shall be upheld. 4. All forms of forced and compulsory labor shall be prohibited. Labor 5. Child labor shall be prohibited. 6. Employment and occupation discrimination shall be eliminated. 7. Preventive approach to environmental problems shall be supported. 8. Initiatives to support greater environmental responsibility shall be encouraged. Environment Kyobo Life singed the UN Global Compact, the 9.The development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies shall international compact for corporate social responsibility, be encouraged. and supports the 10 principles in the 4 ﬁelds of human Anti10. All forms of corruption in business, including extortion and bribery shall be rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Corruption opposed. UNGC Field Criterion Report Content (or Future Plan) Page 17. Pledges, Strategies, and Policies in Anti-Corruption Clear Statement of Growing Together with Partners through Fair Com15,64 18. Efforts to Incorporate Anti-Corruption petition as a Principle to Observe Pledges to the Government and Local Anti-Corruption Principles into Management System Communities under Sustainability Management System Implementation 19. System Monitoring and Evaluating Results Operation of Fair Competition Voluntary Compliance Program 64 of Anti-Corruption All Employees’ Annual Signing of Code of Professional Ethics 64 20. Application of Standardized Index of Results in Anti-Corruption Regular Meetings with Business Partners Value Chain 21. Practice of UNGC Principles within Considering business Partners’ observance with the Law, personal information management standards, and enactment of ethical rules as 65 Implementation Value Chain well as price, quality, and conditions in selecting business partners Clean Contract Providing General Corporate Information on Governance, Management 6~23 22. Disclosing Information on Organizational Methods, Major Products and Service, and Stakeholder’s’ Participation Proﬁles and Management Backgrounds Accreditation of System and Results through Independent 3rd Party 68~69 Transparency Agencies 23. Application of External Standards for and Veriﬁcation Disclosing Transparency Results Use of GRI G3.1 and ISO 26000 as Report Guidelines 70~73 24. Securing Accreditation from Trustworthy Earning GRI Application Level Check 'A+' 77 3rd parties Annual Management of Results and Plans in Areas of Pledges to 16~17 Stakeholders (5), Principles(10), and KPI(13) 76 Sustainability Report 2013 Awards Regarding Sustainability Management Date Content Nov. 2013 Consumer Grand Prize by the Korean Society of Consumer Studies Nov. 2013 Best Practice Award by the UN Global Compact Grand Award in the life insurance category for Financial Customer Protection awards sponsored by The Korea Economic Daily Nov. 2012 (Financial Supervisory Service award) Oct. 2012 Personality of the Year Award from the IRC, Chang-Jae Shin Oct. 2012 First place in the KSA '2012 Korean Sustainability Index' in the life insurance category (3 consecutive years) May. 2012 Ofﬁcial commendations from the President for those merited for Children's Day, hosted by the Ministry of Health and Welfare Minister's Award from the Ministry of Knowledge Economy's 'Sustainability Management Awards' Nov. 2011 (Awarded Best First Sustainability Management Report) Feb. 2011 A Ministry of Health & Welfare Award in recognition of promoting welfare for the disabled Grand Award in the ﬁnancial product and service innovation category of ‘2012 Korea Financial Innovation Award’ for Sep. 2010 (Non-Divided) Kyobo Life 100 Year Life Variable Pension Insurance May, 2010 'Korea CEO Award' for Chairman Chang-Jae Shin’ May, 2010 'Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award', Chairman Chang-Jae Shin March 2010 '50 Respected Korean Corporations', Fortune Korea, No. 1 in the insurance industry Association and Membership Regarding Sustainability Management Organization Main Activities Membership Promotes a healthy insurance culture, supports information sharing for rational insurance policy Life Insurance Association 1958 formation Korea Insurance Society Researches insurance-related theories, laws, and practices 1964 Adopting diverse insurance policies and holding seminars, as well as exchanging information with The Institute of Actuaries Korea 1978 foreign actuary institutes LOMA(Life Ofﬁce Management Publishes and shares reliable insurance industry data for public sharing 1978 Association Insurance Development Inst. Offers information on fair and rational insurance prices, rates and other related issues 1990 Promotes the exchange of ﬁnancial safety information for information protection and discussion Financial Safety Forum 2002 of safety techniques and policy directions Ethical Management SM Forum Promotes ethical management and researches on sustainability management 2005 Conducts various activities aimed at preventing and countering hacking, and other information Financial Safety Agency 2006 protection activities Korea Fair Competition Federation Promotes the understanding and practices of fair trade 2006 Korea Risk Management Researches risk recognition and loss and offers information through business exchange 2006 UN Global Compact Korea Chapter Exchange of information on Korean member corporation’s social responsibility practice 2010 Overview 77 Customers and the Future Financial Planners and the Future Employees and the Future Investors and the Future Government·Communities and the Future Appendix GRI Application Level Check Statement Highlights · The GRI has reviewed the FY2013 sustainability management report that Kyobo has submitted, and certiﬁes that the requirements for Application Level A+ were met. · The GRI Application Levels show the extent to how the G3.1 guidelines were applied regarding this sustainability management report. · The GRI Checks conﬁrm that the material that were to be revealed have been fully reﬂected, and the GRI Contents Index prove that the material demanded to be revealed have been identiﬁed according to the G3.1 guidelines. · Application Levels do not suggest opinions on the quality of information provided by or the outcomes of the company's sustainability management. 78 Sustainability Report 2013 Financial Highlights A Balance Sheet (Financial Position) (Unit: Hundred Million Won) Category FY2013 FY20122) FY2011 Assets 736,626 699,615 623,616 Cash and Deposits 11,117 6,427 9,557 Financial Assets 1) 366,039 347,687 295,287 Loans 156,349 152,070 141,311 Other Assets 61,064 60,162 58,870 Separate Account Assets 142,057 133,269 118,591 Liabilities 676,960 640,680 572,237 Policy Reserve 513,209 483,058 430,984 Other Liabilities 16,894 22,713 21,149 Separate Account Liabilities 146,857 134,909 120,104 Equity 59,666 58,935 51,379 Capital Stock 1,025 1,025 1,025 Capital Surplus, and etc. 4,228 4,228 4,228 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 8,219 10,866 8,213 Retained Earning 46,194 42,816 37,913 Liabilities and Equity 736,626 699,615 623,616 1) Financial Assets = Short-term trading ﬁnancial assets + Assets available for sale + Assets held for maturity 2) The Introduction of IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) Phase 2 (insurance contract) ﬁnancial standards resulted in adjustment of numbers for 2011 and 2012. Income Statement (Separate Statements of Comprehensive Income) (Unit: Hundred Million Won) Category FY2013 FY20124) FY2011 Operating Revenues 88,002 127,135 106,615 Premium Income 56,144 88,269 68,153 Investment Income, and etc. 31,858 38,866 37,862 Operation Expenses 82,444 121,116 99,032 Liability from Insurance Contract 30,029 51,970 34,541 Claims Paid 3) 46,318 62,793 57,645 Other Expenses 6,097 6,353 6,846 Operating Income 5,558 6,019 6,983 Income Before Tax 5,199 6,113 7,232 Income Tax 1,266 268 1,724 Net Income 3,933 5,845 5,508 3) Claims Paid=Paid insurance + costs for reinsurance + working expenses + depreciation for new contract 4) The Introduction of IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) Phase 2 (insurance contract) ﬁnancial standards resulted in adjustment of numbers for 2011 and 2012. 79 Sustainability Report 2013 KYOBO Life This report was published in Korean and English and can be viewed at Kyobo Life’s Webpage (www.kyobo.co.kr). If you have any inquiries or suggestions, then please contact by referring to the following information. Sustainability Management Team Kyobo Life, 1, Jong-ro, Jongro-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel_ +82 2 721-2529, 2530, 2531, 2532 Fax_ + 82 2 721-3172 E-mail_ kyobocsr@kyobo.co.kr This report is printed on paper certiﬁed as sustainable by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) using soy ink. *FSCTM: The mark is awarded to products made of wood produced through responsible forestry.
