2013 Sustainability Report 1 CONTENTS 18 24 34 44 52 02 Message from the SUSTAINED ENERGY SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION CUSTOMER-FIRST “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” GIVING BACK TO SOCIETY Chairman SUPPLY AND OPERATION MARKET SERVICE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 04 Interview with the President 19 Consolidating Resource Base 25 Improving HSE Management 35 Enhancing Quality 45 Employee Rights 53 Promoting Local Development Management 06 About PetroChina 21 Optimizing Product Structure 26 Enhancing Operational Safety 46 Occupational Health 55 Poverty Alleviation 38 Focusing on Research and 08 Highlights in 2013 21 Accelerating Construction of 29 Promoting Energy Saving and Emissions Development 47 Platform for Employee 56 Supports for Education Pipeline Network Reduction Development 10 Corporate Governance 39 Providing High-quality 57 Volunteer Activities 22 Developing Alternative Energy 31 Ecological Protection Products 49 Local Staff Development 15 Communication with 58 Contributions to Overseas Stakeholders 23 Extending International 33 Response to Climate Change 41 Delivering Considerate Services 51 Security in Overseas Communities Cooperation Operations 43 Stabilizing Oil and Gas Supply 62 Objectives and Plans 64 Performance Statistics 66 Approach to Reporting 2 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 01 Message from the Chairman volatility, and protected shareholders’ interests. The Company responsibilities, widely promote personal safety action plans, enjoyed steady production levels, systematic operations and and strictly implement safety and environmental measures As the Company grows, we will actively fulfill our a stable workforce. We would like to express our appreciation in key areas and processes. With the objective of creating a social responsibility to be a good corporate citizen to all stakeholders for their involvement and interest in harmonious and stable growth environment, we will spare no and make new contributions to socio-economic our development and to the trust placed in the Company effort in solving the most pressing and practical issues faced development. and our staff from society, and their recognition of our by our employees, and to safeguard their legitimate rights achievements, position and contributions. and interests. In addition, we will strengthen contact and communication with investors, partners, customers, suppliers PetroChina is a company that covers a wide range of and other stakeholders and the public, and public welfare businesses, has a great number of stakeholders and will be actively supported. The Company will reinforce anticommands a lot of attention from the public. The Company corruption mechanisms and protection by promoting the Thank you for reading this report and for your continued were put under investigation on suspicion of violations of is now going through a transition from development focused development of disciplinary procedures and preventative support for PetroChina. 2013 has certainly proved to be an statutory laws and regulations, which shocked the Company on increasing scale to development focusing on quality measures, enhancing leadership management and awareness, unusual and challenging year for us. The world economy and the public. The above all posed unprecedented challenges. and efficiency. This transition constitutes a crucial juncture and increasing supervision over the exercise of power, with the has entered a period of significant readjustment, and global in our quest to build a world-class international energy aim of building PetroChina into a model of transparency and demand for energy has continued to grow. Competition in Given these difficulties and constraints, our new Board of company. The Company will continue its overall strategy to integrity. the oil and gas market has intensified, and this has increased Directors and the top management carefully analyzed and build on strong foundations, and pursue its development the risks and challenges facing the Company’s international determined current opportunities and challenges, and policy of quality and efficiency for sustainable growth. The As the Company grows, we will actively fulfill our social operations. The Chinese economy is going through “three agreed to establish and implement a development policy Company affords top priority to the development of oil responsibility to be a good corporate citizen and make new overlapping changes”: a shift in the pace of economic growth, that pursues quality, efficiency and sustainability, so as to and gas operations, the deepening of corporate reform, contributions to socio-economic development. the temporary impact of structural adjustment and the establish PetroChina as a world-class international energy the promotion of innovation as a driver of development, absorption of China’s early-stage stimulus program. Deeplycompany by 2020. Our employees rose to the challenge and and the strengthening of management. The Company will embedded structural problems and contradictions such put themselves to work. As a result, our overall performance continue to restructure, transform its methods, increase its as overcapacity and environmental limitations continued has been better than expected, with a number of highlights. dynamism and effectiveness, and ensure production targets to manifest themselves, increasing the need for a change We maintained good momentum in domestic exploration are met. We will make special efforts in promoting safety and of course in the petroleum and petrochemical industries. and production, continued to optimize refining operations, environmental protection, harmony and stability, and antiAs regards our own development, it became clear that the increased oil and gas sales and made strategic breakthroughs corruption measures, and these three fundamental tasks will speed and scale of growth were out of sync with its quality in our international operations. Technological innovation be prioritized to their highest level yet. In order to enhance and efficiency, and it was more difficult to maintain a stable played an increasing role in driving development, and our capabilities in risk prevention and emergency response, growth performance. Complicated by natural disasters such the transformation of our management and operations and improve performance in health and safety, we will Zhou Jiping, Chairman of the Board as catastrophic floods, it was extremely difficult to achieve the processes and methods continued. As part of the Company’s continue to prioritize protecting people, the environment, double goal of “maintaining economic growth and efficiency”. responsibility to our shareholders, we expanded marketing safety and quality throughout production and operations. In addition, a number of senior executives of the Company communications, responded appropriately to stock price We will assign safety and environmental protection 02 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 03 Interview with the President management skills such as quality, measurement, standardization, development, so as to build an ecologically civilized society and systems and processes. The Company will optimize investment together with all sections of the community. management, implement strict cost management, closely control international operations and overall staff quality. While we are operational risks, work hard to improve operational quality and Smog is caused by both meteorological conditions and pollution modest, we are determined to address these gaps, acknowledge efficiency, and improve the level of modernization, international emissions. As a major supplier of clean energy in China, PetroChina our deficiencies, and to improve our quality and efficiency, and management and management performance. At the same time, actively fulfills its social responsibility to prevent and control air catch up even faster than we are doing now. we should strengthen our branding, actively fulfill our social pollution by developing natural gas, accelerating oil product responsibilities, act as a good corporate citizen, and work hard to upgrades, and promoting clean production. The goal is to “become a world-class international build PetroChina into a world-famous brand. energy company”. What are your objectives and First, we will actively develop natural gas. In 2013, our natural gas specific measures to achieve this? The Chinese government has put forward widesupply accounts for about 70% of China’s natural gas consumption, ranging requirements to deepen overall reform. playing an important role in rebalancing China’s energy mix. We have established the following six objectives: to maintain our What do you think of the reform, and how can it be lead in total asset size and our advanced operating performance Second, we will promote the utilization of natural gas terminals. achieved? level, to enjoy clear advantages from technological innovation, to We will actively promote the use of LNG trucks and ships for urban conform to international-level management standards, to become public transport, long-distance passenger transport, and logistics The Chinese government has announced its decision and a world-renowned brand, and to have an excellent quality of staff. and transportation in the Bohai Rim, Yangtze River Delta and arrangements for comprehensively deepening reform, which is Sichuan-Chongqing Region. of far-reaching significance. The deepening of reforms provides a To achieve these objectives, we need to prioritize a few key areas, fundamental solution to many issues we face. We will pay attention integrate strategies and promote them in a holistic manner. Third, we will complete on schedule the 10 major energy security to the overall plan regarding company reform requirements, and projects covered in the Agreement for Fulfilling the Task of Major deepen reforms through regulating business decision-making, First, we must adjust and optimize the business structure, continue Energy Security Projects for Atmospheric Pollution and Prevention in the maintaining and increasing the value of assets, participating in promoting the construction of five key domestic oil and gas Capital, including the third and the fourth Shaanxi-Beijing pipeline fair competition, increasing business efficiency and company production areas, try our best to gain economies of scale in projects, the Beijing Section of the Datang coal-to-gas pipeline dynamism, and fulfilling social responsibilities, so as to develop reserves and to achieve efficient production. We should accelerate project, and the Enhanced Production Project at Changqing Oilfield. The Company has set a goal to “become a worldmodern and international corporate governance systems and class international energy company by 2020”. What is the development of natural gas operations as they are strategic, management capabilities. By 2020, a corporate governance growing and value-added, and we must work hard to increase Fourth, we will upgrade the quality of oil products. All our motor the meaning of “world class”—can you explain in more system suited to a world-class international energy company will the overall value of natural gas operations. We should consolidate gasoline products have reached the National IV standard. We have detail? be established and improved, which will add dynamism to our and expand major areas of overseas oil and gas cooperation, started the upgrade of gasoline to the National V standard ahead of institutional mechanisms and systems and promote a sophisticated complete the four major oil and gas channels, build three oil and schedule. and standardized system of management, scientific and rational World-class normally means the world’s average, advanced or gas international operations centers, and keep improving the business structures, industry-leading business models, and clear leadership levels. When we say world-class, it means meeting the capabilities of international operations. Refining operations and Fifth, we will contribute to a greener society by promoting clean competitive advantages in the market. indicators of the advanced level, mastering the core technologies marketing networks should be adjusted and optimized to speed production, with a focus on emission reduction projects such in the oil and gas industry, and being capable of leading industrial up closing the gap between us and the world’s advanced level as desulfurization and denitrification in power plants, flue gas We will deepen reforms and make substantial breakthroughs in development and participating in the allocation of global companies and enhance our value. desulfurization in FCC units, greenhouse gas controls, and clean fuel the following six major areas. First, by optimizing and improving resources. It also means having a voice in the international market alternatives. We will remove nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide and dust our corporate governance model; second, by deepening and being able to influence it, and becoming a leading green and Second, we must promote innovation-driven development, from fuel gas, launch projects for the comprehensive treatment ongoing reorganization and restructuring; third, by establishing sustainable company. continue the three technological innovation projects, and accelerate of oil and gas volatilization, and greatly reduce the volatilization and improving market mechanisms; fourth, by improving the the development of major technologies that can be internationallyof organic hydrocarbons during gasoline storage, transport and systems and mechanisms for technological management; fifth, by We conducted a benchmark analysis in comparison with the competitive. We must also accelerate the application of the results marketing. deepening reforms in the allocation of personnel and labor; sixth, by world’s top 10 oil companies. There were 32 indicators in seven of technological achievements as well as their standardized establishing a robust mechanism for the limitation and supervision areas, including company scale, profitability, management utilization, actively establish an open and inclusive platform for of the exercise of power. In 2014, we will take part in the reform and efficiency, technological innovation, international operations, technological innovation, widely promote the development and reorganize where conditions permit by giving top priority to the brand value and staff quality. According to this analysis, 11 of our application of information technology, and develop the ability to most common concerns of the employees and the public and the indicators are near to or the same as the average score generated lead the technological development of the industry. most prominent unresolved issues. by the benchmarked companies. Of those, some indicators, including total assets, operating income, refining capacity and Third, we should promote our development through our staff. This market capitalization, gain a higher score than the average of the In 2013, as many eastern regions in China were means intensifying our efforts to develop and bring in high-level top five benchmarked companies, ranking us as at a leading level. talent, to make the most of our employee’s strengths and avoid shrouded in smog for a long time, the Chinese Some of our dominant upstream technologies are world leading, taking a one size fits all approach to staff utilization. We should also government published its Action Plan for the Prevention while our brand value and credit rating are at an advanced level. In strengthen staff training to enhance overall quality, and turn our and Control of Atmospheric Pollution. What measures Wang Dongjin, President addition, we enjoy comparative advantages such as the integration rich human resources into a competitive advantage. has PetroChina taken to support the building of an of upstream and downstream operations and a unique culture. At ”ecological civilization”? the same time, nearly two-third of our indicators have yet to reach Fourth, we should regulate the company ’s management, the average of the benchmarked companies, particularly in terms integrate traditional and modern management models, improve Guided by our mission to “Energize, Harmonize, Realize”, PetroChina of profitability, management efficiency, technological innovation, management standardization platforms, and improve basic is dedicated to becoming a leader in green and sustainable 04 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 05 About PetroChina Core Business PetroChina Company Limited (PetroChina, here in after also referred to as “the Company”, “we” or “us”) was established on Energize, Harmonize, Realize Upstream Oil and Gas Exploration, Development and Production Our Mission 5 November, 1999, upon the restructuring of China National Our upstream As the major oil and gas producer and supplier in China, PetroChina takes a leading Petroleum Corporation (CNPC).PetroChina was listed on the NYSE business includes position both in domestic oil and gas exploration and development business, and in oil (ADS code: PRT) and the HKEx (stock code: 00857) in April 2000 the exploration, and gas production and reserves in the world. We operate in a number of major oil and and on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (stock code: 601857) in To be a world-class international Our Vision development and gas producing regions such as Daqing, Changqing, Xinjiang, Liaohe, Tarim and Sichuan. November 2007, respectively. As of 31 December 2013, CNPC held energy company by 2020 production of crude By the end of 2013, our oil and gas production accounted for more than 60% of total over 86% of PetroChina’s shares. oil and natural gas. domestic oil and gas production. PetroChina is not only a major oil and gas producer and distributor in China, but also one of the largest oil companies in the world. It Business Strategy Resources, Markets, Internationalization Refining, Transportation, Storage and Marketing of Crude Oil and Oil engages in a wide range of activities related to oil and natural gas Products and provides sustainable energy for soci-economic development. We pursue harmonious relationships between energy and the Honesty, Innovation, Safety Mid-Downstream We are the main petroleum refiner and distributor of oil products in China. In 2013, we Our Values and Distinction environment, production and safety, industry and the community owned seven ten-million-ton-level refining bases in China, processed 133.967 million tons and employers and employees. of crude oil, produced 90.013 million tons of oil products, operated over 20,000 gas stations Our midstream covering 31 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) and the HKSAR of China, and downstream and undertook the supply of about 40% of China’s oil products. business Rankings and Awards in 2013 includes refining, transportation, Production, Transportation and Marketing of Petrochemical storage and Products Agency or Publication Rankings and Awards marketing of crude oil and oil products, We are one of the major producers and suppliers of petrochemical products in China. Financial Times 4th in Global top 500 enterprises as well as production The Company is engaged in producing six categories of chemical productssynthetic and marketing of resin, synthetic fiber and raw materials of synthetic fiber, synthetic rubber, urea, Platts Energy 8th in Top 250 global energy companies basic, derivative organic and inorganic compounds with thousands of trademarked products. Our Forbes 9th in the global top 2000 enterprises and other chemical production capabilities of products such as ethylene, synthetic resin, synthetic rubber, products; and synthetic and fiber ranked among the best in China. In 2013, we sold over 25 million 65th in Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands transportation and tons of chemical products, and produced 3.98 million tons of ethylene. BrandZ 3rd in Top 10 Most Valuable Global Oil & Gas Brands marketing of natural 11th in Top 50 Most Valuable Chinese Brands gas. Transportation of Natural Gas, Crude Oil and Oil Products, and 2012/2013 Finance Asia 100 List 3rd by aggregate profit over the past three years Distribution of Natural Gas 1st by market capitalization 3rd in regional ranking (China) As major pipeline transportation service provider in China, PetroChina is mainly responsible for transportation and marketing of natural gas, and storage and Finance Asia 3rd in FinanceAsia’s list of credit rankings transportation of crude oil and oil products. The Company operated 71,000 km of 8th in Best Corporate Social Responsibility Asia’s Best Managed Company pipelines in China, covering 29 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) and 10th in Most Committed to a Strong Dividend Policy Asia’s Best Managed Company the HKSAR in China. 1st in Natural Resources Industry Asia’s Best Managed Company 1st in 1000 world Chinese businessman list, Asia Week The largest oil and energy companies in 1000 world Chinese businessman list International International Business Business Corporate Governance Asia We maintain an international approach in our strategy to become a world-class The most potential companies corporate governance in Asia Our international international energy company. Currently, we have established five international oil and business covers oil Fortune China 2nd in Fortune China's 500 list in 2013 gas cooperation zones in the Middle East, Central Asia, Asia-Pacific, the Americas and & gas exploration, Africa, and three oil and gas operation centers in Asia, Europe and the Americas. The production and Booz 64th in 2013 global top 1000 innovation expansion and growth of our international oil and gas cooperation has been substantial trade in nearly 30 in terms of size and scope, with international businesses growing rapidly. countries. 06 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 07 Highlights in 2013 10,752 187.5 bcm 51.95 mt graduates 10,752 college graduates from topChina’s largest monomer uncompartmentalized gas reservoir was discovered in the GaoshitiChangqing produced 51.95 million ranking national universities and 95 from M ox i Lo n g w a n gm i a o Fo r m a t i o n o f t h e tons of oil equivalent, making it overseas universities recruited in 2013 Cambrian system in Sichuan Basin. The proven the onshore oil & gas field with the highest oil & gas output and the gas in place is 187.5 billion cubic meters according to the assessment requirement of 70 fastest production speed in China SEC % 10.1 % 20.07 mcm The Company supplied about 40% of oil products and about 70% of natural 1.08 mt The Company produced 2.67 trillion Water saving equaled to gas in China Energy saving equaled to 1.08 mt cubic feet of marketable natural gas, 20.07 million cubic meters of standard coal an increase of 10.1% year on year. 9,677 students 73.6 93.4 % Since the establishment of the Petroleum Scholarship in 2001, the Company has provided awards and Customer satisfaction degree By the end of 2013, local financial aid to 9,677 needs-based index with PetroChina service e m p l oye e s a c c o u n te d and merit-based students. 136.5 mb s t a t i o n s re a c h e d 7 3 . 6 , a n increase of 8.1 over the previous year, according to 71,000 km for 93.4% of our overseas workforce. 60 billion RMB Overseas business realized a net oil and Pipelines operated reached a distance RMB 60 billion of capital was the 2013 Chinese Customer gas production of 136.5 million barrels of 71,000 km, covering 29 provinces, introduced from investors in insurance, Satisfaction Manual jointly municipalities, autonomous regions pension and bank ing, to jointly i s s u e d by C N I S Cu s to m e r and the HKSAR, benefiting more than operate oil and gas pipelines such as Satisfaction Measurement 500 million people the western sections of the first and Center and Tsinghua University. second West-East Gas Pipelines. 08 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 09 Corporate Governance 1. Corporate Governance Framework Improving its corporate governance is a continuous and far-reaching process. The Company will make unremitting efforts to further improve its internal authorization and power restraint mechanism to General Meeting of Shareholders enhance corporate governance and to promote efficient management and long-term operations in compliance with all legal requirements. Audit Committee Supervisory Committee As one of the first Chinese companies to be listed on both development. The foundations of our corporate governance Evaluation & Remuneration the Hong Kong and New York stock exchanges, PetroChina are safety and environmental protection; harmony and stability Committee has set itself the goal of being a market-oriented enterprise and anti-corruption. We have revised and improved the strategic Board of Directors following international best practices. Since its debut, PetroChina roadmaps and evaluation methods of the Company and its Investment & Development established its corporate governance structure in compliance subsidiaries. To carry out the Company's goals of development Committee with international rules and regulations, including the Annual and strategic objectives, we have charted nine guidelines as Executives & Managements Health, Safety and Environmental General Meetings of shareholders, the establishment of a well as 590 assessment indicators and work programs which will Protection Committee Board of Directors with its affiliated committees, a Supervisory gradually be applied to performance appraisals for senior and Committee, and the executive management led by the middle managers. President. These management structures operate in compliance with domestic and foreign regulatory requirements. Management solicits suggestions on sustainable development Shareholders’ and Annual General Meeting Board of Directors for consideration. Once deliberated on and from the general public and keeps itself well informed by (AGM) approved by the Board, the list of nominees shall be submitted The Company integrates sustainable development into its overall holding face-to-face meetings, site visits, investor FAQs, and to the General Meeting for election. Written nomination is strategy and follows a policy of quality, efficiency and sustainable communication via mass media. In addition, the sustainability The general meeting of stockholders is the top authority in the required from the Chairman of the Board for the nomination development, with the intention of building an international performance is assessed, and the content of sustainability report Company and acts in accordance with the laws. PetroChina’s of the Company’s President when proposed by the Company’s energy enterprise and adopting green and sustainable is also reviewed on a regular basis. general shareholders’ meetings are held annually and all Chairman. For all other senior management positions,written shareholders enjoy equal privileges to exercise their rights. As nomination from the President is required. The Company also the controlling shareholder of PetroChina, CNPC will abstain considers establishing the Board Nomination Committee in a from voting when a connected transaction is presented to the proper time. general meeting for consideration in order to ensure fairness. Safety and Environmental Quality, Efficiency and Protection Development Sustainable Development Board of Directors and its affiliated Board Committees • Pursuant to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities Integrity and Transparency on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, the Harmony and Stability The Board of Directors and its affiliated committee board positions of Chairman and President are served by members are selected by shareholders at the AGM and separate individuals, currently Mr. Zhou Jiping and Mr. are accountable to shareholders. The board has several Wang Dongjin respectively. committees: the Audit Committee, Evaluation & Remuneration Committee, Investment & Development Committee and the • According to our Board Diversity Policy, nominees Health, Safety and Environmental Protection (HSE) Committee, to the board are considered based on the needs all of which advise the board on its decisions. A board director and requirements of the Company, as well as the serves a three-year term, after which they may run for recandidate's age, educational background and election. Shareholders with 3% or more of the Company’s professional experience. voting shares may submit a written proposal to the General Meeting prior to the convening date with their intent to • The Board of Directors has 11 members, five of whom nominate a director for candidacy and the candidate’s are non-executive independent directors, making up acceptance of the nomination. Appointment and removal more than one-third of the Board. These independent of board members and senior management is carried out directors are from different countries and technical according to the Articles of Association of the Company. backgrounds, including petroleum and petrochemical, accounting, finance, international investment and In 2013, we improved the procedures for the appointment portfolio management. and removal of directors and executives. The list of candidates for director and executive positions shall be submitted to the 10 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 11 Supervisory Committee Executive Body Anti-Corruption Measures As specified in laws and administrative regulations, the The Company’s executive management body consists of a Vice The Company continues to establish effective anti-corruption departments through joint meetings, enhanced supervisory Supervisory Committee is responsible for carrying out the President and a CFO presided over by the President. They are measures and exercises power with scientific decision-making, power, and improving overall methods of supervision. We duties of the AGM, such as attending supervisory committee appointed by and accountable to the Board of Directors, and resolute execution and effective supervision. With these use our information platforms to strive for innovation in antimeetings, participating in all board meetings, reporting are responsible for carrying out the board’s resolutions and daymeasures in place, the Company has established a unique anticorruption education and explore effective ways to prevent and to the AGM, and preparing proposals and reports for the to-day business operations as authorized under the Articles of corruption system that is compatible with that of a modern control corruption through information technology. We have Supervisory Committee. The committee supervises and Association and the Board of Directors. The Company has a twoenterprise. In order to improve anti-corruption measures, in established and improved business management systems with monitors the legal compliance of finance officials, directors tier executive governance organization for the headquarters and 2013, the Company improved supervision and inspection and a focus on the supervision management system for investment and senior management of the Company in order to ensure local offices, and a three-tier business structure consisting of the internal supervision. To strengthen anti-corruption measures, management, materials procurement, bidding and marketing, their responsibility to all shareholders. As of the end of 2013, headquarters, subsidiaries and local operations. We have four the Company implemented a new policy to perform special in order to strengthen the supervision and inspection of major the Company’s Supervisory Committee has eight members, core business operations: exploration and production, refining inspections regarding the implementation of especially engineering projects and overseas projects. We have also with three employees and two independent members being and chemicals, marketing, and natural gas and pipelines. important decisions concerning the appointment and dismissal researched and investigated lines of accountability of the senior involved. of key officials and executives, investment arrangements management to ensure that irregularities, violations or fraud for major projects, and decisions concerning large amounts would be investigated and disciplinary measures are carried out of funds. We give full importance to the role of supervision if necessary. 2. Management System Promoting Anti-Corruption Construction The Company's management approach stresses efficiency, specialization and integration to develop and improve internal control mechanisms that are accountable, rational, streamlined and dynamic to improve corporate social responsibility, performance and achieve PetroChina makes unremitting efforts to combat corruption, and inspection of the exercise of power, conduct case sustainable growth. The Company proactively seeks out and integrates the guidance of independent directors to improve management promote integrity and stay vigilant against degeneration. investigation, and strictly implement the anti-corruption practices. We persist in combating corruption in an integrated accountability system. As a result, new progress has way, addressing both its symptoms and root causes, and been made in improving the “system + technology” anticombining punishment and prevention, with an emphasis corruption system and in exploring the general pattern of on the latter. We promote anti-corruption education, supervision. Internal Control and Risk Management accelerate institutional building, strengthen supervision System The company attaches great importance to internal controls The Company has been continuously strengthening and risk management. We strive to improve and integrate our supervision. It has established a supervision and inspection • 2013 Anti-corruption conference was held to establish the general guidelines and requirements for anti-corruption measures internal control systems and integrate them into business mechanism featuring daily self-inspection by operators, management in order to achieve our development strategy self-tests by local companies, testing by management, and • Video conferences for senior management were held to further implement the requirements for anti-corruption and improve competitiveness. We have put into effect a external auditing. Furthermore, a management mechanism basic management platform for regulating and improving for testing-corrections-retesting has been established in order • The relevant documents on eliminating corruption were issued to further specify the concept and systems of anti-corruption management through the establishment and operation of our to strengthen process control and implement rectification internal control systems. Since the establishment of the system, measures effectively. We have developed assessment methods • Meetings were held to identify typical problems and announce the Company’s decision to punish individuals in violation of the Company has been working hard to enhance work-flow and test specifications, and achieved standardized and discipline and risk awareness, strengthen major risk controls, regulate institutionalized internal control testing and appraisal. At the technical processes, improve evaluation quality and ensure its end of 2013, the Company had passed the internal control • Audit reporting systems are established to report major problems or defects to the management continual and effective operation. audit performed by external auditors for seven consecutive years. Its internal control system operated in a sustained and effective manner. 12 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 13 Communication with Stakeholders 3. Ethical Business Practices We are dedicated to improving quality and efficiency to maximize returns to our shareholders and value for our stakeholders, to achieve our common goal of harmonious and mutually beneficial growth. Gaining our stakeholders’ trust and support is fundamental to interactive features such as the “Investor FAQs”. We also respond We treat our business par tners, customers, suppliers, The Company strictly abides by all the applicable laws and us building a sustainable business. We actively perform our to investors’ questions and solicit shareholders’ opinions contractors and counterparts with respect and equality. regulations on business competition in the jurisdictions where obligation of information disclosure, and provide the public through the E-interactive Platform of the Shanghai Stock We oppose any form of commercial bribery and require we operate to maintain a fair and open business competition with timely, accurate, complete and reliable information Exchange. Moreover, we enhance communication with the our business partners (including contractors and suppliers) environment. While conducting international trading, we through various means according to the Articles of Association, media through press releases. At least three press conferences to follow the Company’s anti-bribery and anti-corruption strictly follow the local import and export regulations, as as well as laws, regulations and regulatory requirements and media briefings are held annually. In addition, different policies, including, among other things, no acceptance of any well as trade protocols. We never enter into any cartel with where the Company is listed. We solicit suggestions from forms of media visits and communication are provided to gift or entertainment with an illegal or inappropriate nature, competitors to agree on matters such as market allocation, stakeholders, and respond to these suggestions and make attend to external concerns. no abuse of one’s position in signing business contracts for price fixing, costs and profits. On the contrary, we respect improvement accordingly. We improve the management and personal gain or other illegal or immoral benefits, no disclosure the principles of openness and transparency in the bidding systems for information disclosure of significant events, and We keep close contact with stakeholders, perform roadshows of insider information, and no insider trading. Moreover, we process, only obtaining information publicly available or can be document every opinion and suggestion, and channel them and participate in various types of investment conferences, and never conduct, participate in or support any forms of money acquired through legitimate means. to relevant departments, so that the Company is aware of the meet financial analysts and fund managers. We give investors laundering. needs of the stakeholders. the opportunity for meetings with executives and site visits to better understand the Company’s management, performance We take the initiative to publish corporate information, and and development strategies, and to foster confidence and trust. disclose important information through periodic reports We invite individual shareholders to attend the AGM to give and interim reports. We published our prospectuses, offering minority shareholders an opportunity to engage with the Board memorandums, listing announcements, annual reports, of Directors and executive managers. 20-F Form, interim reports, quarterly reports, and Social Responsibility Report (“Sustainability Report”), which cover In 2013, IR Magazine listed PetroChina in the world’s top 50 information on the development of our technology, safety, companies with best investor relations and Institutional Investor clean energy, energy-saving, environmental protection and ranked us third among Asian companies for best investor governance performance. Upon the occurrence of a major relations in the energy industry. event, we issue a notice promptly to provide our shareholders with the latest information. We continue to improve our website design with new columns and updates, and introduce 14 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 15 Stakeholders Expectations Communication Approach Key Actions • Participate in discussions on formulation of policies, regulations • Behave legally and ethically, and abide by the applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate • Stable energy supply • Stabilize oil and gas supplies and standards, and offer company expertiseAttend to • Harmonious economic and social • Pay close attention and play an active role in policy discussions on climate change, energy conservation and emission Governments development public concerns and improve corporate behavior • Launch strategic cooperation with relevant departments reduction • Leading role of brand and technology • Promote local employment and cultivate local talents • Attend seminars and forums • Tax payment according to law • Pay taxes • Fulfill requirements on statutory information disclosure • Operate in a responsible manner to maintain a good reputation • Standardized corporate governance • Roadshow activities • Convene annual general meetings Shareholders • Stable business growth • Issue reports and announce results performance on a regular • Equal treatment of shareholders, and value opinions of both small and medium sized shareholders • Sustainable development basis • Hold dialogues with investors and shareholders in various ways • Launch an “Investor FAQs” mailbox to receive public opinions • Employee representatives on the Supervisory Committee • Develop employee knowledge and skills and organize vocational skill competitions • Basic rights guaranteed • The establishment of trade unions at all levels • Conduct occupational health checks • Professional development • Convene employee representatives’ meetings Employees • Promote local employment in overseas operations • Growth in wages and benefits • Organize employee training programs • Strengthen grassroots connections and provide a career development platform for employees • Set up a complaints and feedback system • Protect employee safety in overseas operations • Provide safe, environmentally friendly, • Strengthen quality management high-quality products and services • Carry out activities to protect consumers’ interests • Hold a Quality Month activity Consumers • Constantly improve the quality and • Publicize commitment to quality services • Develop an appraisal methodology for the quality management system variety of services • Provide hotline services • Improve service quality at service stations • Operate with integrity • Conduct customer satisfaction surveys. • Increase the supply of clean fuel, such as natural gas, high-standard gasoline and diesel • Secure oil supplies for disaster relief and agricultural production • Hold tendering meetings • Hold large cross-border business negotiations and technical • Strengthen centralized procurement management to provide suppliers with equal opportunities and establish exchange meetings PetroChina’s strategic supplier system Business • Fair and transparent procurement • Use the electronic trading platform • Enhance communication and coordination with contractors and strengthen the HSE management of contractors by partners • Win-win cooperation • Engage sharing managerial practices and technical standards; creating a safe and healthy working environmentImprove security measures and the emergency response network • Conduct contract negotiations and routine meetings • Promote open investment • Hold training for business partners • Conduct daily operation meetings • Improve sustainable management • Submit a progress report to UN Global Compact • Share the Company’s experiencesParticipate in NGO • Perform social responsibilities such as • Attend to external concerns through various forms of communication NGOs activities • Play an active role in participating in and supporting international environment standardization poverty alleviation and environmental • Promote international communication protection • Participate in a wide range of forums and conferences • Promote employment growth • Participate in disaster relief and reconstruction, and provide financial support for education and poverty alleviation • Protect community environment • Hold dialogues with local communities • Support and drive local economic growth through large projects • Promote economic development in • Organize community visits • Supply clean energy, e.g. natural gas, to remote regions the community • Conduct social and environmental impact assessments • Hold volunteering activities among employees Communities • Promotion of educationIncrease information disclosure • Procure locally, where the business is carried out • Respect cultural traditions of the community • Provide job opportunities and training for the local community 16 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 17 Our Sustainable Energy Future The world we live in is facing economic, social and environmental challenges to sustainable development. It is estimated by the United Nations that the world population will reach 9.6 billion by 2050, and as the developing countries are 01 experiencing faster urbanization, demand for energy, water, health, public services and education grows continuously. However, it is more difficult to develop traditional hydrocarbon resources globally, and production costs continue to grow. The energy industry is confronted with increasingly prominent environmental challenges. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and maintaining the global ecological balance are closely related to the continuous growth of the global economy and prosperity. As the major oil and gas producer and supplier in China, PetroChina has always given priority to sustainable development at the core of our strategy. By adopting a policy of high quality high efficiency to achieve sustainable development, PetroChina has been consolidating its resource base through technological and management innovation. To ensure a sustainable supply of energy, we accelerate gas development, explore unconventional energy and supply more clean energy. We also expand international cooperation, optimize global businesses, and meet increasing global energy demand in a cleaner and greener way, serving the socio-economic development. 1. Consolidating Resource Base Oil & gas resources are essential for building supply capacity and the foundation for our sustainable business growth. Thus, the resource strategy is our top priority. We have implemented our reserve-growth peak initiatives, to acquire economic and quality reserves and to consolidate the resource base. Domestic Oil and Gas Reserves Grew Stably 40 million tons for 11 years in a row, and Changqing Oilfield realized 51.95 million tons of oil equivalent. In 2013, the Company focused on key basins and target zones, strengthened pre-exploration and overall evaluation, Rapid Growth in Domestic Natural Gas accelerated exploration of unconventional resources, Production conducted technical problem-solving and advanced technology reserve research for lithology, foreland, carbonatite In 2013, we enhanced our operation in key gas areas and major and mature exploration areas, and made significant projects, and optimized our operations to boost gas production, achievements in key target areas such as Sichuan, Ordos, especially at the Sulige Gasfield in Changqing, and Dabei and Tarim, Junggar, Qaidam and Bohai Bay basins. China’s largest Keshen Gasfields in Tarim. We also improved the CBM drainage monomer uncompartmentalized gas reservoir was discovered and production system, and promoted shale gas development SUSTAINED ENERGY SUPPLY in Gaoshiti-Moxi Longwangmiao Formation of the Cambrian testing. Domestically, we produced 2.67 trillion feet cubic System in the Sichuan Basin. The proven gas in place is 187.5 meters of marketable natural gas, an increase of 10.1% year on billion cubic meters according to the assessment requirement year. of SEC for hydrocarbon economic recoverable reserves. Our Energy is fundamental to socio-economic development. As an integrated energy company, reserve replacement ratio is 1.06, according to an independent third-party review. our mission is to meet the increasing energy demand, fuel economic growth and promote social progress. Domestic Crude Output Maintained Steady Growth In 2013, the Company accelerated commissioning of new capacity building projects, pushed on with water flood, secondary development and significant development tests, and implemented testing for large-scale development of tight oil. Our full-year domestic crude output was 110.846 million tons. Daqing Oilfield maintained stable oil production of over 18 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 19 growth averaging 4.2%, or twice as fast as that 0f oil during the efficiency”. Natural gas production, in particular, accomplished Dialogue with Stakeholders Dialogue with Stakeholders double-digit growth. This has reinforced the Company’s same period. In 2012, global gas consumption reached 3.31 trillion cubic meters, and global gas production approached confidence in improving oil and gas supply capability through Q: What is the significance of Changqing’s achievement domestic production. Stepping onto the new starting point Q: It is said that gas development prospects in China are 3.4 trillion cubic meters, with a rapid development speed of 50mt production in 2013? of 50mt production, and aiming at becoming a world-class quite positive. Would you like to elaborate on that? which is second only to coal. From a global perspective, the reserve-production ratio of gas is significantly higher than that modern oilfield, Changqing Oilfield will continue to pursue A: The fast growth and sustained efficiency of Changqing high quality and high efficiency sustainable development by A: Global natural gas demand, as forecasted by authoritative of oil. Therefore, the growth potential of natural gas is very Oilfield reflect PetroChina’s overall concept of “adhering arranging the production level pace and investment scale in a agencies, will reach 5.1 trillion cubic meters by 2035. By that time, high. Currently, gas consumption only accounts for 5-6% of to strategic development and focusing on quality and scientific manner. natural gas will have become the world’s largest energy source, China’s primary energy consumption, compared to the global exceeding both coal and oil. In the past 20 years, natural gas average level of approximately 24-25%. As a result, natural gas has become increasingly important, with annual consumption development enjoys a very good prospects in China. 2. Optimizing Product Structure Case Study Oil &Gas Output of Changqing Oilfield Maintained Rapid Growth To meet society’s growing demand for high-quality oil products, the Company has optimized its processing route and product structure based on market demand, and adjusted its diesel-gasoline ratio in a timely manner. We increased production of high-grade gasoline and jet fuel, and strived to enhance quality and efficiency. The allocation of refining resources has also been further optimized. T h e n a t i o n a l e c o n o m y ’s d e m a n d f o r e n e r g y i s ecological environment. The production growth of increasing substantially as China experiences more rapid Changqing Oilfield has enhanced China’s oil productivity industrialization and urbanization. However, the mature and guaranteed the national energy supply through an oilfields in eastern China have entered their mid and late development stage. Therefore, to build itself into an oilfield development pattern with Changqing in the west and Daqing in the east. 3. Accelerating Construction of Pipeline Network energy base in western China, Changqing Oilfield applied technologies such as horizontal well drilling and volume fracturing in the Ordos Basin featuring “low permeability, Changqing Oilfield 2013 Pipeline transportation is the fifth transportation mode after Expanding Transnational Oil and Gas waterways, roads, railway and air transportation. It is a more Transportation Channels low pressure and low abundance”, pursued integration of exploration and development, accelerated information 40% efficient, energy-saving, safe and environmentally-friendly way to enhance oil & gas transportation capacity. We keep In 2013, PetroChina continued to expand the transnational renovation of the production and organization mode, Natural gas output accounts for nearly 40% of PetroChina’s domestic gas output expanding the oil and gas pipeline network to boost our oil and gas transportation channels and promoted the and actively conducted domestic and international capacities in transportation and allocation. This has further construction of LNG receiving stations, in order to better cooperation. Over the past decade, oil & gas output and reserves have maintained rapid growth. In 2013, 29% guaranteed the oil and gas supply for civilians, public utilities and industrial users. connect the resources with the markets. The Tangshan LNG receiving terminal was completed and became operational, Changqing Oilfield produced 51.95 million tons of oil Natural gas output accounts for 29% increasing the peak shaving capacity in North China. Line C equivalent, becoming the onshore oil & gas field with of China’s total gas output Improving Domestic Pipeline Network of the Central Asia–China Gas Pipeline and Phase-II of the the highest output and the fastest production speed in Kazakhstan-China Gas Pipeline progressed as planned. China. Natural gas output witnessed rapid growth, and reached 34.68 billion cubic meters, increasing by nearly 20% In 2013, several domestic oil & gas pipelines were completed Crude oil output accounts for about 20% and became operational, including the Lanzhou-Chengdu Oil 20% over the previous year. Changqing Oilfield increased Pipeline, the Horgos-Urumqi-Lianmuqin section and Zhongwei180 of PetroChina’s domestic oil output the supply of clean energy, which helped improve the 10 years of the West-East Gas Pipeline Guiyang connecting line of the Third West-East Gas Pipeline, transportation and sales of natural gas bcm and the section of Lanzhou-Zhengzhou-Changsha Oil Product Pipeline at the south of the Yangtze River. In addition, the Second West-East Gas Pipeline began to supply gas to Guangxi and Hong Kong, and the Jinzhou-Zhengzhou Oil Product ≈ 50 % Pipeline was under construction as planned. Gas storages facilities such as Hutubiin in Xinjiang, Suqiao in North China and Xiangguosi in Southwest China were completed with gas injection, enhancing the Company’s emergency peak-shaving 230 mt ≈ Accounting for 50% of China’s new natural gas capacity. By the end of 2013, the Company has basically TCE consumption developed a nationwide network for oil & gas transportation connected to overseas countries, and operated pipelines with a total distance of 71,000 km, covering 29 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in China, and benefiting over 500 ≈ A reduction of millions of tons of CO2 emissions million people. 20 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 21 4. Developing Alternative Energy 5. Extending International Cooperation In view of the continuous decline in conventional, easily accessible and high-quality oil and gas resources, unconventional sources of We adhere to the principles of “cooperation for mutual benefit Changbei Project in Changqing Oilfield maintained kept energy such as tight oil and gas, CBM and shale gas are now being seen as a realistic and viable replacement. PetroChina is focusing on the and joint development” and comply with the laws, regulations high and stable production, for which Stage II evaluation has future of energy supply and is actively promoting the development and use of unconventional oil and gas resources as well as renewable and energy policies of the host countries. Based on our commenced. The Haiyue Project in Liaohe Oilfield was put into energy to create a diversified and secure energy supply system. advantages in funding, technology and management, we production successfully. Exploration appraisal was expedited have participated in oil and gas exploration with our partners for the Fushun-Yongchuan shale gas project and the Jinqiu globally, in order to stabilize the global oil and gas market. and Zitong tight gas projects in cooperation with Shell in southwest Sichuan. In 2013, net production from our domestic Continuously Promoting the Development Technological R&D of Unconventional Overseas Energy Development foreign cooperation projects reached 5.033 million tons of oil of Unconventional Hydrocarbons Resources equivalent, representing an increase of 7.2% year on year. In 2013, great progress was made in our new projects in I n C h i n a , w e c o n t i n u e t o m a k e e f fo r t s t o d e v e l o p In 2013, we developed multi-data geophysical identification of the Middle East, Latin America, and Australia. For instance, Steady Progress in International Trade unconventional resources such as tight oil and gas, CBM and high-abundance CBM zones and established the theory and we successfully bought stakes in Iraq's West Qurna1 field, shale gas. In 2013, we made progress in tight gas development methodology for enhancing CBM recovery, which supported signed contracts with Petrobras to acquire all of its shares in We maintained fast development of international trade and and produced 24.8 billion cubic meters of tight gas, accounting CBM capacity building in the Qinshui Basin and the Ordos PetrobrasEnergia Peru S.A., and purchased partial interests steady construction of three operation centers in Asia, Europe for 28% of PetroChina’s total domestic gas production. In Basin. We also participated in national research projects in shale of ConocoPhillips’ offshore natural gas and onshore shale and the Americas. In 2013, both the volume and value of our Changqing Oilfield, we saw rapid growth of gas production gas and geothermal power generation technologies. gas projects in Western Australia along with all stakes of BHP international trade grew by 10%. at Sulige gas field, with tight gas production reaching 21.22 Billiton’s offshore natural gas in the Browse project in Western billion cubic meters. With respect to CBM, we achieved Australia. Implementation of water injection, horizontal marketable quantities of 870 million cubic meters in two CBM well and EOR projects triggered the production increase in bases (Qinshui in Shanxi Province and Eastern Ordos Basin in Rumaila Oilfield, and capacity building was accelerated at Inner Mongolia) and carried out commercial developments Dialogue with Stakeholders Halfaya as well as at the Aktobe project in Kazakhstan. In the in Fanzhuang, Shanxi. With respect to shale gas, we made a whole year, we achieved net oil and gas production of 136.5 breakthrough in field testing Changning in Sichuan. Moreover, million barrels overseas. Q: How will PetroChina develop its international business progress was made in the Zhaotong National Shale Gas in the long run? Demonstration Zone in Yunnan Province and the FushunPromote Cooperation with International Yongchuan Shale Gas Project in Sichuan. A: We will make more efforts to optimize the structures Partners in China of overseas operations and assets, and to develop In 2013, we concentrated on international cooperation in new projects and merge/acquire high-quality assets unconventional resources such as shale gas and tight gas for purpose of enhancing capital operations with risks in China. We signed a contract with HESS on exploring and controlled effectively. We will establish an interest & risk developing petroleum in the Malang block of Santanghu sharing mechanism with host countries and partners, Basin in Xinjiang, and 3 joint study agreements on in order to boost our ability to manage international developing shale gas in the Neijiang-Dazu block, and in operations. PetroChina is willing to make contributions to Dialogue with Stakeholders Our tight gas resources are mainly located in Sulige in the the northern Rongchang block in the Sichuan Basin, and global energy sustainability together with all our global Ordos Basin and Xujiahe in the Sichuan Basin. The Company exploring and developing Changdong block in Ordos Basin partners. will continue to boost tight gas production. with ConocoPhillips, Eni and ExxonMobil respectively. The Q: What are the Company’s plans for developing unconventional natural gas? With regards to CBM, we will continue to focus on the two CBM industrialization demonstration bases in the Qinshui A: China has abundant unconventional oil and gas resources with Basin and Eastern Ordos Basin, further optimize supporting huge potential for development. The government encourages technologies such as drilling, fracturing and drainage, and the development and utilization of unconventional oil and vigorously promote foreign cooperation. gas resources, and has established a set of policies to support the CBM and shale gas industry, including tax exemptions, As for shale gas, PetroChina will work on the two national VAT reimbursements, development and utilization subsidies, shale gas demonstration areas in Changning-Weiyuan in and market-oriented pricing. As for PetroChina, we take Sichuan Province and Zhaotong in Yunnan Province in the unconventional hydrocarbons as important strategic substitute following two years, conduct independent research and resources, and will give priority to the development of tight gas, development, strengthen our technological capabilities, and CBM and shale gas during the 12th Five-Year Plan period. establish joint venture partnerships or cooperation with both domestic and overseas companies and organizations. 22 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 23 1. Improving HSE Management 02 We place great emphasis on health, safety and the environment (HSE) and are constantly improving our HSE management. In 2013, our safety and environment protection efforts were under strict supervision. We drew profound lessons from the accident in Dalian Petrochemical Tank Explosion Accident on June 2nd, greatly promoted the establishment of a sound HSE management system, conducted HSE upgrading management and the building of risk prevention and control systems, and strived to enhance HSE management performance. As a result, our HSE situation is generally stable and controllable. Building a Sound HSE Management System In 2013, we completed two HSE system reviews covering all of our businesses, to highlight risk control on site, and improve the effectiveness of the HSE system. The Company established and revised dozens of systems and standards, and improved our HSE management framework. Furthermore, we provided directors, supervisors and other full-time personnel with various types of training, enhancing the management capacities of key personnel. We conducted HSE benchmarking with international advanced enterprises, and carried out communication and cooperation at all levels. PetroChina Natural Gas & Pipeline Company integrated the HSE system and quality management system to publish a new version of the QHSE management manual. Enhancing Risk Control Capabilities The Company strived to enhance its HSE risk control their practicality and operability. The linkage mechanism for capabilities, and promoted an integrated HSE management emergency rescue jointly by enterprises and localities was framework based on responsibility fulfillment, centered upon improved, and we conducted comprehensive emergency drills risk prevention and control, and focusing on emergency for major road transportation accidents involving dangerous SAFE AND CLEAN PRODUCTION support. In 2013, four HSE video conferences were attended chemicals. by PetroChina’s senior executives to implement responsibilities AND OPERATION in operational safety. We issued the Administration Measures for Strengthening Hazard Control the Responsibility System of Operational Safety and Environmental The natural environment is essential for the survival of all life on Earth and it has therefore Protection and the Provisions on Management Duties for the We implemented hazard control responsibilities, measures, Operational Safety and Environmental Protection of Headquarters, emergency plans and prepared funds and monitoring tools, been part of our philosophy of caring for people and protecting the environment. Upholding with the key managers of every unit taking full responsibility for strengthened follow-up assessment of hazard treatment the principles of being “people-oriented, prevention-driven, all staff involved and continuously operational safety. Eight safety risks and six environmental risks results, and improved the Company’s intrinsic safety. In 2013, improving”, we strive to build a resource-saving, environment-friendly and safety-oriented were controlled at all levels. The demonstration of emergency we revised the hazard management measures, and continued business with the goals of “zero injuries, no pollution and zero accidents”. response centers for well control, offshore operation and investing funds to control safety and environmental hazards. pipelines was completed. Some key enterprises have completed Remarkable achievements have been made in the treatment of their emergency response bases. We strived to enhance abandoned wells and service station sheds. the management of emergency preplans and improved 24 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 25 2. Enhancing Operational Safety PetroChina advocates the principles of “people-oriented safety management”, and believes that “safety comes from responsibility, design, quality and prevention”. As a result, we have adopted production safety as one of our core values, and have implemented this concept in all our sectors of production and operation. In 2013, the accident mortality rate was 0.25 person per 100 million working hours. Operational Safety Inspection Since June 2013, we have conducted all-round operational safety inspections through our senior inspection team, following the general requirements of “full coverage, zero tolerance, strict enforcement, and pragmatic approach”. This is the largest operational safety inspection campaign in recent years, with the longest duration and the most extensive coverage. The inspection covers all of PetroChina’s enterprises and institutes, as well as all of its production and operation segments, in an effort to identify and solve problems in the frontline and worksites. All the problems identified have been addressed within the time limit by those in charge of them, further enhancing the general Upgrading Management of Significant for Contractor Safety Supervision and Administration, safety guarantee level. During the inspection, we mainly focused on Accidents putting forth requirements including review of contractor Warning Months of Gas Blowout inspections at petrochemical companies, oil depots, loading docks and qualifications and HSE performance, bidding, execution Accident national oil repository, as well as special safety inspection for offshore The Company has upgraded accident management, of operational safety contracts, and safety performance oil operations. We revised and improved the Specification for Hot Work especially focusing on accidents which are likely to result assessment. Safety Management and the Specification for Confined Space Entry Safety in serious consequences. In 2013, we upgraded the The 10th anniversary of the Gas Blowout Accident of Luojia Management. Well 16H in Kaixian County in Chongqing Municipality investigation of potential risks and held in-depth and Special Rectification in Key Areas and was marked on December 23, 2013. To profoundly learn systematic analysis. After the investigation, we drew and Processes lessons from the accident and prevent similar accidents, shared lessons from the risks and held three seminars to provide education and training for 150,000 employees. We carry out special rectification for operational safety the Company launched a two-month campaign called the We strengthened statistics on accidents and incidents and public safety, especially rectification of oil and gas “Warning Months of Gas Blowout Accident” from November per 100 million working hours, and kept abreast of all the pipelines. During our inspections, we focus on special 1 to December 31. Following the concept of the campaign, accidents and incidents in a timely and accurate manner. oil and gas fields with high sulfur gas content and high our subsidiaries launched a “five-action” program, including temperature and pressure, large storage tanks, refining and a case study seminar, risk investigation, an emergency drill, petrochemical plants, long-distance pipelines, city gas and an appraisal of safety and environment papers, and a video LNG enterprises, especially the inspection of hazardous conference on 12.23 Gas Blowout Accident. Through this chemicals, transportation, fire protection and other fields campaign, all the employees learned serious warnings and Contractor Management as well as site supervision over the crucial parts, repair lessons from the accident in order to enhance the HSE risk and maintenance, starting and downtime of oil and gas control capacity of the Company. Contractors are our partners in our production and production and storage facilities, key refining facilities, and operation activities. We attach great importance to their special equipment. safety, and have incorporated contractors’ safety into our HSE management system. In 2013, we issued Measures Website designed to follow correction progress of problems identified in operational safety inspection 26 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 27 3. Promoting Energy Saving and Emissions Reduction Case Study Ningxia Petrochemical Enhanced Contractor Safety Management We continue to promote research and development for technologies related to energy conservation, emissions reduction and energy optimization. The Company also moved forwards with both its Ten Energy Saving Projects and Ten Emissions Reduction Projects. In 2013, PetroChina Ningxia Petrochemical Company exercised it conducted quantitative assessment and comprehensive the Company’s energy and water savings were 1.08 million tons of TCE and 20.07 million cubic meters respectively, while COD and sulfur strict control over the selection, evaluation and assessment over their safety behavior, work attitudes, and work dioxide emissions decreased by 3.53% and 5.38% year on year respectively. assessment of contractors, and defined contractors’ safety quality through monthly quantitative appraisal; it held quarterly responsibilities. It reviewed their qualifications, confirmed special meetings to appraise contractors’ performance, and their performance, and assessed their management and appraised their performance at the end of the year through Energy Conservation Emissions Reduction staff quality, regulated safety contracts and permits to scoring, the one with the lowest score would be eliminated and work, and selected the best contractors through strict the one with severe accidents would be vetoed; contractors’ We strengthened energy conservation target assessment and The Company strictly conducted the assessment of pollutes online review and approval; it strengthened process electronic archives, constructors’ archives and health check Lean Management and kept promoting Ten Energy Saving reduction, and broke down the targets for major pollutants control, entered into HSE commitment agreements archives were established. All contractors were asked to Projects. In 2013, we implemented 63 key energy conservation index like COD, ammonia, sulfur dioxide, and nitrogen oxides with contractors, developed contractor information purchase work-related injury insurance for their construction projects, including energy-saving upgrading of oil production to our branches, and integrated them into our performance management forms, improved their safety management workers. The company strictly managed contractors through and ground systems in oil & gas fields, sewage heat recovery, and contract assessment. We strictly assessed the fulfillment organizations at all levels, provided their executives systems, ensuring operational safety. low-temperature refining heat recycling, and energy-saving of emissions reduction targets to ensure they were achieved. upgrading of heating furnaces. We integrated and promoted We regulated online supervision management of pollution with special training, and ensured construction safety; sophisticated and applicable new energy-saving technology. sources, promulgated and issued the Administrative Measures We also strengthened optimization of refining energy systems for the Operation of Online Monitoring System of Pollution Sources, and research of water-saving technologies, and developed completed the installation and data networking of online the “refining water-saving technology evaluation method” monitoring systems for wastewater and waste gas monitoring and the “refining water-saving technology database”. Energypoints, and realized real-time monitoring of key pollution saving management information systems were built and put sources. into trial operation at Xinjiang Oilfield, Jidong Oilfield, Lanzhou Petrochemical, and Karamay Petrochemical and other pilot In 2013, we designated special persons to supervise the units. In addition, these systems were promoted in the regional handling of these projects through monthly scheduling for companies above these pilot units. We launched the energy the nine FCC flue gas desulfurization projects and 11 refining conservation week campaign under the theme of “promoting wastewater treatment projects listed in the Targets for Emissions energy conservation and low carbon, building a beautiful Reduction of Main Pollutants in the Twelfth Five-Year Period home” to enhance awareness of energy conservation among promulgated by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. These all of our employees. 20 projects have been completed and put into operation on schedule, reducing pollutants volumes of COD, sulfur dioxide in flue gas. We started comprehensive treatment projects of oil 3.53 and gas volatilization in service stations in Beijing, Hebei, Hubei, Jiangsu, Shaanxi, Liaoning and other areas. By adding oil & gas % recovery interfaces and refueling guns, we greatly reduced the volatilization of hydrocarbon organics during gasoline storage, transportation and marketing. COD emission decreased by 3.53% 5.38 % Sulfur dioxide emissions decreased by 5.38% 28 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 29 4. Ecological Protection Case Study Liaohe Petrochemical Company Reduced Pollution Emissions for Clean Production In 2013, PetroChina Liaohe Petrochemical Company hydrolytic acidification tanks for wastewater treatment plants, A diversified environment is a valuable resource for humanity. Respecting nature, developing in harmony with nature and protecting established the Clean Production Plan and took measures thermal insulation projects for physical and chemical segment, nature are of great importance to our sustainable development. Therefore, we attach great importance to minimizing our environmental to ensure the targeted discharge of wastewater and waste upgrading projects of sour water stripping units, and promoted impacts on surrounding environments, strictly implementing environmental protection systems, reinforcing ecological restoration of gas during ultra-heavy oil processing. It established the the upgrading and improvement of environmental devices. The environmentally sensitive areas, and striving to develop in harmony with the environment. 24-hour video and data monitoring system for pollutant company also established incentive funds for clear water and discharge, to ensure treatment at source and process the blue sky project, fully stimulating the employees’ initiative in monitoring. Through oil pollution remediation of sewer environmental protection. Environmental Protection during Production systems and special treatment of hazardous gases, it Sichuan Petrochemical Company identified and eliminated hazards in the sewer systems, and Through systematic treatment, waste oil in the sewerage system During production, we give priority to environmental protection. Established a Communication Platform and identified and treated emission points of harmful exhaust. dropped 21% from the previous year, and the COD content Preliminary environmental impact assessments were required Invited the Public to Inspect Treatment of It worked hard to promote pollution reduction projects, of discharged sewage dropped significantly. Plant air quality in experimental pre-EIA projects in accordance with national Waste Gas, Waste Water and Waste Residue built PetroChina’s first catalytic cracking regeneration flue in the plant met State-II standard. Liaohe Petrochemical met laws and relevant regulation. For each construction project, the gas desulphurization plant by introducing foreign patented the requirements of the Law of the People's Republic of China on environmental protection facilities were required simultaneously The Sichuan Petrochemical Project, consisting of 10 mt/a oil technology, developed upgrading projects of sewage Promoting Clean Production and the Acceptance Standard of Clean with the main project in the process of design, construction refining and 800kt/a ethylene production facilities, is a major pretreatment for super-heavy oil, and built malodorous gas Production in Refining Enterprises. It has passed the assessment and operation. We apply for the approval of environmental project under the national energy development strategy. The treatment equipment for wastewater treatment plants. It and acceptance of the Liaoning Guidance Center of Clean impact assessment of major projects in an orderly manner project has been implemented in accordance with national laws engaged in research on environmental technology, and Production to become the first refining enterprise in China to and work hard to minimize our negative impact on the and regulations and the highest environmental standard in China. designed and developed the upgrading project of primary pass quality in terms of overall clean production. ecological environment during operations and production. Environmental management is implemented in the whole However, the project made the public worried about the impact process of construction projects. With regard of environmental of the environment. In 2013, in order to help the public better Crude Run (mt) COD Emissions (t) COD Emission Concentration (mg/l) risk factors in production, such as oil & gas spills, and emissions understand the environmental issues related to the Company and waste discharge, we developed a multi-tiered risk made public the construction of environmental protection facilities 5.26 management mechanism and formulated strict environmental through news media and social networks in a timely manner, protection measures, to eliminate pollution and protect and extensively invited representatives of community residents, 218 4.41 ecological environment at the source. In 2013, we reviewed the environmental organizations, experts, scholars, entrepreneurs, 100 195 implementation of our environmental impact assessments and college students and PLA soldiers in Chengdu to visit project plants environmental management plan for major refining projects for the treatment of waste gas, waste water and waste residue 44.1 and pipeline projects, to ensure their compliance with laws and before the official acceptance of the project. It encouraged public regulations. supervision and suggestions, and ensured the project meets residents’ expectation of a clean environment, and considers the 2008 2013 2008 2013 2008 2013 Ecological Restoration interests of local residents. While working in environmentally sensitive areas, we strive to After the visit, Yin Jian, Deputy Secretary of Chengdu Academy minimize the occupation of arable land, maintain good soil of Environmental Sciences, said: “The environmental protection and water conservation, take vegetation restoration measures, facilities are so advanced that they are a benchmark in the world. protect biodiversity, strive to restore the landscape of work areas, These advanced environmental techniques can minimize the and protect the habitats and the ecological environment. In emissions of pollutants.” Zhao Lei, a student of Sichuan University, 2013, a project was started to restore the marine environment said “Before the visit, I thought maybe it is the same as the other and fishery resources of the subsea pipeline project for the enterprises I have visited. However, on my visit, I find its equipment Second West-East Gas Pipeline. Two million black sea bream and technology are domestically and even internationally fry were released into the sea, which is expected to add about advanced, which can fully guarantee environmental protection . 100 tons of black sea breams in surrounding waters of Dapeng Bay and Daya Bay. Remarkable achievements were also made in environmental protection and land reclamation in Lasaxing Oilfield in Daqing, Fengcheng Oilfield, Hutubi Gasfield in Xinjiang and Laojunmiao Oilfield in Yumen, which have been included in the third group of national pilot projects for green mines. 30 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 31 5. Response to Climate Change Case Study Ecological Protection of Deserts in Shixi Oilfield in Xinjiang The work area of Xinjiang Oilfield Company is located in the reinjection was physically, chemically and biochemically Global climate change affects our future. As a responsible energy company, we attach great importance to the control and reduction of hinterland of the Gurbantonggut Desert, China's largest fixed treated before being treated through artificial wetlands, greenhouse gas emissions, and actively support the policies and actions to address climate change. Furthermore, we took the initiative to and semi-fixed desert. It is plagued by wind sand throughout improving the local ecological environment of the desert and reduce carbon emissions and sequestrate carbon to contribute to mitigating global climate change. the year. In the work area, the company strictly protected the enriching biodiversity. natural environment, created the local circle-type protection mode, and planned an artificial green system composed of By 2013, the green coverage of the work area reached 62.5%, the windbreaks and sand belts, shelter belts and landscaped and the survival rate of the 20 acres of halophytes planted green area, which form three concentric circles. Reed grids and is above 90%. According to the monitoring data of Xinjiang Participation in Greenhouse Gas Reduction Afforestation grass seeds were provided in the surrounding areas of the well Institute of Ecology and Geography of the Chinese Academy Actions site. Through recycling of domestic water in the oilfield and of Sciences, this area has a wind speed 28%-70% lower than Forests are important carbon sink of the nature, a climate innovative use of mixed water irrigation technology, more than the peripheral areas, with a decrease of 90% in sediment We actively participate in carbon trading at home and abroad stabilizer and a shelter for biodiversity. The Company is actively 200,000 cubic meters of irrigation water was saved annually. concentration in the air and an increase of 60%-200% in air in order to achieve carbon reduction targets through the engaged in forestry carbon sequestration transactions, Through environmental and ecological wetland projects, humidity. A microclimate has taken shape in the desert area. market mechanism. In 2013, our third carbon trading project— promotes full participation in afforestation efforts, and strives it protected native wetland plants, and planted adaptable Daqing Oilfield Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) to cultivate forest resources. Since 2008, PetroChina employees halophytes. Wastewater excluding that used for oilfield Project—was registered, which is expected to trade 400,000 who have actively participated in voluntary tree planting have tons of carbon dioxide emissions. At Shenzhen Emissions totaled 3 million person-times, planting a total of 20 million Exchange, we completed China’s first quota (emission trees, with an increase of over 4,000 hectares in green areas. rights) trading; at China Beijing Environment Exchange, we In 2013, China Green Carbon Foundation completed the site completed China’s first Chinese Certified Emission Reduction approval of PetroChina’s carbon sink forests demonstration (CEER) trading, promoting the development of the domestic project. Ten of PetroChina subsidiaries, including Changqing environmental market system; the energy-saving and Oilfield, Lanzhou Petrochemical and Huabei Oilfield, were emission reduction project developed by our Tianjin Climate named the “National Model Units for Afforestation” by the Exchange helped save more than 200,000 tons of standard National Afforestation Committee. coal, corresponding to a reduction of 500,000 tons of carbon dioxide emissions. For three consecutive years, the Company has been named the “Chinese Model for Low Carbon” in the public charity photo exhibition held by China News Service. Research and Application of Carbon Reduction Technology Carbon capture and sequestration is one of the most promising solutions to respond to global warming. Through carbon dioxide flooding, large amounts of carbon dioxide are sequestrated underground, enhancing oil recovery and effectively reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, experimental development through carbon dioxide flooding progressed steadily in Jilin Oilfield. Three different types of 4,000 test areas have been established, with 430,000 tons of carbon dioxide sequestrated, and oil production per well increased by 30%-60% over water flooding. hectares Since 2008, PetroChina has actively participated in voluntary tree planting, leading to an increase of over 4,000 hectares of green areas. 32 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 33 1. Enhancing Quality Management 03 At PetroChina, quality is always a top priority. We strictly control product quality and measurement management. In 2013, we formally issued the plan for the implementation of the State Council’s Quality Development Program (2011-2020), further improved our quality management system, enhanced our measurement and testing capabilities, promoted our product and service quality, and ensured quality safety. Promoting Quality Management System We work hard to improve our quality management system by intensifying our effor ts on brands cultivation, quality supervision and inspection, and certification and accreditation. In 2013, quality management systems were certified in 82.29% of our subsidiaries, including all refining, petrochemical and marketing subsidiaries. The first round of quality management system review in major production units and research institutes was completed. 100 To conduct quantitative evaluation of quality management, we issued and implemented the Indicators for Product Engineering and Service Quality % (Trial). A “Quality Month” campaign was launched to raise the employees’ quality awareness. 100% of the refining, petrochemical and marketing subsidiaries were certified by the third-party quality management systems. Quality Goal To become a leading domestic and excellent global company with zero accidents and zero defects CUSTOMER-FIRST MARKET SERVICE Stage Goal By 2015: Promote quality, measurement and standardization management generally over the optimal level Petrochemical products play a vital role in China’s national economy as well as in the life of the Chinese people. The Company pursues a business where the “emphasis is placed on By 2020: Promote quality, measurement and standardization management fully over the optimal level, and the excellent level in some subsidiaries the environment, safety, quality and people”. It also adheres to the principle of “honesty and quality excellence”. In this respect, the Company actively pursues its goal of producing products that have “zero defects”, “zero accidents”, and are of “leading first-class quality both Development Philosophy domestically and internationally”. We promote management and technological innovation, Giving top priority to the environment, safety, quality and people and try our best to provide diversified products and services for consumers. 34 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 35 Enhancing Measurement Level Achievements in Standardization Optimize Supply Chain Management and Improve Product Procurement Quality In 2013, we accomplished the three-year upgrading of The Company developed a set of standards and operating measuring instruments, and achieved new progress in procedures from research results and management experience the development of the national authorized oil and gas and actively participated in the establishment of international The Company keeps optimizing supply chain supplier access, valuation, material procurement, tendering transfer measurement and traceability system. Our regular standards. In 2013, the Company awarded The Excellent management, and puts forward specific requirements and bid evaluation, suppliers are required to operate in measurement inspection and maintenance helped to ensure Standard Award for “the Eleventh Five-Year Plan” to 111 for suppliers’ social responsibility and quality standards. accordance with the law and credit, and fulfill their social instruments’ reliability. We performed a general survey projects, promoting the modification and implementation of A database was established to manage suppliers’ responsibilities. At the stage of supplier quality management, of oil and gas transfer measurement, promoted relevant standards. To study and develop common and basic standards qualifications and share supplier resources. B y a comprehensive quality management system has been put measurement standards, and constantly regulated transfer for shale gas, we established the Standardization Committee means of public bidding and online transactions, we in place to take quality assurance measures, in order to ensure measurement management. Through information technology for Shale Gas. We served as the Secretariat of the ISO Upstream provide suppliers with equal and fair opportunities the quality of procured products and prevent and mitigate and automation technology, we actively promoted dynamic Natural Gas Technical Committee (ISO/TC193/SC3), which has and standardized transactions. In the procedures of quality risks. transfer metering to replace manual measurement, in order to accepted eight of our international standards proposals. improve efficiency and accuracy. Case Study Life-cycle Quality Management of OCTGs 140 OCTGs are critical to oil production at various stages, including drilling, completion and production. As we develop more and more special wells, such as ultra-deep wells, horizontal wells and high sour gas wells, our requirements for the quality of OCTGs 140 enterprise continue to grow. standards developed and modified in 2013 The Company strictly controls the quality of the OCTGs procured. We intensified our management of manufacturing licenses, improved product access standards and the systems to inspect products upon arrival, strengthened supervision and sampling, and established user quality accreditation systems. Furthermore, we strengthened onsite supervision, extended supervision services and items, promoted standardization of OCTGs, and strengthened basic research for application such as the identification of failure causes of OCTGs, in order to prevent failure at source. 36 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 37 2. Focusing on Research and Development 3. Providing High-quality Products In line with our technological philosophy of “Strategy-Driven, GoalWe are constantly improving our product mix. Our products, including gasoline, diesel, lubricants and different grades of chemical Oriented and Top-Tier Design”, we strengthened technological products, are widely used in many industries such as automobiles, building materials, electronics, pharmaceuticals, printing, household exchanges and cooperation, spared no efforts to make key appliances and daily-use chemicals. technological breakthroughs, enhanced R&D in new technologies, processes, equipment and materials, upgraded our production facilities, and carried out product innovation based on market Upgrading of Oil Products Quality demand, to offer consumers more varied quality products. To upgrade oil product quality, we developed and Dialogue with Stakeholders applied key technologies to reduce sulfur content In 2013, we developed 58 brands of new chemical products in gasoline, such as selective hydrodesulfurization which accounted for a total volume of 713,000 tons. Lanzhou of catalytic gasoline and gasoline hydrogenation. Q: What progress has PetroChina made to meet national requirements for Petrochemical developed and produced NBR3305-E In 2013, gasoline quality upgrade projects in 14 oil products upgrade? environmentally friendly nitrile butadiene rubber which was widely refining enterprises were completed and put into applied in the manufacturing of fitness equipment and children’s production, and gasoline quality was upgraded A: Chinese government requires the implementation of the National IV toys. With milled powder from discarded tires as the raw material, motor gasoline standard by the end of 2013, the National IV motor diesel to the National V standard in advance in such Karamay Petrochemical developed rubber asphalt with waste standard by the end of 2014, and the National V gasoline and diesel subsidiary companies as Jinzhou, North China, tire rubber powder to realize waste recycling, achieving better standard by the end of 2017. Dalian and Liaoyang PetroChemicals. All our performance than heavy traffic paving asphalt and SBS modified motor gasoline supplied has reached the National asphalt. With regard to oil and gas pipeline fields, four types of key PetroChina is upgrading oil products in three phases: Gasoline reaches IV standard, increasing the proportion of high equipment for large LNG projects realized local manufacturing, the National IV standard by the end of 2013, diesel reaches the National grade gasoline, #97 gasoline and jet fuel by 1.01%, i.e. cooling agent compressor, steam turbine, cold box and LNG IV standard by the end of 2014, and both gasoline and diesel meet the 10.7% and 20.55% respectively year-on-year. volatile gas compressor. A high-efficiency laser welding and an National V standard by the end of 2017. ultrasonic testing prototype and mechanized joint coating system were developed for pipeline anti-corrosion & mending. Newly Developed Refined Products in 2013 Roadmap of PetroChina Oil Products Upgrade Name Description PetroChina National Standard Sulphur Content Limit Manganese Content Limit Alkene Content In 2012, car fuels reach Resin DFDA-9047 for High-performance Linear Membrane used for sheds, floor sealers and irrigation National III standard Phase III 150ppm 16mg/L 30% DMDB-4506 for IBC Material used for large hollow containers and chassis supports By the end of 2013, gasoline DMDA-6045 used for automobile fuel tanks for motor vehecles reaches Phase IV 50ppm 8mg/L 28% National IV standard; by the Hollow materials of DMDA-6200, 6400, 6143, 6150/6152 end of 2014, diesel for motor used for packaging of mineral water, edible oil and beverages vehecles reaches National IV used for medical injection bottles, infusion bags, infusion tubes standard 3020D, LD26D and injectors, etc. By the end of 2017, all High-melting Injection Molding Compound K9928H used for household appliances and car bumpers gasoline and diesel products Phase V 10ppm 2mg/L 24% reach National V standard (manganese-containing used for sanitary towels, diapers and nonwoven fabrics, etc. (80% lower) High-melting Fiber Materials of S2025, S2040 additives prohibited) Ethylene Propylene Rubber J-0050, J-0010 used for preparing antifreeze fluid, and machining cutting fluid Enhance the capability Mitigate the potential risk to Further reduce photochemical of automobile exhaust human health and adverse impact pollution caused by evaporative used for processing auto tires, including truck tires, radial tires, and purification system, and on vehicle emission control emission of gasoline and reduce Environmentally friendly Styrene-butadiene Rubber reduce emissions system caused by manganese sediments in air intake system 1763N, 1763E, 1769E, 1778E semi-steel radial car tires, etc. of automoble engines 38 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 39 Promoting End-User Consumption of Providing High-quality Chemical Products Natural Gas The Company cultivates high-quality brand products, 4. Delivering Considerate Services The replacement of oil for automobiles and vessels with natural and provides consumers with environmentally friendly gas could bring environmental, economic and social benefits. and diversified products. Four products, including linear On the one hand, we promoted LNG as an alternative for alkylbenzene of Fushun Petrochemical Company and vehicle fuel, and reinforced LNG vehicle usage for urban, longpolypropylene resin of Daqing Refining & Petrochemical distance travel and heavy loads in the Bohai Rim, Yangtze River Company were awarded the title of “Distinguished Brand” of To improve customer satisfaction, we strive to expand the coverage of our service network and functions and improve our services and Delta, and Sichuan-Chongqing regions. On the other hand, we 2013 by the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation. quality to offer a better experience to our customers. In the 2013 Chinese Customer Satisfaction Manual jointly issued by CNIS Customer accelerated the construction of LNG filling stations as well as In product quality supervision and random inspection, the Satisfaction Measurement Center and Tsinghua University, the satisfaction degree indexof PetroChina’s service stations is 73.6, rising by 8.1 storage and transportation facilities. In 2013, we put Shanghai’s rate for refining product quality and graded bulk commodities over 2012. first L-CNG filling station into operation, accelerated the reached 100% and over 80% respectively. construction of LNG filling stations for highways in Shandong Province, LNG ship filling demonstration sites along the Yangtze River (Chongqing, Wuhan and Wuhu), Ganjiang River, Optimizing Our Service Network Improving Service Quality Beijing-Hangzhou Canal and Weishan Lake were established, and the Research on Application Safety of LNG-fueled Vessels and In 2013, we continued to optimize our service network, and The Company further improved the service system focusing on the Demonstration Project on Supporting Technology of Replacing put 360 new service stations into operation, bringing the total customer orientation, high-quality service and friendly service. number of our service stations up to over 20,000, covering For direct-sales customers, we set up customer service centers, Oil by Gas for Vessels were launched. 31 provinces (municipalities and autonomous regions) and and simplified the purchasing and sale process. By means of the HKSAR in China. The stations continued to expand the information technology, the Company realized the goal of scope of their service to provide customers with a one-stop “refueling nationwide with one card”, and promoted self-service service encompassing refueling, rest, shopping and vehicle refueling to provide convenience to customers. Targeting maintenance. We strive to build the uSmile brand, and have customers’ needs, we adjusted the marketing structure and added 1,650 “uSmile” convenience stores in 2013, bringing the strengthened sales of high-grade gasoline. We improved number of our service stations with convenience stores to service specifications, and provided new services to provide 14,799. product information and technical consulting to consumers. “Distinguished Brand” Products of PetroChina We started an end-to-end tracking service to track customer experiences, recommendations and satisfaction in order to Year Product Name Production Unit build a caring and harmonious customer environment. 2011 “Kunlun” ethanediol for industrial use Jilin Petrochemical Company 2011 “Kunlun” acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) resin Jilin Petrochemical Company 2012 “Kunlun” petroleum benzene Lanzhou Petrochemical Company Liaohe Petrochemical Company, Karamay 20,000 2012 “Kunlun” heavy traffic paving asphalt Petrochemical Company 2012 “Kunlun” refined paraffin wax PetroChina Company Limited 2012 “Kunlun” butadiene rubber Daqing Petrochemical Company Over 20,000 service stations operating 2012 “Kunlun” polyacrylamide Daqing Refining & Petrochemical Company 2013 “Kunlun” thin film polypropylene resin Daqing Refining & Petrochemical Company 2013 “Kunlun” thin film polyethylene resin Jilin Petrochemical Company 2013 “Kunlun” urea Southwestern Tarim Exploration & Development Company 2013 “Kunlun” industrial linear alkylbenzene Fushun Petrochemical Company 40 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 41 5. Stabilizing Oil and Gas Supply Case Study Green Island Service Stations of Henan Marketing Company As a leading oil and gas supplier in China, we ensure the stability and safety of oil and gas supplies. In 2013, we closely tracked the market trend, adjusted the product mix based on market fluctuations, and conducted product allocation and transportation. We are responsible U r b a n c o n s t r u c t i o n a n d t h e grow i n g n u m b e r o f the urban environment. Architectural design has abandoned for about 40% of the domestic market supply of oil products, and about 70% of natural gas, meeting the needs of urban residents, public automobiles have made land a very scarce resource for the pure straight line style for curved shapes, and uses utilities and key customers. building service stations. Refueling demand is confronted membrane material which allows transmission of light, and is with the constraints of traditional service station layout. In soft in texture and safe to use. For better identification, a road order to support construction of local ecological corridors sign is installed 150m ahead of the service station’s entrance, Stabilizing Supply in Agricultural Peak Ensuring Oil and Gas Supply in Winter and satisfy consumers’ needs, Henan Marketing Company and PetroChina’s logo is installed at both the entrance and the Periods Energy demand increases in winter, especially when ice and turned 10 service stations in Zhengzhou into “compact” exit, and LED lighting is installed above the convenience store. The peak periods in spring, summer and autumn are key snows poses challenges to oil and gas transportation and Green Island service stations. These stations satisfied The services offered include on-site guidance and fixed-time stages of agricultural production, during which demand for supply. In 2013, gas demand increased significantly due to the automobile refueling demands, saved land and beautified refueling with high efficiency. agricultural oil and chemical products is high. In 2013, as the switch to gas-fueled heating boilers to improve air quality in temperature was relatively lower than before in northeastern urban areas. Sticking to the principle of “ensuring supply to China, oil utilization for the “spring period” was delayed, civilians, the public and key units”, the Company coordinated clashing with the “summer period” in northern China, and many resources like self-produced gas, imported gas and coal the Huaihe and Yellow River areas, increasing China’s total gas, utilized LNG receiving terminals and gas storage, optimized agricultural diesel demand by about 10% over the previous its market distribution program, and strengthened demand year. Through full production and multi-transportation, the side management. Moreover, in order to ensure oil products Company allocated resources and increased diesel supply supply in winter, we organized refineries to arrange production for major agricultural areas like northern China, and the and transportation in advance, in order to satisfy the increasing Huaihe and Yellow River areas. The Company prolonged the market demand for low freezing point diesel. operation time of service stations, opened green channels, and sent oil to farmland through small-amount distribution. We also added skid-mounted refueling facilities, promoted the usage of agricultural machinery IC card, and provided nonoil services. Between April and May, diesel oil supplied by the Company to the regions such as Hebei, Shanxi, Hubei, Anhui, Henan, Shandong, Jiangsu, Sichuan and Shaanxi, increased by 100,000 tons year-on-year, which ensured the supply of oil for agricultural production. Ensuring Supplies of Disaster Relief Oil Products In 2013, when natural disasters occurred such as thick sea ice 11.7% hitting the Bohai Bay, flooding in northeastern China, the Ya’an earthquake in Sichuan and a powerful typhoon in coastal areas, the Company launched its emergency mechanism and established an all-round oil product supply network, to From October to December the Company’s natural gas supply guarantee local oil product supply. We also established the oil grew by 11.7% over the same period in 2012 product distribution group for disaster relief, set up key supply guarantee service stations, organized mobile refueling vehicles, and optimized allocation and transportation of oil products. PetroChina’s service stations in disaster areas were open around the clock to supply as much oil as possible. 42 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 43 1. Employee Rights 04 We remain committed to the “People First” philosophy in treating our employees with respect and equality, and protecting their legitimate rights. We strive to resolve the most pressing and most practical issues faced by our employees, so that they can share the fruits of our development. Fair Treatment 67.8% At PetroChina, we strictly abide by the Labor Law of the People’s Male Republic of China and Labor Contract Law of the People’s Republic of China, as well as the rules and regulations of the jurisdictions where we operate. We also scrupulously meet all obligations under the international conventions endorsed by the Chinese 32.2% government. We have a well-established employment Female management system covering labor contracts, remuneration, insurance and benefits, performance review, rewards and disciplinary measures, training and leave benefits. We also regulate employee practices according to laws and regulations. 6.2% We implement the new Labor Contract Law, and propose Minority ethic specific measures for regulating labor dispatch based on employees the overall investigation on labor dispatch of subordinate companies. We make every effort to strengthen position management, protect employees’ legitimate rights, and build a mechanism to allow the Company and employees to benefit 46.8% equally from growth. Technical 2.8% secondary We provide equal opportunities and fair treatment to all Master Degree school and and above employees regardless of their nationality, ethnicity, race, above gender, religion and culture. We prohibit the employment and use of child labor and avoid all forms of forced labor. 27.1% Additionally, the Company has always emphasized the Bachelor’ s employment of local residents, women, ethnic minorities Degree and college students to increase job opportunities for local 23.3% “PEOPLE-ORIENTED” EMPLOYEE communities. College Degree DEVELOPMENT 14% Administrative staff 12.5% At PetroChina, employees are our most valuable asset. The overall development of employees Technicians has been one of our development priorities. We strive to create a working environment of 10,752 inclusion, equality, mutual trust and coordination. We protect employees’ rights, care for their 10,752 college graduates were recruited well-being and provide a career development platform. We keep promoting the localization 8.5% Salesmen and diversification of our staff, and strengthen security in our overseas operations. As such, we aim to achieve the optimization of both corporate values and employees’ benefits. 2% 60% Financial staff 95 Production staff (Accountant) 3% 95 overseas graduates were recruited Others 44 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 45 Remuneration and Motivation Democratic Participation health management, disease prevention, and food/water The Company places great importance on democratic safety. We have provided health education and psychological health counseling services, and held training classes for 91% The Company has further improved the performance appraisal and remuneration system, as well as the framework of management, participation and supervision. Apart from psychological counselors, training nearly 100 people since In 2013, the rate of occupational employee compensation and benefits highlighting the value establishing trade unions, it has put in place a democratic style the first class. Liaohe Oilfield Company was granted the and performance of employees in different positions, so that of management and transparent approach to industrial affairs title of “National Advanced Unit for Occupational Health physical examination was over 91% every employee can reach his potential. In addition, we steadily to ensure employees are well-informed and have the means Management” by China Occupational Safety and Health extended the coverage of social security programs to our for participation in and oversight of corporate management. By Association. employees, and improved their supplementary medical care clarifying the obligations and rights, organization system and and insurance, enterprise annuity and living allowance schemes working system of the employee representative congress, we We have implemented the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) 94% under the Social Insurance Act of the People’s Republic of China to have further standardized the content, procedures and forms in our overseas projects. Our companies in Kazakhstan and Iraq ensure employees’ interests and rights are addressed. In 2013, of the Industrial Affairs Open System. invited professional organizations to provide psychological The detection rate of occupational the Company’s compensation and benefits policy continued counseling services. In addition, we carried out the activity of “bringing health and sunshine overseas”, to organize medical hazards in workplace was over 94% to favor employees taking front-line positions, working in harsh The Company and its subsidiaries have established multiple environments and assuming key responsibilities. channels to communicate with employees, persisted in and healthcare staff to provide physical examination and implementing democratic procedures, and conducted multi-level psychological counseling for employees overseas. communication by means of meeting with staff representatives and network interaction, to encourage employees to participate in the management of production and operation. 3. Platform for Employee Development 2. Occupational Health At PetroChina, we continue to improve our training centers and training networks from the perspective of a modern enterprise, aiming The Company abides by the PRC Prevention and Control of Occupational Diseases Act in its occupational health management, focusing on to build a learning organization with knowledge-based employees. We address our employees’ need for career development at different the prevention and management of hazards as well as the implementation of such measures. By emphasizing health management in field stages and provide career planning counsel for people to achieve their personal goals. operations, we give first priority to employee health and life safety. In 2013, the rate of occupational physical examination was over 91%, and the detection rate of occupational hazards in the workplace was over 94%. Employee Training We lay stress on monitoring employees’ occupational health, The Company has increased input for training infrastructure, We continue to carry out multi-level training through numerous and stepped up physical examination for front-line operators, and held training classes for remote training administrators, to channels and forms, to improve comprehensive competence of contractors, and temporary workers. The Company has improved Case Study Caring for Employees’ improve their comprehensive qualities. In 2013, the training managers, technical professionals, operators and international management of employee health surveillance records, to provide Health in Chad centers of Jilin and Qinghai oilfields were granted the title of talent. In 2013, the Company held the 19th training class for customized medical treatment for employees. In 2013, health “National Workers Vocational Skill Training Base” by the Allyoung and middle-aged officials; organized technical experts surveillance records for dangerous positions were improved for In 2013, the Company sent a team composed of four China Federation of Trade Unions, guaranteeing the cultivation to engage in advanced study at Tsinghua University and China more than 200,000 employees, and great progress was made medical experts and two psychological counselors, of more application-oriented talents for the enterprise and University of Petroleum (Beijing); and provided demonstrative in preventative occupational health evaluation. For example, to worksites in Chad to provide physical examination, society. Ningxia Petrochemical Company provided health intervention health instructions, and psychological counseling, for 44 employees through the Hypertension Health Management helping our employees overcome psychological Program, improving their blood pressure greatly within three obstacles and keep a positive attitude. The team has months. provided physical examination for 342 person/times, held seven psychological counseling lectures, organized We have proactively implemented the monitoring and control five team construction activities, and offered one-to-one of occupational hazards at workplaces, further standardized the counseling to employees for 73 person/times, benefiting evaluation of occupational hazards for construction projects, nearly 400 employees. and guaranteed that labor safety and health facilities in a construction project are designed, constructed, and put into use simultaneously with the main project. In addition, the Company has checked equipment hazards and occupational hazards at The Company attaches great importance to disease prevention workplaces, and established the occupational hazard database, and health management at field operations, continues to to continuously improve employees’ working and living provide healthcare services to front-line workers, and promotes environment. 46 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 47 training on unconventional oil & gas and coalbed methane technology for E&P, refining and pipeline senior technicians, has strengthened the rotation and temporary transfer of positions between the headquarters and overseas projects and 4. Local Staff Development to improve the quality of young and middle-aged backbone supporting units, as well as between our domestic enterprises researchers and leading talents. To improve technicians’ and institutions concerning foreign affairs and overseas competence, 562 backbone technicians were trained through projects. We have further introduced high caliber people from 16 classes. The Company continued to implement the other countries, and three candidates have been evaluated “thousand talents training project” for international talents, under the “Thousand People” Plan, a national program aimed At PetroChina, we embrace a respectful, open and inclusive culture and uphold the principles of local hiring, professionalism and marketsending 35 senior managers to attend the Fifth EMBA program at attracting outstanding talent from abroad. Our employees orientation in managing overseas talent. While we establish ourselves as a global energy company, we also promote workforce localization. at the University of Houston, USA; sending 10 technical experts have participated in international and domestic skill contests from oil & gas fields to attend the world’s leading upstream and achieved great performance. In particular, three employees technology training class in Canada; and cultivating 65 talents were granted the title of “Personality of the Year” by the Local Hiring Respect for Cultural Differences with good English and Russian language skills through the “Scientific Chinese” journal. overseas talent training program. We proactively recruit and train local employees and select PetroChina fully respects cultural diversity and local customs. By the end of 2013, the Company had 12 academicians at the right people among local candidates for management We promote understanding and respect for different values and In 2013, PetroChina headquarters organized 166 training the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Academy positions through fair competition. The Company has cotraditions and foster cross-culture cooperation in a culturally programs with approximately 20,000 participants. of Engineering, 890 experts entitled to the Government established the “Central Asia Training Center” with China diverse workplace. Chinese employees are encouraged to learn Special Allowance, as well as 287 senior technical experts, 84 University of Petroleum, to carry out all-round strategic about the laws, history, culture and religious customs of local management experts, and 231 skilled experts. cooperation for local staff cultivation, Chinese employee communities. On the other hand, foreign employees are invited training and talent support in Central Asia. to visit our headquarters in China and experience Chinese Platform for Employee Development culture. Our PK Company in Kazakhstan advocates the concept Management of Local Employees of “fostering mutual respect, and enjoying work”, respects the With a corporate culture that values moral integrity as well habits and customs of various nationalities, and establishes as professional competence, the Company has developed a selection process that is open, competitive and merit-based to create a positive workplace atmosphere, enabling the 166 The Company’s headquarters held 166 training We have developed Protocols on Local Employee Management in Overseas Operation in line with the laws and regulations in host countries, covering hiring, the monitoring of attendance, different types of communication platforms, to remove language obstacles and cultural barriers and promote harmony and cooperation among employees with different cultural recognition and best use of talent. The quota of senior technical vacation, performance evaluation, incentives and penalties for backgrounds. programs experts and trial units for the parallel managerial technical each management process and position, to attract and retain 93.4% 20,000 system has been increased, to expand the development outstanding local talent. In 2013, our company in Iraq held space for employees. We select key young research staff to the Second Excellent Employee Commending Conference, to undertake national and company-level technology programs award 68 local employees making great contributions to the By the end of 2013, local in domestic and overseas key projects and research bases, so as The Company’s headquarters trained nearly project development. employees accounted for to put their talents into good use. Furthermore, the Company 20,000 employees 93.4% of overseas workforce. Case Study Innovation Platform of Petrochemical Research Institute Helps Employee Development At the Petrochemical Research Institute, employees Training examinations have been strengthened, and under the age of 35 account for 40% of the total self-learning achievement and training are included in employees. In order to create development opportunities for young employees, the Petrochemical Research Institute carried out the youth innovation the annual performance review. The institute invites experts to provide training to all staff every week, and the total number of experts has reached more than 68 project. Young employees are offered opportunities 100. Furthermore, young employees are selected and 68 local employees in Iraq were awarded for their great to undertake the institute’s projects first, and then sent overseas for training. Since the foundation of the contributions to the project development sent to external cooperation projects to improve their institute, more than 70 young employees have won the professional skills. The institute holds a youth innovation Youth Innovation Award of State Enterprises, the Youth forum, intellectual property debate and other activities Civilization Title of State Enterprises, “Ten Outstanding monthly, to encourage young employees to study Young People” of the Company, and other awards above independently and communicate with each other. the ministerial and provincial level. 48 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 49 5. Security in Overseas Operations Case Study Halfaya Project Builds Teams with Diversified Culture PetroChina’s Halfaya Project in Iraq lays stress on fostering etc. Also, local college graduates are selected to receive The safety of our employees has always been an overriding security hazards and improve crisis plans. The mechanisms to an international enterprise culture of openness and training in China. priority in our overseas operations. On the organizational level, cooperate with host governments, Chinese embassies and inclusiveness, and builds an international team with cultural security management bodies have been set up for overseas security agencies, and to gather intelligence, were introduced integration. Respecting employees’ religion and customs. Prayer rooms subsidiaries and affiliates, including the HSE Committee to enable early warning and preparedness. A range of training have been established in major oilfield camps for foreign for International Cooperation and the Counterterrorism, programs tailored to overseas operations were developed Developing a team of multinational backgrounds. The and local employees. Employees receive good wishes on Security and HSE Office. In 10 countries marked by conflicts for security managers, site managers and operating crews to project embraces industry elites from 37 countries across their birthdays or wedding days. Cultural integration is and tight security, the Company set up social security task improve emergency response capabilities. Furthermore, special five continents. International and local employees account promoted through care and concern for the employees. forces with dedicated security managers. A systemized drills for emergencies involving both overseas worksites and for 79% of total employees. management mechanism has been implemented, a the headquarters were organized, improving the emergency The international concept maintained by the Halfaya promotion plan for social security management system of command system based on maritime satellite phones. In 2013, Strengthening employee training. The Project invests USD Project has enhanced the employees’ sense of belonging. overseas subsidiaries is formulated, and 12 companies have the Company held the counterterrorism training class in Iraq, to 5 million to train local employees every year. Performance “Inclusiveness is very important, and the regional and compiled management manuals and procedure documents. teach terrorism-prevention knowledge, and to provide training review is carried out in an open and transparent way, and language difference does not stand in the way of team With employee safety being part of our per formance on psychological counseling, hazard identification, self-rescue, employees are given instructions for improvement. Local collaboration”, said an employee from the Finance review, the Company has signed a Safety and Environment simulation drills, situation analysis, pressure alleviation and crisis employees are provided with training on basic knowledge, Department. Agreement with each overseas affiliate to identify securityresponse. No security incident such as fatalities or abductions operational skills, production process and language skills, related roles and responsibilities in overseas projects. In happened in our overseas projects in 2013. addition, it has developed a dynamic, multi-tiered system for risk management and evaluation mechanism to eliminate Case Study International SOS Clinic Built in Rumaila Project 0 In Basra, Iraq, where our Rumaila Project is located, the security situation is severe, medical conditions are poor, and airports are not equipped with temporary hospitals compliant with international standards. In 2013, PetroChina cooperated with the International SOS rescue center for the first time to build Rumaila No security incident SOS Clinic, opening a green channel for overseas employees. PetroChina provides medical treatment unit such as fatalities or for the SOS Clinic, and recruits the best local doctors; whereas the SOS rescue center provides bilingual abductions happened in medical staff, medical equipment and medicine free of charge. Basic surgical operations can be performed our overseas projects in in the clinic. Upon completion, medical tasks such as treatment, rescue and transfer of the injured, of 2013. more than 1,000 PetroChina employees in Basra, will be covered in the SOS international rescue guarantee system. In case of emergency, the SOS clinic will respond immediately to send the injured to Dubai Airport by “Air Ambulance” to get medical treatment in SOS-designated hospitals in Dubai, or help them take a direct flight to Beijing for medical treatment. During SOS international rescue, all the rescue information will be transmitted simultaneously to the SOS rescue system, to save the injured with the greatest efforts in the shortest time. 50 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 51 1. Promoting Local Development 05 PetroChina’s development is inseparable from the support of the Government, communities and the public. In turn, we have maintained close cooperation with multiple investment bodies based on the principle of “open cooperation for mutual benefit”. We have consistently cultivated and cooperated with local suppliers and contractors in the development of oil and gas fields and construction of refining chemicals plants and pipelines, boosting local development and creating employment opportunities. In 2013, RMB 60 billion was introduced from insurance companies, pension funds, banks and public funds as joint venture in the operation of the Western Section of the First and Second West-East Gas Pipelines. The pilot development 60 projects of non-producing reserves and cooperation projects of shale gas in China have been achieved; and the jointbillion RMB venture platform for E&P and R&C projects has progressed steadily. The South Xinjiang Natural Gas Project was put into operation, fueling the coordinated development of the local RMB 60 billion was introduced from insurance economy, society and environment. Oil and gas exploration companies, pension funds, banks and public funds as and production in Qinghai was strengthened to ensure local joint venture in the operation of the Western Section of oil & gas supply, develop urban fuel gas businesses, and the First and Second West-East Gas Pipelines proactively promote the socio-economic development of Qinghai. Dialogue with Stakeholders alleviate our investment and financing pressure, relieve cash flow constraints, optimize asset structure; and will introduce social resources, accelerate the developmentGIVING BACK TO SOCIETY Q: Why does PetroChina implement an opening mode transformation and quality benefit improvement, and foreign cooperation policy in its key assets and and finally achieve the goal of mutual benefit and a investment projects? win-win situation leading to sustainable development. As we are from the society, we have a duty to give back to the community. As socio-economic development is our ultimate goal, we attach great importance to the well-being of people and A: Expanding cooperation in the oil & gas business and Q: What are the main sectors involved in the strengthening foreign investment cooperation is not Company’s opening and foreign cooperation? social advancement. We never waver in assisting those living in poverty and students with only a response to national reform and open-up policy financial difficulties, organizing volunteering activities in local communities, and promoting and the “New 36 Articles” of the State Council, but also A: The Company has started to fully open its upstream, community construction. Through our efforts, we strive to make a contribution to building a an objective requirement for the Company to maintain midstream and downstream, as well as the domestic harmonious society. sustainable, rapid and coordinated development and and overseas oil & gas businesses. More emphasis has adapt to energy industry development trends, and a been placed on establishing joint-venture collaboration realistic choice to resolve our development difficulties. platforms for oil & gas pipelines, unused reserves, shale Under current situations, expanding opening-up and gas, oil refining and chemical engineering, and overseas promoting joint investment and cooperation could oil & gas business, etc. 52 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 53 2. Poverty Alleviation Case Study West-East Gas Pipeline Project Drives Economic Development Along the Pipeline The West-East Gas Pipeline is an integral part of China’s X80 steel pipes led to a great improvement of domestic Poverty is a key constraint on sustainable development and tends to be exacerbated by natural disasters. The Company supports and clean energy supply. Since it became operational 10 iron & steel enterprises in terms of their technology level promotes poverty alleviation by promoting related projects, providing more job opportunities, improving residents’ life, and making a years ago, this project has not only improved the energy and competence. We participated in developing three contribution to poverty alleviation. Investment in poverty alleviation in 2013 reached RMB67.99 million. structure in East China, but also promoted local investment key equipments such as the 200,000MW motor-driven and related industry upgrading, driving economic compressor unit, 30MW gas turbine driven compressor Targeted and Pairing Assistance Programs Facility Renovation Project for Shuanghu County. Our support development in both eastern and western areas. unit, and 48-inch full-welded high-pressure ball valve, and for Poverty Alleviation for poverty alleviation covers 14 counties (districts) in eight greatly improved the overall technology and quality level provinces (cities & autonomous regions) such as Xinjiang, Driving local investment. The First West-East Gas Pipeline of high-end mechanical and electrical manufacturing We care about the socio economic development of Henan, Tibet, Qinghai, Chongqing, Guizhou, Jiangxi and Fujian. runs through nine provinces, while the Second Pipeline enterprises. impoverished areas, support local leading industries and runs through 14 provinces and the Hong Kong Special unique sectors, carry out trainings for the young workers and Disaster Relief Administrative Region. Almost all the steel and machinery Boosting economic development. The West-East Gas entrepreneur operation and management, and strengthen equipment needed in engineering construction is Pipeline has constantly transmitted natural gas to the basic education support. In 2013, PetroChina started the LNG Facing major natural disasters in China in 2013, such as procured from local enterprises in regions along the eastern area, transforming its resources advantage into a Synthetic Welding Gas project in Kaixian County, Chongqing. earthquakes, floods, and typhoons, the Company immediately pipeline. The Second Pipeline involves more than real economic advantage that brings western areas more In Fujian Changting, the feasibility study of the rare-earth oil launched the Emergency Response Plan to ease the adverse RMB300 billion of direct investment being made in than RMB100 billion in revenue and income tax. The White catalyst project was completed, which is expected to produce impact caused by these disasters. Within 24 hours of the Lushan related industries, and provided services to more than Paper of “China’s Ethnic Policy and Common Prosperity and 50,000 tons of rare-earth oil cracking catalysts. The “10,000-mu earthquake in Ya’an, Sichuan,we built a three-layer oil product 30,000 enterprises. The Third Line project involves a total Development of All Ethnic Groups”, issued by The State Ecological Demonstration Forest for Soil & Water Conservation” supply guarantee mechanism including the earthquake project was also almost accomplished. In Xinjiang, five sessions epicenter, surrounding area and peripheral area; we provided investment of RMB125 billion in which social and private Council Information Office of the People’s Republic of of skill training and four sessions of training for administrators a 24-hour interrupted supply at service stations in the affected capital is initially introduced and the platform by which China, states that the First West-East Gas Pipeline alone has and technicians were held in six poverty alleviation counties, area; we opened a green oil filling channel to offer preferential benefits are shared has also been established. increased Xinjiang’s financial revenue by more than RMB1 with 370 persons being trained in the whole year. In Henan, services for medical and electricity rescue trunks; we built 5,000 billion for each single year. The First and Second Westwe supported education and career development in lessresidence houses in the disaster area, and donated 100 “Mother Promoting corporate development within the industry East Gas Pipelines increased China’s total energy supply, developed areas, donating 200 computers and commodities Health Express” ambulances. chain. The West-East Gas Pipeline directly drove the accelerated socio-economic development, and benefited to Tongbai County, and improved students’ accommodation development and upgrading of metallurgy, machinery, over 100 cities, 3,000 large & medium-size enterprises and and schooling conditions in this county. Furthermore, in electronics and equipment manufacturing industries. The nearly 400 million people. Tibet, we built the Housing Project, Rural Committee Lighting mass production, manufacturing and welding of X70 and 67.99 million RMB The input related to pover ty alleviation was up to RMB 67.99 million in 2013 100 ambulances 1 0 0 ‘ M o t h e r H e a l t h E x p re s s’ ambulances were donated by PetroChina to Ya’an after the Lushan earthquake. 54 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 55 3. Supports for Education 4. Volunteer Activities Education is the foundation for social justice and development. We consider support for education an important move accelerating social progress. Since the scholarship fund was Case Study Helping Girls Back to School established in 2001, PetroChina has rewarded nearly 9,677 students from poor families, and students with excellent academic performance. Moreover, all subsidiary enterprises PetroChina Marketing Yumen Company has paid also set up their own scholarship or fellowship in colleges close attention to education of young girls since 2007, and universities in order to assist students. The Company, in and implemented the “Spring Bud Girl” initiative in collaboration with the Society of Automotive Engineers of collaboration with Yumen Women’s Federation to help China and Xiangyang Municipal Government, held the Kunlun girls living in poverty to finish their education. The Yumen Lubricant Formula Student China (FSC) 2013. Furthermore, Company, by means of “one helps one”, knew about the we reinforced cooperation with automobile manufacturers, study and living conditions of the girls, sent stationary industrial associations, and colleges & universities to jointly and living materials, and encouraged them to overcome promote talent cultivation for the automobile industry. In 2013, difficulties and realize their ideals. In seven years, we have the “Guo Mingyi Caring Team” donated RMB120,000 to the subsidized 75 girls to finish high school education ,including Xidatan Township Junior High School, Tianzhu County, Wuwei 32 girls who were admitted by colleges. Yumen Women’s City, Gansu Province. Federation granted a silk banner to Northwest Marketing Yumen Company for its talent cultivation. As a responsible member of the community, each one Province” and “Outstanding Youth Volunteer Collective.” In Changqing of us has an obligation to promote social harmony and Oilfield Company, Jingweiyuan Community youth volunteers have civilization. At PetroChina, we encourage and support provided caring services for the elderly and children, and the community our employees to be volunteers in their communities. became the first demonstration base of volunteer youth services of In 2013, the Company had 7,722 youth volunteer Changqing Oilfield. teams with 173,500 members, and the teams provided 624 thousand hours of volunteer service for 881,900 9,677 beneficiaries. Case Study: Youth Volunteer Team Provides In Xinjiang Oilfield Company, the “Overseas Home” youth Service for Community volunteer team has established voluntary car fleets Since the scholarship fund was and professional teams for health care, early childhood The “Hand in Hand” youth volunteer team of Huabei Oilfield established in 2001, PetroChina education, and maintenance for water, electricity, gas, Company consists of 380 youth volunteers and is devoted has rewarded nearly 9,677 and heating. In Daqing Oilfield Company, the “Spreading to providing voluntary services to the elderly, poor students students from poor families and Love” voluntary service youth team obtained information and other vulnerable groups, including phone greetings, students with excellent academic about elderly people who participated in the Daqing housework service, party organization, physical examination performance. petroleum campaign who are aged over 75 and live at home, and sending Spring Festival couplets, birthday flowers , etc. alone without children, and provided them with services In addition, the service team pays regular home visits to the such as reading newspapers to them, celebrating their elderly and offers a 24-hour emergency telephone service. They birthdays and some performances. The team has won proactively aided poor students living in the community. Since many honors such as “Youth Civilization of Heilongjiang its establishment in 2008, the service team has subsidized 19 poor students, of whom 10 were admitted to universities. 56 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 57 5. Contributions to Overseas Communities Case Study Assisting Post-disaster Reconstruction of Calgary Zoo in Canada PetroChina has long adhered to the principle of “Cooperation for mutual benefit and joint development”, and this has been beneficial to developing long-term partnerships with the countries in which we operate. We respect the cultures, beliefs and customs of different countries and try to promote socio-economic development in each local community. We have set up environmental protection and Calgary Zoo, located in Alberta, Canada, is one of the In June 2013, an extraordinary flood hits George Island, community relations coordination departments in many overseas areas to promote cooperation with local governments, NGOs, and famous zoos in North America, and ranks among the top where Calgary Zoo is located. The zoo suffered huge community representatives beholding conferences, issuing reports and paying visits, etc. research bases for species conservation by the Journal losses as the buildings and cages were destroyed and Nature. The zoo plays an important role in boosting local animals had to be transferred to other places. PetroChina education, culture and economic development, as it has promptly provided support, and our employees offered the impact of our operations on the environment by optimizing over 73,000 members and attracts visitors from around the Local Procurement voluntary services, so as to help the zoo resume operations our technical processes and by applying energy-saving and world. In addition, more than 65,000 students participate in as soon as possible, and protect local natural and cultural Local procurement can boost the development of local SMEs, emission reduction technologies. its species conservation education programs every year. heritage. and generate economic income and create job opportunities for local communities indirectly. Therefore, PetroChina places Community Construction strong emphasis on the procurement of local products and services relying on local community resources, and strengthens We are actively involved in infrastructure construction to “PetroChina gave a helping hand to us very promptly. Everyone in our community benefitted from it, especially the kids. cooperation with local enterprises in technical services, help improve the living conditions of local people, and fund We believe this is an important embodiment that PetroChina keeps her promise to the community.” logistical support, catering and logistics, to boost and promote education, health care and other public welfare programs the development of local SMEs. to achieve harmonious and mutual development. In 2013, —the head of the Calgary Zoo we sponsored 28 athletes of Iraq's national swimming team Environmental Protection and diving team for one-month training in Beijing. In Chad, we donated to SOS Children's Villages to help local orphans. We have always had a strong focus on environmental Mr. Chen Ziqiang, Deputy General Manager of K&K Project of protection while developing our projects. We act in strict PetroChina International (Azerbaijan), was awarded Prosperity compliance with the applicable laws and international Medal of Azerbaijan. standards on environmental protection, and implement practical measures tailored to the local environment. We protect the local ecological environment and try to minimize In Chad, we have established a close partnership with local communities. To help residents fully understand land and crop compensation standards, we printed plant compensation charts and manuals, and distributed them widely in the communities. 58 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 59 Feature Story Serving Overseas Communities to Build a Better Life for Everyone PetroChina’s overseas business has experienced rapid growth since the Company started overseas cooperation. By Local employment and talent cultivation In Indonesia, PetroChina assisted the development of developing oil and gas abroad, we have boosted economic development, strengthened environmental protection, promoted SMEs, helped farmers to procure tools and seeds for employment, and improved people’s living standards in the host countries. While promoting the economic development of host cash crops, and helped locals suffering from tsunami countries, PetroChina creates job and training opportunities for to rebuild the homes. In Iraq, the Company donated air local people. In total, the Company has provided training for conditioners, festive costumes, stationery and sports over 40,000 local employees. The localization rate of overseas equipment to orphanages in Basra every year, and Win-win cooperation for common employees is over 90%. In Kazakhstan in particular, the rate is organized charity donations for orphanages in Basra. Clean production and ecological development over 97%. In addition, the Company has set up a scholarship protection in Kyzylorda, and sends 10-15 local outstanding senior high The Company has gained respect and recognition from The Company helps host countries to establish modern The Company attaches great importance to HSE work school graduates every year to continue their studies in local communities by fulfilling social responsibilities oil industry and provides them with reliable oil & gas by actively implementing a safe, green and economical famous schools in China, Kazakhstan and other countries. and strives to become an “Global Excellent Corporate supplies and financial support. With our support, development mode, to protect the eco-system of host Citizen”. In 2009, we won the “Outstanding Social a modern oil industr y covering exploration and countries. In Kazakhstan, the overall natural gas utilizing Serve local communities to promote Contribution Award” and the highest honor for development, oil and gas transportation, and refining rates in the PK project and the Aktobe project reached harmonious development environmental protection in the oil industry of & chemicals was built in Chad and other countries, over 90%, setting a model for environmental protection. Kazakhstan—the Golden Prometheus National Award. effectively promoting local socio-economic and social The Company devotes itself to public welfare undertakings In 2010, the Company was granted the “Outstanding development. Our Rumaila and Halfaya projects in Iraq overseas to enhance living standards in host countries. Since Social Responsibility Award” by the Kazakhstan were constructed and commissioned at a fast speed, with 2006, AktobeMunaiGaz has made donations every year in government. Furthermore, in 2012, the Company production hitting the target yields. This had made Iraq Kazakhstan to facilitate the development of local culture, was granted the Safety and Environmental Award by the second largest oil producer in OPEC and contributed education, sports, medical services and rural infrastructure. In Pertamina in Indonesia. greatly to postwar re-construction. In Kazakhstan, addition, the Company also provided financial support to the over 70% of taxes from Aktobe are contributed by the Fund for the Handicapped and orphanages in Aktobe State. PetroChina AktobeMunaiGaz each year. 60 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 61 Objectives and Plans Looking ahead to 2014, in order to build a world-class international energy company, PetroChina will continue to implement its strategies with regard to resources, market and internationalization, guided by the development policy giving priority to quality, efficiency and sustainability. The Company will strengthen reform and innovation, promote the three fundamental projects including safety and environment, harmony and stability, and anti-corruption, consolidate the foundation for development, ensure sustained and stable energy supply, and boost social harmony and prosperity. Aspects 2014 Objectives 2014 Action Plans Aspects 2014 Objectives 2014 Action Plans 1. Give priority to oil and gas exploration, find high-quality reserves and high-efficiency reserves 1. Promote mechanism innovation and institutional guarantees 2. Improve the overall value of natural gas operations for anti-corruption, and explore and develop a mechanism Adjust and optimize Oil & Gas Production the structure, and 3. Enhance international operation capacity for overseas business for power featuring “implementation by deputy leaders, and Supply fostercompetitive 4. Focus on optimizing raw materials and processing routes, and developing supervision by chief leaders, collective leadership, and advantages in key areas high-efficiency products like high-grade gasoline, jet fuel, and lubricants democratic decision-making” 5. Accelerate upgrading of oil product quality and meet the standard within 2. Implement the responsibility system for building clean the time limit governance, establish an accountability system linked to the remuneration, selection and appointment of leaders; perform 1. Firmly establish the concept of safe development “dual checks for one case” to place responsibility on both the 2. Improve the responsibility system of dual responsibilities for one position responsible person and the leader, for the departments and Strengthen HSE system, units that have major corruption cases, conceal cases or refuse Safety and establish a long-effective 3. Focus on implementing safety and environmental protection measures Innovate anti-corruption to allow investigations Environmental mechanism, and strive for key areas and key processes mechanisms and systems 3. Intensify efforts to investigate and handle cases, and rigorously Protection for world-class HSE 4. Establish a pragmatic and effective supervision and inspection system by regulating the exercise punish corruption, resolutely investigate and handle any performance with effective implementation of power, actively explore problem involving senior executives of the Company and its 5. Enhance the risk prevention and emergency response competence effective ways to “put power subsidiaries and any case involving seeking personal gains or Anti-corruption under institutional checks”, harming the interests of the Company and its employees; and 1. Foster and introduce high-level talents, make innovations in talent intensify supervision hand over any case constituting a crime to a judicial organ Integrate employee cultivation, and accelerate professional and international staff and inspection and case 4. Strengthen super vision and inspection, focusing on development into the development handling, and create an identifying problems and ascertaining where the responsibility Company’s work plan, 2. Promote high-efficiency development and utilization of human resources honest and incorruptible lies; conduct efficiency supervision and special inspection, cultivate a large number Employee business environment improve and strengthen inspection, monitor any behavior in of talents in various fields, 3. Establish the concept that all individuals have talents, promote regular Development improve overall staff quality, and system-based staff training breach of laws and discipline, give play to the advantages of and turn rich human network information technology, accelerate supervision over 4. Conduct detection of occupational hazards, intensify occupational health resources into competitive the process of key operations, achieve the transformation surveillance, improve the working environment, and further enhance advantages from aftermath inspection to process monitoring, and ensure management of occupational health open and transparent exercise of power, online supervision and whole-process control 1. Actively support and participate in public welfare programs, improve the community health and pension service system, and achieve a better 5. Reinforce supervision and management over managers at social effect public welfare activities all levels; identify, remind, correct and handle any emerging issues that signal unfavorable trends as early as possible, 2. Continue to conduct target and non-targeted poverty alleviation timely interview, consult and admonish to prevent the programs, disaster relief, donations for education, youth volunteer Provide all people development of small problems into serious problems or campaigns and other activities, and reinforce development-oriented with the fruits of cases, timely promote the pilot projects of making public Public Welfare poverty alleviation with technology and education support development, the relevant personal issues of new leaders; thoroughly 3. Improve long-effect mechanism for poverty alleviation and carry out investigate those responsible as well as the offenders, in case and jointly build a charity activities of dereliction of duty such as personnel placement against harmonious society 4. Establish a long-term and stable community coordination mechanism regulations in cooperation with localities, poverty alleviation and development, and emergency management, enhance communication with investors, partners, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, identify common interests and achieve mutual benefit and win-win results 62 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 63 Performance Statistics Category Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Category Indicator 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total assets (RMB 108) 14,503 16,565 19,176 21,689 23,421 Energy conserved (104 TCE) 171 173 113 121 108 Turnover (RMB 108) 10,193 14,654 20,038 21,953 22,581 Water conserved (104 cubic meters) 3,188 2,865 1,744 1,926 2,007 Net Profit (RMB 108) 1,034 1,400 1,330 1,153 1,296 Environment Oil discharged in waste water (tons) 701 698 642 604 577 Taxes (RMB 108) 2,045 2,870 3,744 3,620 3,758 COD discharged in wastewater (tons) 16,949 18,741 17,731 18,005 17,369 Proven crude reserves (106 barrels) 11,263 11,278 11,128 11,018 10,820 SO2 discharged in waste gas (tons) 105,044 114,200 111,321 111,015 105,039 Proven gas reserves (108 ft3) 632,440 655,030 666,530 675,810 693,230 Economic Number of employees (104) 53.9 55.3 55.3 54.8 54.4 Oil equivalent production (106 barrels) 1,196 1,228 1,286 1,343.1 1,400.0 Employee Percentage of employees receiving 96 96 95 95 91 Crude oil production (106 barrels ) 844 858 886 916.5 932.9 occupational health checks (%) Percentage of non-Chinese nationals in 94 94 94 94 93.4 Marketable natural gas production(108 ft3) 21,122 22,212 23,964 25,588 28,019 overseas hires (%) Total length of crude oil pipelines (km) 13,164 14,782 14,782 16,344 17,614 Contribution to poverty alleviation(RMB 104) 5,828 6,308 3,706 4,124 6,799 Total length of refined products pipelines (km) 8,868 9,257 9,334 9,437 9,534 Public Educational donations (RMB 104) 3,782 3,458 11,928 9,151 10,736 Total length of natural gas pipelines(km) 28,595 32,801 36,116 40,995 43,872 welfare Donations to disaster relief (RMB 104) 935 4,499 595 1,881 2,152 6 Crude runs (10 barrels) 829 904 985 1,012.5 992.3 Environmental protection (RMB 104) 569 5,588 75 965 1,377 4 Ethylene production (10 tons) 299 361 347 369 398.2 Note: Measurement units Death rate caused by accidents 0.36 1.02 0.70 0.20 0.25 (person/100 million working hours) 1 BOE = 1 barrel of crude = 6,000 cubic feet of NG = 169.9 cubic meter of NG Safety Total accident rate (incidents/million 1 cubic meter of NG = 35.315 cubic feet of NG 0.0264 0.0120 0.0326 0.0387 0.0522 working hours ) 1 metric ton of crude = 7.389 barrels of crude (API = 34) 64 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 65 Approach to Reporting About This Report This Report focuses on major international and domestic events related to the sustainable development of the Company and its subsidiaries. This report illustrates activities the Company undertook in 2013 pursuant to its ongoing commitment to advance the community, the economy and the environment. All information disclosed in this report was sourced from PetroChina’s official documents and statistics as well as from statistics gathered from the Company’s affiliated Concerns of enterprises. It takes into account the Company's development priorities and stakeholder concerns. This report stakeholders has been reviewed in accordance with the Company’s Rules for Information Disclosure Control and Disclosure Procedures. For continuity and comparability purposes, this report provides explanations on past and future initiatives on certain issues. · Investor FAQs · Media monitoring This report is formulated according to the key principles of accuracy, transparency and consistency. We took · Field research · Site interview reference from the Guideline on Preparing the Report on Performance of Corporate Social Responsibility issued · Requirements of NGOs by the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Reporting Guide issued by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Furthermore, we continued to consult the Sustainability Reporting Guideline (Version 4.0) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability (2010) co-published by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API). As a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Major economic, environmental and we report our progress in compliance with the Ten Principles and will submit the report to be posted on UNGC’s social impacts of the Company website (http://www.unglobalcompact.org). · Major policies, projects, strategies, risks and opportunities of the Company This report includes a set of Forward-Looking Statements. Excluding historical facts, all events that may or will occur (including, but not limited to, premise, objectives, estimation and business plans) and descriptions of such events are categorized as Forward-Looking Statements. Due to the presence of external uncertainties, Content Selection Process actual outcomes or the future climate may differ from those expressed in the Forward-Looking Statements. As the Forward-Looking Statements were made prior to December 31, 2013, PetroChina holds no responsibility or 1. The Company pays close attention to the views of its stakeholders, and collects comments through community visits, liability for any modifications made subsequent to said date. periodical reports, field research, and communication via the Internet. Suggestions on the topics of the report are made taking account stakeholders’ major concerns. Thank you for taking the time to read this report. We welcome any comments and suggestions you may have as we believe that your feedback can improve our performance. This report is published, along with the Company’s 2. We assess the Company’s sustainable development strategy, and select major social, economic and environmental events Annual Report 2013 in March 2014, in simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and English. In the case of any related to our strategies, risks and opportunities. discrepancy, the version in simplified Chinese shall act as the lead publication. Please visit our website (www. petrochina.com.cn) for more information or to download the electronic version of this report. 3. Topics are selected based on the comprehensive assessment of stakeholders’ concerns and impact of the Company’s strategies. The time span and impact scope of each specific topic is defined to ensure the accuracy of the information The Board and all the Company’s directors hereby certify that there are no misrepresentations, misleading disclosed. statements or material omissions in this report. Furthermore, we jointly and severally accept full responsibility for the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of this report. We also refer to the social responsibility initiatives proposed by NGOs for topic selection. These include the “G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), ISO26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility), “Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010)” by the International Petroleum Industry Please visit www.petrochina.com.cn to review PetroChina’s compliance with Sustainability Reporting Environment Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute (API), Guidelines (Version 4.0) released by the Global Reporting Initiative and Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on and the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles. Voluntary Sustainability (2010). We support 66 Energize · Harmonize · Realize 2013 Sustainability Report 67 68 Energize · Harmonize · Realize
