Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Yasir Mohamed Ahmed Elsadig, Executive Director More for Less for Advanced Business Co. Ltd. — 304, Bldg. A14, Alnasr Complex, Khrt. Sudan T: 00249123406030 E: yasir@m4lbiz.com TABLE OF CONTENT M4L IN BRIEF ................................................................................................................................................... 3 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS ................................................................................................. 3 STATEMENT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE EXPRESSING CONTINUED SUPPORT ..................................................... 4 HUMAN RIGHTS ............................................................................................................................................... 5 LABOUR ........................................................................................................................................................... 6 ENVIRONMENT ................................................................................................................................................ 7 ANTI-CORRUPTION .......................................................................................................................................... 8 APPENDICES................................................................................................................................................... 10 M4L HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY .................................................................................................................................. 11 HR POLICY ........................................................................................................................................................... 14 M4L ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ................................................................................................................................ 20 M4L HSE POLICY .................................................................................................................................................. 22 M4L BRIBERY, FRAUD AND MALPRACTICE POLICY ....................................................................................................... 24 GLOBAL COMPACT ISSUES ARE PART AND PARCEL OF OUR CORE WORK ............................................................................. 27 Page 2 of 28 M4L IN BRIEF Company Name More for Less for Advanced Business Company Ltd. Address Flat 304, Bldg. A14, Alnasr Complex, Street 63, Khartoum. Number of 28 employees Country Sudan Contact name Yasir Mohamed Ahmed Elsadig Contact Position Executive Director Contact telephone 00249112570956 00249123406030 no. COP Report Period of 31 July 2013 – 30 July 2014 Coverage BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS More for Less for Advanced Business Co. Ltd (M4L), is the leading consultant Sudanese company founded by a consortium of recognized professionals, educationalists and national experts with unique expertise, knowledge and experience that have been accumulated throughout the last five decades in the most prominent industries whether private business, international or regional. M4L treasures its ability to provide access for all partners and business with Sudanese private sector and Businessmen Federation. Our five basic areas are:  Health, Safety and Environment (HSE)  Human Resource Management (HRM)  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)  Multimedia Production (MM)  Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) Page 3 of 28 STATEMENT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE EXPRESSING CONTINUED SUPPORT It is with great pleasure that we as MORE FOR LESS FOR ADVANCED BUSINESS go forward in our commitment to the board of the local compact network, and remain committed for the continuous support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. These being in the four main streams of the compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. M4L is submitting its first COP this year as a token of faith that it will do so every year on an annual basis. In this report, M4L shows how our business benefited from integrating and applying the GC principles in our immediate and medium term strategy and in our everyday business activities. M4L also takes up this strategy on the long run and to apply these principles. M4L is fully committed to insure that all our shareholders/ stakeholders/ Supply chain are well informed and aware of the UN global compact principles. Yours sincerely, Nasser Ahmed Bur Yasir M. A. Elsadig CEO Executive Director Page 4 of 28 HUMAN RIGHTS Business should support and respect the protection of internationally PRINCIPLE 1 proclaimed Human rights Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights PRINCIPLE 2 abuses Our Commitment or Policy1 M4L is committed to developing an organizational culture which implements a policy of support for the internationally recognized human rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. M4L seeks to improve its human rights performance by referencing key documents such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and relevant conventions and standards of the International Labor Organization, as well as other international standards, national and international laws. M4L continues to be involved in multilateral efforts to support human rights through organizations such as the United Nations Global Compact and Global Business Initiative on Human Rights, as well as taking part in a wide range of other activities designed to promote the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year 1. M4L compiled,drafted, reviewd and issued the first version of Human Rights Policy and Statement, and posted in the office notice board. 2. Distributed to all employees. 3. Distributed throughout the supply chain. Measurable Results or Outcomes  Distribution list with signature of each employee.  Distribution list with supply chain representatives signatures. Other relevant information: We are in the process of uploading our policy in our website. 1 . See Appendix (A) for our full Human Rights Policy& Statement Page 5 of 28 LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the PRINCIPLE 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and PRINCIPLE 6 occupation. OUR COMMITMENT OR POLICY2 M4L is committed to fully endorse and to respect a series of principles and international conventions concerning employee’s rights, the protection of children against child labour and other important issues. These principles are to be respected everywhere and under all circumstances. The management will implement the necessary processes to ensure that these principles are enforced at all levels. Employees who are not abiding with these principles cannot be maintained in employment and will be requested to leave the organisation. Also our main suppliers and providers of outsourced services should be informed of these principles and should comply with them. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Whilst adequate recruitment tools may improve the hiring process, it is understood that the decision to hire a candidate remains in the hands of the responsible manager supported by the HR staff. Under no circumstances should the decision to hire or not to hire be left in the hands of an outside consultant or expert. Only relevant skills and experience and the adherence to the above principles will be considered in employing a person. No consideration will be given to a candidate’s origin, nationality, religion, race, gender or age. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year 1. M4L compiled,drafted, reviewd and issued the first version of M4L Human Resources Policy, and posted in the office notice board. 2. Distributed to all employees. 3. Distributed throughout the supply chain. 2 . See Appendix (B) for our full Human Resources Policy Page 6 of 28 Measurable Results or Outcomes  Distribution list with signature of each employee.  Distribution list with supply chain representatives signatures. Other relevant information: ENVIRONMENT Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental PRINCIPLE 7 challenges; Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental PRINCIPLE 8 responsibility, and; Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly PRINCIPLE 9 technologies. Our Commitment or Policy3 M4L is committed to nurture its staff to care and protect our environment. We incorporate environmental protection in our strategic decisions and conduct our business in manner that balances the environmental and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. M4L is committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment for all employees, sub-contractors and visitors; minimizing harm and risk to the environment and communities in which we live and work. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We:  Identify, assess and manage HSE risks;  Provide training and development opportunities to our people to ensure awareness of and competence to manage our HSE risks and responsibilities;  Comply with and where appropriate exceed applicable legal and other requirements;  Provide workplace and community integration;  Provide processes to address workplace health and hygiene and promote fitness for 3 . See Appendix (C) for our full Environmental Policy Page 7 of 28 work strategies;  Document, monitor, inspect, audit, review and continuously improve our HSE performance Comply fully with all legislation and regulations and meet or exceed good environmental practices;  Try to make use of the concept of paperless office as much as we can. Whenever needed we use recycled papers, and we use both sides of the paper. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year 4. M4L compiled,drafted, reviewd and issued the first version of M4L Environmental Policy, and posted in the office notice board. 5. Distributed to all employees. 6. Distributed throughout the supply chain. 7. Performed basic HSE Training Package for all M4L staff. Measurable Results or Outcomes  Distribution list with signature of each employee.  Distribution list with supply chain representatives signatures.  Staff training evaluation parameters. Other relevant information: ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including PRINCIPLE 10 extortion and bribery Our Commitment or Policy4 It is M4L's policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. Our purpose is to:  set out our responsibilities, and of those working for us, in observing and upholding 4 . See Appendix (D) for our full Page 8 of 28 our position on bribery and corruption; and  provide information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. A brief description of our Processes or Systems None well defined yet. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year  Establishment of the Bribery, Fraud and Mal practice policy.  Distribute dto all employees.  Distributed to supply chain. Measurable Results or Outcomes  Distribution list with signature of each employee.  Distribution list with supply chain representatives signatures. Other relevant information: Page 9 of 28 APPENDICES Appendix (A) Human Rights Policy Page 10 of 28 M4L Human Rights Policy Preamble statement M4L is committed to developing an organizational culture which implements a policy of support for internationally recognized human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. We support the principles contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the ILO Core Conventions on Labour Standards. M4L seeks to identify, assess and manage human rights impacts within our spheres of influence and activities in line with the following policy aims: 1. Employees  To respect the human rights of our employees as established in the ILO's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including nondiscrimination, prohibition of child and enforced labor, and freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining. 2. Suppliers and Contractors  To establish and maintain appropriate procedures to evaluate and select major suppliers and contractors, based on M4L's human rights and social policies, and to monitor their performance where appropriate.  To advance the application of the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work through engagement and collaboration where necessary. 3. Local Communities  To respect the cultures, customs and values of the people in communities in which we operate.  To contribute, within the scope of our capabilities, to promote the fulfillment of human rights through improving economic, environmental and social conditions and serve as a positive influence in communities in which we operate.  To seek to have open dialogue with stakeholders and participate in community engagement activities. Page 11 of 28 4. Society  To participate where appropriate in public affairs in a non-partisan and responsible way to promote internationally recognised human rights.  To seek to play a positive role, within our spheres of influence, in capacitybuilding for the realization of human rights wherever we work.  To promote the realization of environmental sustainability and development through our core business and through our participation in other multistakeholder activities where appropriate.  To uphold the highest standards in business ethics and integrity and where appropriate to support efforts of national and international authorities to establish and enforce high ethical standards for all businesses. M4L Human Rights statement M4L is committed to developing an organizational culture which implements a policy of support for the internationally recognized human rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. M4L seeks to improve its human rights performance by referencing key documents such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and relevant conventions and standards of the International Labor Organization, as well as other international standards, national and international laws. M4L continues to be involved in multilateral efforts to support human rights through organizations such as the United Nations Global Compact and Global Business Initiative on Human Rights, as well as taking part in a wide range of other activities designed to promote the corporate responsibility to respect human rights. Page 12 of 28 Appendix (B): Human Resources Policy Page 13 of 28 HR Policy Executive Director Statement This policy encompasses those guidelines which constitute a sound basis for efficient and effective HR Management in the More for Less for Advanced Business Company Limited (M4L). They are in essence flexible and dynamic and may require adjustment to a variety of circumstances. Therefore its implementation will be inspired by sound judgement, compliance with local market laws and common sense, taking into account the specific context. Its spirit should be respected under all circumstances. Yasir M. A. Elsadig Executive Director N.B. All staff should confirm that this document has been read, understood and agreed upon. Page 14 of 28 A shared Responsibility  Each employee has a distinct responsibility in dealing with people be it as a leader of a team or as a peer.  Acting as business partners, the HR manager advises and offers solutions which results in positive impact on the organisation’s effectiveness.  Furthermore, she/he proposes best practices and provides state-of-the-art support and counselling to her/his colleagues. Together they act as co-responsible partners for all HR matters.  This partnership is the key for efficiency in people management. The communication skills of the HR staff must be appropriate to deal with all delicate matters as they occur frequently in human relations issues. They gain their credibility not only from their professional contribution but also through the care and the excellence of their communication skills.  The M4L management and leadership principles describe the management style and the corporate values of M4L, specifically in the area of interpersonal relations. Respect calls for specific attitudes which deserve to be outlined in the present policy: o A prerequisite for dealing with people is respect and trust. There can be no room for intolerance, harassment or discrimination of any kind as they are the expression of an elementary lack of respect. This principle suffers no exception and is to be applied at all levels and under all circumstances. o Transparency and honesty in dealing with people are a sine qua non for efficient communication. Based on facts and on a sincere dialogue, such transparency is the only solid basis for boosting continuous improvement. o This is to be complemented by open communication with the purpose of sharing competencies and boosting creativity. It is particularly relevant in a flat organisation to convey systematically all information to those who need it to do their work properly. Otherwise no effective delegation or knowledge improvement is possible. o To communicate is not only to inform. It is also to listen and to engage in dialogue. Every employee has the right to an open conversation with superiors or colleagues. o The willingness to cooperate and to help others is a required basis for assessing potential candidates in view of a promotion. o In case of discord between an employee and her/his superior or another employee, the possibility must be offered for a fair hearing. The HR staff will provide assistance to ensure that the disharmony is dealt with impartially and that each party has the opportunity to explain her/his viewpoint regardless of hierarchical position. Page 15 of 28 Joining M4L  The long-term success of the Company depends on its capacity to attract, retain and develop employees able to ensure its growth on a continuing basis. This is a primary responsibility for all managers.  The M4L policy is to hire staff with personal attitudes and professional skills enabling them to develop a long-term relationship with the Company.  Therefore the potential for professional development is an essential standard for recruitment.  Each new member joining M4L is to become a participant in developing a sustainable quality culture which implies a commitment to the organisation, a sense for continuous improvement and leaves no place for complacency.  Therefore, and in view of the importance of these M4L values, special attention will be paid to the matching between a candidate’s values and the Company culture.  Hence, a clear communication of these principles and values from the very beginning of the recruitment process is required.  Moreover, for managerial positions specific leadership qualities and business acumen will be required.  M4L wishes to maintain and develop its reputation as an employer of high repute. Contacts with universities, attendance at recruitment events and other contacts are to be undertaken so as to ensure good visibility of the Company vis-à-vis relevant recruitment sources. Particular care will be given to the treatment of each candidacy regardless of the outcome of the selection process.  Even when promoting employees intensively from within the organisation, it is the role of management and HR to keep an eye on valuable candidates from outside and to benchmark internal skills with external offers.  Whilst adequate recruitment tools may improve the hiring process, it is understood that the decision to hire a candidate remains in the hands of the responsible manager supported by the HR staff. Under no circumstances should the decision to hire or not to hire be left in the hands of an outside consultant or expert.  Only relevant skills and experience and the adherence to the above principles will be considered in employing a person. No consideration will be given to a candidate’s origin, nationality, religion, race, gender or age.  It is as important to hire the right person as it is to integrate newcomers in the organisation so that their skills and behaviour can merge smoothly with the company culture. Whereas from new employees it is expected to respect our company’s culture, it Page 16 of 28 is accordingly required from all employees to show an open mind towards new ideas and proposals coming from outside. Employment at M4L  M4L is committed to fully endorse and to respect a series of principles and international conventions concerning employee’s rights, the protection of children against child labour and other important issues. These principles are to be respected everywhere and under all circumstances. The management will implement the necessary processes to ensure that these principles are issued in a separate document, distributed, understood and enforced at all levels.  Employees who are not abiding with these principles cannot be maintained in employment and will be requested to leave the organisation.  Also our main suppliers and providers of outsourced services should be informed of these principles and should comply with them.  M4L provides a working environment which protects the health and welfare of the employees according to the highest affordable standards of safety, hygiene and security. Each employee should not only care for her/his own safety but also that of her/his colleagues. Therefore, suggestions for improvement are welcome and will be given prime consideration.  In the same way that no discrimination for reason of origin, nationality, religion, race, gender or age will be tolerated when joining M4L, no such discrimination will be tolerated towards M4L’s employees.  Furthermore, any form of harassment, moral or sexual, will not only be prohibited but actively tracked and eliminated. Internal rules and regulations will explicitly deal with discrimination and harassment issues so as to obtain the best possible prevention.  M4L considers that it is not enough to avoid discrimination or harassment. It is essential to build a relationship based on trust and respect of employees at all levels. Therefore, it is indispensable for each manager to know how her/his employees feel in their work. It may be necessary to organise such feedback on a regular basis, using internal surveys or other valuable approaches.  M4L favours a policy of long-term employment. Whenever, an operation/ activity cannot be maintained within the M4L sphere, reasonable steps will be undertaken to avoid overall loss of employment by identifying an external business willing to take over activity from M4L, whenever this is possible. If this is not possible, a closing down may be unavoidable. It will be handled in full respect of local legislation and of our business principles. A social plan will be elaborated taking into account the legitimate interests of the concerned staff. Reasonable efforts will be deployed to reduce, as much as possible, the negative social impact of such a situation. Page 17 of 28 Industrial Relations  M4L upholds the freedom of association of its employees and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  M4L wishes, also through its relationship with unions and other representative associations, to sustain the long-term development of the Company, both to the benefit of the employees and of the Company, by maintaining a level of competitiveness adapted to its economic environment.  Relations with unions will be established under strict observation of national law, local practices as well as those international recommendations to which M4L has adhered to on a voluntary basis such as United Nations Global Compact principles.  Contacts with union delegates should create a further opportunity to provide information allowing their members and other representative associations to acquire a full understanding of the business activities and the goals of M4L.  In accordance with local legislation, M4L will refrain from any action restricting the employee’s right to be or not to be affiliated to a union.  M4L will not engage with any union or other representative association in activities or discussions other than those relating to employment and working conditions as well as issues relating to the workplace.  Whenever negotiations take place, they will be duly prepared with the full involvement of line management and take into account both the Company’s and the employees’ legitimate interest. In dealings with unions, it will be ensured that management prerogatives be properly maintained. Page 18 of 28 Appendix (C): Environmental Policy M4L Environmental Policy M4L is committed to nurture its staff to care and protect our environment. We incorporate environmental protection in our strategic decisions and conduct our business in manner that balances the environmental and economic needs of the communities in which we operate. We will:  Comply fully with all legislation and regulations and meet or exceed good environmental practices;  Work with our partners, i.e., consultants, researchers, contractors, suppliers, interest groups and other government agencies in a concerted effort to operate in an environmentally responsible manner;  Create a cleaner and greener environment by making continuous effort to be energy-efficient and to practice Reduce, Reuse, Recycle; and  Monitor, evaluate and continually improve our environmental management practices to ensure efficient use of the limited resources. Yasir M. A. Elsadig Executive Director N.B. All staff should confirm that this document has been read, understood and agreed upon. Page 20 of 28 Appendix (D) HSE Policy Page 21 of 28 M4L HSE Policy M4Lis committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment for all employees, subcontractors and visitors; minimizing harm and risk to the environment and communities in which we live and work. We will:  Identify, assess and manage HSE risks;  Provide training and development opportunities to our people to ensure awareness of and competence to manage our HSE risks and responsibilities;  Comply with and where appropriate exceed applicable legal and other requirements;  Provide workplace and community integration;  Provide processes to address workplace health and hygiene and promote fitness for work strategies;  Document, monitor, inspect, audit, review and continuously improve our HSE performance Comply fully with all legislation and regulations and meet or exceed good environmental practices; Above all else HSE leadership must be fundamental to the way we dothings. It must be part of every decision by every employee every day. Yasir M. A. Elsadig Executive Director N.B. All staff should confirm that this document has been read, understood and agreed upon. Page 22 of 28 Appendix (E) Bribery, Fraud and Malpractice Policy Page 23 of 28 M4L Bribery, Fraud and Malpractice Policy 1. M4L POLICY STATEMENT It is M4L's policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and are committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships wherever we operate and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery. The purpose of this policy is to:  set out our responsibilities, and of those working for us, in observing and upholding our position on bribery and corruption; and  provide information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. Bribery and corruption are punishable for individuals by imprisonment and if we are found to have taken part in corruption we could face an unlimited fine, be excluded from tendering for public contracts and face damage to our reputation. We therefore take our legal responsibilities very seriously. 2. Who is covered by the Policy? This policy applies to all individuals working at all levels, including partners, consultants, employees (whether permanent, fixed-term or temporary), contractors, trainees, seconded staff, homeworkers, casual workers and agency staff, volunteers, or any other person associated with us, wherever located (collectively referred to as workers in this policy). 3. What is Bribery? A bribe is an inducement or reward offered, promised or provided in order to gain any commercial, contractual, regulatory or personal advantage. 4. Gifts and Hospitality 4.1. This policy does not prohibit normal and appropriate hospitality (given and received) to or from third parties. 4.2. The giving or receipt of gifts is not prohibited, if the following requirements are met:  it is not made with the intention of influencing a third party to obtain or retain business or a business advantage, or to reward the provision or retention of Page 24 of 28 business or a business advantage, or in explicit or implicit exchange for favours or benefits;  it complies with local law;  it is given in our name, not in your name;  it does not include cash or a cash equivalent (such as gift certificates or vouchers);  it is appropriate in the circumstances. For example, in the Sudan it is customary for small gifts to be given at Ramadan or EID time;  taking into account the reason for the gift, it is of an appropriate type and value and given at an appropriate time;  it is given openly, not secretly; and  gifts should not be offered to, or accepted from, government officials or representatives, or politicians or political parties, without the prior approval of the Managing Director. 4.3. The test to be applied is whether in all the circumstances the gift or hospitality is reasonable and justifiable. The intention behind the gift should always be considered. 4.4. Gifts from suppliers should always be disclosed to the Managing Director. Yasir M. A. Elsadig Executive Director N.B. All staff should confirm that this document has been read, understood and agreed upon. Page 25 of 28 Appendix (F) Photo Gallery Page 26 of 28 Global Compact issues are part and parcel of our core work 5 Researches and Studies on Environmental Issues Documentation (Environment) 5 A full HQ Photo Gallery will available on our website Page 27 of 28 Training and Capacity Building on HSE (labour and Human Rights) Active Participation (CEO Commitment) Page 28 of 28
