SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY THE NSG GROUP IS ONE OF THE WORLD’S LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF GLASS AND GLAZING PRODUCTS FOR THE ARCHITECTURAL, AUTOMOTIVE AND TECHNICAL GLASS SECTORS. With around 28,000 permanent employees, we have principal operations in 30 countries and sales in over 130. Just over a third of our sales are in Europe, around a third in Japan and the rest primarily in North and South America, South East Asia and China. Architectural — supplies glass for buildings and solar energy applications. Automotive — serves the original equipment, aftermarket replacement and specialized transport glazing markets. Technical Glass — products include very thin glass for displays, lenses and light guides for printers, and glass fiber, used in battery separators and engine timing belts. Cover picture The NoveKino cinema building in Siedlce, Poland features Pilkington Insulight™ Sun insulating glass units fitted with Pilkington Suncool™ 66/33, Pilkington Suncool™ 70/40 and Pilkington Optilam™ 6,4 Photo: Wojciech Kryński. ABOUT THIS REPORT CONTENTS During 2013, we made further progress in embedding About us About us the principles of sustainable development within our company. About us 02 Business sectors 04 As members of the UN Global Compact, we consider President and CEO’s introduction 06 its 10 principles to be a natural extension of our Code Our sustainability targets 07 Of Conduct, which defines our commitment to social and environmental responsibility. The benefits of our profit improvement and efficiency Good governance Good governance programs are beginning to be reflected in our results and reduced energy consumption. Our approach to sustainability  10 Corporate governance 14 Progress towards our sustainability targets is covered in this report and on our website. We report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and have self-assessed our reporting level at ‘B’ for the period covered by this year’s Report. Additional information, charts and tables covering our Environmental responsibility Environmental performance are shown in the Sustainability section Environmental policies of our website, www.nsg.com/sustainability. and management  18 responsibility Energy usage  20 Minimizing environmental impact  22 Glass used in: Buildings, Solar Energy, Vehicles and Technical products  24–31 Social responsibility Employees  34 Social Health and safety 36 responsibility Customers  38 Suppliers  40 Communities  42 Basis of reporting Basis of reporting Approach to reporting  44 Further information  45 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 01 ABOUT US We are an innovative, forward-thinking glass technology company built on a foundation of many years of expertise. Our global team is committed to developing and manufacturing products that meet the needs of current customers, and open up new markets through continuous research, development and innovation. We are committed to sustainable development. Working safely and ethically, we supply high-quality glass products that make an important contribution to improving living standards, to people’s safety and wellbeing and to energy conservation and generation. Glass manufacture is energy-intensive, but our products make a major contribution to energy conservation and power generation. We are working hard to reduce our waste, to minimize embodied energy and carbon in our manufacturing and to improve the energy-saving capabilities of our products during their life cycle. 02 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Business sectors 04 President and CEO’s introduction 06 About us Our sustainability targets 07 Good governance Architectural Automotive Technical Glass Environmental A leader in architectural glazing Supplying every major World leader in thin display glass and solar energy products. manufacturer in the world. and optical devices. responsibility Social responsibility Basis of reporting Keiji Yoshikawa President and CEO, NSG Group NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 03 BUSINESS SECTORS Architectural WE OPERATE IN THREE A leader in float glass technology and coatings BUSINESS SECTORS: Main products • Thermal insulation glass • Noise control glazing ARCHITECTURAL, SUPPLYING • Fire protection glazing • Safety and security GLASS FOR THE WORLD’S • Solar control glass glazing • Glass for solar energy • Self-cleaning glass BUILDINGS AND FOR SOLAR 9,100 ENERGY APPLICATIONS; AUTOMOTIVE, PRODUCING GLASS AND GLAZING SYSTEMS FOR VEHICLES WORLDWIDE; Employees in 21 countries AND TECHNICAL GLASS, OPERATING IN THE DISPLAY, OFFICE EQUIPMENT AND Automotive Supplying every major vehicle manufacturer in the world GLASS FIBER SECTORS. Main products • Solar control glass • Security glazing • Glazing systems • Lightweight glazing • Laminated glass • Aesthetic glazings • Toughened glass 14,400 Employees in 16 countries Technical Glass World leader in thin display glass and optical devices for office machinery Main products • Thin LCD glass • Battery separators • Copier/printer lenses • GLASFLAKE • Glass cord • METASHINE® 3,200 Employees in five countries 04 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Sales by region Making windows better at saving energy Financial year 2013 Our thermal insulation products combine unrivalled thermal Europe Europe 38% 38% insulation with high light transmittance and lower reflectance Japan Japan 33% 33% for a more neutral appearance. They help to restrict the About us North America North America 9% 9% amount of heat loss from buildings, offering designers a Rest of World Rest of World 20% 20% choice of insulation levels and aesthetic options. 42 % Good governance Contribution to Group sales* Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 62 percent Sales by region Developing value-added vehicle glazing Financial year 2013 We play a leading role in the development of value-added Environmental Europe Europe 43% 43% vehicle glazing, delivering greater functionality to address Japan Japan 19% 19% sustainability issues, such as CO2 reduction, solar control, responsibility North America North America 23% 23% lighter and more aerodynamic glazing, vehicle end-of-life Rest of World Rest of World 15% 15% issues and recycling. 47 Contribution to Group sales* % Social responsibility Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 33 percent Basis of reporting Sales by region Supplying ultra-thin glass for small Financial year 2013 LCD applications Europe Europe 35% 35% Our Ultra Fine Flat Glass products are used in the growing Japan Japan 24% 24% touch panel market, particularly in mobile phones and tablets North America North America 33% 33% and now expanding into use in vehicles. Rest of World Rest of World 8% 8% 11 % Contribution to Group sales* Proportion of Group CO2 emissions 5 percent *All figures for financial year ending 31 March 2013. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 05 PRESIDENT AND CEO’S INTRODUCTION “The NSG Group is committed to sustainability and continues to support the UN Global Compact’s Initiative and Principles. Our strategy and policies underline the unique contribution our products can make to addressing climate change, and the challenges we face in improving our own energy usage and resource management.” Our products are designed to make an important contribution to improving living standards, to people’s safety and wellbeing, and to the conservation of energy worldwide. Despite challenging market conditions and significant organizational restructuring during 2013, we have made continued progress on our sustainability agenda. We aim to balance the needs of all our stakeholders, manage the environmental impact of our activities, develop our people, encourage innovation in processes and products, work in harmony with the communities in which we operate, and encourage our customers, contractors and suppliers to do the same. We are also committed to improving our own energy usage and resource management. We aim to make a positive environmental contribution to the value chains in which we operate, while benefiting from the international demand for products that help save and generate energy. Keiji Yoshikawa President and CEO, NSG Group 06 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 OUR SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Targets Current position and commentary Economic As at March 2013, the Group’s operating profit margin (before amortization About us We aim to achieve a sustainable operating arising on the acquisition of Pilkington) was 1.7 percent. profit margin in excess of 10 percent. Energy The eight key products selected are as follows: Report specific direct energy Architectural usage for eight key products, • Clear float glass across all three business lines, and • On-line CVD coated Solar TEC glass for the thin film PV market demonstrate improvement by 2015. • Off-line coated Low-E glass for the construction market Good governance Work in this area is the subject of Automotive a number of R&D programs in all • Solar green absorbing glass side glazing three business lines. • IR reflective glass laminated windshield • Galaxsee privacy glass rear sidelight Technical Glass • NSG Glasscord® used in engine timing belts • NSG Selfoc Lens Array for use in office machinery Data for the selected products is available in the Sustainability section of www.nsg.com. Product development The eight key products selected are as follows: Environmental responsibility Report energy payback/life cycle Architectural analysis for eight key products, • A thin film PV module across all three business lines, and • A double-glazed unit containing our off-line coated low-e product demonstrate improvement by 2015. • A double-glazed unit containing our off-line coated Solar Control product Good progress made with a number Automotive of R&D programs ongoing. A forward • Car windshield look at future/modified products • Car sidelight Social and their impact on improved CO2 • Car roof light payback has been initiated. Technical Glass responsibility • NSG Glasscord® for use in engine timing belts • NSG Selfoc Lens Array for use in office machinery Data for the selected products is available in the Sustainability section of www.nsg.com. Health and safety The SIR at the end of FY2013 was 0.38 which represents an 72 percent improvement. Significant Injury Rate 80 percent reduction Our FY2014 target is a further 20 percent reduction on FY2013 to provide a safer Basis of reporting from 2007 base of 1.38 to 0.3 (10 SI place of work for our employees. per month, compared to baseline of 50). Supply chain To date, we have directly communicated our Supplier Code of Conduct to 12,000 of our 100 percent of suppliers to have suppliers. In parallel, we have started audits of suppliers to validate these declarations accepted our Supplier Code of Conduct to meet our objective that 50 percent of key suppliers will be audited by 2015. Good (SCoC), with 50 percent of key suppliers progress is being made with formal acceptance of our Code and over 70 of our key audited against SCoC by 2015. suppliers now audited. Recycling and waste Our waste to landfill figure for 2012 was 22 kt. This is a 53 percent reduction Reduce the waste we send to landfill on our baseline. by 50 percent, from a 2007 base (i.e. from Further waste reduction activities are ongoing to reduce the quantity of waste approximately 46 kt to 23 kt by 2015). generated and to increase our recycling rate. People 78 percent of employees were covered by the annual training and development All employees to have a training and review process in 2012. development review annually, with a target In order to foster the process of cultural change across the whole organization compliance level of 90 percent by 2015. in the area of health and safety, it was required that all managers were set personal safety objectives in the 2012 process. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 07 GOOD GOVERNANCE Our NSG Code of Conduct reflects our values and principles. It ensures that we carry out activities in a safe, professional, legal and ethical manner and in a way that demonstrates sustainable development. We aim to maintain high levels of accountability and transparency, disclosing business goals and guidelines that demonstrate a responsible management approach to all our stakeholders. 08 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 About us Our approach to sustainability  10 Good governance Corporate governance 14 Global Compliance Culture Assessment 73 Environmental % responsibility The Way we do Business Response rate from 1,232 employees Our Code of Conduct defines the behavior we expect across all areas of our business. Bribery/Corruption and Competition Law 65 Social % responsibility NSG Group’s non-shop floor workforce required to complete annual training Basis of reporting Environmental Management System ISO 14001 70 percent of our business by turnover is certified Doing the Right Thing? It’s Easy The Reporting of Concerns procedure allows employees to report violations. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 09 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY GLASS HAS A MAJOR PART TO PLAY IN SOCIETY’S EFFORTS TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND TO MITIGATE THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE. WE AIM TO BE THE GLOBAL LEADER IN INNOVATIVE HIGH-PERFORMANCE GLASS AND GLAZING SOLUTIONS, CONTRIBUTING TO ENERGY CONSERVATION AND GENERATION, WORKING SAFELY AND ETHICALLY. “The past year has been a challenging one for the NSG Group. Despite difficult markets around the world and significant internal restructuring and cost reduction programs, we have maintained our commitment to the core principles embodied in our sustainability policies.” We continue to train and develop our people while keeping them safe from workplace injuries. We continue to reduce the amount of energy we consume and the amount of waste we produce. We develop new products and processes that help our customers reach sustainability targets. Finally, we will encourage our customers, contractors and suppliers to take similar steps. Shiro Kobayashi Director of Sustainability 10 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Our sustainability agenda is integral to decreasing our costs and increasing our market opportunities. Over the past year, we have Our Code of Conduct reflects our values and principles, renewed our efforts in areas such as energy saving and waste particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal reduction; both of which can have a significant and swift impact ownership for actions and communicating with on the business performance of the Group. Glass markets are openness and involvement. About us extremely competitive around the world and it is imperative that we can meet the ever-increasing demands of customers. The overriding basis of the Code is that we will carry out these We work with communities and governments in the areas we activities in a safe, professional, legal and ethical manner and operate to ensure compliance and forward-looking thinking. We in a way that demonstrates corporate social responsibility and do this directly and through our membership of trade associations, promotes sustainability. Wherever possible, the Code defines a standards bodies and other organizations. We also work to fair and common sense approach to doing business, with some influence legislation, particularly in the areas of energy elements dictated by strict legal requirements. conservation and emission regulation. Glass making is an energy-intensive process. Significant energy Our Group policies and procedures… Good governance is consumed in obtaining and melting the raw materials for …detail the procedures everyone in the Group must follow the manufacture of glass. Despite this necessary resource to achieve sound governance, tight controls, risk management consumption our products can and do make a tremendously and adherence to legal, ethical and sustainable principles. positive contribution to climate change efforts and to the quality of living and working environments. We have communicated our approach to sustainability to our employees around the world and have solicited their participation in this important work. Our leadership team remains actively committed to our High Risk Activity reduction safety program. Environmental In 2013, we repeated the successful annual NSG Group safety day to reinforce this commitment. responsibility We have communicated our Supplier Code of Conduct to our suppliers and have conducted audits to verify the declarations we have received. Our products require raw materials and energy that must be extracted from the Earth. Therefore we take seriously our responsibility to protect the natural habitats of the affected regions. Our vision… Social responsibility …defines our determination to make a positive contribution to sustainability, through our expertise in glass technology. Our stakeholders Making a difference to our world through We aim to be judged as best in class by: glass technology. Our customers To be their preferred supplier for glass products and related services. Our mission… Basis of reporting Our employees …describes how we will achieve our business objective, To be their preferred place to work. contributing to energy conservation and generation by producing and supplying innovative products in a Our shareholders sustainable manner. To be their preferred long-term investment. To be the global leader in innovative high-performance glass Our suppliers and glazing solutions, contributing to energy conservation and To build strong mutually beneficial relationships based generation, working safely and ethically. on trust, co-operation, innovation and sustainability. Our communities Our values… To be a good neighbor, wherever we operate. …define the behaviors we value and intend to follow in all our dealings with our stakeholders. Our Code of Conduct… …sets out the standards we expect of everyone working in the NSG Group. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 11 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED Our management approach Society Environmental We believe we have a responsibility to be a good steward We take our environmental responsibilities extremely seriously. of the environment and a responsible corporate citizen in the All our operations are required to meet all legislative standards communities in which we operate. We monitor carefully the as a minimum, and where local requirements are not considered impact of our operations on the local communities in which we sufficient to address an issue, our own corporate standards operate. We work hard to minimize potentially negative effects, are applied. We conduct regular environmental audits designed such as pollution, noise and traffic. We operate programs that to achieve continuous improvement, and to maintain and assess and manage the impacts of our operations on raise standards. communities, in entry, operational and exit stages. Our Group Environmental Policy defines our approach on In addition to our business investments, helping to sustain local environmental matters. In particular, it outlines our management operations, we also invest in the communities in which we operate. of both current activity and the legacy of past and inherited We aim to help through direct cash donations to charities and liability. It reinforces our commitment to using good scientific other projects or through in-kind resources — to improve the principles to try to predict and assess our impacts on the health of the community or tackle specific social issues. environment. We also encourage our people to play a part in developing our We acknowledge that our activities will inevitably affect the local community relationships. This can take the form of matching and global environment but we have taken steps to minimize any contributions raised by employees or allowing individuals time to adverse effects and have put in place systems to try to ensure make personal contributions of time and effort in local projects. that we manage such impacts in a controlled manner. Principal The most senior position with responsibility for society aspects among the tools we use is our environmental management system, is the Group Director of Sustainability. which is certified to ISO 14001 for all our glass manufacturing Human rights and automotive manufacturing sites. We now have 81 certified Our Code of Conduct defines our expectations for all employees. sites around the world, representing 70 percent of our business It reflects our values and principles, particularly the emphasis on by turnover. safety, taking personal ownership for actions and communicating We are committed to reporting on our performance both good with openness and involvement. and bad. Environmental data is collected under the broad The overriding basis of the Code is that we will carry out these headings of energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling activities in a safe, professional, legal and ethical manner and in and waste. The data collected is based primarily on the core a way that demonstrates corporate social responsibility. environmental performance indicator set of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition to the collection of environmental The Code acknowledges internationally proclaimed human rights emissions and resource usage data, the Airsweb™ system also and these are also reflected in our overall employment policies incorporates an incident reporting system. The most senior and standards, providing our employees with reassurance on executive with responsibility for environmental aspects is the how they will be treated. Our equal opportunity and diversity Group Director of Sustainability. policy aims to prohibit discrimination based on race, colour, creed, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, political affiliation or any other status protected by law. This policy operates in all employment-related decisions. The most senior executive with responsibility for human rights aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. 12 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 We value the health and safety of all our employees above all We value the health and safety of all our employees About us other considerations and aim to ensure that we provide a working above all other considerations and aim to ensure that environment that allows our people to reach their full potential. we provide a working environment that allows our Our safety programs emphasize the importance of appropriate people to reach their full potential. safe behavior and of individuals taking personal responsibility. We regard all injuries at work as unnecessary and avoidable. No Labor practice matter how minor, each one must be reported and investigated. Our management philosophy values people as ‘the most important Details of our progress on safety performance are shown in the asset of our company’. We have around 28,000 people working Health and Safety section of this Report. in 30 countries and speaking over 25 languages. Product responsibility Good governance Safety and quality underpin everything we do, with the principle We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring of ‘open communication’ central to our employment policies. they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. Our human resources strategy aims to ensure we have the right Our product risk-review procedures are designed to identify risks people where they are needed and that we maximize our talent and to provide advice to users on safe handling. We communicate management around the world. these risks through safety data sheets, labels and Glazing and Handling Guidelines. We operate as an integrated international Group, with a multinational management and 80 percent of our employees Every R&D project developing new products and processes is work outside Japan. We reflect diversity in our workforce and required to have an Environmental Impact Assessment completed believe that the range of nationalities, skills, qualifications and early on to highlight any positive or potentially negative Environmental experience available in our many operations are a positive benefit implications, so that the project can be managed accordingly. to our business. Our management style is to put the best person We aim for a cradle-to-cradle life cycle management approach, responsibility in each job, regardless of nationality or region. incorporating environmental health and protection into every step of the life cycle of our products. To attract, motivate, develop and retain high-performing employees, our approach on rewards and retention includes Our formal project management processes include thorough market-based competitive pay and market-based competitive intellectual property searches, so that our customers can be very benefit offerings for eligible full and part-time employees. confident that the new products and processes we develop can We have identified specific challenges in attracting and retaining be used freely without fear of infringing third-party patents. talent, particularly in emerging markets, and we are already The most senior executives accountable for product responsibility Social putting in place policies to address these. are the heads of the strategic business units. responsibility We work to create a culture that allows employees the opportunity to work without fear of intimidation, reprisal or harassment. We have systems in place to permit employees to raise any concerns in a confidential and timely manner. The most senior executive with responsibility for labor aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. Basis of reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IS A KEY ELEMENT IN THE SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES OF THE NSG GROUP. WE ARE COMMITTED TO EFFECTIVE AND TRANSPARENT ENGAGEMENT WITH ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS. We believe that good corporate governance It also decides the details of agenda items to be submitted to contributes to sustainable development by enhancing the General Meeting of Shareholders concerning the appointment and removal of independent auditors. the performance of companies and increasing their access to outside sources of capital. The Compensation Committee makes decisions on compensation of individual directors and executive officers. The Committee We aim to maintain high levels of accountability and is chaired by an independent external director, Hiroshi Komiya, transparency, disclosing business goals and guidelines and comprises six members, including four independent that clearly demonstrate a responsible management external directors. approach to all our stakeholders. Adoption of IFRS Our governance structure We adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) The NSG Group is governed by its Board of Directors, which is for our consolidated financial statements, with effect from appointed by resolution at the General Meeting of Shareholders. 1 April 2011. Enabling the whole Group to use the same The Board comprises the Chairman of the NSG Group, four accounting language has clear benefits for the Company’s directors concurrently serving as executive officers and four internal decision-making processes and further enhances our independent external directors. In the fiscal year 2013, the corporate governance structure. Board of Directors met 12 times. Beginning with the financial year to 31 March 2012, the Group’s The Board of Directors oversees the Group’s economic, social results are now reported in IFRS. This has increased the amount and environmental performance and compliance with internal and of financial information we publish, prompting our decision to internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. divide the content of our annual reporting between the Annual Report and an Annual Financial Statements document; both can be downloaded in English from our website. Company with Committees The adoption of the ‘Company with Committees’ model has Risk management brought the NSG Group into line with a number of leading Japanese corporations and with best practice. It has introduced The scope of our operations introduces potential risks to our additional safeguards for shareholders, increased transparency business activities, requiring effective risk management. These and enhanced corporate governance, with the role of the include the effects of changes in debt market prices, foreign independent external directors strengthened. currency exchange rates, credit risks, energy prices, liquidity interest rates and business disruption. Our enterprise risk There are three Board committees (Nomination, Audit and management process enables the impact and likelihood of key Compensation) and four independent external directors. risks to be assessed in a standard format. The Nomination Committee decides the details of the agenda items to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders The information is used to assess the cumulative risk exposure concerning the appointment and removal of directors. of the Group and promote effective global risk responses, thus Chaired by an independent external director, George Olcott, strengthening our overall risk management structure. For further the Committee consists of six members, including four discussion on our risks and opportunities associated with climate independent external directors. change, see pages 24-31. The Audit Committee, chaired by an independent external Compliance director, Sumitaka Fujita, comprises four independent external Our Code of Conduct sets out the values on which the NSG Group directors. It conducts audits of the execution of duties by has been built and on which the Group and its member companies directors and executive officers and ensures that adequate must depend for future success. NSG is committed to compliance risk management processes are followed. with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws in its Code of Conduct. 14 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 It defines the conduct expected of the Group and its employees Key Compliance Contacts have been identified in each SBU and across all areas of our business and applies to relationships with Group Function. These Key Contacts are responsible for ensuring employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, the community that the Key Roles in their area of responsibility are kept informed and all others with whom we have contact in daily business life of program updates and are meeting the program requirements. (our stakeholders). A process has been formalized on the action taken to escalate About us Alan Graham is Group Chief Compliance Officer. His responsibilities concerns through the proper channels. Public policy development include the development, implementation and maintenance of an and lobbying information is found in the Group’s Code of Conduct integrated internal compliance management and control system and on the nsg.com website. Relationships with Lobbyists is as well as the creation and review of relevant Group policies covered by the Group’s ABAC program. and procedures. Our ‘Reporting of Concerns’ procedures allow employees to voice Global compliance culture assessment any corporate governance issues using a reporting line and web Survey sent to 1,232 employees. Geographic distribution shown portal implemented in 2012. below. Response rate was 73 percent overall. Good governance In line with best practice, we conducted compliance culture risk assessment with 1,232 employees in 23 countries focusing on Geographic distribution two major compliance programs — Bribery/Corruption and Competition Law. In addition, we participated with Internal Audit Europe 46% on an assessment of our two main compliance programs — ABAC North America 15% South America 7% (Anti-bribery/Anti-corruption) and Competition Compliance. Japan 23% Steps to enhance both programs are in process. Asia 9% Central Compliance has partnered with Group Internal Environmental Audit to include both ABAC and Competition Law minimum controls in any site audit. Business unit responsibility Since 2008, we have identified employees who face specific Architectural 26% Competition Law risks in their roles within NSG Group. That Automotive 40% process is now used within the Group’s ABAC program. Specific Technical 4% Group functions 30% guidance is provided to these ‘Key Role’ employees. Over 65 percent of NSG Group’s non-shop floor workforce are required to complete annual training covering Bribery/Corruption and Social Competition Law through the Group’s Ethics and Compliance Education Center. All are required to be familiar with the Compliance program policies, manuals and procedures. responsibility Open Management System General Meeting of Shareholders Election/Dismissal of directors Election/Dismissal Basis of reporting Decisions on proposals on Election/Dismissal of directors Decisions on proposals Independent Auditors on Election/Dismissal of Independent Auditors Supervisory Audit Report Function Board of Directors Recommendations Supervision concerning Executive Officers/ Audit evaluation Corporate Officers Election/Dismissal of Committee Members Co-operation Decisions on compensation Nomination Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Election/ Dismissal Report Decisions on Supervision of Executive Audit Co-operation Report compensation Officers/ Corporate Officers Management Committee Report Risk Sustainability Management Representative Executive Officers Internal Report Committee Committee Executive Officer Audit Dept. Co-operation Internal Audit Compliance Executive Corporate Officers Officer Function Report to Chief Legal Officer NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 15 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Glass manufacture is energy intensive, but our products make a major contribution to energy conservation and power generation. We are working hard to reduce our waste, to minimize energy usage in manufacturing and improving the energy-saving capabilities of our products during their life cycle. Total energy used by the Group 53.10 PJ The total energy used by the Group in 2012 was 53.10 PJ (14.75 TWh) Total CO2 emitted by the Group 4.5 MtCO2 Environmental responsibility Responsibly sourcing raw materials. NSG Group emitted 4.5 million tonnes CO2 in 2012 to manufacture a range of net energy-saving products. Furnace energy Striving to reduce energy usage and carbon emissions. 16 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 About us Good governance Environmental policies and management  18 Environmental responsibility Energy usage  20 Minimizing environmental impact  22 Glass in buildings 24 Glass and solar energy 26 Glass in vehicles 28 Raw material consumption Technical glass 30 Social Increasing recycled content and responsibility re-melting glass whenever possible. Basis of reporting Energy efficient glass Manufacturing energy-saving products. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 17 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT WE TAKE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES EXTREMELY SERIOUSLY. WE REQUIRE ALL OPERATIONS TO MEET LOCAL LEGAL STANDARDS BUT APPLY OUR OWN CORPORATE STANDARDS WHERE THESE ARE STRICTER THAN THE LAW. Our Group Environmental Policy defines our approach Our Environmental Policy on environmental matters. In particular, it outlines Given the nature of our business, we acknowledge that our our management of both current activity and the activities will inevitably have an impact, but we have taken steps legacy of past and inherited liability. It reinforces our to minimize the adverse nature of any impact and have put in commitment to using good scientific principles to try place systems to try to ensure that we manage such impacts in a controlled manner. to predict and assess our impacts on the environment, both positive and negative. Our environmental management system is certified to ISO 14001 for all our glass manufacturing and automotive manufacturing sites. Principal among the tools we use is our environmental management system, which is certified to ISO 14001 for all our glass manufacturing and automotive manufacturing sites. We are committed to reporting on our performance both good and bad. Calendar year 2007 is our chosen starting point for reporting on the progress of the enlarged Group. Environmental performance is monitored and reported for manufacturing operations that are under the direct control of NSG Group. We continue to work with regulatory authorities worldwide on issues relating to historical industrial activity on and around Group premises. Data collection Environmental and safety performance data is now collected right across the Group using an online electronic data reporting system known as Airsweb™. This database is multilingual and accessed over the corporate intranet, by sites under NSG operational control, allowing monthly updating of relevant information. Environmental data is collected under the broad headings of energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling and waste. The data collected is based primarily on the core environmental performance indicator set of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 18 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 ISO 14001 70% About us of our operations take place on sites certified to ISO 14001 environmental standard. In addition to the collection of environmental emissions and resource usage data, the Airsweb™ system also incorporates an incident reporting system. This allows the timely reporting and recording of incident data both safety and environmental, as well as provision for tracking the progress or remedial actions and Good governance communication of learning points. Our German glass-melting sites have recently been certified to the ISO 50001 Monitoring performance energy management system. Supplementing the routine monitoring of our business, we also maintain a number of central registers used to guide our strategic development and maintain a high level of corporate governance Certification in the sustainability field. For example, a register of all furnaces, We aim to certify our manufacturing facilities their associated permits, relevant legislation and abatement to the internationally recognized ISO 14001 capabilities is maintained and used to support the assessment environmental standard and now have 81 Environmental of any proposed changes in operation or design. certified sites around the world, representing To ensure a consistent and innovative approach, we operate a 70 percent of our business by turnover. Our Automotive business line was one of the first responsibility number of multidisciplinary design panels whose task is to ensure full assessment and review of proposed changes. Our stage gate companies in the automotive industry to achieve process ensures that an appropriate level of information and a corporate certificate for environmental management. resource is applied to an issue at set points within the development A single ISO 14001 certificate from TÜV SÜD Management Service of a project or proposal. This ensures the most efficient use of GmbH covers central functions and the vast majority of our our resources and encourages innovation. Automotive plants worldwide. Our German glass-melting sites have recently been certified to the Social Our Automotive business was one of the first in the ISO 50001 energy management system. This system is currently automotive industry to achieve a corporate certificate being implemented in our Italian sites. responsibility for environmental management. A single DIN EN ISO 14001 certificate covers the Group’s Automotive sites worldwide. www.nsg.com/sustainability For glass manufacturing plants we have defined our strategic More details on our environmental policies and risk analysis approach to abatement in order to ensure that across the world can be found on our website. we hold fast to our principles even in parts of the world where Basis of reporting legislative controls are less well developed. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 19 ENERGY USAGE WE WORK CONTINUOUSLY TO MINIMIZE ENERGY INPUT INTO ALL OUR PROCESSES, SO THAT THE USAGE OF GLASS CONTRIBUTES NET BENEFIT TO SUSTAINABILITY. Our energy usage Initiatives to reduce energy usage For both environmental and financial reasons, we use natural gas We have continued our efforts with an ongoing program of work as the fuel of choice for glass melting. We reduced consumption across all sites to increase energy awareness. This program by 7 percent compared to 2011. involves a number of teams within the manufacturing organization with the objective to deliver significant Heavy fuel oil has been substituted for natural gas and is used improvements in energy efficiency of our operations and includes as back up. We reduced consumption by 13 percent compared the development of a Group-wide database of energy-saving to 2011. projects. These activities can be broadly categorized into Diesel oil and liquid petroleum gas are used as back-up fuels and two areas: to power small engines and boilers. 1. Management systems In 2011, our consumption of diesel oil was 20.3 million liters Investment in energy management systems includes the (up 3 percent on 2011) and that of liquid propane was 11,500 tonnes achievement of ISO 50001 certification across all operations in (a 10 percent increase on 2011). Germany and installation of sub-metering hardware and software. During 2012, we consumed 8.5 PJ (2.3 TWh) of delivered 2. Efficiency improvements and investments electricity (a 3 percent decrease on 2011). A number of projects to improve energy consumption within our processes. A significant amount of investment in key areas of The total energy used by the NSG Group in 2012 was 53.10 PJ energy consumption includes: (14.75 TWh). This represents a 7 percent reduction on 2011 data. NSG Group energy usage NSG Group resource usage 40,000 2011 1,200 2011 2012 2012 1,000 30,000 800 20,000 600 400 10,000 200 0 0 J J J TJ TJ sM sT lT lT G m3 ga oi oi LP ity Di es el fue lo ilM el as ric Li /g as oi I Na fu /g ct qu id lx 10 tu ga Tota pr op an M I raH el El e ra le le e x1 ea l vy es l Toea tavy lw ct ricity /1 0 kt Di Na at er us 0 GW h tu H e x1 0 M Ti m m3 Bo ug ht be rk m3 -in cu lle tk t 20 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Energy optimization during shutdown/hot-hold activities Renewable on-site energy generation As a result of the economic downturn, leading to reduced Our Rossford technical center in North America produces about demand, some of our float lines have been put on hot hold 7 percent of its own electricity with on-site photovoltaic generation. (maintaining working temperature but not producing glass). We have recently installed photovoltaic panels on the roof of our Others have been closed down with a view to restarting when German Weiherhammer plant. About us markets improve. Our Automotive and Technical Glass operations were similarly affected, with an unusual number of shutdowns IT Server virtualization and restarts. Although some markets have since picked up, Virtualization technology allows the server administrator these developments affected absolute resource consumption to convert one physical server into multiple virtual machines. and emission data in 2012. Each virtual server acts like a unique physical device, capable of running its own operating system. We have virtualized 485 Partnership with suppliers physical servers and IT plans to virtualize all servers that meet We are working with key suppliers to develop projects to requirements. At the moment they are located in seven regional reduce energy consumption in our manufacturing sites. Close data centers (UK, Germany, Poland, Japan, US, Brazil and China) collaboration with leaders in specific technologies is enabling us and operated by 36 physical boxes (hosts). Good governance to implement optimum solutions to specific energy management challenges. For example, in our sites in Italy and the UK, new If each server is constantly powered on, virtualization technology efficient lighting systems have been installed in place of old saves over 1,250 tonnes of CO2 /year. An additional benefit is outdated lamps, leading to a halving of electricity consumption maintenance reduction and travel savings. and a significant reduction in ongoing maintenance. Collaborative Alternative fuels projects have also been implemented to address compressor Our Chilean plant is using waste-derived diesel oil from inefficiency, to make better use of waste heat generated in our a treatment plant that separates waste fuel from water. glass-making processes and to reduce peaks in electricity demand. Environmental Solar panels fitted to plant roof in Germany CO2 neutral heating with timber pellets responsibility We are steadily increasing NSG’s global renewable energy in Finland generating capacity. Our Tampere plant has substituted the heating system’s oil Our Weiherhammer plant in Germany has recently leased out burner for a compacted sawdust pellets system. One ton of 15,000 m2 of roof space for the installation of solar panels pellet is equivalent to 500 liters of oil in heating power so incorporating thin film technology (cadmium telluride CdTe). the new system will immediately and significantly reduce the plant’s CO2 footprint, saving approximately 375 tonnes Social The panels have the capacity to generate approximately of CO2 /year. The equipment is financed and maintained by 800,000 kWh for the national grid each year. an external provider. responsibility The pellets’ high density also permits compact storage and optimized transport over long distance. Basis of reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 21 MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT GLASS MANUFACTURE IS AN ENERGY-INTENSIVE PROCESS, INVOLVING THE MELTING OF RAW MATERIALS AT HIGH TEMPERATURES. PRINCIPAL EMISSIONS FROM THE PROCESS ARE TO AIR AND ARISE AS PRODUCTS OF THE COMBUSTION OF FUEL AND AS CO2 FROM THE DECOMPOSITION OF SODA ASH, DOLOMITE AND LIMESTONE USED IN THE PROCESS. Our environmental impact analysis of the float glass and PVB is used to manufacture laminated glass. PVB trims from automotive glazing production processes reveals that the edges of the laminated glass are returned to PVB suppliers to be recycled in their manufacturing processes. In 2012, around the significant emissions are carbon dioxide, oxides of 2,000 tonnes of PVB trim was returned to our suppliers or other nitrogen, oxides of sulphur and, to a far more limited recyclers to be reused. extent, particulate matter. In the operation of our float plants, heavy oil to natural Waste gas conversion has helped to reduce carbon emissions The glass manufacturing process itself produces very little waste material. All trimmed glass is recycled back into the by around 50 percent over the past 40 years, and a melting process and waste is limited to maintenance waste, combination of design and operational innovations has occasional off-specification raw material that cannot be blended made further progress. and packaging waste. If glass is produced that cannot be remelted on-site, it is sent, Recycled glass cullet where practicable, for external recycling. We use the waste Glass for recycling is a valuable resource. Wherever quality allows, hierarchy to guide our disposal options. In this system, landfill we recycle any glass off-cuts or cullet within our own glass is the least favored option. melting lines. Glass from our downstream operations and from our customers represents a potentially useful resource to us. However, with significant tonnages of mineral materials arising for disposal we have not eliminated landfill completely. We We gain a double benefit from the use of such cullet. Its use to disposed of 47,000 tonnes of non-glass waste (a 20 percent make glass reduces the requirement for raw materials and avoids reduction on 2011), of which 1,132 tonnes of hazardous disposing of what would otherwise be a waste material and (36 percent reduction on previous year) and 21,000 tonnes closes the recycling loop. Ten percent cullet use saves 3 percent of non-hazardous waste (32 percent reduction) were sent to furnace energy and leads to reductions in CO2 emissions. landfill. We disposed of 6,544 tons of hazardous waste in 2012 In 2012, we sent 446,000 tonnes of glass for recycling and bought (a 46 percent reduction on 2011). in 169,000 tonnes to supplement cullet from our own internal recycling. 37,000 tonnes of glass could not be successfully Emissions to air recycled so was sent for disposal. These arise from the combustion of fuel in melting the raw Cullet usage to improve efficiency and reduce emissions materials. The principal materials emitted are oxides of sulphur and One of our sites has recently manufactured glass using 100 percent nitrogen. Some particulates arise partly from trace components cullet. Cullet return projects are ongoing to try to minimize the in the fuel and some from the glass formation itself. need for virgin raw materials. The fuels we use — oils and natural gas — all contain sulphur Lexington Kentucky Scrap Glass Recycling Project compounds as contaminants. Natural gas, our preferred fuel, Our North American plants have recently worked with Reflective contains less sulphur than oil. Heavy fuel oil contains the highest Recycling to separate glass from the PVB interlayer in reject levels of sulphur of all our fuels, especially that readily available windshields and tempered glass. This has significantly reduced in Japan. Our furnaces in Japan are therefore fitted with efficient the haulage distances of waste products and has allowed the emission gas-cleaning equipment. The combustion of such fuels end product to be recycled, thus reducing CO2 emissions can produce a mixture of sulphur oxides (SOx). alongside waste and transport costs. Most sulphate arising from soda lime glass manufacture is In Automotive, all supplied materials are registered in the global released as sodium sulphate, which is of low toxicity. Nitrogen IMDS (International Material Data System) to ensure we have compounds released arise from the combustion air in which the complete visibility of material content to identify hazardous fuel is burnt. At the high temperatures used in glass-making, the materials and opportunities for recycling. This data is shared nitrogen in combustion air is oxidized to a mixture of nitrogen openly with our automotive customers, to support their own oxides (NOx). Actions we take to reduce or prevent the emission recycling efforts. of these oxides of nitrogen are detailed on our website. 22 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Reducing carbon emissions Across the Group water consumption can vary considerably according to process and product demands as well as water In 2012, the NSG Group was responsible for the direct and quality. Typically, ~2 m3 are required to manufacture one tonne indirect emission of 4.5 million tonnes of CO2. This represents of float glass and ~90 liters are required to process each square an 8 percent decrease on 2011. meter of automotive product. About us Our direct emissions were 3.5 million tonnes (a 9 percent We used a total of 20.2 million cubic meters of water in 2012. decrease on 2011). Direct emissions occur from our furnaces and This was a decrease of 3 percent on 2011 data. from fuel used in bending and toughening furnaces in Automotive and Building Products. In Europe, externally verified, direct 2012 CO2 emissions from the Emission Trading Scheme were reduced Timber by 6 percent compared to 2011. In Europe, much of our glass is transported on steel stillages without packaging, utilizing specialist ‘Floatliner’ vehicles. We In the operation of our float plants, heavy oil to natural gas use a significant quantity of wooden packaging in our operations. conversion has helped to reduce carbon emissions by around Although much of the timber we use comes from sustainable 50 percent over the past 40 years and a combination of design forestry, we cannot yet guarantee this worldwide and this remains Good governance and operational innovations has made further progress. an area for improvement. We also work with our suppliers to design reusable wooden packaging. Water management In glass-making, water is used for cooling, but most of our plants operate with closed loop systems and so only require top up. Water is also used for washing glass in plants but there the need is for very high purity, so water is treated and then reused. We seek to minimize our water consumption by working with suppliers to recycle water and to install advanced water Environmental treatment facilities. This not only reduces the consumption of water itself but also the chemicals used in the treatment of the water. responsibility Principal emissions from the NSG Group during 2012 NSG Group glass-melting carbon emissions 12,000 2011 4.5 Europe Social 2012 North America 11,000 South America 4.0 Japan responsibility 10,000 China and South East Asia 3.5 9,000 8,000 3.0 7,000 2.5 6,000 Basis of reporting 2.0 5,000 4,000 1.5 3,000 1.0 2,000 0.5 1,000 0 0 2011 2011 es es es es es ta nt nn nn nn nn nn nn f s/ es 2012 2012 to to to to to to e l CO ec 2 f 10 10 10 s o tri or s to 0 10 /1 te SO OX 00 g/ 00 as To f C c i t ite n ne X/ / 1, lin w ta lm O y/ e s CO e 2 f r 1 , 0 xc l g/ te (m 2 e N us as s o le c t om 00 udi ill mi in yc as io ss ec w do lu t o ng re n io cl ol fC ric fu nn ct t CO o n n n s cy rr us ar rp O i t y el es (m 2 e es re fo do az Ai so 2f o r / 1 , 0 xc e ill m io is ) or ts ar H si 0 lu n sio to n sf uc az as te 0 din to g al nn s as od -h m as /1 ,0 n To es) Gl Pr on al To m 00 ne s t Di t al to N To t nn es NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 23 GLASS IN BUILDINGS OUR PRODUCTS ARE AT THE HEART OF MODERN ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION. THEY PLAY A BENEFICIAL ROLE IN ADDRESSING SOME OF THE MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES OF BUILDINGS. Sustainability in buildings Our products help in addressing some of the major environmental challenges of buildings, new and old. Governments are putting Around the world, our products play a vital role in improving increased focus on legislation and policies to improve their energy energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions. But they also efficiency. We work closely with trade associations, governments offer other advanced functionality and create safer buildings and authorities that frame building standards to ensure that for communities; fire protection, noise attenuation, safety and the energy-conservation properties of glass and CO2 reduction security, privacy, decoration and even self-cleaning properties. targets are taken into account when standards are set. Architects increasingly seek to bring natural environmental They are helping to transform the market for added-value factors into the interior of buildings by maximizing natural glazing in North America, Europe, Malaysia and India. In China, daylight. This has been achieved through the use of larger legislation is at an earlier stage, but the government has already glazed areas in façades and roofs, and entirely glazed façades, introduced building regulations to improve the energy efficiency where the glass is a structural component of the building. of new buildings. Similar opportunities are anticipated in Europe, The correct choice of glass can help to reduce the capital outlay, with the recast of the EU Directive on Energy Performance of running costs and associated carbon emissions of buildings. Buildings and new Energy Efficiency Directive. Glass has a unique role to play in promoting sustainability, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating the effects Thermal insulation — keeping heat in buildings of climate change. On average, buildings account for almost In cold weather, low emissivity (low-e) products reflect heat 50 percent of the energy consumed in developed economies. back into the building. Our thermal insulation products, The ‘energy balance’ between the manufacture of highPilkington Energy Advantage™, Pilkington K Glass™ and performance glazing products and their use means that the Pilkington Optitherm™, combine unrivalled thermal insulation energy used and CO2 emitted in manufacture are quickly paid with high light transmittance, with lower reflectance for a back through the lifetime of most of our products. more neutral appearance. They provide thermal insulation and Sustainable building rating system initiatives are increasingly passive solar heat gain, helping meet demand for more energybeing used to rate the environmental performance of buildings efficient windows. across the globe. Low-e glass is a value-added product that has a transparent coating on one surface. This reflects heat back into the building, Energy efficiency in buildings reducing heat loss through the window. It also reduces the heat Energy issues are crucial to the building glass industry, as glass transfer from the warm (inner) pane of glass to the cooler (outer) products can make an important contribution to combating pane, thus further lowering the amount of heat that escapes climate change. Improving the energy efficiency of buildings from the window. The coating also allows large amounts of free also brings other benefits. Well-glazed buildings are more solar energy to enter the building, thereby heating it passively. comfortable and cheaper to run for the owner and occupier. The potential for low-e glass (double and triple glazing) to cut From a social point of view, national economies and energy CO2 emissions from new and existing buildings has been analyzed security will improve when energy-importing countries become by the Dutch scientific institute TNO. It found that up to less dependent on increasingly expensive supplies from other 90 million tonnes of CO2 emissions could be saved annually by parts of the world. 2020 if all Europe’s buildings (existing and new residential and In hot climates, reliance on air conditioning, which would non-residential buildings) were fitted with double-glazed low-e otherwise be increased by such larger glazed areas, is mitigated insulating glass units. An additional seven million tonnes of CO2 by the use of advanced solar control glass, allowing the sun’s emissions could be cut through a greater use of triple-glazed light into buildings, while blocking much of its heat. low-e insulating glass units for new buildings, where appropriate. In cold climates, low-emissivity glass reduces heat loss, while Advances in low-emissivity (low-e) glass technology have made allowing high levels of valuable free solar gain to heat buildings windows an essential contributor to energy conservation and without significant loss in natural light. comfort, minimizing heat loss and internal condensation. 24 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Pilkington Spacia™ was the world’s first commercially available vacuum glazing, offering the thermal performance of conventional NSG supplies glass for World Wildlife double glazing in the same thickness as single glass. Sales are Fund building developing worldwide, particularly for use in historic buildings, The Living Planet Centre is WWF-UK’s new administrative in which the original frames can be retained. building and visitors centre. Designed to set a sustainable About us benchmark, the inclusion of 1,600 m2 of Pilkington glazing Solar control — keeping heat out of buildings has helped target a BREEAM Outstanding rating whilst Increasing attention is being given to air-conditioned buildings, creating a comfortable workplace flooded with natural light. to reduce energy usage and CO2 emissions, creating opportunities Pilkington Suncool™ 40/22 glazing units cut the for solar control glass. Most of our solar control products have transmission of solar radiation by more than 75 percent, special coatings that can reflect up to 75 percent of the solar significantly reducing the load on the building’s cooling heat, while transmitting the majority of the visible light and systems. The same specification also assists thermal reducing glare. We have a wide range of products to satisfy insulation enabling the glazed areas to surpass not only every need; Pilkington Optifloat™ Tints, Pilkington Reflite™, current Building Regulations but any likely changes in the Good governance Pilkington Eclipse Advantage™ and Pilkington SunShade™ near future. provide different levels of solar control performance. Pilkington Suncool™ 40/22 is also utilized in the roof The best energy-efficient glass combines solar control and glazing where it is combined with a heat-strengthened low-emissivity properties. Pilkington Suncool™, Pilkington laminated pane for additional safety. Solar-E™ and Pilkington Eclipse Advantage™ provide both. The use of these types of glass allows a bright and comfortable The building has been short listed for the UK Building environment to be maintained inside a building with reduced Sustainable Project of the Year. requirement for air-conditioning and lighting. A study undertaken by TNO for Glass for Europe concluded Environmental that between 15 and 80 million tonnes of CO2 emissions Photos: WWF-UK © Richard Stonehouse. annually — roughly between 5 percent and 25 percent of the responsibility EU’s target — could be saved by the year 2020 by optimal use of solar control glass. To maximize energy efficiency all year round, our products can offer the ideal glazing solution by balancing both solar control and low-emissivity performance. Self-cleaning glass — minimizing environmental impact Social responsibility Our Pilkington Activ™ range has been installed successfully in domestic and commercial buildings throughout the world. Using the forces of nature to help keep the surface free from dirt, the world’s first advanced dual-action self-cleaning glass ensures less manual cleaning is required — therefore reducing the need for toxic chemicals and hazardous cleaning products and cutting water wastage, as well as reducing maintenance costs and Basis of reporting health and safety risks. Solar control and low emissivity glass for energy efficiency can also be combined with Pilkington Activ™ self-cleaning glass to further reduce the environmental impact of buildings. Fire protection glass — passive and sustainable protection Buildings that are vulnerable to fire are fundamentally unsustainable. Fire damage can affect lives and communities, through destruction of jobs and public assets. Combining fire safety and integrity with transparency and the ability to bring light into buildings presents significant technical challenges. Our range of fire-resistant glass, Pilkington Pyrostop®, Pilkington Pyrodur®, Pilkington Pyroclear®, and Pilkington Pyroshield™ 2 is used in a variety of building, marine and rail transport applications around the world. We offer three technology types — wired glass, advanced, toughened fireresistant glass and a special proprietary clear intumescent interlayer technology. The latter not only protects against flames and smoke, but also against the heat of a fire, and heat transfer mechanisms. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 25 GLASS AND SOLAR ENERGY GLASS PLAYS A SIGNIFICANT ROLE IN THE GROWING SOLAR ENERGY SECTOR. WE SUPPLY PRODUCTS FOR ALL THREE OF THE LEADING TECHNOLOGIES, CONVERTING POWER FROM THE SUN INTO CLEAN RENEWABLE ENERGY. Countries across the globe have adopted legislation to Competitive Levelized-Cost-Of-Energy (LCOE) of PV is largely increase the use of renewable energy as it is widely playing a role in encouraging solar generation. Although many of the early markets were heavily subsidized at the onset, recognized that a move from hydrocarbons is essential. feed-in tariff’s in countries such as Germany, Spain, Italy and This was propelled in part by the Kyoto protocol, an Greece are becoming less important. The arrival of ‘grid parity’ international agreement linked to the United Nations is successfully creating sustainable solar markets. Framework Convention on Climate Change which Depending on the type, a photovoltaic panel will typically produce established that industrialized countries have an enough power in around two years to offset the energy used in obligation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gasses. manufacture. In other words, the input energy is equivalent to only 6.6 percent of the total output of the panel. During its life Solar energy panels offer alternative power generation cycle, a solar panel can produce over 15 times the amount of solutions for a variety of markets, from large-scale solar energy used to make it. stations to inaccessible geographic areas, from cloudy Global Photovoltaic (PV) is expected to achieve steady growth northern-hemisphere rooftops to hot sunny deserts. based largely on declines in module prices and installation costs. Europe continues to play a leading role in the solar However, it is also aided by significant improvements to module efficiency. In fact, advances in glass and coating technologies are segment, but the Asia Pacific region has quickly closed helping our customers manufacture increasingly efficient modules. the gap. North America is also making significant investment in solar installations. In addition to the Our high-quality glass products are used in the three leading solar technologies aimed at converting solar energy into established markets, Photovoltaic (PV) is increasingly electricity: thin film PV, crystalline silicon PV and concentrated being seen as part of the solution to meet the growing solar power applications. energy demand in emerging economies. In addition to the generation of electricity, our glass products are also used in solar applications that generate hot water. Glass is an integral and important element of solar modules, used to convert solar energy into electricity. In traditional PV, the solar cells may be encapsulated using toughened glass, which protects the cells from the elements. Increasingly, electrically conductive glass is used in PV modules as the front contact of the solar cell, to form a system which generates a direct electrical current. We have been closely associated with the leading companies within the crystalline silicon and, especially, thin film PV industries for a long time. This collaboration has come about, in part, as a result of the historical expertise in on-line coating of both Pilkington and NSG, which has enabled us to become the worldwide leading producer of high-quality, high-volume TCO glass. We have been a technological leader in low-iron glass compositions for over 25 years and our anti-reflective coatings are being used to further increase module efficiency. 26 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 About us Good governance Thin film photovoltaic solar modules First Solar starts construction of solar power Thin film PV modules produce power at low cost per watt. They plant in Japan are ideal for large-scale solar farms, as well as Building Integrated Over 100 million First Solar photovoltaic (PV) modules have Photovoltaic applications (BIPV). They benefit from generating been installed throughout the world. NSG Group supplies consistent power, not only at elevated temperatures, but also on the advanced technology glass with a proprietary electrical cloudy, overcast days and at low sun angles. Environmental film tuned to First Solar’s thin-film modules. With our advanced technology, the coating properties can be First Solar has announced the construction of a mega ‘tuned’ to a wide variety of Thin Film PV technologies, including responsibility solar project with a generation capacity of 1.4 MW in Kita silicon and cadmium telluride based. Kyushu-shi, Japan. Using First Solar’s advanced technology thin-film PV modules, the project will provide clean and safe Crystalline photovoltaic solar modules solar power, offsetting demand previously supplied by Developed from the microelectronics technology industry, nuclear reactors and providing energy security to Japan. crystalline silicon (c-Si) is the most widely used solar technology. Due to their high efficiency, crystalline silicon modules are best suited to applications where space is at a premium. Social NSG, First Solar and construction project leaders attend the ground-breaking ceremony for the 1.4 MW solar project in Kita Kyushu-shi, Japan. Concentrated solar power applications responsibility Concentrated solar power (CSP) technology uses mirrors to concentrate sunlight. The high-performance mirrors are manufactured using metallic reflective coatings and weather protective paints deposited onto very high-performance low-iron float glass. Basis of reporting Thin film photovoltaic solar modules Produce power at low cost per watt, effective at weak light conditions, but require large surface areas for installations. Concentrated solar power applications Typically large area mirror arrays. Require a large area and lots of sunshine. Particularly effective in sunny deserts. Crystalline photovoltaic solar modules Highly efficient, but as the cells are expensive to make, best used in applications where space is at a premium. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 27 GLASS IN VEHICLES AS A WORLD LEADER IN AUTOMOTIVE GLAZING, WE AIM TO PROVIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS TO ADDRESS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES, SUCH AS CO2 REDUCTION, SOLAR CONTROL, VEHICLE WEIGHT, AERODYNAMICS AND RECYCLING. The global automotive industry is increasingly Demand is increasing from vehicle manufacturers for glazing addressing the sustainability agenda. The shift to solutions that meet the challenge to design cars that are kinder to the environment. higher efficiency conventional engines, electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids marks a new era, with CO2 reduction Vehicle manufacturers look towards the supply base to develop a major focus. This requires glazing advances in solar and deliver products that address energy reduction, energy generation and recyclability. energy control, weight reduction and energy saving or generation. We have supplied glass used in automotive photovoltaic roof systems that can actively supply power to the vehicle, helping As a world leader in automotive glazing, we are meeting reduce reliance on conventional energy sources. these challenges. We are developing coating technology We aim both to reduce energy used during the manufacture and glass compositions to produce high-performance of products and to increase their contribution to sustainability infra-red reflecting and advanced infra-red absorbing during their lifetime. glazings. Our aim is to provide further opportunities for vehicle manufacturers to meet their sustainability Hybrid and electric vehicles requirements. The importance of hybrid and electric vehicles is growing, as consumers demand more environmentally-friendly models. We are working with a variety of established automotive manufacturers and new entrants who are developing new vehicles that are greener by design. Vehicle glazing is not only important in creating a modern exterior design, but can also contribute significantly to the feeling of space inside the car and all-around visibility. Lightweight glazing There can be over 13 individual pieces of glazing on a vehicle, all contributing significantly to overall weight and affecting fuel consumption. We are focused on the introduction of lightweight glass and glazing technology, with the launch of reduced thickness laminated and toughened sidelights, backlights, windshields and rooflights. Our in-house developments for glass-shaping technology now make it possible for vehicle manufacturers to reduce the mass of glass components by up to 25 percent. Glass in vehicles offers more properties than simple transparency, so when designing vehicles for reduced mass in the components, consideration needs to be given to acoustics, stiffness, sealing and guiding systems and solar control. 28 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 About us Good governance Vehicle glass NSG glazing technology is contributing 65% to more sustainable vehicles • Superior infra-red reflecting windscreen enhances solar control and reduces the need for air conditioning. Our range of optimized green and privacy solar • Privacy glass fitted to the rear lowers temperatures, Environmental absorbing glasses can reduce the heat entering enables greater cooling efficiency, and reduces UV light a vehicle by up to 65 percent. transmission. responsibility • Heated windscreen enhances visibility in icy or humid conditions, eliminates the need for de-icer spray and Solar control technology reduces damage to the wiper system. Approximately 30 percent of the heat loading on a car’s interior • Laminated glazing that removes more than 99 percent comes through the windshield. of UV light transmission significantly minimizes the The relationship between high-performance solar control glazing degradation of interior fabrics. Social and vehicle CO2 emissions reduction has long been recognized. • By moving from 6 mm to 5 mm windscreen thickness It is accepted that control of heat energy entering vehicles and reducing overall vehicle weight, fuel efficiency responsibility directly impacts air-conditioning usage and will lead to reduced is improved. fuel consumption and CO2 output. Our advanced solar control glass can make a significant contribution to the reduction of • Laminated, green tinted, hydrophobic front door glazing air-conditioning usage by reducing solar heat gain. reduces the power required from the air-conditioning unit. Our vehicle glazing products provide advanced solar control by absorbing or reflecting infra-red energy from the sun. Our range As used on the new Range Rover Hybrid. of optimized green and privacy solar absorbing glasses can Basis of reporting reduce the heat entering a vehicle by up to 65 percent. Advanced glass coatings used in laminated glazing can selectively allow the transmission of visible light while rejecting heat entering vehicles. Combining solar control properties with a heating function within the glass, for removing condensation, can reduce air-conditioning use on a year-round basis. Glazing systems We develop and supply not only glass, but also glazing systems used to mount and seal the products in vehicle apertures. We work constantly to decrease component content, with a view to reduced cost and weight. New technology areas, such as integral seals, significantly reduce processing steps and the amount of hardware needed to transform glass products to glazing products. Issues such as driver visibility and pedestrian safety overlay our work in the development of the next generation of automotive glazing. Glass and end-of-life vehicles Glass typically constitutes around 3 percent of the composition of an average car. We are actively involved in the elimination of harmful materials in glass, ink, solder and other components in automotive glass products. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 29 TECHNICAL GLASS OUR TECHNICAL GLASS PRODUCTS CONTRIBUTING TO ENERGY CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDE GLASS FOR DISPLAYS, LED PRINT HEADS FOR OFFICE MACHINERY, BATTERY SEPARATOR TECHNOLOGY FOR ELECTRIC AND HYBRID VEHICLES, AND GLASS FIBER FOR TIMING BELTS AND PAINTS. Battery separator technology — an important role in the next generation of electric vehicles LED print heads — reducing power The NSG Group is a world leader in the development of advanced consumption in office machinery glass products for use in battery separators. Initiatives to achieve These next-generation LED systems employ our proprietary a low-carbon society have focused the automotive industry SELFOC® Lens Array (SLA®) and technology is increasingly on the development of more fuel-efficient vehicles. The Idling being adopted for use by copier and printer manufacturers Stop and Start (ISS) system, which stops the engine during idle such as Fuji Xerox, allowing optical systems to be designed time and restarts only when necessary, requires advanced compactly and manufactured at low cost. performance batteries. Our R&D is focused on improving the The new system uses self-scanning light-emitting devices capacity, stability, power and safety margins of the next and radially distributive refractive index rod lens arrays to generation of batteries. Our sales of separators for these provide images up to 1,200 dpi. Our new range of advanced new batteries are expanding rapidly. LED print heads provides an image quality equal to or surpassing more conventional laser scanning units, but We are developing and expanding sales of separators with the added advantages of miniaturization, low power for smaller and more powerful batteries for use in consumption and low-noise operation. future lower-emission vehicles. Photo: courtesy of Fuji Xerox. Displays in communications devices We are a world-leading supplier of ultra-thin glass for small LCD applications, helping to reduce power consumption in the display market and reduce the need for travel. Our Ultra Fine Flat Glass (UFF) is produced in thicknesses as low as 0.3 to 1.1 mm. These products are increasingly being used in the growing touch panel market, particularly in mobile phones, tablet computers and now expanding into vehicles. This technology reduces the need for peripheral equipment, and reduces manufacturing resources. 30 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Microglas® Glasflake™ — C Glass Flake — contributing to expansion of renewable energy To address global warming, efforts are being made around the world to accelerate the shift from fossil fuel to renewable About us energy sources. Wind power is an example of the renewable energy resources, and offshore wind power installations have increased, particularly in Europe. Wind turbines and other equipment installed at offshore wind farms need to operate for a long time under exceptionally harsh conditions, such as wind, wave and salt water, as well as collision with floating objects. Microglas® Glasflake™ — C Glass Flake is used in anti-corrosion coatings and linings to protect offshore structures. Glass cord engine timing belts — helping to Inner Glass Skin System — energy-saving Good governance reduce fuel consumption solutions for next-generation office buildings MICROGLAS®CORD is NSG Group’s glass fiber cord for engine Nippon Sheet Glass Environment Amenity, an NSG Group timing belt manufacture. It is used in the advanced Electric subsidiary has started, in collaboration with Device, Inc., Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) system that can help to cut a new business of designing and building ‘zero-emission Environmental fuel consumption and reduce CO2 emissions. offices’ for small-to-medium-sized office and commercial buildings to help them significantly cut electricity The EPAS technology has been developed by NGF EUROPE consumption and thereby reduce energy costs. responsibility Limited’s customer Gates Power Transmission with ThyssenKrupp. It delivers a fuel saving of around three As its first major product in this new business, NEA has to four percent, with a consequential reduction in CO2 launched Tropos Inner Glass Skin System (Tropos IGSS), a emissions, because it only requires power during actual state-of-the-art construction method designed to transform maneuvering, unlike standard hydraulic systems, which are existing buildings into highly energy-efficient buildings a constant drain on the engine. with double-skin glass facades. Tropos IGSS was developed based on results from ‘D-Project’, a demonstration project The EPAS drive belt uses 0.2 mm Glass Cord produced by Social conducted by Device, Inc. from 2009 on global warming NSG Group. The diameter is key to this application because countermeasures. The project has demonstrated that if a the belt has to go around a tight pulley system, which building is retrofitted with a double-skin façade structure, responsibility requires it to be extremely flexible. The Glass Cord, which and supported with mechanical ventilation that allows actually spirals around the rubber belt, is also coated with the control of air flow in the intermediate cavity between our RFL latex composition for optimum adhesion. the two facade layers, heating and cooling loads in the EPAS is already used in around two million vehicles in the building are significantly reduced, thereby reducing energy European market and its adoption is expected to increase consumption. The project has confirmed a CO2 emissions throughout Europe and North America. Global demand for reduction of more than 70 percent compared with the our Glass Cord will increase as vehicles with EPAS system pre-refurbishment levels. Basis of reporting become main stream. Tropos IGSS can provide both improved indoor climate and reduced use of energy by taking full advantage and effective control of characteristics of glass (light transmission Our Glass Cord is being used in a new power-assisted steering system and heat conductivity) in response to changing that cuts fuel costs and reduces emissions. environmental conditions. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 31 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY NSG values the health and safety of all employees above all other considerations and we aim to provide a working environment that allows employees to reach their full potential. We also recognize our responsibility to be a responsible corporate citizen in the communities in which we operate. Number of employees Significant Injury Rate 28,000 0.38 32 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 About us Employees and safety Moving safety to the next level. Good governance Environmental responsibility Customers Committed to the safe use of our products. Employees  34 Social Health and safety 36 Customers  38 responsibility Suppliers  40 Communities  42 Basis of reporting Suppliers Working with suppliers to improve employee and community safety. Communities Building relationships with local communities. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 33 EMPLOYEES OUR MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY VALUES PEOPLE AS ‘THE MOST IMPORTANT ASSET OF OUR COMPANY’. SAFETY, QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY UNDERPIN EVERYTHING WE DO, WITH THE PRINCIPLE OF ‘OPEN COMMUNICATION’ CENTRAL TO OUR EMPLOYMENT POLICIES. Our management philosophy, ‘people are the most Employee engagement important asset of our company’, is deeply rooted in the Employee engagement is a high priority. Following on from 400-year-old Sumitomo Spirit to which we subscribe. the 2011 NSG Group Employee Survey we implemented agreed It has therefore been a cause of great regret that the Action Plans which focused on increasing employee engagement restructuring initiatives we have had to take over the and motivation. These plans focused on the areas which most impact on our employees’ motivation and satisfaction helping past year required significant headcount reductions, to increase loyalty and commitment to the Group and covered with some 3,000 people having left the Group since topics such as Communication, Daily Work, Learning & the initiation of the programs. Development and Health & Safety. Our human resources strategy aims to ensure we 123 action plans covering 333 locations. 80 percent have the right people in the right position and that of plans completed to date. we maximize our talent management around the world. We aim to create an environment in which our employees can flourish, leading to greater staff Diversity retention and in-house innovation. Our Code of Conduct acknowledges internationally proclaimed human rights and these are also reflected in our overall employment policies and standards and provide our employees with reassurance on how they will be treated. Our equal opportunity and diversity policy aims to prohibit discrimination based on race, colour, creed, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, political affiliation, or any other status protected by law. 12 percent of NSG Group managers are female. Maximizing the potential of individuals It is through the skill and effort of our people throughout the world that the NSG Group achieves its success. Our aim is to develop a competent, motivated and flexible workforce that is able to respond positively to the needs of the business against a background of continuing change. We aim to provide personalized opportunities for growth and achievement and for employees to make a full contribution to NSG Group employee distribution their teams, Business Unit, Global Functions and the NSG Group. Europe 42% North America 14% Talent Management Asia 34% We are committed to maximizing the talent in our organization South America 10% to create flexible, skilled and motivated people, focused on the achievement of our business objectives. Throughout this year we have focused on developing our Talent Management processes to ensure that we identify and develop (As at 31 March 2013) our high-potential employees with the necessary skills, experience, competencies and motivation. 34 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 “Our people need constructive feedback to help them to build on and improve performance. The appraisal feedback training also provides an opportunity for managers to explain why certain About us types of behavior matter and to reinforce our Group values. At appraisal time people should have clear feedback on how their skills and competencies have either had a positive impact or have hindered their job performance and achievement of objectives.” Clemens Miller Chief Operating Officer Good governance This workshop underlined the need to give structured, balanced 78 percent of our employees had an annual training and timely feedback in order to support employees in improving and development review — 86 percent in our best their performance. One of the key messages was that providing performing region. specific feedback on what is being done well along with what could be improved should be done on a regular basis, rather than just at the annual appraisal interview. It also looked at how to Consultation and open communication give effective feedback at appraisal time and the importance of Environmental We operate a comprehensive system of regular communication giving feedback, observations and evaluation on the behaviors and briefing within all businesses, including effective mechanisms that have underpinned an individual’s performance, rather than responsibility for two-way communication. Everyone receives regular updates focusing solely on the extent to which they have or haven’t on Group and local business objectives, targets, results and achieved their objectives. best practice at central and business line levels. This includes monthly briefings from the heads of the respective business lines. All employees also receive the Group’s employee magazine, MADO, every eight weeks in their own language. The Group Intranet, NSG Group Inside, is available to every employee on Social the company network. We operate formal mechanisms to brief and consult unions and employee representatives on Group responsibility operations and future plans, as appropriate to local circumstances and requirements. Project Messenger initiative The NSG Group aims for excellence in communications as an indispensable part of team building, sharing objectives, understanding issues and concerns, meeting targets and Basis of reporting creating a positive working environment. Throughout 2012 we focused on delivering our Project Messenger Communications Training Program to all of our managers and supervisors with the aim of giving them confidence in their ability to communicate effectively and appropriately in team briefings, group meetings and on a one-to-one basis. Globally, 2,415 supervisors and 1,153 managers have attended a Project Messenger program Appraisal feedback training A training program aimed at improving the feedback given to employees was rolled out to managers worldwide. Globally, 911 managers attended the Appraisal Management development programs Feedback Workshop. More than 75 percent said that We continue to run global management development programs such as our long-standing ED1 and ED2 programs. Delegates they were highly likely to put the workshop learning come from all SBUs, functions and regions. into practice. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 35 HEALTH AND SAFETY Focus on high-risk activities in the Group • Vehicle and Pedestrian Safety • Machinery Safety: guarding, frequent access and isolation • Contractor Control including permits • Materials Handling: moving glass, load security, grabs, trolleys and pallets Safety organization and strategy Significant Injury Rate (SIR) In 2013 the organization for safety changed. The NSG Group 2.0 Sustainability Director, rather than reporting to the Group HR Director, now reports to the Chief Operating Officer. Whilst a safety update continues to be provided each month there is 1.5 a more detailed safety review every six months with the senior Operations Team comprising the Heads of the four SBUs and 1.0 the Heads of the Group Functions. The first review in this new format was held in March in 0.5 Gelsenkirchen, Germany with a follow up in San Salvo, Italy in September. The next review will be held in Germany in March 2014. 0 20 06 07 20 2020 08 09 20 20 20 20 10 11 12 13 Moving safety to the next level The safety strategy remains the same with a focus on improving the effectiveness of our safety tools and programs. To help us to move safety to the next level the following initiatives High-risk activities — percentage completion were introduced: 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% • Independent audits of our safety tools to drive a more consistent approach, develop our safety skills and to improve Vehicle and Pedestrian Safety 77% our shared learning. These audits were cross Regions and Machinery Safety (FASS) 52% cross sites within a Region for maximum impact. Machinery Safety (CI) 74% Contractor Control 54% • Further improve our level of proactive employee involvement as a means of continuing to change our safety culture. • Further develop our First Line Supervisors to improve our Example of regional progress measurement to help prioritization. overall level of safety leadership. Our safety tools and programs continue to focus on further improving our control of our high-risk activities and achieving an 80 percent reduction in our Significant Injury Rate by 2015. Safety performance The Significant Injury Rate continues to be our primary reactive indicator. This records injuries requiring medical treatment beyond first aid or the reallocation of duties to allow an individual to continue working in addition to any absence from work. The SIR for financial year FY2012 was 0.35; an improvement of 38 percent compared to FY2011. The SIR for financial year FY2013 was 0.38; an increase of 9 percent compared to FY2012. 36 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Fire fighting course with local fire service. Safety Day leaflets distributed to employees. About us Safety Day Bravo wins Confindustria ‘Enterprises for Good governance Following the success of Safety Day in 2011 and 2012 the Safety’ national prize third such event was held on 17 October 2013 and proved to Our San Salvo Bravo site in Italy was recognized for its be our most successful. The date was set much further in safety performance and won a national safety award. advance to help planning and sites knew from their previous The awards were supported by the lead organization Environmental experience what events are best suited to work most representing Italian industry and the Italian National effectively in their culture. Institution for Work Accidents. responsibility The prize helps to spread a culture of occupational safety and innovation and publicizes the best practices of enterprises that excel in commitment to continual improvement of health and safety. Safety Day Forklift safety driving contest in Vietnam. Social 17th October responsibility 2013 Basis of reporting Senior managers attended sites to demonstrate their personal commitment and the opportunity was taken to celebrate safety success. Sessions were held to further increase the level of safety awareness, there were many health-related activities and employees were given the opportunity to improve their first aid, fire fighting and emergency response skills. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 37 CUSTOMERS HIGH QUALITY AND SERVICE STANDARDS ARE KEY FEATURES IN BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR INDUSTRY CUSTOMERS AND END-CONSUMERS. WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE SAFE USE OF OUR PRODUCTS, ENSURING THEY CAN BE EFFECTIVELY HANDLED, FITTED AND USED BY OUR CUSTOMERS. We aim to be the most efficient, most reliable, most responsive and most sustainable supplier of choice of our customers. Our objective is to produce a wide range of effective, innovative and sustainable products in all our business and our R&D effort is focused on product and process development to support this objective. Most efficient means having the lowest delivered unit cost of what we supply and using the minimum resources and energy to produce and process them. Most reliable means that, having committed to a customer order, we deliver what they ordered, with the promised quality, when they expect it, in full, on time, every time, without quality issues or paperwork mistakes. Most responsive means that when our customers contact us by whatever method, they get an answer immediately. In other 1. Product responsibility words, they know where they stand with us. We aim to provide customers with products that have To be the most sustainable supplier means ensuring that we safety, environmental and in-service benefits. These set high standards and adhere to them throughout the supply include personal protection, security, energy saving, solar chain, from our own suppliers, through manufacturing, transport control, noise reduction, fire protection, improved styling and delivery. We aim to achieve an economic performance that and enhanced visibility for vehicles, and self-cleaning ensures the long-term viability of the Company. properties for glazing in buildings. We are well aware that glass products generally require careful handling. We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. Our product risk review procedures are designed to identify risks and to provide advice to users on safe handling. We communicate these risks through safety data sheets, labels, and Glazing and Handling Guidelines. 38 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 Awards for quality and marketing Architectural • The University of Helsinki library was • Toyota: Quality Achievement Award and • ‘Supplier of the year’ awarded by certified with LEED Gold using Pilkington Quality Appreciation award (Japan). JE Berkowitz to Pilkington North America. Suncool™ Pilkington Optitherm™ and • Nissan: Best Companies in Nissan cars About us • PNA was awarded most innovative product Pilkington Optiphon™ OW. Sales Introduction (Japan). from US Glass magazine for Pilkington • Mazda : Outstanding VA/VE award (Japan) MirroView™. Automotive • Pilkington UK won Commercial Project • Our Guilin plant in China won 1st prize in Technical Glass of the Year at the G13 Awards — one of a national Kaizen competition. • ‘Supplier of the Year’ was awarded by Gates the main highlights in the UK glazing • 2013 Master of Quality award presented Europe to NGF Europe in August 2013. industry’s year. to Mexicali from Daimler Truck (the only • Display division received Excellent • Corius office building in Poland was glass supplier to win the award). Supplier Award from TPK Holding Co., Ltd certified with LEED Gold using Pilkington • Fiat ‘Qualitas Awards’ — Argentina. in July 2013. Suncool™ and Pilkington Optiphon™. • Toyota ‘Quality Achievement Performance Certificate’ and ‘Etios Project Contribution Good governance Special Award’ — Brazil. Environmental responsibility 2. Highest quality 3. Product innovation Social responsibility Quality is a key feature in building successful relationships The NSG Group is a global leader in manufacturing with our industry customers and end customers. It is also excellence and innovation, notably in the areas of glass a key factor in sustainability, because high quality can melting, glass forming by the float process, online coating reduce waste throughout the supply chain, while improving and complex shaping technology, especially for automotive production efficiencies. Quality encompasses design, windshields and backlights. The Group invested development, manufacture, delivery, assembly and price ¥6,900 million in R&D in FY2013. of glass, as well as customer support. In the NSG Group, Basis of reporting The Group owns or controls approximately 4,000 patents the achievement of high quality is supported by the use and patent applications, predominantly in the fields of of rigorous quality management systems and standards. float glass production and processing and automotive In the Architectural Glass business, the Group has ISO glazing and also in the Information Technology field, and 9000:2000 quality management certification in Europe, has access under license to patents held by third parties. Japan, North and South America. The Group has also been active in selective licensing of its patents and technology, in the areas of online coating, Our European Architectural Glass business has been a encapsulation (of automotive glazing) and rain sensors leading player in the development of new glass product for automotive glazing. standards for the European building industry. These standards have provided a route for glass manufacturers to meet the European Construction Products Directive and apply to virtually all NSG Group products used in buildings. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 39 SUPPLIERS WE PURCHASE MATERIALS, GOODS AND SERVICES FROM OVER 20,000 SUPPLIERS WORLDWIDE. OUR SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT AND RELATED AUDITS HELP ENSURE THAT OUR SUPPLIERS UNDERSTAND AND COMPLY WITH OUR STANDARDS. As part of our Sustainable Procurement Program, Our Supplier Code of Conduct we operate a Supplier Code of Conduct. It outlines The wide range of issues addressed in the Code reflect the behaviors, processes and procedures — in short, the many and diverse activities in which our suppliers are involved. standards we expect from our suppliers. Engagement Wherever possible, the Code defines a fair and common-sense with suppliers may be via appropriate account approach to doing business, while incorporating all relevant legal requirements. managers and the Procurement function has the responsibility to ensure that suitable engagement The content of the Code also takes into account our Values and arrangements are in place and communicated. Principles, particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership for our actions and communicating with openness Our manufacturing processes use materials, products and involvement. It is the responsibility of all of our suppliers and services procured from around 20,000 local, to follow the principles of this Code to ensure compliance with our requirements. regional and global suppliers. Our suppliers are therefore crucial to the achievement of our sustainability Supplier Sustainability Evaluation objectives. To manufacture and supply superior quality glass products to our customers, we aim to build strong Between 2011 and 2015 we plan to evaluate relationships with suppliers that are based on a approximately 500 key suppliers. framework of trust, cooperation and sustainability. In order to meet our objectives of completing assessments of our key suppliers as well as further due diligence on our suppliers of high environmental impact NSG has engaged in the services of EcoVadis. EcoVadis is a well-established company in the area of CSR/ sustainability evaluation and has many major companies as clients. After looking at several potential service providers, a decision was made to select EcoVadis based on its global reach, comprehensive online assessment tool, the location and size of our supplier and also its impressive portfolio of customers. Important aspects of the evaluation are the ethical and social behavior of our suppliers as well as their environmental management system and approaches to health and safety. Using a third-party provider means we can accelerate the process of completing assessments and, for the low-scoring suppliers identified as a significant risk we will continue to use the services of our own Supplier Development Team to work with them on an improvement plan including clear timescales for implementation. Suppliers who are unwilling to cooperate may not have a long-term future with NSG. 40 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 The standards we expect We expect our suppliers to achieve and Social behavior — human considerations Evaluation maintain high standards throughout the in the workplace Key elements of the code now form part supply chain, but particularly with regards All our suppliers must conform to the of our supplier audits. We have a supplier About us to the following: relevant International Labor Organization development team of 15 engineers, covering Labor Standards as a minimum requirement. all regions. This team is responsible for Ethical behavior improving performance where necessary Our suppliers must accept personal Environmental behavior against these standards. responsibility for behaving professionally, Our suppliers must recognize the crucial ethically and with integrity and fairness. importance of their role in reducing environmental impact. They must play their part in creating a prosperous and sustainable future by continually seeking to achieve best practice in environmental protection. Good governance Communication and co-operation We expect our suppliers to uphold our standards in In line with our Sustainability Policy, we communicate with dealing with their own suppliers, contractors and and work constructively with our suppliers and governments, sub-contractors and to be able to provide evidence regulatory agencies, the scientific community and other relevant of this if requested. stakeholders, to develop and encourage business and community practices that make progress towards the common aim of Environmental sustainable development. Impact on the environment In 2010, we began to identify suppliers that have a particularly responsibility high impact on the environment. Our aim is to ensure that our Conflict minerals suppliers minimize their negative impacts and work positively on NSG Group supports the goals and objectives of the environmental initiatives. The scope includes wooden packaging, Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection batch materials, waste management contractors and chemicals. Act’s Section 1502, which aims to prevent the use of conflict We insist that suppliers in these categories have a recognized minerals that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed environmental certification such as ISO 14001 or equivalent. groups in The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an In the case of wooden packaging we look for a recognized chain Social adjoining country as defined in the Act. of custody in regard to the wood supply. Identifying suppliers who provide materials that could responsibility Currently, around two-thirds of our 700 suppliers in this category potentially include these minerals is now a very important meet our requirements for environmental certification or chain part of our procedures and due diligence is being completed of custody for wood supply. Those who do not comply are via an online questionnaire. undergoing further evaluation and development or will be phased out. There is an action plan to eliminate any use of these materials and where there is a level of uncertainty further checks are made, including visits to the supplier, by our Working with suppliers to save energy Supplier Development Team to confirm and eliminate. Basis of reporting Our procurement activities and projects demonstrate our commitment to sustainability. Good practice is shared through Global Procurement Category teams and spread throughout the Group. We leverage our Global Procurement function to achieve this spread of good practice effectively and efficiently. We are working with key suppliers to develop projects to reduce energy consumption in our manufacturing sites. Close collaboration with leaders in specific technologies is enabling us to implement optimum solutions to specific energy management challenges. For example, in our sites in Italy and the UK, new efficient lighting systems have been installed in place of old outdated lamps, leading to a halving of electricity consumption and a significant reduction in ongoing maintenance. Collaborative projects have also been implemented to address compressor inefficiency, to make better use of waste heat generated in our glassmaking processes and to reduce peaks in electricity demand. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 41 COMMUNITIES THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES THROUGHOUT THE WORLD IN WHICH THE NSG GROUP OPERATES ARE THE FOUNDATION OF OUR BUSINESS AND THE LIVES OF EMPLOYEES. WITHOUT A RELATIONSHIP OF MUTUAL BENEFIT WITH THESE COMMUNITIES, THE GROUP AS A WHOLE COULD NOT SUSTAIN ITS OPERATION. We have around 28,000 permanent employees, with The effects of necessary investments on our communities principal operations in 30 countries throughout Europe, are generally beneficial, bringing additional employment and economic benefits. For every investment we make, an impact Japan, North and South America, China and South and assessment is conducted to ensure we understand and manage South East Asia. We do this in over 500 separate the likely effects on the community, the environment and the facilities worldwide — some large and some small. Each local economy. has an impact on the community in which it is based, by As a responsible and often prominent member of the communities providing employment, investment and other benefits, in which we operate, we believe it is important to be involved but also having an impact on the environment. actively by leveraging our core business and management resources to help to address local issues. Aims and objectives We want our operations to function in healthy, thriving communities and to be seen as a good neighbor to those communities. For every investment we make, an impact assessment is conducted to ensure we understand and manage the likely effects on the local community, the environment and the local economy. We know that if we want to operate effectively and to be able to expand or change when the time is right, we need the goodwill that comes from being an active supporter of the community. In addition to our business investments, helping to sustain local operations, we also invest in the communities in which we operate. We aim to help through direct cash donations to charities and other projects or through in-kind resources — to improve the health of the community or tackle specific social issues. We operate programs that assess and manage the impacts of our operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. We also involve our staff in providing a lead in developing our relationships with the communities in which we operate. This can take the form of matching contributions raised by staff or allowing staff time to make personal contributions of time and effort in local projects. In FY2013, we made contributions worth around ¥33 million to our local communities. Our grants helped the arts, medicine, welfare, job creation and urban renewal. 42 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 LOCAL COMMUNITY ACTION INITIATIVES About us Flood relief in Aken, Germany VASA plant community project Good governance When the area around our Aken plant was flooded, NSG Our employees are encouraged to participate in their local organized dryers and emergency power supplies for affected communities. Our VASA plant in Argentina was involved in NSG employees. Emergency services used the plant facilities a project to clean and paint a local school. and NSG made a donation to the firefighters who supported us during the flood. Environmental responsibility Social responsibility Tree planting in Chile Sponsoring community awards Our Lirquen plant in Chile carried out community projects NSG sponsored the Sustainable School Award at the St Helens in the surrounding schools including tree planting and school Reporter Education Awards 2013. This category recognizes painting. Caçapava automotive plant organized several schools that have developed environmental awareness and employee family visits to the plant. sustainable development education across all the curriculum areas and the life of the school. Basis of reporting Pilkington Vehicle Design Awards 2013 NSG apprentices The annual Pilkington Vehicle Design Awards at the Royal NSG apprentices based on UK sites have all received College of Art continues to recognize talented future car distinctions in every single one of their college subjects designers from around the world. The awards provide a this year. platform for students to showcase their creative talents to prospective employers including the world’s leading automotive manufacturers and designers. Employers use the awards to identify up-and-coming talent in the industry. NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 43 APPROACH TO REPORTING This Report forms part of our non-financial performance In 2010, the Board agreed specific sustainability targets for the communications and reflects Group, regional and site-level Group. These are shown on page 07 of this Report, along with reporting. Unless otherwise stated, the Report covers those an account of our progress towards them. businesses over which the NSG Group has management control. In 2012, Shiro Kobayashi was appointed as the Group’s Director Data relating to the environmental performance of Group of Sustainability. Shiro chairs the Sustainability Committee, which operations covers 31 float and five rolled glass sites. Joint is leading our efforts to ensure that the principles of sustainable venture sites where we do not have operational control are development are embedded in all of the Group’s activities. We excluded. All Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass will report further on our progress in our 2014 Sustainability downstream processing are also included in the reporting. Report, which will be published in early 2015. Safety statistics shown cover our ‘workforce’ (employees and This Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with permanent contractors). the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Our environmental and social performance is of interest to Guidelines, which provide a globally recognized framework for our stakeholders and important to our business success and we reporting on an organization’s economic, social and environmental have been reporting on these matters since 2002, in successive performance and responsiveness. We have self-declared our environmental, social activity or CSR reports. performance at Application Level B. We published our first Sustainability Report in 2009, when we To keep the size of the printed report to a minimum, we have decided to widen our reporting to cover all aspects of sustainability. included additional information, charts and tables covering our In June 2009, we published our Group Sustainability Policy, performance in the Sustainability section of our website. setting our sustainability agenda, and in December 2009 The printed report can also be downloaded from our website established a Group sustainability Committee to direct, at www.nsg.com/sustainability. coordinate and monitor our efforts to improve our approach to sustainability. For detailed GRI and UNGC index, please visit www.nsg.com/ sustainability. 44 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 FURTHER INFORMATION We produce a regular flow of publications intended to provide Company information (as at 31 March 2013) About us current and potential investors with as much information as Company name: Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Ltd. possible about the Group, the industries in which we operate and Unified global brand: NSG Group the organization, strategy, targets and progress of the Group. Head office: 5-27, Mita 3-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-6321 Japan The range of these publications is shown below. Established: 22 November 1918 Paid-in capital: ¥116,449 million Publications Total assets: ¥885,436 million Annual Report Net sales: ¥521,346 million (consolidated) In order to obtain a full understanding of the Employees: 27,932 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FISCAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 ‘MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY’ performance of the Group, this document should NSG Group companies: 244 be consulted. Good governance Web: www.nsg.com Websites NSG01_024 | Annual Report 2013 | 11/07/2013 | Proof 6 To our Shareholders NSG Group corporate website (English) Published twice a year, in June and December, designed www.nsg.com to keep shareholders informed of progress against our To oUR SHAREHoLDERS NIPPoN SHEET GLASS co., LTD. 147TH FIScAL PERIoD INTERIm REPoRT 1 APRIL 2012 — 30 SEPTEmBER 2012 ‘mAKING A DIFFERENcE To oUR woRLD THRoUGH GLASS TEcHNoLoGY’ NSG01_020 | NSG To Our Shareholders – December 2012 | Proof 6 | 12_11_2012 NSG01_020 | NSG To Our Shareholders – December 2012 | Proof 6 | 12_11_2012 strategy. Editions in both English and Japanese. NSG Group corporate website (Japanese) www.nsg.co.jp Commercial website (Architectural and Automotive) The Way we do Business Environmental www.pilkington.com Produced for Group employees in all of the languages in which the Group operates, summarizing the main Sustainability contact responsibility points of the Group’s Code of Conduct. www.nsg.com/en/contact-us Social responsibility Basis of reporting NSG Group Sustainability Report 2013 45 This report is printed on Revive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste. Revive uncoated is manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001. Published by NSG Group Designed by Corporate Edge Printed by CPI Colour
