Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Reporting for the period January – December 2013 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 A message from our CEO: I am pleased to re-confirm Innovia Security’s ongoing support for the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since becoming a member of the UN Global Compact in 2012, Innovia Security has worked hard to align our internal operations with the ten guiding Principles. We recognise as a company that we have responsibilities to our staff and the wider community, and see the value in embedding corporate social responsibility into our day to day business. We are proud to be involved with the UN Global Compact and look forward to another productive year as a member of the Australian Network. Yours sincerely, Philippe Etienne 3 PROTECTED UNRESTRICTED ASPIRATIONS, ACTIONS, & OUTCOMES 4 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Introduction Innovia Security became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact on 30 August 2012 and joined the Australian Network on 10 September 2012. During 2013 Innovia Security has continued to be active within the Australian Network. In November 2013 a representative attended the AGM of the Australian Network and, in addition, Innovia Security representatives have attended a number of Leadership Group meetings in Melbourne. Innovia Security intends to continue to facilitate the attendance of representatives of the company at as many Leadership Group meetings as possible. There has been a growing awareness within the company during 2013 of the principles of the UN Global Compact, and employees in relevant roles have engaged positively in the process of undertaking commitments and reporting back to the Co-ordinator in relation to activities and progress. Strong efforts have been made to achieve the stated commitments, and the company’s involvement in the UN Global Compact has had a positive impact on the integration of the guiding principles into the day to day operations of the company. Innovia Security is a small company, with approximately 150 employees in Melbourne and approximately 100 employees in Mexico. During 2013 the company purchased the 20% of shares that it did not already own in its Mexican subsidiary, Innovia Security SA de CV, making it a wholly owned subsidiary. Whilst the UN Global Compact member organisation is the Australian entity, Innovia Security Pty Ltd, this Communication on Progress reports on the activities of the Group’s Mexican operations as well as the Australian operations. Where targets and objectives relate to a specific location, this is clearly identified. Where neither location is specified, the targets and objectives relate to both operations. With clear top-down support from the leadership group at Innovia Security for the ideals of the Global Compact, the company’s membership of the UNGC has been very well supported by personnel at all levels of the organisation. Communications to personnel to seek their engagement and support have been undertaken during 2013, including:  attendance of Innovia Security’s UNGC Co-ordinator at and involvement in meetings of interest groups within Innovia Security (for example, Innovia Security’s Environmental Team); and  three articles about Innovia Security’s membership in its internal staff newsletter, One! News. 5 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 In November 2013, Innovia Security drew the UN Global Compact and its benefits to the attention of its key suppliers, Central Bank customers and business partners. These stakeholders were informed that Innovia Security sees great value in practicing and promoting the values of the United Nations Global Compact. We also notified these stakeholders that our 2013 Communication on Progress is available for viewing on our website. This is one way in which Innovia Security has contributed to positive advocacy about the case for corporate social responsibility, and in particular the activities of the UNGC. An important new tool for communications within the company was launched during 2013, namely One!TV. One!TV is an internal CCTV channel deployed in production and office areas in Australia and Mexico (in English and Spanish) which is used to display safety alerts and other OHS-related scenes (amongst other relevant internal content) in a daily rotational schedule. In February 2014 the company included the “We Support the Global Compact” logo in our website masthead in order to communicate to all visitors to the website our unequivocal commitment to the principles of the UNGC. This Communication on Progress reports on Innovia Security’s progress during 2013, and sets targets for 2014. 2013 Actions: General Outcome 1. Draw the UN Global Compact to the attention of key suppliers Completed 2014 Actions: General 1. One!TV scene on UNGC membership and Communication on Progress update. 2. Publication of UNGC-related articles in One!News, including in relation to International Women’s Day. 3. Inclusion of the UNGC logo (linking to our UNGC profile) in our website homepage. 6 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Innovia Security is committed to respecting and promoting human rights. We acknowledge that some people around Australia and throughout the world do not have the benefit of some of the basic conditions they need to be able to live with dignity and equality. Innovia Security supports the overarching principle that each person is entitled to be accorded certain basic human rights. Our Human Rights Policy, approved by the Executive Team in January 2014, states: “Innovia is committed to developing a culture which supports internationally recognised human rights and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses.” IMMEDIATE SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Innovia Security aims to safeguard the human rights of all Innovia Security personnel in a number of ways. Relevant human rights include:  Freedom of thought, conscience and religion (article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  Freedom of expression (article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  Freedom of peaceful assembly and association (article 20 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  The right to work and to just conditions of employment (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  The right to equal pay for equal work without discrimination (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  The right to just and favourable remuneration (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  The right to form and to join trade unions (article 23 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  The right to a reasonable limitation of working hours and holidays with pay (article 24 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights).  The right to a safe working environment (Occupational Health and Safety Convention 1981 (No. 155)). 7 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Innovia Security supports and safeguards these human rights in a number of ways, as described below. Occupational Health and Safety Innovia Security aims to provide a safe and healthy working environment for all employees. The company does this by:  Involving all personnel in a system of sharing responsibility for safe operations.  Conforming strictly to all safety regulations and relevant legislation.  Looking for improvements in our processes through best safety practices.  Encouraging employees to report all incidents, accidents and near misses.  Implementing effective risk management programs that identify and control hazards and unsafe practices – Weekly Safety Walks (by all departments), OHS&E Committee, Health & Safety reps, and the Risk Assessment committee. During 2013 our Australian operations reported five recordable injuries of which two were medically treated. Three of the injuries were lost time injuries, which resulted in a total number of days lost for 2013 of 14 days. In Mexico our operations resulted in only one injury which was a first aid injury and did not result in any lost time. This compared with the target for 2013 of no more than two recordable injuries in each of the Australian operations and the Mexican operations (four in total). The target for 2014 is to have no more than four recordable injuries globally (one in the company’s Mexican operations and three in the Australian operations). The importance of health and safety to the organisation has been reinforced during 2013 by the inclusion of health and safety as the first agenda item for each Innovia Security Board Meeting, and will continue to receive this level of prominence during Board Meetings in 2014. 8 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Quality and Safety Cultural Change Program During 2013 a cultural change initiative was launched across both our sites which focussed on quality and health and safety. A number of elements of this program were designed to improve the safety of our workforce. Relevant initiatives include:  Quality and Safety conversations across the organisation where key personnel are asked to suggest possible safety or quality improvements and record the conversations in a handbook. This program aims to encourage the commitment of staff to work in a safe way and reinforces positive behaviour, reducing actions that put people and the quality of our product at risk.  Weekly discussion sessions between relevant employees and those in management positions within the operations area about health and safety issues that have been identified. This has been implemented in Mexico and will be replicated in Australia during 2014.  Electronic Quality and Safety Notice Boards in production areas setting out the number of days without workplace injuries in both Mexico and Australia.  Statement of the company’s Guiding Principles, which encourages employees to take responsibility not only for their own actions, but also for being part of a solution to any problem of which they become aware, as well as applying the company’s core values to any decision that is made.  Safety “Dos and Don’ts” aligned to the Guiding Principles.  Daily production team meetings at shift handover time in order to update the new shift on any issues or problems experienced during the ending shift.  Representatives of the company visited external sites during 2013 to analyse and assess best practice techniques in the area of quality and safety.  OneTV! introduced in both Australia and Mexico as a dynamic communication tool in order to present important content such as safety.  Suggestion boxes relating to quality and safety issues have been placed in the office and production areas in both Mexico and Australia to encourage suggestions for improvements in this area.  Poster campaign reminding personnel how important it is to be safe at work so that they are able to return to their families at home. This was implemented in Mexico during 2013 and will be introduced in Australia in 2014.  You’re the Voice (2) (discussed further below). 9 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 You’re the Voice (2) During May to July 2013 Innovia Security conducted whole day interactive training sessions called the “You’re the Voice (2)” program. This program was run in both Australia and Mexico and attendees of each session were taken from a cross section of the organisation, with an average of 15 participants at a time. Each employee attended without any impact on their leave entitlements. EBA staff received overtime payments for the day as they attended a session on their day off. The You’re the Voice (2) program had a quality and health and safety focus and was aimed at driving improvements in these important areas through encouraging a better understanding of self and others in the workplace. Towards the end of the workshop participants were placed in small groups and tasked with identifying an occupational health and safety issue or product quality improvement initiative, preparing a project plan and executing the project with the support of the Occupational Health and Safety Department. A number of valuable initiatives were implemented, including new driver safety zones, new pedestrian walkways on the production floor to separate pedestrian traffic from vehicular traffic, new hazard reporting procedures and hoist safety training. Training During 2013 Innovia Security conducted a number of health and safety related training sessions in Mexico for relevant personnel, including:  Safe driving of forklifts  First aid  Safety committee’s function in  Use and handling of fire the workplace extinguishers  Pressure vessels  Integrated waste management  Importance of correct lighting in  Hazardous, non-hazardous and the workplace special wastes handling  Interpretation of signalling  Chemical hazards system under current official standard  Use and handling of chemicals and hazardous wastes.  Use and handling of combustible gas detector  Use and interpretation of Safety Data Sheets 10 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 In Australia the following health and safety related training was undertaken:  First aid  Manual handling  Health and Safety  Safe Work Method Statements Representative training  Risk assessing  Forklift refresher Policies During 2013 Innovia Security developed a Human Rights Policy, which was adopted by the company in January 2014. The Human Rights Policy states that Innovia Security will ensure that its operations meet human rights standards and it will seek to establish relationships with entities which share its principles and values. Other policies that are relevant in the human rights sphere are the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy and the Performance and Misconduct Policy. Equal opportunity forms a fundamental part of Innovia Security’s recruitment and advancement process. Innovia Security updated its Recruitment Policy during 2013 with a special emphasis on ensuring that the policy reflects Innovia Security’s fundamental beliefs in this area. In its revised Staff Uniform Policy, the Company has recognised employees’ right to wear national costume and religious garments worn in accordance with recognised cultural or religious beliefs, provided that they do not pose a risk to occupational health and safety. During 2013 the company modified its Induction Policy to ensure that each new recruit has a one-on-one session with a member of the HR department to ensure that they understand all key policies, including the Performance and Misconduct Policy. The company will, during 2014, hold online learning sessions for all employees about Appropriate Workplace Behaviour, including anti-bullying. The Right to be Heard As discussed in more detail in the Labour section, Innovia Security has commenced a period of enterprise bargaining negotiations with its non-salaried staff. Innovia Security places great importance on giving all staff the opportunity to be aware of and understand the challenges facing our business and a right to be heard. One example of this was the “You’re the Voice (2)” workshops that all employees (in both Australia and Mexico) attended during 2013. Personnel were invited to voice their opinion and think about how they could increase their own sphere of influence within the business. They were also reminded of the key values of the company. 11 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Progressive Parental Leave Innovia Security provides 52 weeks of parental leave for the primary carer, of which 6 weeks are paid. The company also offers one week’s paid leave for the secondary carer. Celebration of Motherhood Our Mexican operations have a tradition of enjoying a celebratory breakfast or lunch each year on Mothers’ Day to recognize the dual contribution of mothers to the workplace and their families. Death/Illness Insurance Innovia Security funds employees’ superannuation in accordance with the law. Each employee who chooses to be a part of the Corporate Superannuation plan also automatically receives insurance for total and permanent impairment and death. 2014 Safety Initiatives During 2014, Innovia plans to implement the following initiatives: (a) “Stop and Think” Risk Assessment tool This tool will enable the user to assess the risk of non-routine tasks. The handbook will guide the user through a short risk assessment of the task and ask them to stop and think about how to undertake the task safely. (b) Occupational Health and Safety database This is an electronic database that will record hazards and injuries, record control measures and track actions taken. (c) Plant risk assessments This will update the risk assessments that were conducted in 2010 in both the Australian and Mexican plants. (d) Safety Awareness Program One!News and One!TV will continue to be used to promote a safe workplace and Positive Performance Indicators metrics to illustrate the number of workplace hazards resolved each month. 12 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 SECOND SPHERE OF INFLUENCE Innovia Security’s second sphere of influence includes suppliers and business partners and, to a lesser degree of influence, end customers. To that end, since 2012, Innovia Security has required that new agreements entered into with suppliers, business partners and end customers contain a comprehensive “compliance with laws” clause, which specifically references environmental, labour protection, anti-money laundering and anti-bribery principles. During 2013, a process of reviewing the company’s agreements with various counterparties was undertaken to ensure that this clause is included in as many agreements as possible. 2013 Actions: Human rights Outcome 1. No more than 2 recordable injuries in each of Mexico Total was and Australia (total of 4). 6. 2. Health and Safety component in the Quality Culture Completed. Initiative. 3. “Dos” and Don’ts” reminders to Operations staff. Completed. 4. Occupational Health and Safety training modules to be Completed. completed. 5. Preparation of a Safety Training Procedure and Safety Completed. Training Matrix. 6. Improved communication to Operations staff about Completed. Health and Safety and other issues. 7. Staff information sessions about Appropriate Workplace Online Behaviour Policy and Performance and Misconduct learning to Policy. be undertaken during 2014. 8. Develop Human Rights Policy. Completed. 9. Update Recruitment Policy. Completed. 13 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 2014 Actions: Human rights 1. No more than one recordable injury in Mexico and three recordable injuries in Australia (total of four). 2. Continue to have Occupational Health and Safety as the first agenda item for Board Meetings. 3. Weekly discussion sessions about health and safety issues with relevant staff in operations to be implemented in Australia. 4. Poster campaign regarding safety at work to be introduced in Australia. 5. Occupational Health and Safety training modules to be completed. 6. Develop a “Stop and Think” Risk Assessment Booklet. 7. Develop an Occupational Health and Safety database. 8. Prepare a risk assessment register. 9. Continue the safety awareness program. 10. Online learning sessions about Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy. 14 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Innovia Security’s Commitment to Labour Standards Innovia Security supports and respects each of the labour standards principles. The company has continued its commitment to its company-wide cultural change program called “One Team One Vision”. It encourages a high performing and inclusive culture. As part of this initiative, a team of Ambassadors (employees) are appointed each year from across the organisation to support the company’s values, namely: 1. Honour (above all else, do the right thing). 2. Engage (achieve better outcomes by engaging with others). 3. Excel (set high standards, exceed customer expectations). 4. Own (take responsibility, act as if it’s your business). 5. Grow (grow with the business). During 2013 Innovia Security has continued with its Rewarding Excellence program, where staff may receive on the spot awards or more formal awards for displaying excellence in their work and by role modelling the company values. Recipients of these awards are celebrated using the One!News publication. During 2013, the company identified a need to improve the organisational culture in the production area. The company implemented a performance management program for production staff which focusses on the performance and behavioural expectations for each staff member and undertook a process of identification of training and development opportunities for each role. 15 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 In addition, during 2014 the company will implement a range of measures further to improve culture in the production area, including:  Individual quality time discussions for EBA staff with their front line managers.  Developing a plan to provide further training for existing staff.  Identification of potential high performing individuals for support, development and growth.  Holding workshops to agree ways of working and methodologies.  Improved production floor communication channels. In addition, Leadership Essentials training for leaders in Operations was provided in the Mexican plant during 2013 and will be provided in the Melbourne plant during 2014. By early 2014 the company had achieved its target of ensuring that all employees in Mexico and Australia have position descriptions. During 2014 Innovia Security will introduce a number of company-wide initiatives to support its workforce as set out below:  Team leadership training for production management staff aligned to the company’s strategy and values which will enhance the leadership skills of those staff members.  “Buddy” program – every new staff member will be assigned a “buddy” (who will be a One Team One Vision Ambassador). The “buddy” will support the new starter with any questions or concerns that person may have about the organisation. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Union Neutral Policies Innovia Security is committed to ensuring that its HR policies are union neutral. The relevant union based on the industry classification of Innovia Security is the Automotive, Food, Metals, Engineering, Printing and Kindred Industries Union (AMWU). The company does not discriminate against personnel based on their union membership. The current percentage of EBA staff who are members of the AMWU is 67%. 16 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Facilitating Activities of Union Representatives A number of protections for union activities are enshrined in the current EBA, which was approved in May 2012. Innovia Security’s EBA recognises that EBA staff have a right to elect union delegates, including a Father/Mother of the Chapel to represent their views in the workplace (clause 36.1 EBA Agreement). The company provides union representatives with time during working hours to undertake union activities (clause 36.2 EBA Agreement). In addition, union representatives are permitted paid time off to conduct their activities (clause 36.3 of the EBA Agreement). Union delegates are given access to and control of designated notice boards throughout the enterprise. Delegates do not need to seek the approval of the company prior to placing newsletters and campaign materials on these notice boards (clause 36.10 EBA Agreement). Union delegates have access to training through the union to assist them in learning how to fulfill their function as a union delegate effectively Innovia Security has continued to hold consultative meetings on a monthly basis with the union representatives and other employee representatives to ensure that the company is addressing areas of concern and in order to assist in the implementation of initiatives and policies. During the enterprise bargaining period this committee will shift its focus to the bargaining process, but the regular monthly update meetings will recommence once the new EBA is finalised. Collective Bargaining Process During 2014, Innovia Security will undertake negotiations with its EBA personnel, and the AMWU on their behalf, to update its EBA. This process will ultimately result in a new EBA Agreement. At the commencement of the enterprise bargaining process all employees are provided with a notice providing them with the opportunity to appoint a bargaining representative. The union is also permitted to be involved as of right. As at the time of writing this Communication on Progress negotiations are currently taking place. At all times during the bargaining process all parties are aware of the requirement to negotiate in good faith and Innovia Security is committed to take the views of the bargaining representatives and employees into consideration and consult on all matters during the negotiations. At the conclusion of the negotiations all EBA employees will be given the opportunity to vote on the adoption of the EBA (those on workcover or annual leave will be permitted to return postal votes). In Mexico, Innovia Security complies with Federal labour laws which set out mandatory provisions regarding the right to union involvement. In Mexico, our collective bargaining agreement is reviewed periodically with the involvement of the union. Salaries are reviewed annually and other terms and 17 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 conditions are reviewed every two years. Innovia Security’s current Mexican collective bargaining agreement was approved in February 2013 and was also reviewed in February 2014. Flexibility in the Work Force Both EBA and salaried staff are offered the opportunity to enjoy flexible work arrangements. The EBA Agreement enshrines the right of all EBA personnel after 12 months service to request flexible work arrangements for the purpose of caring for a child of school age of a child under 18 who has a disability (clause 20.1 EBA Agreement). In addition, a wider work/life balance flexibility request may be made under clause 24.1 EBA Agreement. The company has adopted an approach of accepting flexible/part time working arrangements where that can be accommodated appropriately within the person’s role. The company has several part-time employees and an arrangement with certain employees that, depending on the type of work they undertake, some work hours can be carried out at home. It is hoped that this will encourage gender diversity within the company’s workforce. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Innovia Security has employment agreements in place with all employees. In the case of EBA employees, their terms and conditions of employment are covered by a Letter of Employment coupled with the EBA Agreement. In the case of salaried staff, each is required to sign an Employment Agreement prior to commencing employment with Innovia Security. The EBA Agreement, Letter Agreement and Employment Agreement contain provisions regarding the termination of employment on the instigation of the employee and Innovia Security and sets out the rights of the employee where their employment is to be terminated. Similarly, all employees in Mexico sign employment agreements upon their appointment. All employees have the right to terminate their employment agreement on notice at any time. Innovia Security’s Human Rights Policy states that the company “recognises the right to free choice of employment”. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Child labour is not, in any form, used in either of Innovia Security’s operations. The company supports the effective abolition of child labour worldwide. Innovia Security’s Human Rights Policy states that the company will not “engage children under fifteen years of age unless law stipulates a higher mandatory school leaving or minimum working age, in which case the higher age shall apply”. One way to minimise the use of child labour is to ensure that adult workers are given secure employment and decent wages and working conditions, since then there will be 18 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 no need for parents to send their children out to work. Innovia Security personnel enjoy wages and conditions of employment that are far more advantageous than the minimum wages. In addition, Innovia Security recognises that educational opportunities can assist in improving the lives of all people, including the children of those who are given such opportunities. During 2013 Innovia Security updated its Learning and Development Policy and Study Assistance Policy to provide increased opportunity for personnel to develop skills aligned with their position and career aspirations. These Policies were adopted by the company in January 2014. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation HR Policies Innovia Security’s Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy states that “Innovia Security recognizes that everybody has the right to be treated with respect and dignity, and is committed to ensuring that its workplace is free from any form of inappropriate workplace behavior, including unlawful discrimination, harassment (including sexual harassment), vilification, victimization and bullying. The purpose of this policy is to provide a comprehensive process for dealing with complaints of harassment, bullying and/or discrimination in a fair, consistent and transparent manner.” During 2014 online learning modules will be provided to all staff regarding the practical application of the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy. Equal Opportunity Innovia Security is an equal opportunity employer and members of senior management are conscious of increasing diversity within the workplace while still maintaining its policy of recruiting for merit. The only distinctions in Innovia Security’s job descriptions are inherent requirements of the role. Innovia Security generally uses external recruitment firms in order to ensure that it obtains the best people available for key roles and to ensure that it avoids any unconscious bias that may arise from the company’s background or any other factor. As well as using external recruiters (who engage in candidate search activities), where appropriate, roles are also advertised internally so that existing personnel may have the opportunity further to develop their careers. In October 2013 the company introduced a new computerised payroll and HR information system into its Australian operations which will enable the company better to track and understand the characteristics of its workforce, including in relation to gender diversity, age diversity, turnover statistics and training issues/skills gaps. 19 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Eliminating Discrimination Innovia Security is committed to ensuring it eliminates discrimination of all forms in its employment. It does so by:  providing education to new starters during the induction process in relation to the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy;  facilitating the ability of employees to raise issues regarding discrimination (or other matters such as bullying and harassment) through the monthly feedback sessions with their managers;  having designated “Contact Officers” (employees who are trained to provide other employees with information and impartial support regarding issues of discrimination, harassment and bullying);  annual staff climate survey in which employees are asked to express their views on workplace issues anonymously (results are analysed and presented to the Executive Team and all staff in June of each year); and  a robust Whistleblower Policy. During 2014, Innovia Security Mexico will run education and training programs for designated contact officers to ensure that they have the ability to assist any employee who seeks their assistance (Australian designated contact officers have previously received training). 2013 Actions: Labour Outcome 1. Roll-out of You’re the Voice (Part 2). Completed. 2. All employees will have Position Descriptions by the end of Completed 2013. early 2014. 3. Workshops to be run in Australia and Mexico regarding the Online Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy and the learning to Performance and Misconduct Policy. be undertaken during 2014. 4. Recruitment Policy to be updated. Completed. 5. Analysis regarding introducing a new HR IT system within the Completed. Australian operations will be undertaken. 6. Training programs to be run in Mexico to train designated Deferred to contact officers. 2014. 20 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 2014 Actions: Labour 1. Negotiation of new EBA. 2. New Learning and Development Policy and Study Assistance Policy. 3. Online learning sessions to be run in Australia and Mexico regarding the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy. 4. Training programs to be run in Mexico to train designated contact officers. 5. Team leadership training program. 6. Introduction of the “Buddy” program. 21 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Innovia Security’s Commitment to the Environment Innovia Security is committed to ensuring that any negative impact on the environment of its processes is minimized and that, where possible, the company contributes positively to environmental protection. Innovia Security’s product (polymer substrate for the production of banknotes) is inherently environmentally friendly. A number of our customers have commissioned Life Cycle Assessments in recent years and on each occasion it has been concluded that the product is more environmentally sound than the competing product (cotton paper substrate). The Life Cycle Assessment produced on behalf of the Bank of Canada appears on its website: http://www.bankofcanada.ca/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Life-Cycle-Assessmentof-Polymer-and-Cotton-Paper-Bank-Notes_opt.pdf And the Life Cycle Assessment produced on behalf of the Bank of England appears on its website: http://www.bankofengland.co.uk/banknotes/polymer/Documents/lcapaperandpoly merbanknotes.pdf 22 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 The principal reasons why Innovia Security’s substrate offers environmental advantages are:  Because our product is substantially more durable than cotton paper, it has to be replaced less frequently than cotton paper and accordingly, over time, there is less manufacturing required.  Transportation impacts are reduced because of the increased durability and the lighter weight of the substrate when compared with cotton paper.  At end-of-life, there are environmental benefits since polymer can be recycled. In addition, the release of greenhouse gases in landfill is avoided. ISO 14001 – Environmental Management System The company’s Mexican plant has successfully achieved ISO 14001 compliance. The ISO 14001 audit was carried out in Mexico during 2013 and the Certificate was received on 19 March 2014. Both plants now are compliant with ISO 14001 in their operations, and this will enable the plants to work together in a more standardized way regarding environmental issues and demonstrates the company’s commitment to the protection of the environment. Clean Industry Certificate Although not required to do so by law, our Mexican plant has, during 2013, voluntarily participated in an environmental audit by the Mexican Environment Agency. The audit included a detailed review of the applicable legal requirements and regulations as well as good engineering practices. As part of the process, Innovia Security Mexico prepared a Work Plan setting out how the company would improve its impact on the environment. The Mexican Environment Agency concluded that Innovia Security Mexico operates in compliance with the current applicable environment legislation, and also that it is acting in accordance with its Work Plan and that its operations meet a high level of environmental protection. The Clean Industry Certificate was issued to Innovia Security Mexico on 18 March 2014. Environmental Policy During 2013, Innovia Security developed a stand-alone Environmental Policy by separating out the environmental aspects from the former Quality, Safety and the Environment Policy, and expanding on the overarching principles contained in this policy. 23 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Environmental Communications During 2013, our Mexican plant introduced a range of communication methods to ensure that personnel are constantly reminded of the key points of the Environmental Policy. The communication methods included:  Issuing cards which are attached to the identification cards of all personnel, visitors and contractors.  Issuing flyers to all staff.  Use of an ISO 14001 booklet.  A large notice affixed to the Guardhouse.  Training sessions reminding employees about the Environmental Policy, including asking them to consider how they could turn their positive intentions into practical actions.  Improving (and standardising) signage on waste containers.  Direct communications to the production staff on site about the correct ways to handle waste.  Reduction in usage of office supplies campaign.  Air quality campaign using posters in prominent areas. Innovia Security will implement the following communication methods in Australia during 2014:  Issuing cards which are attached to the identification cards of all personnel.  Use of an ISO 14001 booklet.  Training sessions reminding employees about the Environmental Policy, including asking them to consider how they could turn their positive intentions into practical actions.  Direct communications to the production staff on site about the correct ways to handle waste. 24 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Some examples of methods of communication about environmental issues undertaken in our Mexican plant are set out below: Environmental Improvement Plan Innovia Security recognises that it will be beneficial to have a formal Environmental Improvement Plan (EIP) in place to support a co-ordinated approach to environmental improvements. Work commenced on an EIP focussed on the Australian plant during 2012, and during 2014 this document will be expanded on to incorporate the environmental operations of both Mexico and Australia. Innovia Security’s EIP will set out how it intends to achieve the minimization of the environmental impact of its processes and product. Environmental Monitoring Plan Since 2008 Innovia Security has been monitoring its impact on the environment in Mexico following a process set out in an Environmental Monitoring Plan. During 2014 Innovia Security will prepare and adopt a similar Environmental Monitoring Plan for its Australian operations. The Environmental Monitoring Plan will set out the testing (including sampling location, parameters, methodology and frequency) to be conducted to monitor the impact that the company has on the environment. 25 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Improvement in Defect Rate Innovia Security has identified that production defects (ie. where errors are made in production processes that lead to the substrate having to be scrapped and the job repeated) contribute to Innovia Security’s impact on the environment. Defects give rise to additional consumption of raw materials and energy and the production of waste which, although it is granulated and re-used, also has an environmental impact in terms of energy usage, transport, etc. Further, additional energy is required to repeat the process. Finally, when defect rates are high, printing jobs are completed more slowly and less efficiently, and hence more electricity is used per job. During 2013, Innovia focussed strongly on reducing the defect rate in its production areas. An analysis of the company’s defect rate was carried out in Mexico. 2013 DEFECT RATE (MEXICO) Process Target Actual Printing 11.84% 10.54% Foiling 10.0% 8.49% Innovia has committed to further reducing its defect rate during 2014 and its overall target for its Mexican operations in 2014 is set out below: 2014 DEFECT RATE (MEXICO) Process Target Printing 9.91% Foiling 9.90% Water Conservation During 2013 our rainwater collection capabilities in Mexico have been enhanced with the installation of a rainwater tank which is used to irrigate the surrounding green areas. In addition, in Mexico Innovia Security participates in a scheme whereby the owner of the industrial park in which the plant is located collects waste water from tenants, treats it and sells it back to the park tenants. 26 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 LED Lighting During 2013 Innovia has invested considerable resources into investigating the use of LED lighting in its production facilities. LED lights produce higher lux per watt and can be up to 85% more efficient than traditional light sources, predominantly because they lose far less light energy to heat than traditional lights. LED lights also have other environmental benefits as they contain no mercury or lead, are free of any harmful UV emissions, and are more durable than conventional lights. Both the Australian and Mexican operations are currently undertaking trials to determine whether LED lights are suitable for the production areas of the company. In Australia two different suppliers were identified and LED lights from each are currently being installed. During 2014, these lights will be subject to the following testing to ascertain the preferred model: 1. The LUX reading will be measured using a LUX meter at the start and end of the testing period. 2. A visual assessment will be made of the lighting distribution compared with current lighting. 3. A device will be installed to measure the amount of watts used by each light. 4. The temperature of the lights will be measured. In Mexico a pilot project (replacing traditional lights with LED lights) is being undertaken in the counting area of the plant. The decision whether to implement this technology in other areas of the plant will be based on the results of this pilot project. Key indicators of success will include illumination levels, radiance temperature and energy consumption levels. During 2014 Innovia Security commits to assessing whether the LED lighting projects in Australia and Mexico have yielded positive results and determining whether the projects ought to be rolled out to other areas of the production facilities. Recycling on Behalf of our Customers Innovia Security recycles waste created during its manufacturing process. In all cases Innovia Security encourages its customers to develop recycling programs for reclaimed polymer banknotes. The company’s team of technical advisors provides customers with consulting and operational support, at no additional cost to the customer, to help establish recycling programs. Additionally, the company has developed a framework for use by its customers that enables an economic assessment (business case) to be created in support of a recycling initiative. 27 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 During 2013 Innovia Security’s Mexican plant worked with the Central Bank of Nicaragua to implement a recycling program. It identified a Mexican company that could successfully recycle Nicaragua’s waste currency that had been taken out of circulation. Innovia Security is now investigating companies that have recycling facilities closer to Nicaragua to avoid the additional energy used and cost incurred during transportation. Environmental Teams Environmental Teams have been set up in both Innovia Security Australia and Mexico. Membership is voluntary and consists of staff members who have an interest in environmental matters. In each case, the group meets approximately every 8 weeks and during meetings a variety of environmental initiatives are discussed and project progress reports are made. A charter was prepared for both the Australian Environmental Team and the Mexican Environmental Team during 2013. Environmental Training During 2013, spill kit training was conducted at the Australian site and the following training sessions were held in Mexico:  Management of hazardous,  Environmental Policy non-hazardous and special wastes  Electricity consumption  Interpretation of Safety Data  Water consumption Sheets  Chemical spills  How much do you contaminate?  Environmental legislation  Correct handling of hazardous chemicals  Integrated waste management During 2014, chemical awareness training will be conducted at the Australian site and in Mexico, the following training sessions are scheduled:  Waste management  Sustainability principles  3 R’s system  Carbon offsets and footprint.  Environmental awareness  Climate change campaigns 28 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 2013 Actions: Environment Outcome 1. ISO 14001 to be finalized for Mexican operations. Completed. 2. Mexican operations to achieve the Clean Industry Certificate. Completed. 3. Environmental Policy will be separated from the Quality, Completed. Safety and Environment Policy. 4. Environmental Improvement Plan will be finalized and Deferred to 2014 approved by the Executive Team. to incorporate both plants. 5. Training in relation to the Environmental Improvement Plan Deferred. will be provided. 6. Innovia Security will continue to work towards reducing its Work in progress. defect rate. 7. Review will be conducted in relation to the use of LED Work in progress. lighting. 8. Innovia Security will assess the possibility of installing solar Deferred to 2014. panels for energy production. 9. Mexican operations will continue to investigate recycling Work in progress. polymer banknotes on behalf of customers. 10. Charters will be prepared for the Environmental Groups in Completed. Australia and Mexico. 29 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 2014 Actions: Environment 1. Environmental training programs will continue as outlined in this Communication on Progress. 2. Innovia Security will assess the possibility of installing solar panels for energy production. 3. Company-wide (Australia and Mexico) Environmental Improvement Plan will be finalised and approved by the Executive Team. 4. Innovia Security will continue to work towards reducing its defect rate as set out in this Communication on Progress. 5. Review will be conducted in relation to the use of LED lighting and depending on outcomes, may be implemented in different parts of the plants. 6. Mexican operations will continue to investigate recycling polymer banknotes on behalf of customers. 7. Environmental communications will be rolled out in Australia as set out in this Communication on Progress. 8. Environmental Monitoring Plan to be prepared for the Australian operations. 30 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Innovia Security is very conscious of anti-corruption issues, having been charged with foreign bribery offences in 2011. The activities to which these charges relate took place during the years 1999 – 2005. In May 2009 allegations of these activities were reported in a major metropolitan newspaper and immediately afterwards, Innovia Security’s then current Chairman requested an investigation by the Australian Federal Police. Since that time, Innovia Security has continued to co-operate with all relevant authorities in relation to these matters. Innovia Security has comprehensively transformed its compliance regime and culture to ensure that it learned from the past mistakes of the company. The measures implemented by the company in the wake of the allegations were set out in its 2013 Communication on Progress. Banknote Ethics Initiative Innovia Security recently became an accredited member of the Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI). The BnEI is a not-for-profit association which aims to promote ethical business practices within the banknote industry, and has a particular focus on the prevention of corruption and compliance with antitrust laws. To be accepted as a member of BnEI, applicants are required to adhere to a strict code of ethical business practice and undergo an audit of their integrity, ethics and antitrust compliance against the BnEI audit framework that was developed by the independent auditor, GoodCorporation. Members must demonstrate leadership, responsibility, appropriate policies and procedures, effective due diligence, training for staff and intermediaries, periodic declaration of compliance and internal and external monitoring. The BnEI was formally launched in May 2013, following which Innovia Security immediately indicated its support for the initiative and its desire to be one of the first companies to be certified. The BnEI’s auditors, GoodCorporation, conducted an audit at Innovia Security’s Australian and Mexican sites between 18 November and 5 December 2013. The company passed the audit with a Level One Audit Outcome (the top of the industry benchmark). At the first meeting of the BnEI Accreditation Council on 17 and 18 February 2014, Innovia Security’s accreditation was confirmed and Innovia Security was accepted as a member. 31 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Due Diligence Following its recent experiences, Innovia Security recognised that one of its greatest risks lies with its personnel who hold high exposure roles, intermediaries, suppliers and business partners. Innovia Security must ensure that they are who they say they are, that they are not denied parties and that they do not present any reputational risk to the company. Accordingly, Innovia Security has procedures (the Appointment and Management of Intermediaries, Appointment and Management of Business Partners and Appointment and Management of Suppliers, Personnel Security Clearance and the Reputational Screening Procedure) which require it to undertake risk assessment, due diligence and reputational screening (due diligence is generally provided by TRACE International or to a similar satisfactory standard) on all personnel who hold high exposure roles, intermediaries and business partners and key suppliers prior to engaging with Innovia Security. All personnel who hold high exposure roles, intermediaries and business partners have willingly accepted these requirements. Innovia Security has completed due diligence on 100% of its personnel who hold high exposure roles, intermediaries and business partners. Travel Ban At no time are staff permitted to travel to countries identified as falling below a Board defined transparency threshold (a reflection of corruption risk) without the approval of the Board. 32 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Policies Since May 2011 Innovia Security has had a comprehensive Board approved Integrity and Ethics Policy. Innovia Security is committed to ensuring that this policy continues to be up to date and relevant and to that end, in November 2012, it updated and amended the Policy to further tighten its wording. The Policy is stored electronically on a drive that all personnel can access. The Whistleblower Protection Policy and Procedure was established to provide employees and other interested parties with a mechanism for addressing any concerns that they may have about the operations and activities of Innovia Security without fear of victimisation or reprisal. A whistleblower may choose to make a report to the Whistleblower Protection Officer (Innovia Security’s Chief Risk and Compliance Officer) or through the Whistleblower Hotline, which is operated by KPMG’s Faircall service on a confidential basis. Other policies that support Innovia Security’s position regarding the ethical behavior of its personnel include:  Receipt and Provision of Gifts and Entertainment Policy coupled with the Receipt and Provision of Gifts, Hospitality and Expenses Procedure. This policy requires personnel to refuse gifts and entertainment where to do so would not cause offence and to record gifts and entertainment in excess of $100 in a register. Policy limits and requirements are communicated during induction sessions provided by the Risk and Compliance Team and reiterated every 18 months. In addition, staff members are reminded about the requirements of this policy at times of the year when gift giving is more likely to occur.  Revolving Door Policy. Innovia Security recognises that a perception of unethical behaviour may be created by engaging former decision makers in the public sector to provide services to Innovia Security in areas where they have held positions as regulators or legislators. Innovia Security respects the debate in this area where there is a perceived conflict of interest for the former public officials and accordingly Innovia Security will not retain the services of ex-executive level public officials in the area in which they worked for a period of 12 months after the person ceases to hold the relevant position.  Commercial Sponsorship Policy. This Policy explicitly states that sponsorships are not to be used as subterfuge for any form of bribery or other unethical behaviour.  Charitable Donations Policy. Innovia Security believes in supporting and enriching the communities in which it operates, locally and internationally. However, it also recognises the potential for abuse of such donations and so will only support charitable groups that meet a number of criteria, including the successful completion of due diligence. In no circumstances are charitable donations to be used to mask unethical behaviour.  Sanctions Policy (re-written during 2013). This Policy provides guidance on complying with applicable trade sanction restrictions issued by the governing authorities of Australia, the European Union, United Kingdom, United Nations, United States of America and Mexico. 33 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Employee Reviews Innovia Security’s employee review system is an important way in which ethical requirements are reinforced and appropriate behaviour rewarded. In their annual review, each employee is awarded both a performance rating (1-4) and a behaviour rating (A-C). The behaviour rating is designed to capture the person’s behaviour and how well it aligns with the cultural aspirations of Innovia Security. Both fixed remuneration and short term incentives (annual bonus) are linked to the ratings received. If an employee receives a “C” (low) rating for behaviour, they will receive no short term incentive for that year. If a person receives a “C” for behaviour in two consecutive years, they are required to exit the company. In this way, a very direct connection is drawn between whether personnel consistently apply Innovia Security’s values and their reward. Innovia Security believes that this reinforces its positive and ethical culture. Dealings with Counterparties In the anti-corruption area, as well as the general “compliance with laws” clause mentioned in the section on Human Rights, Innovia Security also requires suppliers, and other counterparties, entering into new agreements with the company to undertake to refrain from corrupt acts. Innovia Security’s standard clause on anti-corruption is as follows: “Without limiting clause 11.1 above, the Supplier must not, in respect of the Supplier’s performance of this Agreement, after the date of this Agreement: (a) contravene or breach any Applicable Laws that are related to the subject matter of non-secret commissions, conflict of interest, anti-bribery and anti-foreign corrupt practices, including all related criminal laws; (b) use any corporate or other funds for unlawful contributions, payments, gifts, or entertainment, or make any unlawful expenditures relating to political activity; (c) make any unlawful payment to any persons associated with any foreign or domestic Governmental Authority or other government officials, public servants or to foreign or domestic political parties or campaigns; or (d) make any other unlawful payment (whether as a benefit, financial or consideration in kind) in connection with this Agreement.” 34 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Participation in Public Policy Discussion Since it became a member of the UNGC, Innovia Security has been an active participant in the Anti-Corruption Leadership Group. Representatives of the company attended Anti-Corruption Leadership Group meetings held in Melbourne during 2013. Innovia Security’s Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Geoff Bell, presented a Case Study on Innovia Security and the Banknote Ethics Initiative at the 2nd Annual Forum on Anti-Corruption Australia on 25 March 2014. The case study focused on how the company responded to bribery allegations and charges and the actions taken by the company to strengthen its compliance program, culminating in the company’s acceptance as an accredited member of the BnEI. In this way, Innovia Security has been able to share some insights from its recent history with its peers and it intends to continue to do so over the coming years. Innovia Security contracts with an external training provider, Corpedia, for the provision of online anti-corruption and antitrust training for its staff and intermediaries. Each new staff member and intermediary must undergo training upon recruitment, and the training is repeated for each intermediary every 12 months and for staff members every 18 months. Innovia Security uses its internal audit system to ensure 100% compliance with these requirements. Innovia Security is actively involved in the public policy discussion on corruption management. The company works across the industry through its CEO who is a Board member of the International Association of Currency Affairs (IACA). In 2012 Innovia Security developed industry guidelines for the appointment and management of sales agents. The guidelines were endorsed and released to the industry by IACA. 2013 Actions: Anti-corruption Outcome 1. Completion of supplier and business partner Due diligence due diligence. completed on business partners and key suppliers. 2. CEO to remain an active Board member of Completed. IACA. 2014 Actions: Anti-corruption 1. Achieve and maintain BnEI accreditation. 35 PROTECTED CLOSING STATEMENT 36 Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2014 Closing Statement Innovia Security has continued during 2013 to work towards aligning the values and activities of the company with principles of good governance, ethics and corporate social responsibility. Becoming an accredited member of the BnEI was a clear endorsement that Innovia Security’s integrity and ethics program is robust and effective. Personnel at every level of the organisation are committed to the company’s involvement in the UN Global Compact and the company has made very positive steps to integrate these Principles into the operations of the company. We reiterate our continuing commitment to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and to exerting influence wherever possible to increase awareness of those Principles. 37
