2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Message from the Chairman 03 Message from the CEO 06 Akbank and Sustainability-A Timeline 09 01 ABOUT AKBANK 12 02 ABOUT THE REPORT 22 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 26 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE at AKBANK 41 05 RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE 46 06 VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS 54 07 OUR EMPLOYEES 77 08 OUR OPERATIONS AND ENVIRONMENT 94 09 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT 104 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX 111 Identity 124 akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 2 / MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Akbank embraces a management approach that blends financial and operational success with environmental and social sensitivity. SUZAN SABANCI D‹NÇER CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Esteemed Stakeholders, It is with great pride and satisfaction that I share Akbank stakeholders with the economic, social and with you the fifth Sustainability Report of Akbank, environmental sustainability initiatives undertaken prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting by the bank in accordance with its responsibilities Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to future generations. We hope that the progress and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) made by Akbank over the five-year period that it principles as well as its mission of creating value has been reporting on its sustainability initiatives in every area it operates. This report presents all serves as motivation for all organizations that support “sustainable development” goals. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 3 / MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We hope that the progress made by Akbank over the five-year period that it has been reporting on its sustainability initiatives serves as motivation for all organizations that support “sustainable development” goals. Esteemed Stakeholders, Continued growth momentum in the Turkish economy It is with great pride and satisfaction that I share with Turkey, considered to be among the rising economies you the fifth Sustainability Report of Akbank, prepared of the global markets owing to its recent rapid growth, in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was upgraded to “investment grade” credit rating first Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the United by Fitch and then by Moody’s in 2013. However, the Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles as well as country was also negatively impacted by the capital its mission of creating value in every area it operates. outflows that ensued after the Fed’s decision. Despite This report presents all Akbank stakeholders with the recent limited rise in inflation rate stemming from the economic, social and environmental sustainability uncertainties in global capital markets as well as the initiatives undertaken by the Bank in accordance with its loss of value of the Turkish lira against major currencies, responsibilities to future generations. Turkey maintained its economic growth momentum and sustained its reputation in the eyes of international Growth and employment gains in the developed finance authorities in 2013. Having been pursuing a markets savings-oriented macroeconomic programme geared The major development in the global economy in 2013 toward shrinking the current account deficit since 2012, was the economic recovery and employment growth Turkey is forecast to have registered 4% growth as of in the developed markets led by the United States. The year-end 2013. announcement by the United States Federal Reserve (Fed), which had been signaling a transition to tighter Total assets of the Turkish banking industry, which monetary policy for a while, that it will taper its asset displayed its sound capital structure with its strong purchases by USD 10 billion per month as of December performance during the global financial crisis, grew by had major repercussions for all global markets. The 26.4% over the previous year to reach TL 1,732 billion in capital flows out of developing markets into the developed 2013. Despite uncertainties in the global economy that economies that began in mid-2013 with this expectation prevailed throughout the year, total loans of the banking are anticipated to continue in January 2014 as the Fed sector rose by 31.8% compared to the previous year to TL implements this decision. Following the decision by 1,047 billion. Consisting of 49 banks as of year-end 2013, the United States to switch to a less accommodative the sector maintained its leading position in Turkey’s monetary policy, the emerging markets that enjoyed employment with more than 210 thousand highlystellar growth performances during the global crisis such qualified employees. as Brazil, Argentina and South Africa are expected to experience external finance problems as well as suffer Akbank: Deep-rooted brand of the Turkish banking the loss of value in their currencies against the US dollar. industry The stability programs put in place under the European Already a pioneer in the development of the Turkish Stability Mechanism eliminated the probability of default banking industry since its establishment in 1948, Akbank in countries like Spain and Greece while economic registered successful financial and operational results stagnation and high unemployment in the Euro Zone, during the 2013 fiscal year while continuing to carry out particularly among youth, lingered in 2013. projects that will ensure the sustainability of its corporate structure. Leveraging its extensive service infrastructure and more than 16,000-strong human capital, the Bank akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 4 / 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT recorded a 28% growth in loans and a 24% growth in 18,000 students as part of this education initiative in deposits compared to the previous year and continued 2014. Akbank will continue to encourage investors and to support the Turkish economy. Akbank remained customers to increase their savings. fully committed to its principle of sustainability and its objective of permanent leadership in its growth targets “Best Performance” Award from CDP Turkey and initiatives. Considering combating climate change as an integral element of its sustainability goals, Akbank continued to A management approach oriented towards actively support Carbon Disclosure Project initiatives in sustainability 2013, which the Bank has been a supporter of since 2010. Leveraging 65 years of institutional experience In addition to carrying out systematic efforts to minimize and specialization, Akbank continued to embrace the environmental impacts resulting from its activities a management approach that blends financial and during the last three years, Akbank continued to support operational success with environmental and social the generation of the Turkey Climate Change Report, sensitivity in 2013. As a result, during a period of major developed under the coordination of Sabancı University in fragility in the global markets, the Bank continued 2013. to undertake investment initiatives that will further enhance its service infrastructure and human resource Acknowledgement of our initiatives in this area by CDP competence while making qualified contributions to Turkey with the “Best Performance” Award motivates social development via its social responsibility projects us to carry out more comprehensive environmental spanning a wide variety of areas, from culture and the sustainability projects in the future. arts to education and youth. We hope that the progress made by Akbank over the fiveWith its extensive lineup of products and services, year period that it has been reporting on its sustainability Akbank is focused on developing customized solutions initiatives serves as motivation for all organizations that for the needs and expectations of all customer segments support “sustainable development” goals. and establishing permanent relationships with its stakeholders. We believe that the 2013 Sustainability Report, which encompasses the social, economic and environmental In addition, the Bank acts in accordance with the initiatives carried out by Akbank in 2013 in light of the philosophy that “SMEs Power Turkey, Akbank Powers United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Global SMEs” in an attempt to bolster the proliferation of small Reporting Initiative (GRI) principles, will set an important and medium size enterprises that hold great potential in example for the sustainability-oriented initiatives of driving Turkey’s growth. Akbank conducts its activities all our stakeholders. Akbank will continue to improve in accordance with long-term goals in order to create its successful operations via sustainability-oriented value for SMEs and contribute to their sustainable projects, pioneer change in its industry and in Turkey in development. To this end, we continued to offer many accordance with its global sustainability goals, and carry innovative products and services to our customers in this out partnerships in pursuit of aiding the common good. segment and strengthen our relationships in 2013. Yours sincerely, Savings campaign continued The savings campaign launched by Akbank in 2012 under SUZAN SABANCI DİNÇER the name of “Heroes of the Economy” in order to increase CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS savings awareness in the society, broaden the base of savings, and contribute to “Sustainable Development” in banking industry-related areas continued in 2013. With the support of nearly 200 Akbank volunteers, the Bank delivered savings training to 11,500 students in various provinces during 2013. We aim to reach another akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 5 / MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At Akbank, we recognise our responsibility towards sustainability and are committed to taking ownership of this issue. HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL CEO Today, Akbank is “Turkey’s Most Valuable Banking WE ARE SHARING WITH YOU THE INITIATIVES THAT WE CARRY Brand”, as well as one of the most valuable OUT WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THIS RESPONSIBILITY WHICH organizations in Turkey. We leverage this position ARE OUTLINED IN OUR FIFTH ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY and the resources at our disposal to continue REPORT. AKBANK WILL CONTINUE ITS EFFORTS AROUND investing in the future of our society and our SUSTAINABILITY IN ORDER TO MAKE GREATER PROGRESS planet. As part of this effort, we constantly THROUGHOUT OUR SOCIETY AND THE ECONOMY IN WHICH review and improve all of our operations, business WE LIVE. processes and the way we add value as we work to make Akbank even more sustainable. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 6 / 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Today, Akbank is “Turkey’s Most Valuable Banking Brand” as well as one of the most valuable organizations in Turkey. We leverage this position and the resources at our disposal to continue investing in the future of our society and our planet. Esteemed Stakeholders, Employees”, “Our Operations and the Environment”, and “Our We live in a much more complex world today than we ever did Community Investment”. The purpose of this report which previously. More than ever, the welfare of different countries encompasses data and developments regarding Akbank’s 2013 and economies is interdependent . While our quality of life activities is designed to give a detailed view of the sustainabilityis higher, correspondings with technological progress, the oriented projects undertaken during the year. world faces major issues. Rapidly rising populations require higher levels of jobs creation while increasing demand for Constantly expanding portfolio of products and services infrastructure and basic social services put greater pressure on We continued to undertake efforts to improve the Bank’s service natural resources. quality and customer satisfaction throughout 2013. Closely following the advances in technology and customer relationship We all know that there is a delicate balance between nature, management, we launched a large number of new products the environment, society and the corporate world. Even though for the benefit of Akbank’s customers. Unveiling the “single it may appear to us that the resources we consume today password” application as a groundbreaking practice in Turkey will never be depleted, there are major risks in the medium in order to further simplify access to banking services, the Bank and long term concerning the environment we live in. The facilitated fast execution of a large number of transactions, current approach, focusing only on the short term, may cause from money transfers to stock trading, through Akbank Direct irreparable harm to the stability of the planet and our global Mobile. In addition, Akbank launched Turkey’s first “i’m Watch” economy. Therefore, the subject of sustainability is of critical banking application that can be synchronized with mobile significance for a cleaner and more prosperous world. phones running on Android and iOS operating systems in 2013. We also continued to pioneer our industry in mobility by At Akbank, we recognise our responsibility towards being the first bank to facilitate banking transactions on smart sustainability and attach huge significance to this – just like watches, enabling financial services to become increasingly in many areas that we pioneer and are committed to taking integrated with daily life and more practical for users. Another ownership of this issue. Today, Akbank is “Turkey’s Most innovation rolled out for our customers during 2013 is the Valuable Banking Brand”, as well as one of the most valuable Western Union Money Transfer Service. As a result of our organizations in Turkey. We leverage this position and the cooperation with Western Union, Akbank customers can now resources at our disposal to continue investing in the future of send and receive money from more than half a milion agency our society and our planet. As part of this effort, we constantly service points of Western Union across the globe. review and improve all of our operations, business processes and the way we add value as we work to make Akbank even Akbank also continued to undertake initiatives to further trade more sustainable. relations between Turkey and other countries. The Bank continued supporting foreign trade transactions of companies We are sharing with you the initiatives that we carry out within in Turkey through its collaboration with the world’s leading the scope of this responsibility outlined in our fifth annual financial institutions. The memorandum of understanding we Sustainability Report which is aligned to the Global Reporting signed with the Export-Import Bank of Korea (KEXIM) added to Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. the long list of foreign trade financing facilities Akbank offers to corporations. Sustainability approach targeting “permanent leadership” The report consists of seven main chapters: “Our Approach to “Lean approach”: A new era in branch banking Sustainability”, “Corporate Governance”, “Risk Management As part of the “Improvements for You” program, we examined and Compliance”, “Value Added to Our Customers”, “Our more than 1,000 processes in detail and implemented over 350 akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 7 / MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT improvements. Additionally, we redesigned the service model at Akbank presents Anish Kapoor’s works to art enthusiasts our branches in accordance with the “Lean approach”. This new Societies reach their goals not just through economic service model enhanced the customer focus of our branches, performance, but also through their strength in culture, art while recording a major increase in efficiency. As a result of and sports. We are very aware that culture and art is the these successful initiatives carried out during the last 1.5 years, most valuable heritage a society will leave behind for future we have created new career openings for our branch employees generations. with 700 Akbank employees transferred from operational tasks to sales activities. Art also questions, inspires different and creative perspectives, and paves the way for shaping the future. We are working to Efficient resource utilization through ADCs expand this initiative more broadly across the country and Through the pursuit of a sustainable growth strategy, enable more Turkish people to experience contemporary art Akbank implemented projects to increase the effectiveness events around the world. We would like to see Turkey as a of alternative distribution channels such as ATMs, Mobile leading and pioneering force on the global art stage. We will Banking and Call Center. As a result, the Bank attained major attempt to realize this vision by supporting art and artists efficiency gains in business processes. Thanks to the process further, hosting the world’s leading artists in Turkey, and improvements carried out within the Akbank Call Center and extensively promoting Turkish art abroad. systematic training programs completed by all employees, we made major progress in terms of resolving customer needs For this reason, Akbank puts a lot of energy and resources into without requiring a second call. In accordance with the objective a broad range of cultural and art activities. Our priority in this of achieving more effective utilization of existing service effort is to ensure they are sustainable and comprehensive channels, Akbank ATMs were enriched with new services in scope. In 2013, Akbank once again organized an event that such as company payments, bill payments, and other banks’ delighted art enthusiasts as . we celebrated the Bank’s 65th payments (Aktifbank, Odeabank), which in turn led to significant anniversary with an exhibition of Anish Kapoor, one of the most increases in customer numbers. Akbank’s major investment in influential contemporary artists in the world. By sponsoring this mobile banking technologies in light of innovation in this area great artist’s exhibition, we believe we encouraged everyone to enabled stock trading, mutual fund purchases and redemptions, think outside the box and explore their own creativity. Akbank virtual card transactions, and electricity, water and natural gas continues to support art and artists, as well as presenting bill payments through the Akbank Direct Mobile application. globally significant events to the art community. Owing to the Bank’s superior service quality, the Akbank Direct Mobile app achieved more than 1 million downloads in 2013. Akbank will continue to make its sustainability efforts a priority in order ensure our society and economy continue to evolve. I Akbank’s “Savings Campaign” reaches even more students would like to extend my thanks to our employees, as well as all Akbank continued to contribute to increasing savings of our stakeholders, who stand behind our achievements in this awareness and a rising savings rate in Turkey through our area. campaigns, educational efforts, and financial products rolled out in 2013. The “Children: Heroes of the Economy” Project, HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL a savings campaign launched by Akbank in 2012 to raise savings awareness within society and to broaden the savings CEO base continued, reached a total of 15,000 students. We aim to reach 18,000 more students in 2014 through training programs conducted by Akbank volunteers. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 8 / AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITYA TIMELINE 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Continuous Development of Akbank January 1948Established in the city of Adana to finance cotton producers in the region. 1950First branch in Istanbul opened in Sirkeci. 1954Akbank Head Office moved to Istanbul. 1963Automation of all banking operations. 1964First representative office opened in Frankfurt, Germany for bank transfers of Turkish workers. 1981All banking operations computerized and online transactions started. 1990Akbank shares offered to public. 1996AkSecurities established. 1996Investor Relations Group established to manage relations with shareholders. 1998With a secondary public offering, Akbank shares started trading in international markets as an American Depository Receipt (ADR). 1998Akbank Representative Office in Frankfurt transformed into a branch. 1999Akbank Internet Banking started. 2000Ak-Portfolio Management and Private Banking Business Units established. 2000Akbank Malta branch opened. 2001Akbank N.V. established in the Netherlands. 2001Akbank Call Center started operations. 2005Akbank became the first bank to repurchase its founders shares. 2005AkLease incorporated. 2009Akbank International Advisory Board established. 2009Akbank (Dubai) Limited as the first Turkish bank established in Dubai International Finance Center. 2010Akbank Banking Center put into service with a capacity of approximately 5,000 people. 2011Send Money and Pay Mobile -the first of its kind in Europeoperations facilitated customers’ access to financial services. 2012“Akbank Direkt” brand that combines the Internet and Mobile Banking services launched. 2012Akbank N.V. in the Netherlands ceased operations and merged with our 100% subsidiary in Germany: Akbank AG. 2013Akbank joined the Corporate Governance Index. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 9 / Akbank and Sustainability 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Akbank and Sustainability 2000Akbank Information Technologies obtained ISO 9001 Quality Certificate. 2003Became the first bank to publicly declare its dividend policy. 2003Became the first bank to announce Corporate Governance Principles in the annual report. 2004Became the first bank to publish Corporate Governance Principles in its website. 2005Became the sponsor of the “Make a Wish” foundation, established to fulfill the wishes of children aged 3-18, fighting against life-threatening diseases. 2007Became the first Turkish bank to sign the UN Global Compact. 2007Started cooperation with Endeavor-an international non-governmental organization aimed to contribute to economic development by supporting active entrepreneurs in developing countries. 2007Akbank Customer Complaint Management System obtained ISO 10002 Quality Certificate. 2007Supported entrepreneurs with its “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” program. 2008Established “Akbank Thinking Club” with the aim of thinking together with the young and co-creating values for the future of Turkey. 2009Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee (CGSRC) established under the Board of Directors. 2009Women’s Development Center “BİZ”, established by KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) with the aim of helping women improve their individual productivities, opened with Akbank as the main sponsor. 2010Became the first Turkish bank to publish UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report. 2010Drew attention to environmental transparency by supporting the implementation of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in Turkey. 2010Became the first Turkish deposit bank to publish a Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI standards. 2010Became the first and only Turkish institution to take place in the CDP 2010 Global 500 reporting and received scores that carry the Bank to the World Sector Leaders category. 2010“Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan” put into effect. 2010A loan pool with favorable terms launched for entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor Turkey. 2010 and 2011Signed the Cancun and Durban Communiqués prepared prior to the United Nations 2010 and 2011 Climate Change Summits. 2010Supported the “Before They Disappear” Project implemented in Turkey in coordination with the Regional Environment Center (REC) with the aim of drawing attention to regions at risk due to climate change. 2011Akbank Volunteers System put into effect. 2011Akbank supported Global Student Entrepreneurs Awards. 2011Akbank employees started to attend sustainability trainings. 2012Became one of first companies in the world to sign the “Carbon Price Communiqué” prepared by The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change (CLG) to draw attention to the need to develop a clear and transparent pricing policy for carbon emissions. 2012To struggle with savings deficit which is an important barrier against the development of Turkey, Akbank initiated a social responsibility program named “Savings Campaign” to complement its banking products and services. 2013Akbank consolidated its services for the artisans under the “Artisan Fraternity” concept. The “Pay When You Can Loan”, the first product unveiled under this concept, provided artisans with the flexibility of making loan payments according to their income streams. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 10 / 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Akbank and Arts 1972Akbank Children’s Theatre started performances. 1991Akbank Jazz Festival started with the aim of creating a well-established musical culture in Turkey, by bringing world’s most famous jazz performers to large audiences. 1993Akbank Art Center established. 1998-2000Ottoman Calligraphy Exhibition “Golden Letters”, containing numerous valuable works, exhibited in New York Metropolitan, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and Paris Louvre with the sponsorship of Akbank. 2003Akbank Art Center restructured itself towards modern arts and accelerated artistic dynamics of our country by drawing attention to the local and international qualities of globalizing tendency of arts with its exhibitions. 2003-2007Became the sponsor of Rock’n Coke Festival where world-famous rock stars meet the youth. 2004Akbank Short Film Festival was initiated. 2004Akbank started to support the International Istanbul Film Festival and later became the main supporter. 2006Rodin’s works were exhibited at Sakıp Sabancı Museum with support from Akbank. 2007Sponsoring the modern and contemporary arts event “Contemporary Istanbul”, Akbank contributed to the realization of Turkey’s most important contemporary arts fair. 2008With the sponsorship of Akbank, art fans had the opportunity to see the works of Salvador Dali -one of the most important artists of the surrealistic movementat the Sakıp Sabancı Museum. The exhibition has been the largest Salvador Dali exhibition outside Spain. 2008Akbank Children’s Theatre got on Hürriyet Newspaper’s “Human Rights Train” to once again carry the excitement, gloom, and beauties of theatre to 45 cities in Turkey. 2008Rock legend Metallica came to Turkey with the sponsorship of Akbank and 37,000 fans had the opportunity to watch the band live on stage. 2009Latin Rock legend Carlos Santana gave a concert in Istanbul with the sponsorship of the Wings. 2010Around 75,000 people participated in the Sonisphere Festival that brought world-famous heavy metal bands with the sponsorship of our exi26 brand. 2011Akbank became the prominent supporter of Turkish National Youth Philharmonic Orchestra. 2011Akbank sponsored the “Cirque Du Soleil-Saltimbanco” show. 2012Akbank Children’s Theater celebrated its 40th anniversary by performing the first musical version of the Oscar-winning animation Shrek in Turkish. 2013As part of its 65th establishment anniversary festivities, Akbank sponsored the first comprehensive exhibition in Turkey of the leading international artist Anish Kapoor. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 11 / 01. About AKBANK 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 12 / Akbank in Brief Akbank has succeeded in being one of the most notable, Through a strong and widespread domestic delivery reliable and valuable brands of Turkey since 1948. network with a total of 985 branches, over 16,000 Our Bank’s corporate culture includes finding fast employees and more than 4,000 ATMs, Akbank and long-lasting solutions to ever-changing needs, operates via its Head Office in Istanbul and 23 regional continuously renewing itself, creating sustainable values directorates throughout Turkey. The Bank offers for employees, customers, country and itself. banking services to more than 12 million consumers, more than 850,000 commercial and SME customers, Our Bank offers consumer banking, commercial and and over 3,700 corporate customers via Alternative SME banking, corporate banking, private banking, Delivery Channels such as internet and telephone foreign exchange, money markets and securities banking. (treasury transactions), and international banking services. Non-bank financial services as well as capital As of the end of 2013, our Bank’s consolidated net profit markets and investment services are provided by is TL 3,077 million (approximately USD 1,444 million). Akbank’s subsidiaries. Our total consolidated current assets reached TL 195.5 billion (USD 92 billion) with an approximate growth of Akbank preserved its leading position in the Turkish 20% compared to 2012 year-end. Akbank’s consolidated banking sector with its robust capital, consistent capital adequacy ratio of 14.7% is one of the highest in deposit structure, ability to acquire cost-efficient foreign the Turkish banking sector. exchange funding, and strong asset structure. Number of Employees* 16,249 Number of Customers 13.2 million Number of Branches * 986 Number of ATMs 4,121 Number of Credit Cards 5.8 million Number of Debit Cards 6.2 million Number of POS 347 thousand * Including the Malta branch. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 13 / About AKBANK Main Brands Akbank Direkt Our Bank’s Vision, Mission and Values Vision: To become a sustainable leader by rendering excellent banking experience and supporting the Turkey’s growth. Mission: To become the most admired Turkish company, by continuously delivering significant value to its stakeholders via its highly skilled human resources. Values: Integrity, Credibility, Non-Discrimination, Compliance, Confidentiality, Transparency, and Sustainability. Our Strategic Goals and Strong Foundations Strategic Goals • To achieve a long-term sustainable return on equity of at least 16-18%. • To be the leading bank in Turkey in terms of critical market shares. • To be the best bank in Turkey in terms of customer experience and satisfaction. • To be Turkey’s most valuable bank. Strong Foundations • Turkey’s most valuable banking brand. • One of Turkey’s most valuable companies. • Long-term strategic management with successful implementations. • 985 branches and high-tech delivery channels throughout Turkey. • Turkey’s innovative force with countless “firsts” in the sector. • Permanent and extensive funding base. • Sustainable profitability as well as high return on equity and assets. • A robust capital structure with 14.7% capital adequacy ratio. • A superior asset quality with a very low non-performing loans ratio of 1.4%. • High level of efficiency with an operational expense/assets ratio of 2.0%. • Stronger growth advantage in loans thanks to its low leverage rate. • The highest individual and financial strength ratings to be assigned in Turkey. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 14 / Akbank in Figures Our Extensive Branch Network Growing its branch network steadily, Akbank raised its number of branches from 961 to 985 in 2013. Kırklareli • 4 Bartın • Sinop Edirne 1 Kastamonu • 3 Artvin Ardahan • 4 Tekirdağ Istanbul Zonguldak • • Samsun Rize • •1 • 17 • 318 Kocaeli 5 Karabük 5 • 11 Ordu Trabzon •6 3 • 24 Sakarya • 2 Amasya •5 Giresun • 9 Kars • 11 Bolu Çankırı • • 3 • • • 4 1 Çorum Tokat 5 Bayburt 1 Iğdır Çanakkale Bursa Bilecik • 4 • 6 • 1 Erzurum •1 • 5 • 41 • 2 • 3 Ağrı Balıkkesir • Ankara • Kırıkkale Yozgat Sivas Erzincan •3 16 Eskişehir • 7 86 • 2 • 2 •4 •1 Kütahya Kırşehir Tunceli •5 • 1 Bingöl •1 Muş • 1 Manisa • 11 Afyon Nevşehir Kayseri Malatya Elazığ Izmır Uşak • • 6 • 1 • 15 • 3 • 3 Van •1 • 78 9 Konya Aksaray Diyarbakır Siirt Isparta • 19 • 1 Niğde Kahramanmaraş • 3 Batman 1 • Aydın • Denizli • • 4 • 1 •3 Adıyaman • 1 Hakkari 11 9 Burdur • 1 Şırnak • Adana Osmaniye Mardin • • 1 Muğla 2 Karaman • 27 • 2 Gaziantep Şanlıurfa 3 • 16 Antalya • 39 • 19 • 15 • 6 Mersin • 18 Hatay • 10 Our Customers As a result of its approach of customizing its services to the target client segment, the Bank successfully operates in five major business lines: Corporate Banking, Commercial Banking, SME Banking, Consumer Banking and Private Banking. Thanks to its investments and policies in 2013, Akbank registered major gains in the number of clients served by its target segments compared to the previous year. Corporate Commercial SME* Consumer Private Segments Banking Banking Banking Banking Banking Corporate Commercial, SME and Consumer Private Banking Banking Branches Banking Branches Branches Branches 967 10 8 Number of Customers 3,700 49,200 805,500 12,400,000 7,300 * SME Banking serves customers that the Bank identified in accordance with its business model. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 15 / About AKBANK Our Financial Performance Key Financial Indicators Akbank’s key consolidated financial indicators for the last three years are presented in the table below: Key Consolidated Financial Indicators (TL million) 2013 2012 2011 Total Assets 195,482 163,478 139,907 Loans 118,010 92,360 74,356 Deposits 112,473 90,688 80,771 Funds Borrowed 19,899 15,598 18,045 Shareholders’ Equity 22,315 22,476 18,131 Net Profit 3,077 3,005 2,535 Return on Equity (ROE) 14% 15.1% 14.3% Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS) 14.7% 17.9% 16.8% Market Capitalization (USD million) 12,580 19,802 12,748 Loans Breakdown of loans made by Akbank to clients by customer segment and currency denomination is presented in the table below: Loans (*) 2013 2012 Corporate TL Loans (TL million) 6,532 5,933 Corporate Foreign Currency Loans (USD million) 14,176 13,667 Commercial TL Loans (TL million) 18,044 13,177 Commercial Foreign Currency Loans (USD million) 7,098 6,061 SME TL Loans (TL million) 6,237 3,951 Consumer (TL million) 27,591 20,740 Credit Cards (TL million) 13,504 12,792 * Non-rediscounted. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 16 / Economic Value Generated for Stakeholders Akbank aims to create economic value for its stakeholders through banking services. Total economic value generated by the Banked reach TL 15.1 billion by year-end 2013, up by 4.8% from TL 14.4 billion as of year-end 2012. Payments made by the Bank to the employees, community investments, the government, investors and suppliers as well as the distribution of the economic value generated by Akbank in cooperation with various stakeholder groups are presented in the table below: Economic Value Generated and Distributed (TL million) 2013 2012 2011 Direct Economic Value Generated 15,100 14,410 11,696 a) Revenues 15,100 14,410 11,696 Economic Value Distributed 10,607 10,853 9,324 b) Operating costs 1,900 1,601 1,375 c) Employee wages and other benefits 1,423 1,205 1,002 d) Payments to providers of capital 6,371 7,027 6,167 e) Payments to the government 891 1,010 773 f) Community investments 22 9 8 Economic Value Retained 4,492 3,557 2,372 a) Gross revenue in the Bank’s income statement is taken into consideration (interest income, fees and commissions collected, dividend income, commercial profit-loss and other income). b) Covers all operating costs of the Bank, excluding employee expenses. c) Covers employee wages, bonuses, and all payments made to the government on behalf of employees. d) Covers dividends distributed to investors and all interest expenses of the Bank in the given year. e) Covers all taxes paid to the government. f) Covers donations to charities and expenses for various culture-arts events. Note 1: Provisions for non-performing loans are not included in the calculation of the Economic Value Retained. Note 2: This table is based upon Akbank’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, these figures also include consolidated subsidiaries. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 17 / About AKBANK akbank’s structure Organization of the Bank Akbank was established on January 30th, 1948 as a private-capital commercial bank and today it continues to operate in the same area. While Akbank stocks were traded at Istanbul Stock Exchange Market (ISE) with a free float rate of 31.0% in 2011, this rate increased to 41.2% in 2012 when Citigroup reduced its shares in Akbank to 9.9% in May 2013 as a preparation to Basel III. Akbank’s Level 1 American Depository Receipts are traded at the OTC market in the USA. Our shareholder structure as of December 31st, 2013 is shown in the pie chart. H.Ö. Sabancı Holding A.Ş., Affiliated Institutions and Individuals 48.9% 48.9% Free Float 41.2% Citibank Overseas Investment Corporation 9.9% Detailed information on the Bank’s operations and financial performance in 2013 is published in the Akbank 2013 Annual Report. Akbank 2013 Annual Report can be reached at the link below: http://www.akbank.com/yatirimci-iliskileri/yatirim-bilgileri/sayfalar/faaliyet-raporu.aspx Our Subsidiaries Akbank’s direct and indirect subsidiaries and our shares as of December 31st, 2013 are presented below: Direct and Indirect Subsidiaries Area of Operations Share (%) Country of Operations Akbank AG Banking 100.00 Germany Akbank (Dubai) Limited Banking 100.00 UAE AkLease Financial Leasing 99.99 Turkey Stock Exchange Brokerage AkSecurities Services 100.00 Turkey AkAsset Management Portfolio Management 100.00 Turkey akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 18 / Our Organization Chart The Bank’s latest organization chart is presented below. As of December 31, 2013, there are 14 Executive Vice Presidents reporting to the CEO. Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control and Compliance Unit, and Risk Management Department report directly to the Bank’s Board of Directors. Strategy Management Unit was established reporting directly to the CEO in 2013. Chairman of the Board of Directors Honorary Chairman Executive Board Member Executive Board Member Consultant to the Board of Directors SUZAN SABANCI DİNÇER EROL SABANCI CEM MENGİ Board of Internal Auditors Chairman of the Board of Directors Risk Management Department EYÜP ENGİN ŞEBNEM MURATOĞLU Executive Board Member HAYRİ ÇULHACI Internal Control and Compliance Unit YAŞAR BOZYÜRÜK Strategy Management Unit CEO BURCU CİVELEK YÜCE HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL Payment Systems and Corporate Human Consumer Private Commercial SME Direct International Financial Information Corporate Banking Treasury Resources Credits Operations Banking Banking Banking Banking Banking Banking Coordination Technologies CommuALPER KERİM BADE AHMET ÖZLEN GALİP SALTIK C. KAAN BÜLENT ORKUN HÜLYA K. ATIL TURGUT nications HAKAN ROTA SİPAHİOĞLU FUAT AYLA SANIBELLİ TÖZGE GALATALI GÜR OĞUZ OĞUZ KEFELİ ÖZUS GÜNEY MEHMET YÜKSEL IŞIK SİNDEL akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 19 / About AKBANK Awards and Accomplishments Independent evaluation of Akbank’s services and products by outside experts increase the satisfaction of all stakeholders, of customers in particular, and provides guidance to the Bank in attaining its goals. Akbank received more than 22 awards from various companies and institutions in Turkey and abroad as a result of its performance in 2012 and 2013. Some of these awards are listed below. Institution Giving the Award/ Category of Award or About the Award or Conducting the Survey Accomplishment Accomplishment Brand Finance Global Banking 500 Survey Akbank was deemed “Turkey’s Most Valuable Banking Brand” for the second straight year in the “Top 500 Banking Brands” survey conducted by Brand Finance. The Banker Best Bank in Turkey Akbank was named the “Best Bank in Turkey” at The Bank of the Year Awards organized by The Banker. Euromoney Best Bank in Turkey Akbank was named the “Best Bank in Turkey” at the “2013 Excellence Awards” organized by Euromoney. World Finance Best Bank in Turkey Akbank was named the “Best Bank in Turkey” by the international finance publication, World Finance. EMEA Finance Best Financial Institution Borrower in Akbank was the recipient of “Best Financial Institution EMEA Region Borrower in EMEA Region” and “Best Financial Institution Loan in EMEA Region” awards at the “European Banking Awards 2013” organized by EMEA Finance. Global Banking and Finance Review Best Bank in Turkey In its “Banking Awards 2013”, Global Banking and Finance Review selected Akbank as the “Best Bank in Turkey” for the second consecutive time. Euromoney Best Private Banking Services Overall in Turkey Akbank was named the “Best Private Banking Services Overall in Turkey” at the Euromoney Private Banking and Wealth Management Survey. Global Finance Best Foreign Exchange Provider in Turkey In its “World’s Best Foreign Exchange Providers 2012” survey conducted in 97 countries, Global Finance magazine named Akbank as “Best Foreign Exchange Provider in Turkey” for the eighth time. The Banker Best Bank of the World in Technology & Innovation Akbank was voted as the “Best Bank of the World” in the “Innovation in Customer Services” and “Innovation in Distribution Channel Integration” categories at the “Innovation in Technology Awards” survey conducted by The Banker. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 20 / Institution Giving the Award/ Category of Award or About the Award or Conducting the Survey Accomplishment Accomplishment Gartner Best Bank in CRM in EMEA/APAC Region Akbank was chosen the “Best Bank in EMEA/APAC Region” encompassing Europe, Middle East, Africa, AsiaPacific and China in the Customer Analytics category at the “CRM Excellence Awards” organized by Gartner. Euroweek Most Impressive Emerging Market Financial Institution Akbank registered another major accomplishment by Borrower winning three first-place prizes at the Bond Awards organized by Euroweek. Akbank was recognized with the “Most Impressive Emerging Market Borrower”, the “Most Impressive Emerging Market Financial Institution Borrower”, and the “Most Impressive Funding Official in Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa” Awards. Stevie International Business 1 Gold, 2 Silver and 3 Bronze Awards At the 2013 “Stevie International Business Awards” where Awards the world’s best product, service and communication projects are assessed, Akbank won one gold, two silver and three bronze awards in different categories. LACP (League of American World’s Best Annual Report In LACP’s “Vision Awards”, Akbank’s 2012 Annual Report Communications Professionals) was selected “World’s Best Annual Report” in both Banking and Financial Institutions categories. LACP (League of American World’s Best Sustainability Report In LACP’s “Vision Awards”, Akbank’s 2012 Sustainability Communications Professionals) Report was selected “World’s Best Sustainability Report” in both Banking and Financial Institutions categories. MerComm International ARC Best Annual Report of the Year Akbank 2012 Annual Report was voted the “Best Annual Awards Report of the Year” in the MerComm International ARC Awards survey. Turkish Public Relations Association Best Project in Digital and Social Media Akbank Short Film Short Interpretation project won the (TÜHİD) – 12th Golden Compass Communication “Best Project in Digital and Social Media Communication” Awards award at Turkish Public Relations Association (TÜHİD)’s Golden Compass Public Relations Awards. Turkey Call Center Awards Best Use of Technology by a Call Center Akbank won the “Best Use of Technology by a Call Center” and “Most Commendable Call Center Agent” Awards at the Turkey Call Center Awards organized by the IMI Conferences. 25th Crystal Apple Awards Akbank Jazz Festival Campaign Crystal Apple in the Tourism, Transportation and Entertainment category akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 21 / 02. ABOUT THE REPORT 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 22 / We are creating savings Our Approach to Reporting awareness for a better future. Akbank hereby presents to its stakeholders its fifth Sustainability Report, which it has been publishing Turkey is not just a rising star annually since 2009. The Bank prepares these reports voluntarily and in accordance with its approach of in its region, but also in Europe banking pioneering the sustainability initiatives in the Turkish industry by way of reference projects. To this end, 2013 Sustainability Report focuses on Akbank’s and even in the world economy. social, environmental, ethical, and corporate governance initiatives as well as its corporate performance. After starting 2013 concerned due to the Euro Akbank 2013 Sustainability Report was prepared in Zone debt crisis and the global slowdown, accordance with version G3 of the GRI Sustainability the year ended with fewer uncertainties and Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative higher asset prices. (GRI), a worldwide-recognized reporting institution. Akbank, which formulates all of its business The rise of Turkey that processes in light of the principles of transparency and accountability, presents its sustainability commitments, makes all of us proud initiatives and target realization ratios that have been carried out in accordance with the same principles in is due in great part to this report. The first bank to publish a report within the the stable environment framework of GRI Guidelines among the deposit banks in Turkey, Akbank continues to undertake reference and sound economy. initiatives in this area as it can be seen in the 2013 Sustainability Report. In an effort to make it easier and more convenient to access information, Akbank 2013 Sustainability Report was designed with a more reader-friendly layout. This report makes use of data compilation methods that were employed in previous years’ reports. Further explanations are provided where new and different methods are used. 2013 Sustainability Report encompasses the active role the Bank plays in the growth of the Turkish economy and its approach to sustainability management, as well as the value Akbank creates for its customers by way of its products and services, benefits provided for the Bank’s employees, efforts to reduce the environmental impact of its activities, and its cooperation with stakeholders to enhance social welfare. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 23 / ABOUT THE REPORT Scope and Framework of the Report Akbank 2013 Sustainability Report covers the Bank’s These guidelines also spearhead the continuous social, environmental and economic initiatives and its development of Akbank’s sustainability initiatives. Version related corporate performance between January 1, 2013 G3 of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and the and December 31, 2013. The Report is based on version Turkish translation are available at the link below. G3 of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and http://www.globalreporting.org meets the requirements of GRI Application Level B. A GRI Index is provided at the end of the Report in order to This Report also includes the progress Akbank has made facilitate easy access to the information within the scope pursuant to its commitments within the scope of the of the GRI indicators. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). A UNGC Index that allows easy access to information regarding four The GRI Guidelines allow the comparison of Akbank’s elements of UNGC (labor, human rights, environment, sustainability performance to that of local and and anti-corruption) and the related 10 principles is international peers while also serving as a reference for provided at the end of the Report. the Bank’s stakeholders. Boundary of the Report Unless mentioned otherwise, all data and information in the 2013 Sustainability Report covers the banking activities and locations of Akbank T.A.Ş. in Turkey. Impacts of the Bank’s activities, joint ventures or suppliers in other countries are not within the scope of this Report. “Our Employees” section of the Report includes employees of Akbank Malta branch. Generated and distributed economic value tables that include financial statements reflect consolidated figures. The content of this report includes the activities of 985 Akbank branches, in addition to the General Headquarters in Istanbul, that illustrated in the map (p16). Despite to the geographical and operational differences, Akbank stably exercises the standard operation procedures for the all segments of its organization structure in Turkey due to its robust corporate structure. In this Report, the words “Akbank T.A.Ş.”, “Akbank”, “our Bank”, “the Bank”, “We/us” all mean Akbank T.A.Ş. unless mentioned otherwise. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 24 / Setting out the Content of the Report While performing the reporting process and preparing the content of the Report, we used two international standards as our bases. The first one is the “AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard” devised by AccountAbility, a UK-based organization. AA1000 APS is a globally recognized standard that is based upon the principles of “Inclusiveness, Materiality and Accountability”. The second one is the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” of the Global Reporting Initiative. We also took into consideration material issues for our corporate strategies and the information we collected via various channels to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Therefore this Report includes our practices and performance related to issues considered to be material by both our Bank and our stakeholders. Detailed information on selection of material issues and stakeholder dialogue is available in “Our Approach to Sustainability” section of the Report. Prepared with contribution from almost all units of the Bank, the final version of this Report has been approved by the Corporate Governance Committee and Board of Directors of Akbank. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 25 / 03. OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 26 / We created our sustainability Our Sustainability strategy in conformity with the Vision, Strategy, and issues that are material to our Commitments stakeholders and the Bank. Our Sustainability Vision Our sustainability vision is to become the leader in Turkey and one of the leading institutions in the world. The concept of sustainability takes deeper roots in the Our Sustainability Strategy procedures, services, and products of our Bank every In order for Akbank to reach its sustainability vision, other day. Thanks to the dialogue platforms established we aim to efficiently manage significant and material between our stakeholders and our Bank, we receive environmental, social, ethical, and economic risks and feedback on issues material to stakeholders. In the light opportunities that arise in our products, services and of such feedback we aim to continuously improve our operations. By performing a materiality analysis, we business processes and sustainability performance. We identified the material issues that our stakeholders monitor Akbank’s performance by implementing our expect good performance from the Bank and that sustainability strategy and commitments both in our are required for the Bank to succeed. We created a operations and products. With the annual Sustainability sustainability strategy by identifying related risks and Report that we issue every year since 2009, we opportunities and started to implement this strategy. communicate our practices and performance regarding As a bank standing upon strong financial foundations our social, environmental, ethical, and economic and attaching importance to stakeholder relations responsibilities to our stakeholders. and transparency, our strategy is to support economic growth of our country and customers, to offer products and services that improve social welfare without sacrificing our ethical and secure banking principle, and to reduce environmental impact of our activities. While implementing this strategy, our aim is to improve our performance day by day, following roadmaps we devise for each and every significant and material issue and making commitments. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 27 / OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Approach and Material Issues Akbank more durable is its sustainability management. If we are to compare our sustainability approach The tree branches represent the significant and to a tree, roots reflect our financial performance. material issues that we consider within the scope of our Sustainability and existence of Akbank is first and sustainability management: Our Employees, Corporate foremost dependent on its financial success. Our Governance and Risk Management, Our Operations financial performance is what keeps us alive. The and the Environment, Investing in Communities and the tree trunk represents our Sustainability Management Value Added to Our Customers. Material issues that we Model. It is the mechanism that enables the transition selected for each area are handled here. For example, and communication from roots to branches. The trunk carbon emissions under “Our Operations and the makes the tree more durable. The element that makes Environment” title is one of such issues. Our Employees Corporate Governance and Risk Management Employee satisfaction Career development and training Transparent corporate governance Equal opportunity Effective risk management and internal control Ethical banking Secure banking Our Operations and the Value ADDED TO Environment Our Customers Carbon emissions Saving paper Customer satisfaction Technological wastes Environment-friendly products and services Environmental and social risk management in loans Innovative products and services that facilitate access to financial services OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Sponsorships Employee volunteering Financial Duties and Sustainability in the Performance Employee Stakeholder responsibilities supply chain Sustainable awareness Engagement profitability and growth akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 28 / Sustainability Management Model at Akbank Board of Directors (BoD) Corporate Governance International Advisory Board Committee (IAB) (CGC) Our Stakeholders Investor Relations and Other Related Units of Sustainability Division the Bank (IRSD) Corporate Social Responsibility Sub-Group (CSR Sub-Group) Sustainability (CSR) Team The Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) that directly reports to the Board of Directors is responsible for ensuring that sustainability issues are handled in a holistic manner at the senior management level. CGC makes sure that the sustainability strategy is implemented and monitored throughout the Bank. Akbank International Advisory Board also adds value to the Bank’s sustainability vision. (International Advisory Board is given in more detail in the 4th section of this Report.) akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 29 / OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Akbank Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) and majority of the members of the Committee are The Corporate Governance Committee assumed independent Board Members. the responsibility to improve the Bank’s corporate performance in sustainability, to integrate the The Committee was established in 2009 with areas of responsibility into our decision-making the name “Corporate Governance and Social mechanisms, to increase awareness among Responsibility Committee” (CGSRC). In early employees, and to light the way to carry out reporting 2012, “remuneration” task was also given to the in line with the international standards as per our Committee and thus its name was changed to transparency principle. “Corporate Governance, Remuneration and Social Responsibility Committee” (CGRSRC). In early The Committee is responsible for ensuring 2013 “nominating candidates” was included in the compliance with Akbank’s Corporate Management Committee’s tasks and thus the name was updated Principles; monitoring the operations of the as “Corporate Governance Committee” (CGC). Investor Relations and Sustainability Department; determination, conformation of accordance and The Committee meets at least twice a year. Among evaluation of ethical values; creating a transparent the items in 2012 agenda were the analysis of the system to identify, evaluate and train suitable Bank’s current position in terms of sustainability, candidates for the Board of Directors; and working assessment of future steps, climate change on related policies and strategies. The Chairman strategies and action plan, and social responsibility projects as community investments. Handling sustainability issues within the Bank in a employee volunteering. These issues are managed by holistic manner and in coordination with of CGC. The related departments and have an important role in the holistic management covers issues such as internal and Bank’s sustainability strategy. Employee satisfaction external stakeholders is the responsibility of Investor and customer satisfaction are monitored and these Relations and Sustainability Department (IRSD) under are among the key success indicators for our executive the supervision integrating environmental, social and management. ethical aspects into our products and services with a strategic view and developing sustainability policies. A Sustainability (CSR) Team composed of An example is that our departments performing core representatives from the majority of the business banking functions and our purchasing departments units in Akbank and operating under the leadership of internalize sustainability by integrating environmental the CSR Sub-Group Manager performs the year-long and social elements into their own processes and sustainability reporting process. This task was included products. Environmental loans for corporate and in the job descriptions of our Sustainability (CSR) Team SME customers and environmental and social criteria leader and members in 2012 and thus an important step applied to our suppliers are the results of the policies was taken in sustainability performance management that we implement within the framework of our holistic and reporting. approach. We continue our communication and operations with In addition, there are various significant and material external stakeholders at various levels. Within the scope issues handled by related departments of Akbank of such engagement, we play an active role in numerous within the scope of our general business management. national and international associations and initiatives. These cover issues such as employee satisfaction, By exchanging opinions with key stakeholders on ensuring equal opportunities for all employees, various platforms, we regularly review our sustainability customer satisfaction, information security, and approach in the light of expectations from us. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 30 / Our Internal Procedures The Sustainability Approach e-learning program has Covering a number of environmental, social and been completed by 15,115 employees since its launch ethical elements in its structure, Akbank’s “Ethical in 2011. In an attempt to increase the awareness on Principles” are our official declaration that we expect Akbank’s sustainability initiatives within the Bank, the all employees and even stakeholders to comply with. Akbank Sustainability Report published in light of the Thanks to compliance with the mentioned principles, GRI Guidelines is shared with all managers and senior we have made sustainability management a corporate vice presidents annually. The managers who have a procedure. Ethics Line to be used if any violation of leadership role within the Bank are encouraged to these principles is observed is among procedures to review the report, convey the importance the Bank gives support sustainability management within the Bank. to this subject in every environment they happen to be in, Furthermore, the environmental and social criteria and share the content of the report with their employees that we implement in providing loans for corporate, and their networks. commercial and SME customers and in purchasing from suppliers are also within the scope of these The “Corporate Social Responsibility” section of procedures. the corporate portal, to which employees have full access, was overhauled in 2012. As part of Abiding by its corporate values in addition to laws and this effort, the related section was enriched with regulations in its anti-corruption initiatives, Akbank has a wide variety of contemporary information, from established effective audit mechanisms in this area and the Bank’s sustainability approach to its corporate administers awareness trainings for its employees. social responsibility projects. In addition, the Bank’s sustainability initiatives are also shared with the Internal Communication and Awareness employees via corporate TV screens located in Akbank Akbank has established effective channels branches as well as through e-mail messages. communication in order to contribute to raising the knowledge level and awareness of its employees Sustainability in the Supply Chain regarding “sustainability”. The more prominent such As part of its Supplier Management Policy, Akbank channels include classroom training and e-learning expects suppliers to take heed of implementing all programs as well as the corporate portal. Thanks to the aspects of the United Nations Global Compact as well as classroom training sessions organized to increase the social and environmental risks in their daily operations. awareness of branch employees, the Bank administered In addition, Akbank gives preference to suppliers that sustainability training to its field employees serving in employ systems which are more sensitive to the society every corner of Turkey. As a result of these efforts, 2,985 and the environment while outsourcing services. employees in 2012 and 1,274 employees in 2013, for a total of 4,259 employees, received basic sustainability Within this scope, nearly 50% of the companies within training. As part of this applied training effort based on the Bank’s supplier portfolio signed declarations the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact, committing to complying with Akbank’s principles and participants were educated particularly in sustainability policies. The Bank continuously audits its supplier firms management initiatives in banking. to ensure that they fulfill their public obligations such as paying taxes and social contributions and they do not Another comprehensive classroom training instituted employ child labor. by Akbank in this subject is the Sustainability Approach training that is mandatory for all new employees of Our Sustainability Commitment the Bank. This training aims to arm new employees Long-term and strong financial performance that offers with basic sustainability awareness through a training benefits for all of its stakeholders and forms the basis of package the content of which is custom-designed by the its sustainable corporate structure is an indispensable Bank. As part of this effort, 2,357 new employees hired objective for Akbank. While pursuing this goal, Akbank in various locations and functions attended sustainability also takes heed of its approach to and initiatives in training in 2012 and 2013. environmental, social and ethical matters. As part of this approach, Akbank has made the following commitments in its material areas of sustainability. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 31 / OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Subject of Commitment 2013 Status Evaluation Our Commitments Financial Performance Sustainable profitability and growth As a result of its steady investment and business In addition to enriching its portfolio of products and development initiatives, Akbank registered growth services, Akbank aims to expand its distribution rates above the corresponding sector averages in channels, continue growing its client base, loans and deposits for various customer segments and further improving its sustainable financial in 2013. performance. Sustainability Management Roles and Responsibilities We officially included related responsibilities into In coordination with the Investor Relations and the job definitions of Sustainability Team leader Sustainability Department, the Bank aims to and its members. We took the necessary steps to formulate action plans to guide the Akbank include sustainability in the performance evaluation sustainability strategy and to implement them by criteria of team members. way of the Sustainability Team. Sustainability in the supply chain Nearly 50% of the companies within the Bank’s Akbank plans to extract declarations from all of its supplier portfolio signed declarations committing to suppliers committing to comply with Akbank’s Code complying with Akbank’s principles and policies as of Ethics and sustainability policies. well as with the UN Global Compact. Employee awareness As of year-end 2013, the Bank delivered In accordance with the goal of integrating sustainability approach awareness training to sustainability into its corporate culture, Akbank nearly 6,000 employees via the custom-designed intends to organize sustainability-oriented training classroom sustainability training course. programs for its employees. Stakeholder engagement Akbank took concrete steps geared toward Akbank plans to enhance stakeholder engagement reinforcing stakeholder engagement through and improve its business processes in light of its various platforms such as the “For You” and “Why open communication and transparency policies. Not” meetings in 2013. Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Compliance Transparent corporate management The Investor Relations and Sustainability Division, Akbank, which embraces the principle of developing in conjunction with the Bank’s senior executives, mutual trust-based relations with its shareholders participated in a total of 25 investor conferences as well as existing and potential investors, aims to in Turkey and abroad in 2013 and met with nearly further reinforce its corporate governance on the 300 international investor funds and four rating basis of accountability. agencies. Information security Akbank conducted various surveys to measure the Closely monitoring the advances and developments information security awareness of its employees in information security, Akbank plans to conduct and, in light of the results of these surveys, devised special training programs to raise employee new actions regarding its business processes. awareness on this subject. Our Customers Customer satisfaction As a result of the improvements in the Bank’s Akbank plans to develop effective solutions to customer complaint management system customer needs and expectations in accordance infrastructure, average time of resolution for the with its objective of delivering superior customer 1 million customer complaint submittals annually satisfaction experience to its clients. was reduced from three days to two days. Environment-friendly products and services Between 2011 and 2013 Akbank disbursed the Akbank aims to contribute to environmental entirety of the USD 100 million MidSeff credit sustainability by extending loans to energy facility, which was obtained from the EBRD in 2011 conservation and renewable energy projects. to finance medium-scale renewable energy and energy conservation projects in Turkey; nearly 83% of this resource was deployed to fund four energy efficiency projects. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 32 / Subject of Commitment 2013 Status Evaluation Our Commitments Environmental and Social Risk Management in Akbank integrated “Loan Appraisal Supervisors”, Akbank aims to enhance the capabilities of its loan Loans who were tasked with evaluating all risks, including appraisal supervisors in terms of environmental environmental risks, and improving the processes, and social risks. into the evaluation process of all corporate and commercial branch loans. Innovative products and services to facilitate access Direct Internet, which combined Akbank’s internet The Bank aims to maintain its competitive edge by to financial services and mobile banking services under a single roof, launching high-tech services. serves more than 1.5 million customers as of yearend 2013. Our Employees Employee Engagement Akbank intends to carry out initiatives in career Akbank aims to properly identify employee opportunities, appreciation/rewarding and expectations and elicit employee feedback through performance management geared toward periodically conducted Employee Engagement increasing employee engagement in 2014 under Surveys. the guidance of the results of the Employee Engagement Survey conducted within the Bank in 2013. Training Akbank employees attended a total of 1,020,479 Supporting the personal and professional hours of training in 2013, corresponding to 8.91 development of all employees is a priority for business days of training per employee. Akbank, which attaches great importance to internal training activities. Equal opportunity In the evaluation conducted based on 22 criteria Akbank aims to continue equal opportunity within the scope of the “Equal Opportunity Model initiatives with the same awareness. Project”, Akbank received FEM certificate. Environmental Impacts of Our Operations Our environmental impact Akbank continued to reinforce the system Akbank embraces the principle of mitigating the infrastructure in 2013 in order to manage the environmental impacts of its operations to the environmental impacts of its operations conducted maximum extent possible and striving to conserve through its Head Office and service buildings as natural resources. well as nearly 1,000 branches. Carbon emissions Akbank continued to attain major reductions in Akbank intends to continue its multidimensional carbon emissions from its operations in 2013 support for the Turkey-based initiative of the owing to the energy efficiency projects it has Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an international implemented. project, in the period ahead. Investing in Communities Community investment through sponsorships Akbank sponsored the first comprehensive Akbank, which positions itself as an exemplary exhibition of the internationally-acclaimed leading corporate citizen, embraces the principle of artist Anish Kapoor as part of its 65th establishment lending sponsorship support to qualified projects in anniversary celebrations in 2013. Akbank continued education, youth, entrepreneurialism, culture-art to carry out the “Children: Heroes of the Economy” and environment. Project in other provinces of Turkey in 2013. Community investment through employee Number of projects carried out within the scope of Akbank embraces the principle of encouraging its volunteering the Akbank Volunteers program and the number employees to volunteer in community projects. of Akbank employees supporting these projects increased once again in 2013. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 33 / OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Engagement Platforms for Dialogue with Stakeholders The Bank communicates with key stakeholders via various dialogue platforms. Akbank website All companies and organizations that are affected (www.akbank.com) and the regularly issued Annual by Akbank’s activities, products and services or that Report and Sustainability Report are the main platforms directly or indirectly impact its performance are used to inform the stakeholders. In addition, Akbank the Bank’s “key” stakeholders. In full awareness of also benefits from multi-faceted dialogue platforms the fact that stakeholder engagement is the basic specially designed for each stakeholder group in order principle in corporate responsibility, the Bank considers to receive feedback from and establish dialogue with expectations and opinions of its key stakeholders them. while developing and implementing its sustainability strategies and pays ultimate attention to creating a regular, continuous, and trust-based communication with them. Examples of the Bank’s dialogues with key stakeholders are presented in the table below: Stakeholder Groups and Dialogue Platforms Our Approach Examples Shareholders, Investors, Analysts General Assembly Meetings and Minutes, Face-toThe dialogue mechanism that was developed to Akbank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Face and E-Dialogue (Meetings and Conferences ensure continuous communication between the Sub-Group within the Investor Relations and in Turkey and Abroad, Presentations and Briefings Bank management and shareholders is based upon Sustainability Department informs investors on via Webcast and E-mail), Public Disclosure the principles of “transparency, accountability, and the Bank’s environmental, social and economic Platform, Annual Report, “e-Manage: Corporate regular information dissemination”. sustainability performance both in writing and Governance and Investor Relations Portal” of the verbally. Central Registry Agency, Capital Markets Board of Turkey (CMB) Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report Press Releases, Investor Presentations Employees Quarterly live TV broadcasts by the Bank’s CEO, Akbank is aware that high motivation and Messages of the senior management and the Akbank Volunteers Program, Employee Satisfaction satisfaction levels among its employees are Bank’s quarterly performance results are Survey, Corporate Performance System, Meetings determinant in ensuring long-standing business communicated first-hand to employees via the (e.g. Regional Directorates and Customer performance. The Bank takes heed of regularly quarterly-held live TV broadcast by the CEO, an Relationship Management Performance Reviews, eliciting its employees’ opinions and expectations initiative that started in 2012. This project aims to Leaders Summit, Brainstorming Sessions), and tries to bring related practices to life. Akbank keep internal synergy dynamic, improve bilateral Coaching system, Corporate Portal “For Us”, established effective channels of communication to communication, and increase all employees’ Suggestion System, BANKSİS (Union of Bank and ensure effective internal communication. motivation to reach common goals. Within the Insurance Employees), Akbank Retirement Fund, framework of voluntary efforts that improve Ethics Line, E-Bulletins employee motivation and loyalty, Akbank created a Turkey-wide network volunteering ambassadors. In the light of the feedback received from the Employee Satisfaction Survey, Akbank focused more on the “Talent Management” initiatives aimed at identification and effective management of the employees’ talents. Within this scope, 73 Talent Committee Meetings were held with management of various business units. In line with the feedback from employees, a variety of project teams were created in business units that require optimization of business processes. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 34 / Stakeholder Groups and Dialogue Platforms Our Approach Examples Customers “Akbank For You Meetings”, Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction is Akbank’s first priority. “Akbank for You Meetings” were held in 21 Surveys, Akbank Branches, Akbank Call Center, Opinions and expectations of customers guide the provinces with the purpose of meeting with Akbank Website, Contact Us Website, Social Bank in developing products and services. In order customers and local authorities to exchange Media (1.5 million total followers), E-mail sustain customer satisfaction; Akbank implements opinions in accordance with Akbank’s “philosophy Notifications, Business Development Meetings numerous practices, from information security to of being Turkey’s bank”; hearing local problems for Customers, Informative Meetings with SMEs, responsible marketing communications, innovative and finding solutions; and sharing the economic www.kobilersizinicin.com website, Akbank Art and environmentally friendly products, and developments in the world and in Turkey with Center Activities , Media, Advertising and Promotion supporting customers in business development. customers. Akbank is in constant contact with Campaigns customers via 19 different Akbank accounts in the social media. Our agents, specially trained for this media and offering services 24/7, respond to more than 20 thousand comments monthly, offer solutions to complaints, and record the suggestions. International Financial Institutions One-to-One and Joint Meetings, Audits, Loans that Akbank secures from international The Sustainable Energy Financing Fund (TurSEFF) Negotiations, Reports, Presentations financial institutions such as IFC, EBRD, and EIB to of USD 60 million that Akbank had obtained from be lent out to customers mostly carry the conditions EBRD in 2010 was made completely available to of being environment-friendly and supporting customers in 2012 and a total of 50 customers development. Akbank establishes dialogues benefited from this fund. As a result of this process, with these institutions with the aim of building EBRD granted Akbank excellence awards in management systems to monitor environmental areas such as “the first bank to make the whole and social performances of its customers pursuant of TurSEFF available, the first bank to perform to the conditions attached to these loans. supplier financing, and the bank with the highest loan volume in renewable energy projects”. In addition, Akbank continued to extend loans in 2013 from the second tranche of the TurSEFF loan worth USD 24 million that was obtained from EBRD in 2012. Legislators and Regulatory Bodies Public-Private Sector Cooperation Workshop, Akbank is committed to thoroughly complying with At the “Public-Private Sector Workshop” more Meetings, Forums and Conferences, Various all related laws and regulations in all of its activities. than 70 executives from the Council of State, Working Groups, Verbal and Written Notifications, Akbank participates in forums, conferences and Privatization Administration, various ministries, Declarations, Press Releases, Compliance Reports working groups with the aim of closely following and a number of related public institutions came the agenda, identifying trends, and developing together with local and international financing and adapting its products and services in line institutions, academicians, and Akbank executives. with expectations of customers and legislators The group exchanged opinions on the ways of in a timely manner. In addition, the Bank closely further improving the investment climate. monitors developments related to the banking industry and presents its opinions on legislation amendments to related authorities. Suppliers Supplier Identification Forms, Meetings, Akbank Akbank expects its cooperating suppliers to act in As a result of informing the companies in its Code of Ethics accordance with the Bank’s principles and values. supplier portfolio on Akbank’s Code of Ethics The Bank also supports their development through and sustainability policies, approximately 50% of continuous information transfer. them declared their commitment to comply with Akbank’s principles and policies. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 35 / OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Groups and Dialogue Platforms Our Approach Examples University Students Activities Organized and Supported Directly Caring about university students’ requests, “Global University Student Entrepreneur Challenge” by Akbank (e.g. Global Student Entrepreneur opinions, and expectations, Akbank continuously -created in order to promote entrepreneurship Challenge), Akbank Thinking Club, Information improves its investments in support of their among universities all around the world and held in Meetings, Youth Banking, Campus Branches, education and development. Akbank cooperates Turkey for the first time in 2011 with support from Brochures and Promotion Campaigns with student clubs to support university students Akbankwas sponsored by Akbank once again in in entering the business world and to further 2013. Akbank Thinking Club that aims to provide a introduce Akbank to those who will graduate soon. platform for development of young people as future adults reached 121 members in 2013. Akbank held a “job interview simulation” at Boğaziçi University and had one-to-one interviews with students pretending that we were in a recruiting process. Participants were provided with feedback after the mock interviews. Local Community Activities Akbank organizes and participates (e.g. Akbank strives to support numerous activities that The Bank held “Akbank for You Meetings” in 21 “Akbank for You Meetings”), Arts and Culture offer social benefits and to reach local communities cities and shared the economic developments in Activities, Press Releases in areas it operates. the world and in Turkey, met with local authorities to hear local problems and find solutions, and exchanged opinions. Non-Governmental Organizations Cooperation in Social Engagement Practices, Akbank pays attention to improving cooperation While developing its social investment projects, Sponsorships, Meetings, Conferences with non-governmental organizations, being in the Bank cooperates with non-governmental continuous communication with them, taking their organizations. Akbank invites representatives of opinions and expectations about its activities into NGOs to its events and receives their opinions on consideration. related issues. Media Press Conferences, Press Releases, Daily Akbank aims to maintain continuous dialogue with Akbank senior management and related managers Economic Bulletins national and international media, to inform them regularly meet with prominent figures of the media promptly and accurately through press releases, community at the press conferences and exchange and to share opinions with opinion leaders at press opinions. conferences. Memberships in Associations and Unions, Signed • The Banks Association of Turkey (TBB) Initiatives • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TUSIAD) Akbank is a corporate member of various associations • Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) and unions with the aim of closely following • Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society (TEID) developments in sustainability and contributing to • European Union Green Banking in the Mediterranean such efforts. In addition, the Bank establishes close Project relationships with its international stakeholders by also • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) signing on to internationally-acclaimed initiatives. • Turkish Industry and Business Association (TUSIAD) Sustainable Development Task Force Our memberships in associations and unions, as well • Istanbul Stock Exchange Sustainability Index (ISESI) as the local and global initiatives we signed within the Project framework of sustainability are grouped below on the • The Banks Association of Turkey, Role of Financial basis of relatedness: Industry in Sustainable Growth Task Force akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 36 / • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Contribution to Development of Public Policy • Cancun and Durban Communiqués drawn prior It is an utmost priority for Akbank to participate in to Conference of the Parties to the United Nations forums, conferences and working groups as a speaker Framework Convention on Climate Change to make or an observer in order to meet its stakeholders, a call of action to governments from the private legislators and customers in particular, to closely follow sector the agenda, to identify trends, and to improve and adapt • The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group on its products and services in accordance with stakeholder Climate Change (CLG) expectations. The Bank also sponsors events that are in • Climate Platform and Turkish Leaders Group on conformity with its corporate policy. Climate Change established by REC and TUSIAD • Interbank Card Center (BKM) Akbank Senior Management attends meetings • Visa Colorful Horizons regarding such issues as the economy and finance at • Credit Cards Registry Office the level of Presidency and Prime Ministry within the • Association of Corporate Communicators scope of leader communications. A good example of this • Association of Advertisers is the position of Mrs. Suzan Sabancı Dinçer, Chairman • Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts of the Board of Directors of Akbank, as a Member of • Private Sector Volunteers Association the Board of Trustees of Chatham House. As part of her role on the Chatham House Board of Trustees, a body of “Chatham House-The Royal Institute of International Affairs”, one of the world’s leading think-tanks, Mrs. Akbank and the United Nations Global Compact Dinçer shares her personal experiences and opinions The biggest evidence of Akbank’s commitment on such subjects as Turkey’s economic and strategic to universal principles of human rights, labor positioning, the economy and globalization with her conditions, environment, and anti-corruption is fellow Board members. its signature under the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) – one of the important corporate social responsibility initiatives worldwide. With this signature, Akbank takes responsibilities such as respect for human rights, providing a safe and healthy work environment, protecting the environment, offering sustainable values and benefits to employees and the society by means of policies and practices that cover transparent corporate management. Thus, Akbank pledges to fulfill its duties in creating a more humanistic globalization. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 37 / OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Activities We Support Our Bank supports various activities focusing on environmental impacts, economic and social development issues. Representatives of the Government, Legislators, supranational and international institutions as well as local and international institutions are among the participants of the conferences that we sponsor. Examples of activities we supported and participated in 2013 are given below. Activity Content Forum Istanbul Akbank is the strategic partner to the Forum Istanbul Platform since 2009. Forum Istanbul, which is having a larger presence and influence with each passing year, is an international platform where political and economic trends are discussed. Participants of this event include senior executives of national and international brands, academicians, politicians, and senior executives of non-governmental organizations. Akbank lent sponsorship support and a speaker to this activity, which was attended by nearly 1,000 professionals in 2012. Brand Finance Forum Brand Finance conducts annual brand valuation studies both globally and in Turkey. These studies are considered to be one of the most legitimate brand valuations in the business world. Brand Finance’s international valuation is published in The Banker as “The World’s Most Valuable Banking Brands” and the one in Turkey is published in the Capital magazine. The event was attended by senior executives of national and international brands, academicians, politicians and senior executives of non-governmental organizations. Akbank provides sponsorship support to this initiative. Microsoft at Work Cloud Summit At the Microsoft at Work Cloud Summit that was sponsored by Akbank, SMEs, business partners, software developers and information technology experts got together and shared the cloud solutions that are shaping Turkey’s digital future as well as their success stories. “İyiGirişim (Good Venture) and İyiYatırım (Good The Bank was a sponsor of the “İyiGirişim (Good Venture) Summit” that was organized under the Investment)” Summits “Design Thinking” theme. The summit, where participants’ ventures were assessed from different viewpoints, brought together the leading entrepreneurs, investors and corporate executives from Turkey and from across the world in Istanbul. İyiYatırım (Good Investment) Summit” was a major platform where investors, entrepreneurs, academicians and senior executives came together to discuss the Angel Investor model. Climate Change efforts to increase the awareness of other companies and organizations in Turkey on climate change, effect constructive initiatives for reducing emissions, and raise Global climate change is another material issue for social awareness on this issue. Akbank. Akbank has been undertaking intensive efforts since 2009 in combating climate change, which is one Among Akbank’s important initiatives in terms of of the top agenda items of the global public opinion in climate change is the corporate support it has provided recent years. since 2010 for the implementation of the global Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in Turkey. As a participant to Akbank is among the pioneering private sector the project carried out by Sabancı University, the steps corporations in Turkey that are committed to reporting and the measures Akbank took demonstrated to all of greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the its stakeholders how seriously the Bank takes this issue. international standards. In addition, the Bank carries out akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 38 / The Carbon Disclosure Project Report, introduced with Department ensures coordination and management of the participation of nearly 100 people consisting of the issue within our Bank. Other departments such as academicians, representatives of non-governmental Branch Operations, Architectural Works, and Personnel organization and officials from private corporations Management are responsible for collecting data, each year, encompasses the analysis of submissions of including energy consumption and implementation of Turkish companies included in the Carbon Disclosure energy saving practices. Project as well as major trends in climate change. Risks and Opportunities Climate change, which is believed to be causes by Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) human-induced greenhouse gas emissions, brings Carbon Disclosure Project is a global initiative a number of risks with it. These risks are significant that was started in the year 2000 with the purpose enough to endanger the entire social structure, which of collecting and sharing information to allow the Bank is a part of. For instance, heat waves of companies, investors, and governments to take increasing frequency and intensity, floods, droughts, measures against the threat of climate change. and extreme weather conditions are among the CDP is an initiative that aims to create transparency physical risks. This impact on the physical environment in greenhouse gas emissions and increase public potentially has negative impacts on industries such awareness and consciousness on the issue in which as forestry, fishery, agriculture, health, tourism, voluntariness is essential. As the only independent and construction. Climate change laws, rules and international institution to globally report how regulations that have been enacted or are likely be put climate change-induced risks are managed by into effect in Turkey and its trading partners pose the companies, CDP operates on behalf of 722 corporate risk of legal incompliance and extra investment costs investors that manage global assets of USD 87 to fight climate change. It is anticipated that companies trillion. with large amounts of greenhouse gas emissions such Every year, member institutions and corporations as the ones in transportation and aviation industries report the strategies and policies they apply in will be impacted by the aforementioned laws and their struggle against climate change, amount of regulations. greenhouse gases they emitted, and their targets to reduce these emissions to the public and investors. Akbank has created various internal platforms to These data and information are shared with a large manage climate change-related risks. The Bank is audience, including corporate investors, companies, leveraging these platforms to carry out necessary public policy leaders, public institutions, and initiatives in terms of managing the anticipated risks academicians. in the best possible way and turning threats into opportunities. In this regard, the Bank is undertaking conscientious efforts particularly in following the Climate Change Management new laws and regulations in energy efficiency and Akbank’s solution strategies for the global climate renewable energy that became effective in 2010 as well change are shaped by the Corporate Governance as complying with this new legal framework. In addition, Committee that directly reports to our Board of Akbank continues to offer products and services in Directors. In addition, the International Advisory Board, energy efficiency and renewable energy to corporate which includes Lord Stern, one of the world’s leading clients on relatively favorable terms. Further, the Bank experts in climate change, also contributes to the measures its carbon emissions resulting from its Bank’s vision. Investor Relations and Sustainability operations and business travel and implements various measures to reduce these emissions. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 39 / OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Carbon Management in Our Operations Following Akbank’s participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2009, it has become much more important to measure the greenhouse gas emissions (in equivalent carbon dioxide terms) resulting from the Bank’s operations and to take measures to mitigate this level. A number of initiatives were launched geared toward measuring, tracking and reducing the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from electricity and fuel use in Akbank buildings and from fuels used in employees’ business and training travels. Akbank launched a system to systematically monitor and report energy consumption and greenhouse gas data of its branches. Thanks to this system, the Bank began to track the data for business units. (Detailed information on energy and carbon management is presented in the “Our Operations and the Environment” section of this Report.) Akbank shares its climate change strategies and greenhouse gas emissions data with stakeholders by way of the annually-published Sustainability Report as well as the CDP Report. The Bank submitted the fourth Report to the CDP Secretariat in 2012 and plans to release the fifth report in 2014. Our Carbon-Focused Products and Services In addition to the efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from its own operations, the Bank offers various products and services with the aim of encouraging customers to which it makes loans to conserve energy and thus to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. Detailed information on such products including Akbank Energy-Friendly Loans is provided under the sub-title of “Climate-Friendly Loans” within the “Value Added to Our Customers” section of this Report. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 40 / 04. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKBANK 2013/SUSTAINABILITY REPORT akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 41 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKBANK Corporate governance at Akbank has been structured in In addition, there is a “Financial Accounting and accordance with national and international standards. Shareholders Transactions Directorate” in Akbank to Corporate governance at our Bank covers the following: facilitate monitoring the rights of shareholders. • Our relations with shareholders, The Investor Relations and Sustainability Department • Our public disclosure and transparency policy, is responsible for presenting the Bank’s performance • Roles, responsibilities, and rights of the Board of and strategies accurately and transparently to existing Directors, and potential investors. IRSD also plays an active role • Relations with beneficiaries. in facilitating protection and use of shareholders’ rights – especially the rights of getting information and While relations with beneficiaries (in other words, examining the data. The Department informs investors stakeholders) are covered in another section of the on environmental, social and economic sustainability. Report, the other three subjects have been detailed in In 2012, the Investor Relations and Sustainability this section. Department attended a total of 26 domestic and foreign investor conferences together with executive management of Akbank and had meetings with approximately 300 international investment funds and In Turkey, Akbank is the first bank four rating institutions. Also, more than 500 questions • to publicly announce its dividend policy (2003). posed by investors and analysts via telephone and • to announce its Corporate Governance Principles e-mails were answered. in its annual report (2003). Information on the General Assembly meetings is • to announce its Corporate Governance Principles announced in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette, in its website (2004). in a national newspaper, on the corporate website, • to repurchase its founders’ shares (2005). at the Public Disclosure Platform www.kap.gov.tr, e-Governance Corporate Governance and Investor Relations Portal on the Central Registry Agency www. mkk.com.tr, and on the e-GEM Electronic General Assembly System at least three weeks before the event. Relations with The Annual Report is submitted to the shareholders through our Bank’s website, at the Shareholder Shareholders and Transactions Subdivision, as well as at the Ankara, Adana and Izmır Commercial Branches three weeks before the General Assembly. In addition, matters Investors stipulated in article numbered 1.3.1 of the Capital Markets Board Corporate Governance Principles are disclosed to the shareholders on the Bank’s website Akbank management aims to have a transparent and correspondingly with the announcement for the General close communication with its shareholders; therefore, Assembly Meeting of Shareholders. its principle is to be fair to all shareholders. The main goal is to make Akbank shares attractive to existing According to Akbank Articles of Association, shareholders and potential investors as well as to shareholders may assign another shareholder as a ensure that these shares are predictable investment representative with a right to vote. Shareholders may tools. exercise their right to vote either in person or through another person or shareholder at General Assemblies. In order to manage and strengthen relations with both existing and potential shareholders, Akbank established General Assemblies are held in Akbank Head Office an “Investor Relations Group” in 1996. The Investor (Sabancı Center) in a way that increases participation Relations and Sustainability Department (IRSD) replies of shareholders, avoids injustice, and allows for all questions that are not related to commercial secrets, participation with a minimum cost for shareholders. taking the principle of equality into consideration Those who have the right to participate in the Bank’s and thus it is ensured that the Bank management General Assembly meetings may also vote via the and shareholders are in continuous communication. Electronic General Assembly System. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 42 / Our Public Disclosure Akbank Board of Directors Policy Structure of the Board of Directors As of year-end 2013 there are three executive and Akbank abides by the regulations of the Capital Markets seven non-executive members on Akbank’s Board Board (CMB) and Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) in terms of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of public disclosure. of the Bank is also an Executive Member with responsibility in all areas. There were three Independent The Bank’s Public Disclosure Policy has been formed by Members on the Bank’s Board of Directors in 2013. the Board of Directors within the framework of the CMB The Bank adopted, and began implementing, the Corporate Governance Principles, and then approved amendments to the Articles of Association and board and announced to the public on Akbank’s Website. of directors organizations required to comply with the The Board of Directors is authorized and responsible Corporate Governance Principles as set forth in the for informing the public, as well as for monitoring, correspondence(1) sent by the Capital Markets Board to supervising, and improving the public disclosure policy. the Banks Association of Turkey on October 19, 2012 at The Financial Accounting and Shareholder Transactions the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of Shareholders Sub-Division and Investor Relations and Sustainability held on March 28, 2013. The Bank was in full compliance Department as well as the Corporate Communications with the mandatory articles of the Corporate Governance Department are assigned to supervise and monitor all Principles in 2013. In addition, efforts are under way issues regarding public disclosures. to comply with the nonobligatory provisions of the Corporate Governance Principles. Akbank Website, material disclosures, Akbank branches, Call Center, social media (Twitter, Facebook), According to the Capital Markets Board’s corporate media, advertising and promotion campaigns, Annual governance practices, audit committee members of Report and Sustainability Report are the most important banks are considered independent members of the platforms to inform the Bank’s shareholders. board of directors. Hayri Çulhacı and Yaman Törüner, Members of the Audit Committee, are Independent In addition, the “e-MANAGE: Corporate Governance Members. Akbank submitted its application for the and Investor Relations Portal” of the Central Registry candidate nominated as the other independent member. Agency is also utilized in disseminating information to Following the approval of the Capital Markets Board, stakeholders. this candidate will be announced publicly as part of the agenda for the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting of Shareholders and will be voted on by the shareholders at the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting that will be The Bank’s Corporate Governance Principles held on March 27, 2014. The Bank’s Board of Directors Compliance Report is available on Akbank’s website will have three independent members after this and can be reached directly at the following link: meeting. http://www.akbank.com/yatirimci-iliskileri/ kurumsal-yonetim/kurumsal-yonetim-ilkeleriThere is a secretariat for informing and communicating uyum-raporu.aspx with the Members of the Board of Akbank. The Board meets at least 12 times a year. Board Members pay Akbank Information Disclosure Policy is available at attention to participating and contributing to every the following link: meeting. The Chairman consults to other Board http://www.akbank.com/yatirimci-iliskileri/ Members and the CEO to define the agenda of the kurumsal-yonetim/bilgilendirme-politikasi.aspx meeting. Information and documentation on the agenda are presented to the Members of the Board prior to the meeting. (1) Communiqué Series: IV, No: 56 on “Determination and Implementation of Corporate Governance Principles” that was published by the Capital Markets Board in the Official Gazette numbered 28158 dated December 30, 2011 and became effective on the same date. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 43 / CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT AKBANK In order for the Board of Directors to make a resolution, The Bank’s administrative structure and organization is one more than half of its members must attend the given in the third section of the Articles of Association. meeting. Therefore all resolutions are made with This section explains roles and capacities of the the majority of members attending the meeting. Board Members and other executives: Roles and Negotiations of the Board are routinely recorded by responsibilities of the Board of Directors are subject a secretary selected amongst the members or by to the provisions of the Turkish Commercial Code and someone hired outside the Bank. Minutes must be Banking Law as well as to the provisions of the Articles signed by attendees and if there are opponent members, of Association. the reason of opposition to the resolution must be stated in the minutes which must be signed by the voter. Board Committees within the Board of Directors Members are not entitled to have weighted votes and/or In Akbank’s Board of Directors, there are various to veto resolutions. committees for different tasks. In addition to such committees, Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control Roles and Responsibilities of the Board and Compliance Directorate, and Risk Management Akbank Board of Directors manages and represents Department directly report to the Board of Directors. the Bank and makes strategic decisions considering its long-term benefits by implementing a rational and The Audit Committee helps the Board in the cautious risk management approach that balances the performance of supervision and surveillance activities; it Bank’s risks, growth and revenues. also monitors the operation and competence of internal systems as well as accounting and reporting systems. The Board of Directors sets the Bank’s strategic objectives, determines the human and financial Corporate Governance Committee (CGC) was resources Akbank will need, and supervises the established in 2009 with the aim of monitoring performance of the management team. The Board compliance with corporate governance principles and of Directors oversees the compliance of the Bank’s supervising the implementation of corporate social activities with the laws and regulations, the Articles of responsibility activities, under the name of “Corporate Association, internal regulations and policies. Governance and Social Responsibility Committee” in 2009. In 2013, “nomination” task was also given to the The Board of Directors operates in a transparent, Committee and its name was changed to “Corporate accountable, fair, and responsible manner. The Governance Committee”. The Committee is responsible Board plays an active role in maintaining an efficient for ensuring, monitoring and communicating communication between the Bank and shareholders as compliance with Akbank’s Corporate Management well as in resolving potential disputes. Principles; monitoring the operations of the Investor Relations and Sustainability Department; creating The Board of Directors approves Akbank’s annual a transparent system to identify, evaluate and train budget and strategic plan, closely monitors actual suitable candidates for the Board of Directors; and comparisons with the budget, receives information working on related policies and strategies. Members on deviations, and reviews the resolutions made. If of the Remuneration Committee are responsible for there are any significant deviations in macroeconomic monitoring, auditing, and reporting remuneration conditions compared to the budget estimates, the operations on behalf of the Board of Directors. The budget is revised and resubmitted to the Board of Committee meets at least twice a year. The chairman Directors for approval. The Board monitors strategic and majority of the members of the Committee are goals, budget targets and actual figures on a daily, independent Board Members. weekly or monthly basis, depending on the nature of the issue. The Credit Committee is a loan assignment resolution center that examines loan offers which have passed loan processes of the General Directorate in terms of compliance with legal regulations, banking principles, the Bank’s goals and loan policies. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 44 / Executive Risk Committee (ERC) is responsible for creating risk policies, identifying methods to measure Akbank International and manage risks, setting and monitoring suitable risk limits. All risk policies are put down in writing and Advisory Board integrated into the long-term overall strategy of the Bank. The Akbank International Advisory Board was established with the aim of monitoring global and local economic developments and making strategic inferences for Akbank. The Board consists of a total of Up-to-date information on Committee members is 12 Turkish and foreign members, each with profound available at the following link: knowledge and experience in their areas. Mr. Kemal http://www.akbank.com/yatirimci-iliskileri/ Derviş, former President of the United Nations kurumsal-yonetim/yonetim-kurulu-komiteleri.aspx Development Programme (UNDP) and former Minister of Economic Affairs in Turkey, and currently Vice President for global economy in the Brookings Institute The Asset-Liability Committee (ALC) is chaired by and Member of the International Board of Overseers the CEO and is responsible for the daily liquidity and of Sabancı University, is the Chairman of the Akbank cash management. ALC meets at least twice a week to International Advisory Board. The Akbank International discuss the latest developments in the economy and the Advisory Board met twice in 2013. At these meetings, markets. It is also responsible for devising investment, latest trends in the global economy, main trends in pricing, and funding strategies. monetary and finance policies, and current opportunities for the Turkish economy were discussed with a global Rights of the Board Members perspective. Remuneration policy of the Bank is implemented in accordance with the regulations by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA) and the CMB. Basis of remuneration for the Board Members Up-to-date information on the Board members can and senior executives are communicated at the Bank’s be reached at the following link: website. http://www.akbank.com/yatirimci-iliskileri/kurumsalyonetim/uluslararasi-danisma-kurulu.aspx According to the Akbank Articles of Association, Members of the Board of Directors are paid a monthly fee or remuneration is fixed by the General Assembly. In addition, the portion of the Bank’s dividend to be paid to the Chairman and Board Members within the scope of the Ordinary General Assembly Meeting resolutions is stated. Executive members are also paid 12 salaries and four bonuses annually. These payments are determined annually by the Board of Directors. The Banking Code limits loans to be granted by Akbank to the Board Members and they are not granted any loans against this mandate. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 45 / 05. RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE 2013/sustainability report akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 46 / Foreseeing risks, managing Risk Management them with professional Akbank’s risk policies are made in relation to the Bank’s long-term strategies and targets as well as to the proficiency, and ensuring quality and quantity of activities. In all cases -including capital allocation, portfolio/investment preferences, compliance have been among new product and activity decisionsrisk management, compliance with legislation, environmental and social the most important building impacts are taken into consideration. blocks and superiorities in We continuously evaluate risks that we may face during our activities and update policies, procedures, and Akbank’s corporate culture practices required to manage these risks effectively. Such updates are performed by closely following and implementing changes, innovations, arrangements and since its foundation. models in internationally-recognized risk management principles. All of the analyses, calculations, simulations, scenarios, stress tests and other efforts play a It is primarily the responsibility of the Board of Directors determinant role in the strategic decisions made by to establish and ensure operation of an effective risk management system throughout Akbank. In parallel our Bank’s Board of Directors and senior executive to this responsibility, the Board performs necessary management. actions to identify the Bank’s basic approach to risks and risk management policies. Audit Committee and The issues below come to the fore when sustainability in Executive Risk Committee established within the Board risk management is considered: of Directors assist the Board in fulfilling and monitoring responsibilities. Risk Management, Internal Control Market Risks and Internal Audit units that report directly to the Board Market risks emerging due to fluctuations in foreign are responsible for coordination and assessment of exchange rates, interest rates, and market prices achieving the expected effectiveness. of stocks are measured by using internationallyrecognized models. Limits are identified for the Bank or All Akbank employees are responsible for compliance Group and compliance with these limits is continuously with policies and strategies drawn by the Board of monitored. Directors, for effective management of risks related to their own areas of operation, and for taking necessary Liquidity Risks actions to comply with the legislation. Akbank has created a liquidity management framework for maintaining required liquidity resources to perform legal liabilities in a timely manner to depositors, creditors and corporations that it has made a commitment to. The Bank protects itself from any akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 47 / RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE negative impacts to be caused by liquidity risks thanks New Products and Services Risks to its widespread deposit base, robust capital structure, In addition to risks identified for existing products and varied foreign borrowing sources. In addition, and activities, risks that may arise from development extra liquidity sources are made available with limits of new products and services are also assessed. allocated by the Central Bank, ISE Repo Market and Potential financial, operational, legal and reputation the Settlement and Custody Bank as well as the liquid risks of newly-developed products or services; securities portfolio in hand. By being cautious in foreign methods to be used in measuring and managing these currency liquidity management, reserves sufficient to risks; and control mechanisms to be established are fulfill liquidity needs are maintained. identified with contribution from related departments of the Bank. Since 2011, “New Product and Service Management and monitoring of market and liquidity Evaluation Committee” comprising managers of all risks had an increasingly important role in the cautious departments involved in product development decides and farsighted management of the probable negative on the suitability of all product and service in terms of impacts of the crises and challenges experienced legislation and technical qualifications. When the Board recently in the global economy. of Directors approves the extensive risk assessment made by the Committee, necessary actions are taken for Credit Risks risk management. All banking products with credit risks (such as credit placements and commitments to customers, letters Operational Risks of credit) are managed with assistance from cautious Operational risks are among the most important and loan policies and procedures in Akbank. In all credit extensive risks in banking. In general, operational transactions, loan quality (credit worthiness), purpose risks result from overlooking errors and irregularities of use, and environmental and social effects are due to failures in the control of business processes, assessed via an internal customer rating system. bank management’s and employees’ failure to act Sector, customer, loan type, customer segment-based in accordance with the time and conditions, errors limits are identified in order to monitor credit risks. and irregularities in IT systems, or natural disasters. As explained in the “Value Added to Our Customers” In Akbank, mechanisms such as differentiated and section of this Report, a risk analysis section that also diversified controls, insurance, and limits are used in allows evaluation of environmental risks has been the management of risks related to all risk categories, included in loan packages in 2011 for project financing, mainly legal and reputation risks. The Operational corporate and commercial customer segments. Risk Committee, which was established at the Senior Management level in 2011, discusses subjects that are Reputation Risks of importance from operational risk perspective and Reputation risk is a significant risk in terms of actively monitors the actions taken at its regularly-held sustainability. All Akbank employees, notably the Board meetings. of Directors, are held responsible for the management of this risk. Within the scope of the management of this Legal Risks risk, policies and practices were identified (including Operating flawlessly in terms of compliance with areas such as full compliance with legislation, legislation is a fundamental priority for us. For following establishing and exercising trust-based relationships legislation related to the banking sector and adaptation with stakeholders, efficient and fast solutions to to developments and changes, various departments customer complaints) and these have been put down in work to ensure compliance in the Bank’s system writing. Akbank Ethical Principles serve as an important infrastructure, business processes, rules, and limits. guide in this sense. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 48 / Internal Control and Directorate of Internal Control and Compliance The Directorate performs periodical controls in Internal Audit System branches and the Head Office Departments to measure the effectiveness and adequacy of internal controls performed during the execution of the Bank’s Main objective of Akbank’s internal control system is to operations and to see whether the internal controls are ensure that the Bank’s assets are protected, operations in conformity with the laws and internal legislation and are performed effectively, efficiently, and in compliance are performed effectively and efficiently. The Directorate with legislation, and a reliable and integrated accounting also works to establish control systems in required and financial reporting system is established. All Bank areas. employees, notably the Board of Directors, are held responsible for the establishment and execution of an The Directorate of Internal Control and Compliance effective internal control system. The Audit Committee attaches importance to preventive approaches. In assists the Board of Directors’ activities in this context. addition, results of the Directorate’s operations are discussed not only at quarterly Control Committee The most important component of an effective internal meetings, but also at weekly meetings with the related control system is the control environment. The control Board Member; probable risks are taken under control environment in Akbank is defined within certain rules while still at a “potential” level. and designed to contribute to all business processes. In addition, arrangements on issues such as organization As of year-end 2013, operations focused on four structure, Ethical Principles, distribution of authority main areas: segment branch controls encompassing and responsibility are also performed. Our employees corporate-commercial-private branches and the are encouraged to identify and assess risks that may overseas branch; business practice controls examining prevent the Bank from reaching its targets and are processes and transactions throughout the bank continuously reminded of the importance of control by business line; information system controls; and activities in managing such risks. compliance controls. Findings from control activities are shared with the related branches and head office units, In line with this understanding, effectiveness of the and mitigation status of the deficiencies is overseen. internal control system is ensured by using certain mechanisms including; Akbank employees are informed on new legislation, compliance process is monitored, new products and • Identification of functional differences, separation of services (prior to approval by the Board of Directors) and the functions of marketing and operations, internal regulations (prior to issuing) are assessed and • Documentation of job definitions and specific reported; technical controls of the Bank’s information responsibilities in the control system of each security and IT infrastructure systems are also employee at every level, performed. • Documentation of all workflows and checkpoints throughout the Bank via the Business Process Management (BPM), • Establishing information systems that are in compliance with the volume and quality of the Bank’s activities, • Establishing effective and comprehensive communication channels, hearing suggestions of employees on processes and activities, and implementing them. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 49 / RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE The Board of Internal Auditors The Board of Internal Auditors performs audits Compliance and evaluations in order to ensure that the Bank’s activities are in accordance with legislation as well as Although a variety of units in Akbank is responsible for with strategies and policies identified by the Board of following related legislation on banking and ensuring Directors, productivity is improved, service quality is compliance in a timely and holistic manner, each and enhanced, effectiveness and competence of the Bank’s every employee is responsible for compliance. internal control and risk management systems as well as corporate governance processes are retained. In terms of sustainability, two compliance areas should be especially emphasized for the banking industry: Internal audits are performed in a way that covers all units, processes and operations and are planned with a Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime risk-oriented point of view. Examples to the work done Within the scope of “prevention of laundering proceeds by the Board of Internal Auditors are evaluating the of crime and financing of terrorism”, Akbank’s compliance of branch transactions with the provisions customers, customer transactions, products, and and liabilities stated in internal and external legislation services are evaluated with a risk-based approach in investigating; analyzing and assessing existing or parallel with legislation. In this context, implementation probable, actual or potential risks resulting from details of precautions and principles aimed to identify, negligence, misconduct, fraud etc. in our branches, rate, monitor, evaluate, and prevent potential risks units and affiliates; and eliminating risks. are fulfilled by considering the liabilities in relation to knowing the customer. The Board of Internal Auditors examines the reliability and integrity of the Bank’s information systems and Akbank operates within the framework of the “Know checks whether information is accessed on time. Your Customer Policy” (“Know Your Customer Policy It performs information security audits based upon and Principles to Prevent Laundering of Proceeds international standards. It also puts in effort to identify of Crime and Financing of Terrorism”) prepared and solve probable irregularity notifications from legal in accordance with national legislation as well bodies (including those via the Ethics Line), the Bank as principles, regulations, and standards set by itself, and our customers. The Board of Internal Auditors international authorities. In line with the standards also investigates and resolves all probable fraud issued by the United Nations Security Council and notifications. Financial Action Task Force, systemic controls are made to prevent mediating in banking transactions for As a result of the operations of the Board of Internal laundering proceeds of crime, financing of terrorism, Auditors, findings are identified through internal control and illegal activities. and suggestions are made to develop the processes, increase efficiency, and strengthen internal systems. The Directorate of Internal Control and Compliance is Furthermore, actions taken accordingly are actively also responsible for conducting the controls regarding monitored. the transactions with high-risk countries in accordance with the regulations published by international Results of the operations by the Board of Internal regulatory authorities (OFAC, EU, UN, etc.). In addition, Auditors and the Directorate of Internal Control and the policies and procedures formulated regarding this Compliance are regularly monitored and evaluated by subject are announced to the entire Bank. the Control Committee and Board of Directors. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 50 / Compliance in Product Promotions and Marketing Communication Secure Banking All kinds of communication operations performed with the aim of promotion and marketing of banking products Security in banking products and services can be and services are subject to various laws and regulations. addressed under two main areas: confidentiality and Every employee who communicates with customers, safety of customer information and information safety. including the Corporate Communications Department, is responsible for the compliance of our communication Responsibility in providing secure banking services activities with the laws and regulations. begins as soon as the product or service is sold and continues for the entire lifecycle of it. Any negative In all activities regarding product promotions, experience in any phase of this cycle could result in sales and marketing communications (including losing a customer and adversely affect our reputation advertisements and sponsorships), our priority is to and thus, “secure banking” principle is fundamental to abide by the generally accepted ethical rules, privacy Akbank’s services. of personal information, laws and regulations (Turkish Commercial Code, Consumer Protection Law, Directive Ensuring confidentiality of customer information is a for Commercial Advertisement and Announcement requirement by the law as well as by our Bank’s rules Principles and Codes of Practice by the Turkish Ministry and ethical principles. Therefore, only related and of Industry and Commerce, Banking Law, Capital authorized employees can have access to customer Market Law, regulations of the Banking Regulation information and transactions made using such and Supervision Agency regarding our products, and information are regularly monitored and recorded. regulations by the Banks Association of Turkey and Using customer information outside the Bank is limited Interbank Card Center), industry standards, all rules of only to legally authorized people and institutions. institutions that we are a member of, such as Visa and MasterCard. Our new employees are trained in information security when they first start working and are regularly updated Akbank pays maximum attention while promoting and on the issue throughout their careers. Surveys are marketing its products and services in order to avoid held to measure our employees’ level of awareness in any loss of rights of its customers. For instance, in information security. In accordance with the results of credit card commercials broadcast on TV, the Bank these surveys, we plan information security awareness makes sure that informative subtitles are used and activities and provide training and information to the size of letters as well as the flow rate of subtitles employees on issues to be paid attention to. is appropriate and legible. Akbank announces the campaigns and innovations regarding its products on Operations held in cooperation with companies providing the Akbank corporate website as well as transmitting support services should be approved after security them via e-mail and SMS to customers who opt for such processes are applied and only those that meet the communication. Pursuant to its transparent pricing security standards of Akbank are approved. policy and taking legal obligations into consideration, Akbank announces to its customers the terms and As a part of secure banking, to ensure maximum conditions of all of its banking products and services, financial security of our customers, our systems are and information such as fees, commissions and interest protected with various information security measures rates, through various channels, including Akbank and technology-based threats are regularly monitored. website. Additional measures such as sector, transaction, and total sum limits and multi-digit password use are employed especially in products including the Internet, For more information please visit: http://www.akbank.com/faiz-oran/ucret-komisyon.aspx (available only in Turkish) akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 51 / RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMPLIANCE telephone, and credit card products. VirtualCard, Mobil Signature, SMS Agent and the “Security Picture” proving Business Continuity that the website seen on the screen belongs to Akbank are among the safety measures we take for customers Management who want to shop safely on the Internet. In order to ensure continuity of critical business We cooperate with security companies to take measures processes as well as to ensure recovery of the system against virtual attacks that may have adverse effects not in case of failure, to prevent customer losses, and only on Akbank, but also on the banking sector itself. to maintain corporate reputation, Akbank executes the Business Continuity Management Program. This Committees including the Security Committee and Program is devised on the basis of business continuity Information Security Committee monitor such potential and disaster management system defined in the British threats and test our systems, follow technological Standard Institute’s internationally recognized BS 25999 innovations, and evaluate all kinds of upgrading and Standard and was updated in 2012 following the release development alternatives. In addition, to increase of ISO 22301:2012 Social Security Business Continuity awareness, we continuously inform customers on Management System standard. measures they can take and make announcements in our website regarding the threats they must pay In Akbank, organization chart, roles and responsibilities attention to. for business continuity is defined clearly. The Business Continuity Committee that meets twice a year monitors the performance of the Business Please visit the link below for more detailed Continuity Management Program, checks and guides information on security measures implemented for the operations, and provides the resources required the Akbank Internet Branch: for business continuity. Emergency plans are devised http://www.akbank.com/bireysel/ozgur-bankacilik/ to handle actions to be taken in extraordinary cases in akbank-direkt-internet/guvenlik.aspx a detailed way. There is a Disaster Recovery Center in Izmır in order to continue critical services if the IT Center For more information on the VirtualCard please visit: fails to operate. http://www.axess.com.tr/kartlar/axess-sanalkart Disaster drills are performed every year to measure the efficiency of business continuity plans, increase internal awareness on business continuity, and test the operability of critical operations via the Disaster Recovery Center. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 52 / Ethical Banking Notifications of Suspected Violations of Ethical Principles In case of suspected violations of Ethical Principles, To be able to continue operations and to maintain high employees and stakeholders can notify Akbank’s stakeholder confidence, Akbank, expects employees and related units within the framework of the confidentiality stakeholders with whom the Bank cooperate to abide principle via various channels. by the Bank’s high ethical standards. It is a priority for Akbank to announce these expectations to every related The Bank’s stakeholders can inform the Board of person and to monitor compliance. Internal Auditors of suspected violations directly at our Call Center 444 25 25. Such notifications can also be Ethical Principles made through e-mails to be sent to etik@akbank.com. The Ethical Principles regulating the attitude and conduct of Bank employees, as well as their relations Akbank’s employees believe that there are practices with persons and institutions within or outside the contradicting to the Ethical Principles in their units, but Bank are announced after approval of the Board of refrain from taking actions as being part of the same Directors. Akbank’s Ethical Principles are announced in unit, to solve the problem, they can use our Ethics Line. our website and Corporate Portal; all of our employees The existence of the Ethics Line, areas of practice, also receive obligatory e-learning on these principles. means to reach the line are announced to all employees The aim of these activities is to ensure that the Ethical regularly via e-mails. Employees may have access to the Principles are internalized. Ethics Line any time of the day via telephone and e-mail. Callers are not required to give their names and if they Updated in 2011, Akbank’s Ethical Principles are do, the information is kept confidential. composed of four main subjects. The first subject covers our responsibility towards the society and the All notifications are evaluated by the Ethics Line environment in accordance with our commitment to the Officer (an auditor assigned by the Board of Internal UN Global Compact. Auditors). The notification is transferred to the Board of Internal Auditors in cases that require examining or investigation, otherwise to the Executive Vice President Akbank’s Code of Ethics can be reached at the (EVP) of the related business unit to take necessary following link: actions. In accordance with the disciplinary regulations, http://www.akbank.com/yatirimci-iliskileri/kurumsalany employee found to be failing to abide by our Ethical yonetim/etik-ilkeler.aspx Principles despite all communication and training efforts, warnings and measures is subject to various disciplinary actions, including discharge. Bribery and Corruption The Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy, formulated to comply with the anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and regulations in effect in all countries in which Akbank operates, with code of ethics and professional principles, and with universal rules, was approved by the Board of Directors and announced publicly. Akbank’s Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption Policy is available at the following link: http://www.akbank.com/doc/RusvetveYolsuzluk Politikasi.pdf akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 53 / 06. VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS 2013/sustainability report akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 54 / In an era where banking has become a service to make Corporate Banking users’ lives easier and to add value to them, it is a top Serving nearly 3,700 corporate clients as of yearpriority for Akbank to understand customers correctly end 2013, Akbank strives to be the main solution and to develop a wide array of products and services partner of its customers. To this end, the Bank offers that address diversified needs. In addition, Akbank long-term investment financing as well as financial also takes into consideration the environmental, social advisory services in treasury, foreign trade and cash and economic impacts of its products and services. In management to clients, in addition to providing them order to manage such impacts, the Bank evaluates its with structured finance solution based on their needs. products and services in light of various environmental Thanks to the synergy created with AkInvestment, and social criteria. In this regard, Akbank invests in AkLease, AkInsurance, AvivaSA, Akbank AG (Germany) delivery channels that contribute to local economies and and Akbank (Dubai) Limited, Akbank’s corporate organizes informatory business development meetings banking customers have convenient access to a wide for SMEs, which are the driving force of the economy. variety of financial products and services. As a result of In addition, the Bank unveils a number of innovations Turkey’s increasing attraction for foreign investors in to ensure that each member of the society has easier recent years as well as rising numbers of multinational access to financial services. corporations doing business in Turkey, Akbank created a Multinational Segment Unit under Corporate Banking. The Bank aims to leverage this unit to become the local Core Banking Services solution partner of multinational corporations operating in Turkey. Akbank’s core banking services consist of Consumer Commercial Banking Banking and Private Banking services for retail As part of its commercial banking operations, Akbank customers as well as SME Banking, Commercial generates innovative solutions in such areas as cash Banking and Corporate Banking offered in light of the management, foreign trade, treasury and project finance differentiating needs of SMEs, commercial customers with its specialist staff and products tailored to customer and corporate clients, respectively. In addition, Akbank’s needs with the aim of being the main bank and solution International Banking unit provides overseas-based partner of medium-sized and large companies. financing to customers. Credit cards for customers in every segment are also an important part of Akbank’s The Bank serves its commercial segment clients via banking services. Non-banking financial services and Commercial Customer Relationship Managers while capital markets investment services are provided by also offering access to a large number of financial Akbank’s subsidiaries. products and services thanks to its synergy with Consumer Banking AkInvestment, AkLease, AkInsurance, AvivaSA, Akbank Akbank continues to be the industry leader in consumer AG (Germany) and Akbank (Dubai) Limited. banking with its service approach based on customer SME Banking characteristics, continuous innovation in technological Akbank’s SME Banking Department offers products, infrastructure, and extensive domestic branch services and solutions tailored to the needs of small network. In consumer banking, the Bank embraces businesses and micro enterprises. SME Banking the principle that each and every product and service Department continued to offer innovative financial developed and offered is customer-oriented. The products and services to SMEs and organize Bank’s consumer banking services evolve constantly informational meetings and various campaigns. on the basis of customer satisfaction and in light of the Customer Relationship Managers within the Akbank expectations of more than 13 million retail customers, branches serve clients in this segment. requirements of the day, market conditions, and its social responsibilities. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 55 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Private Banking Offering Private Banking service since 2001, Akbank Responsible Practices and renders its services in this segment to clients at 10 private branches –six in Istanbul and one each in Risk Management in Loans Ankara, Izmir, Bursa and Adana. In addition, the Bank has a representative in the Dubai and Zorlu Center Loans extended by Akbank to Corporate, Commercial branches which also operate in this segment. Akbank and SME Banking segment customers are subject to Private Banking team assists individuals who have an environmental and social risk assessment based assets exceeding TL 500,000 with their investment on such factors as the source of funding. In addition, decisions, provides tailor-made solutions as needed, and pursuant to its policies, Akbank gives priority to projects serves its customers’ such financial requirements as that turn environmental risks into opportunities. pension, insurance and leasing as a one-stop-shop with Breakdown of Akbank’s Loan to Customers by specialized solutions in cooperation with the Akbank Industry Group companies. The team consisting of 10 investment Akbank offers its customers operating in various advisors in addition to Customer Relationship Managers industries a wide array of loans, from boosting sales continuously monitors customers’ investment decisions. volume to expanding a business into overseas markets. Akbank expends painstaking effort to supporting its private banking services with innovative solutions. For instance, the iPad app used in customer visits allows us to make the best use of time and opportunities by instantly displaying portfolio and market conditions. As part of its art consultancy service developed by the Private Banking Unit, the Bank supports its clients’ art investments through internationally-acclaimed auction houses. Telephone Banking (Call Center) The 444 25 25 Akbank Telephone Branch and Voice Response System, which allows customers to perform a wide variety of core banking transactions quickly and easily, continued to be used by many clients in 2013. As one of the biggest call centers in the banking sector, Akbank Call Center handled more than 85 million customer contacts in 2013 with over 1,000 employees. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 56 / Breakdown of Akbank’s consolidated cash loans by industry as of year-end 2013 is as follows. Breakdown by Industry Electricity 5.8% Metal Goods 2.0% Food 3.7% Technology 3.8% Construction 6.3% Textiles 2.6% Paper & Forestry 1.4% Commerce 11.1% Chemicals 6.1% Tourism 2.8% Finance 3.3% Transportation 2.7% metal 3.1% Other 10.8% Consumer (Mortgage, auto, general purpose, cash advance, credit cards) 34.4% Implementation of Akbank’s Environmental and Social long-term infrastructure projects that have a high level Policies of impact on the environment, such as hydroelectric Since 2010, projects with a loan sum exceeding USD 50 power plants (HEPPs) and highways. million and with a term of over five years are subject to “Akbank Environmental and Social Policies”. Project Our branches, Pre-Credit Committee at the Head financing loans with a sum less than USD 50 million Office, and Credits Business Unit are responsible for are also evaluated in terms of environmental risks. the evaluation of loans in terms of compliance with the With this system, we aim to proactively and effectively policies and preparation of the required action plans. manage potential environmental and social risks and Loans are approved by the Credit Committee within the opportunities during the project, including pre-project Board of Directors. phase. Engineers in the Credits Business Unit make field Pursuant to Akbank’s Environmental and Social Policies, controls both during the evaluation of loan applications we pay due attention that all elements stated in the and during execution of projects – especially those United Nations Global Compact are implemented by requiring construction. In pre-project controls, issues the customers that we grant loans to. For instance, such as project’s compliance with EIA and local in line with our social criteria, businesses that are community’s reactions to the suggested project are proved to employ child labor are not granted any loans. investigated. During the project, main focus shifts to In accordance with our Policies, considering that a issues such as compliance with occupational health and project may cause severe and important impact on the safety standards. environment, we request submission of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) reports or proof of exemption Within the framework of Akbank Environmental and from EIA in financing projects in sectors within the scope Social Policies, projects that allow transforming of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations. environmental risks into opportunities are given priority. Among projects that require EIA approval certificate are Among these are renewable energy investments, waste recycling investments or those which reduce carbon emissions or improve efficiency. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 57 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Environmental Risk Analysis of Corporate and working conditions; prevention and mitigation of pollution; Commercial Loans public health, safety and security; protection of biological In 2011 Akbank initiated a new system to evaluate all diversity; sustainable management of natural resources; risks (including environmental ones) more efficiently and protection of cultural heritage. Through SEMS, we and improve processes in loan applications that require evaluate and manage the social and environmental risks approval of the Credit Committee and the Board of of the projects of the SME and Corporate customers that Directors. With this system, we began to employ we finance with IFC loans. Akbank SEMS is managed Loan Analysis Managers and the number of these by a committee composed of representatives of Credits, managers was increased in 2012. In addition, their Marketing and Sales Management, International Banking, area of responsibility was enlarged to cover not only and Corporate Social Responsibility Departments, in the the loans that require senior level approval, but also leadership of a coordinator. In 2011 IFC administered a all loan applications received by the corporate and training course to SEMS Committee members and the commercial branches. These Loan Analysis Managers Bank’s staff who are in charge of disbursing similar loans are responsible for investigating all risks to be evaluated on environmental and social performance standards. at the loan application phase and for recording the As part of the Akbank Social and Environmental results of the analyses in the application file. We aim to Management System (SEMS), the Bank continued to make sure that the team is better equipped in terms of monitor the compliance of IFC loans that were disbursed environmental and social risks in 2013. during 2013 with environmental and social criteria. International Financial Resources That Support EBRD Loans Sustainability Loans that we offer to our customers via the European With the business partnerships that we establish Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) finance with international financial institutions, we aim to renewable energy and energy saving projects. In addition, continuously offer new loan opportunities to our loan contracts include criteria that require identification customers and contribute to the economic growth in and mitigation of environmental and social impacts that Turkey. Loans obtained from international financial such projects may have in the related region. In projects institutions such as IFC, EBRD, and EIB are of that we offer loans from EBRD, compliance with the environment-friendly nature and generally support requirements of national environmental, health and sustainable development. In such loans we require safety legislation as well as with EBRD’s environmental our customers to abide by a variety of social and and social performance criteria is sought. EBRD offers environmental performance criteria depending on the independent project consultancy to our customers source of the loan. In addition, we provide our customers and environmental and social compliance audits are with financing from international sources for affordable performed as well. loans to be used in energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. European Investment Bank Loans European Investment Bank (EIB) is an international Akbank Social & Environmental Management System financial institution that aims to provide financing for (SEMS) sustainable investments in EU member and candidate Within the scope of the loan contract we signed with countries. As an important business partner of EIB in IFC in 2010, we established the Akbank Social & Turkey, Akbank obtained loans amounting to EUR 150 Environmental Management System (SEMS), which is million to meet project financing needs of commercial and based upon IFC’s social and environmental performance corporate customers. Loans to be offered to customers standards. SEMS Social & Environmental Management within the framework of this loan will also be evaluated System covers issues such as environmental and according to environmental sustainability criteria of EIB. social assessment and management; labor force and akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 58 / Climate-Friendly Loans Examples of Energy Efficiency Projects In project financing loans, Akbank continuously Akbank offers a variety of loans to its customers increases support for environment-friendly projects both from its own resources and by borrowing from that also contribute to the Turkish economy. In international financial institutions for the financing of addition to the Bank’s own resources, we support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. renewable energy and energy efficiency projects with Energy-Friendly Loans and Project Financing MidSEff-TurSEff funds obtained from EBRD. Here are Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan is used generally for three examples of energy efficiency projects financed the financing of heating, cooling, renewal of lighting by Akbank via TurSEff Fund of EBRD in 2012: systems, insulation of facades and conversion to environment-friendly energy sources of commercial In Tarfaş farm belonging to the Sütaş Group, biogas real estates, such as factories. This loan is typically obtained from the fermentation of animal wastes offered in the form of an investment and operating in anaerobic environments is used to generate capital loan. Available especially for businesses such as electricity. This project also allows for producing shopping malls, hospitals, hotels, cold storage houses, organic manure from animal wastes. As a result laundries, restaurants, and bakeries, this loan supports of these investments, the facility which has a total progress in protecting and restoring the environment, installed capacity of 2.4 MW is expected to generate using renewable energy sources, and improving energy 16 GWh electricity annually and to reduce its annual efficiency. carbon emission by 8,992 tons. As Akbank, while contributing to the development of At The Zorlu Center Shopping Mall belonging to the energy sector in Turkey, we also pay attention to the the Zorlu Holding, electricity will be saved by using environmental impacts of energy generation projects. In lighting systems with higher energy efficiency. With line with this policy, we continued our contributions to this project, 10 GWh electricity will be saved in one financing renewable energy generation projects in 2012. year and thus annual carbon emission will be reduced Wind Energy Power Plant (WEPP) and Hydroelectric by 5,620 tons. Power Plant (HEPP) projects constitute an important part of our loan portfolio. In 2012, financial support In two production facilities of Konya Şeker Sanayi ve provided for such projects of our SME and Corporate Ticaret A.Ş. (a sugar production company) four energy customers had 65% share in our total energy project efficiency projects will be implemented. In both loan portfolio. facilities, bioethanol to be derived from fermentation of sugarcane wastes will be used to generate energy. 1) Akbank provided financing for the energy efficiency With these projects, annual electricity saving of 62 project consisting of nine improvements at the Izmir GWh is expected. A new investment will be made facilities of Petkim Petrokimya Holding. After its for condensing the carbon dioxide released during completion, the investment will conserve 27 GWh of fermentation and thus emission of 30,187 tons of electricity annually and is expected to reduce carbon carbon dioxide will be prevented. emissions by 65,400 tons per year. The project will yield annual cost savings of EUR 9 million. As a result of these three projects, our customers will prevent 44,779 tons of carbon from being released 2) The energy efficiency project consisting of electricity to the atmosphere in a year. Our support for energy generation from waste heat and equipment replacement projects that reduce Turkey’s dependence on foreign at the manufacturing plant of Batı Söke Anadolu countries and use local resources will increase. Çimento was financed by the Bank. The investment is expected to achieve costs savings of EUR 4.5 million per year and conserve 62.8 GWh of electricity annually. The project is anticipated to reduce carbon emissions by 31,131 tons. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 59 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Between 2011 and 2013 Akbank disbursed the entirety of the USD 100 million MidSeff credit facility, which was Project Financing obtained from the EBRD in 2011 to finance mediumIn 2013, Akbank continued efforts to structure financing scale renewable energy and energy conservation of many different “greenfield” projects in energy and real projects in Turkey; nearly 83% of this resource was estate sectors, including Turkey’s leading infrastructure deployed to fund four energy efficiency projects. 161 projects such as public-private partnership hospitals or GWh of electricity, which is equivalent to the annual Gebze-Izmır Highway Project. output of a mid-size hydroelectric power plant, will be conserved and emission of an annual total of We share our extensive information on project financing 132,338 tons of carbon dioxide will be avoided after the with customers at the project planning stage and draw completion of these projects. roadmaps together in order to structure the investments EBRD MidSEFF and TurSEFF Loans in a way that can be financed properly. Extension of the USD 60 million-worth Sustainable Energy Financing Loan (Sustainable Energy Financing At this stage, by cooperating with local and international Facility -TurSEFF-Program) obtained from EBRD in banks as well as financial institutions such as IFC, 2010 to 38 customers was completed in April 2012. As EBRD, and EIB, we pay attention to creating a financing a result of the evaluation it made, EBRD gave Akbank structure that offers the greatest added value to all excellence awards in areas such as being the first bank parties, especially our customers. to completely extend the TurSEFF fund and perform supplier financing and as the bank to reach the highest With our cautious loan policies applied so far, we, level of loan volume in renewable energy projects. as Akbank, have one of the lowest non-performing In addition, Akbank disbursed the entirety of the USD loan ratios of the industry. Instead of concentrating 100 million credit facility, which was obtained from project financing loans on a single sector, we distribute the EBRD in 2011 to finance medium-scale renewable them among sectors such as energy, infrastructure, energy and energy conservation projects in Turkey. real estate, telecommunication, transportation, and petrochemicals in a balanced way. Akbank continued to extend loans in 2013 from the second tranche of the TurSEFF loan worth USD 24 million that was obtained from EBRD in 2012, and from the USD 12 million facility secured from EBRD to finance agribusiness firms in the third and fourth tier of the priority regions for development. IFC Securitization Loan Entirety of the USD 75 million IFC Securitization loan provided to Akbank by IFC in 2010 was disbursed to the customers as of 2012. This facility was used to extend renewable energy generation project financing to corporate, commercial and SME clients, regardless of their business segments, as well as for funding energy efficiency investments and investments in equipment that conserve energy. The Bank continued to monitor the compliance of projects that were financed by the IFC Securitization Loan during previous years that are part of the Akbank Social and Environmental Management System (SEMS) with the SEMS criteria in 2013. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 60 / Breakdown of project financing loans by industry share is presented below: Project Financing Loans (By Industry) (US Dollar million) 4.000 148 3.500 3.000 2.500 249 2.000 3,588 125 1.500 28 1.000 2,286 Energy 39% 151 1,345 Infrastructure 6% 500 1,003 546 Real Estate 25% 443 Production 11% Energy Infrastructure Real Estate Production Telecommunication Other Telecommunication 14% Other 5% Commitments Total Capital at Risk Project Financing Loans – by Type of Transaction 6,000 5,000 433 4,000 172 3,000 New Investments 49% 2,000 4,574 Acquisitions 42% 3,837 1,000 General Corporate Needs 3% 95 268 532 Treasury Guaranteed New Acquisitions General Treasury Investments Corporate Guaranteed Transactions 6% Needs Transactions Commitments Total Capital at Risk akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 61 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Exclusive Services for Products and Services for Corporate and Commercial SMEs Clients SMEs amount to 99% of the businesses, create 76% of employment, produce 62% of exports and 53% of Multinational Corporations Segment Unit added value in Turkey and therefore they have an Correspondingly with the growing foreign direct important role in economic development. They need investment, which makes a major contribution to the not only financing support but also information and development of the Turkish economy, in recent years, guidance in marketing, strategy, and innovation. We, as number of foreign corporations operating in Turkey Akbank SME Banking, create solutions to facilitate our soared. SME customers’ banking transactions and to support them with innovative operations that contribute to their Accordingly, in an effort to meet the needs of foreign growth. corporations that have different priorities and demands in banking products and services, Akbank initiated a Below are some of the new products, services, and single point of management service model and created solutions that we offer with the motto “SMEs for Turkey a Multinational Corporations Segment Unit under the and Akbank for SMEs”. Corporate Banking Department. Special Packages, Funds, and Products for SMEs As part of this new organization, Akbank will be focusing In addition to our existing products, we offer on becoming the main local bank of multinational approximately 20 product and service packages such corporations and providing advisory service and as SME, Merchants, Entrepreneur, Tourism, and “customized” solutions to meet their needs. The Unit Jeweler Support Packages to our customers of various aims to combine the Bank’s local client experience, segments, sectors and regions. In these packages extensive branch network and world-class technology we offer not only advantages in banking transactions, infrastructure with the experience of Corporate Banking but also loans that suit the company’s cash flow and customer relationship managers to create value for products and services that focus on sectorial needs. foreign corporations and to help them grow their Almost in all packages an extra value is offered to businesses in Turkey. customers with 3-month advantages in banking transactions including transfer/EFT, check collection. Dealer Support Package The “Dealer Support Package” was developed to meet working capital loan needs of dealers operating in such industries as appliances, fuel, food and garment and to help them grow. The Dealer Support Loan that is part of the package allows dealers to purchase goods, services, equipment and software with a grace period of up to three months and a term of up to 36 months. The package also includes Commercial “Artı Para” Loan, Direct Debit System, Axess Business, Member Merchant Service, Revolving Credit, Letter of Guarantee, Commercial Vehicle Loan, POS Plus Insurance, and Workplace Plus Insurance products and services. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 62 / Instantaneous Loan Package turnover for a single fixed fee and pay nothing else for Akbank launched a groundbreaking practice in its the transactions carried out during the month. All SMEs industry in SME Banking. SMEs can now apply for can now afford a POS with EkoPOS, which offers a plan Installment Commercial Loan, Commercial “Artı Para”, for a fixed monthly fee of TL 19 for turnover up to TL Axess Business and Check Book at the same time by 1,000; fixed monthly fee of TL 24 for turnover up to TL sending a single SMS without the need for leaving their 2,000; fixed monthly fee of TL 29 for turnover up to TL offices amid their busy schedules. To apply for the 3,000; and fixed monthly fee of TL 50 for turnover up to Instantaneous Loan Package available for a total credit TL 5,000. line of up to TL 50,000, all SMEs need to do is to text “Anında” and their national identification numbers to Cash Register POS 4425 on Turkcell mobile phones and to 0532 444 44 25 Akbank offers convenient purchase and usage support on other carriers. This service sends the initial screening for Cash Register POS, now a legal requirement, to all result of their application to SMEs instantaneously. businesses engaged in retail sales, particularly small In addition, SMEs that use the Instantaneous Loan tradesmen and artisans. To this end, Akbank has two Package can also conduct their banking transactions campaigns geared toward different needs of customers. under more advantageous terms. One of the campaigns gives the cash register POS device free of charge to the customers that meet the SME Tariffs (KOTA) predetermined Akbank POS turnover amount within the Based on the most frequently performed banking pledged time frame. Akbank deposits the price of the transactions by the SMEs, Akbank offers four distinct device into the customer’s credit card account as chip choices: KOTA Annual, KOTA 10, KOTA 20 and KOTA 30. money each month. The other campaign offers interest“SME Tariffs (KOTA)” allow a given number of banking free 36-month payment plan as well as TL 50 chiptransactions included in the tariff such as money money right after their first transaction for customers transfers, EFT, check collection, checkbook and running that purchase their cash register POS terminals with account book/activity for a fixed monthly or annual fee. their Akbank credit cards until the end of the year. As Thanks to SME Tariffs, SMEs avoid paying separate fees part of the campaign, customers were also given KOTA for banking transactions and know how much they will 10, which provides free money transfers/EFTs and check pay for their banking transactions before the fact. This collections as well as waiver of monthly account fees. permits them to budget accordingly. They also save money by choosing the most cost-effective tariff based Artisan Fraternity from Akbank on the transactions they will be performing the most. In Turkey artisanship is not just a profession but also a For instance, KOTA Annual allows SMEs to perform “culture”. Being an artisan is synonymous with integrity, many banking transactions throughout the entire year sincerity and hard work. Artisans expect the same without incurring any additional cost for just TL 1 per sincerity and sense of trust from their banks. Armed day. with this awareness, Akbank works hard to create value for its artisan customers. The Bank designs its products EkoPOS not just for meeting the needs of artisans, but also for Under the “POS for Every SME” slogan, EkoPOS allows speaking the same language and being part of the same SMEs to have access to a POS terminal for a fixed culture with them. monthly fee. EkoPOS, which holds the distinction of being the first POS tariff in the industry that allows Pay When You Can Loan installment transactions, is of great convenience The “Pay When You Can Loan” is the first product particularly for artisan with low POS turnover thanks Akbank rolled out under the “Artisan Fraternity from to its cost advantage. POS, which until today has been Akbank” concept. Artisans’ payment and collection an expensive product due to various add-on costs periods, i.e. their cash flows, are not as predictable as such as low turnover, POS fee, POS service fee and those of commercial and corporate firms. Therefore, per-transaction commission, has just gotten within credit needs of artisans should be served while giving reach for all customers. Businesses that want to use them the flexibility to pay their loans back based on their EkoPOS choose the tariff corresponding to their monthly income streams. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 63 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Aware of this need and informed about the artisan the event of such disasters as flood or fire at the SMEs’ tradition in Turkey, Akbank developed the “Pay When workplaces; therefore, this solution functions as an You Can Loan” for artisans. Artisans who take out the insurance policy for the documents. Further, thanks to Pay When You Can Loan can make principal payments this solution, SMEs can have online access to programs at the time and in the amount of their choice within the such as Word, Excel and Powerpoint that they use in life of the loan. Saying “get your loan today, pay it back their day-to-day lives. when you have the money” to the artisans, the Bank permits “more or less” repayment amounts based on Owing to this solution, employees can safely access their cash flows. their documents from any location with an internet connection at any time while they are on the road or 444 23 23 Akbank SME Line out of the office. They can also share documents by Akbank makes available a service point exclusively making the necessary arrangements. Nobody, including for the needs of SMEs that they can access from any Microsoft, can reach this information other than the location they want at any time they choose in order to employees, which ensures the confidentiality of the data provide a more privileged service to them. “Akbank SME and documents of the company. In light of the legal Line” offers 24/7 support exclusively for SMEs through obligation on SMEs to design a website and get a domain the 444 23 23 hotline. name, this platform allows them to create a website very easily in 15 minutes. In summary, Akbank enabled SMEs can obtain information from trained specialists SMEs to take advantage of a large number of solutions regarding many banking products, apply for products such as Office applications, corporate website design, that they need instantly, and start benefiting from these domain name, intra-company communication and coproducts. In addition, they can conduct their banking working with a cost advantage. This initiative carried out transactions with a single phone call and gather by Akbank in partnership with Microsoft was completed information on a wide variety of other subjects unrelated in June 2013. to banking products. All SMEs, whether customers of Akbank or not, can dial this line any time and take Cooperation with KOSGEB – “Co-financing Loan” advantage of its services free of charge. Akbank extends loans under attractive terms and conditions to SMEs whose project support applications Cooperation with Microsoft Turkey – “Office 365” for KOSGEB-sponsored SME Project Support, Thematic Cloud Solution Project Support, Cooperating-Leaguing Support, R&D, As part of its cooperation with Microsoft Turkey under Innovation and Industrial Application Support, and the slogan “Office is everywhere for SMEs on the Cloud”, Entrepreneur Support Programmes are approved by the Bank introduced SMEs to one of the latest wonders KOSGEB (Small and Medium Enterprises Development of technology and helped them manage their businesses Organization) in order to execute and complete their online. Acquainting the SMEs with the “Office 365” projects. The Bank finances these KOSGEB-supported product that offers the Microsoft Office experience projects with commercial loans featuring equal on the Cloud, Akbank also raised their awareness on installments and loan terms of up to 36 months. technological facilities. In today’s world, SMEs want to use the latest technologies under predictable costs Agriculture Support without incurring large setup costs or dealing with Agriculture sector is among the most significant maintenance, repair or personnel expenses. Within components of the Turkish economy. In addition this scope, large amount of information is stored on to providing employment for 3 million farmers, the employees’ computers in the offices; investment in a sector also plays a key role in Turkey’s development server is required to make sure that all this information by meeting the need for food, providing input into the is safely maintained. This project developed by the industrial sector, creating demand for manufacturing Bank where files are kept in cloud solutions obviates products, and contributing to exports. In addition, the any server costs while also eliminating any possibility sector is expanding and gaining prominence with each of such information getting erased, destroyed or lost. passing day as modern irrigation, organic agriculture In addition, this solution also eliminates these risks in and modern agriculture techniques are deployed in the agriculture industry. At this juncture, the Bank began akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 64 / meeting the needs of the agriculture sector with banking well as the opportunity for customers to pose questions products and insurance services with an eye toward the to experts regarding SMEs, entrepreneurialism, seasonal nature of the cash flows of this industry. agriculture and economic developments. Akbank SME TV, broadcasting on the website, shows videos on Support for Entrepreneurship various topics that will be useful for SME customers in Akbank continued to support efforts to develop their businesses. entrepreneurship into a healthier structure and to enhance opportunities for entrepreneurs in 2013. Cooperation with Chambers The Bank only provided financing support, but also In order to support local economies and regional continued to offer a number of solutions adding value development, we offer loans and other banking services to the ecosystem for entrepreneurship. The projects with favorable terms to SMEs by cooperating with within this scope are taken in detail in “Our Community chambers of industry and commerce and craftsmen Investment” section of this Report. in several cities and regions. We provide chamber members with services such as Fee Collection System, Support for Entrepreneurs Endeavor Program Merchants Support Package, SME Support Package, Within the scope of the cooperation with Endeavor, Commercial Loans in Installments, Workplace Loans, Akbank continued to offer loans with advantages such Investment Loans, Non-Cash Loans, and Foreign as more favorable collateral requirements, longer terms Trade Financing with affordable terms and payment and lower interest rates to effective entrepreneurs in conditions. So far, we signed cooperation contracts with 2013. more than 150 chambers of commerce and/or industry and unions of chambers of merchants and craftsmen all Entrepreneur Support Package around Turkey. The Entrepreneur Support Package aims to support new entrepreneurs that have a high potential for creating Supporting and Promoting Foreign Trade employment. Within the package, entrepreneurs are We, as Akbank, continue to offer elaborate and quick provided with Plus Money Loan to meet short-term support to customers with their foreign trade activities, cash needs immediately, check book for purchasing payment transactions, and investment projects via goods and making payments, and “Axess Business various financial tools. We provide affordable, longEntrepreneur” card, which is the first of its kind in term financing through our contracts with export credit Turkey. Campaigns organized for the Entrepreneur agencies of various countries. The “Foreign Trade Support Package offer various opportunities for Support Package” prepared to meet the exports and customers. Among these are 10,000 free SMSs for imports transaction and financing needs of SMEs that product promotion to the target audience, chip-money do business with foreign companies contain current and of TL 200 worth after the first payment made by using new loans, cash management and insurance products Axess Business Entrepreneur card, 10 free bank and offer a number of opportunities. We also started transfers /EFT/check collection transactions monthly for foreign exchange and deposits transactions in Chinese a period of 3 months, unlimited free bank transfer and currency, Yuan. EFT transactions in the Akbank Internet Branch. Our customers can reach general information on foreign Business Development in SMEs trade transactions, alternative financing techniques We implement our motto “SMEs for Turkey and Akbank and foreign trade regulations, as well as answers to for SMEs” through business development programs, other frequently asked questions about foreign trade informative meetings, and cooperation specially transactions via www.akbankmevzuat.com (available designed for SMEs. only in Turkish). Web Portal for SMEs www.kobilersizinicin.com, an exclusive web portal for In 2013, Akbank was the main sponsor of “Stars SMEs, has a lot of useful information on foreign trade, of Export – Encouraging Exports Awards” that has entrepreneurialism, new Turkish Commercial Code, been organized since 2002 to encourage exporting and tax. The website designed by the Bank for SMEs companies. At this platform organized by Dunya contains financial and industry analyses and news as newspaper and DHL, awarded companies perform their exports transactions free of charge for a whole year. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 65 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Responsible Practices in Another product to encourage savings is the “Akbank Flexible Savings Account”, which allows savings in gold Consumer Banking and foreign currencies (US Dollars, Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Russian Ruble) without any term limits simply by giving orders for transfer from credit cards Financial habits and service expectations of individuals or deposit accounts. With the Flexible Savings Account, may vary depending on age, education, and occupation. customers wishing to save money even in very small Based upon this fact, Akbank addresses different sums can open savings accounts and save in various financial needs of customers with its wide variety of currencies. personal loan and deposit products. Gold Deposit Encouraging Deposits and Facilitating Investments The value of the gold held by households in Turkey Savings Campaign is estimated to be around USD 100-300 billion. The The biggest challenge in the Turkish economy which fact that a great portion of this stock is kept under the has become highly stable in recent years is the current mattress means the contribution of such savings to account deficit resulting from the low levels of domestic the economy is very little. On the other hand, savings savings. In order for Turkey to attain its goal of rapid injected into the banking system are transferred by economic growth, current account deficit must be banks to those in need of resources and thus support reduced and thus personal savings must increase. the Turkish economy. To support this important national objective, Akbank Akbank developed a product to encourage contribution launched a “Savings Campaign” in April 2012. As part of idle under-the-mattress savings to the economy. With of this campaign, Akbank offers advantageous products the “Gold Deposit Account” launched in 2012, Akbank and services to encourage savings while also carrying customers can buy gold even with a savings of TL 2. out corporate social responsibility projects to raise In addition, with the “Invitation for Gold” service, scrap awareness on savings. Akbank Volunteers also support gold and jewelry are converted into equivalent grams the broad-based financial training projects. Detailed of gold by special experts at the Bank’s branches and information on these projects is presented in “Our then these can be deposited to Gold Deposit Accounts Community Investment” section of this Report. in Turkish liras. The amount deposited into the savings account fluctuates in parallel with gold prices while “Akbank Deposit Savings Account” – a product unveiled Akbank customers can invest their gold without the risk as part of the Savings Campaign – was met with heavy of theft or loss under the Bank’s guarantee. interest by Akbank customers thanks to its innovative approach. Akbank Deposit Savings Account has a 5-year NAR Account maturity and enables individuals to gain the habit and The “Nar Account” is a new product that rolled out discipline of saving money. The Account allows monthly in 2012 with the aim of offering accretion even for transfer of a pre-determined amount of money from small savings and thus bringing these savings into the a regular deposit account to the savings account. As financial system. As a product that offers solutions for a result, savings holders can earn interest even on all cash management needs of customers, the most very small term deposits. Every month, approximately important feature of the Nar Account is that it offers 220,000 Akbank customers save money with this daily interest for even small sums. approach. Raising Investor Awareness via One-to-One Banking Within the scope of One-to-One Banking, Akbank’s Customer Relationship Managers offer financial support to customers who have TL 100,000 in assets and who akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 66 / expect specialized service in investment products. As of Structuring of Personal Loan Debts year-end 2013, 340 One-to-One Customer Relationship In recent years, with the increase in the debts of Managers located in more than 250 Akbank branches individuals and the effect of economic fluctuations, render “One-to-One Banking” service to more than 300 we try to provide a certain level of convenience for thousand clients. customers who had trouble in paying back personal loan or credit card debts, by taking into consideration In addition, Akbank One-to-One Expert Line provides the limitations imposed by legal authorities. We evaluate qualified investment service to customers in every the requests of customers who demand changes in corner of Turkey via telephone. This innovative system payment plans or who are believed to recover defaults has become an important channel that serves 80,000 and make regular payments with a new payment plan. customers by 80 specialists, regardless of province We offer some of such cardholders and loan users the and region. In an attempt to endow One-to-One opportunity to pay their debt before legal proceedings Banking Customer Relationship Managers and Oneare initiated. to-One Specialist Line Representatives with the most accurate information on economic developments in Responsible Loans and Insurance Products Turkey and in the world, market movements and the Contribution to Professional Development: “From status of investment products, Investor TV produced Kitchen to Life” Loan by AkPorfolio experts is broadcast each morning. In “From Kitchen to Life” is a special loan package that we addition, they receive reports generated by experts from created for the Culinary Arts Academy of Istanbul (MSA) AkPortfolio and from the Bank’s Economic Research students in cooperation with Endeavor Turkey. Approved Department. In addition to being able to obtain accurate by the Turkish Ministry of National Education, MSA is and up-to-date information from One-to-One Banking the first and only private vocational education institution Customer Relationship Managers and Specialist Line to give internationally accepted diplomas in the area Representatives, the Bank’s customers also have of professional cookery, pastry and bakery. With this access to the reports by Akbank Investor Portal, Akbank loan, MSA students only pay the interest rates during Investor Center, and AkPortfolio. their education and make the principal repayments in installments when they start working. With the “From Convenient Products Kitchen to Life” loan, we aim to support future chefs in exi26: Banking Services for the Youth their professional lives. A significant majority of the people in Turkey who have not yet been introduced to banking services is the young Mortgage Loans people. Akbank has developed products to serve the Over 300,000 Akbank customers purchased houses banking needs of these students and to support them. since 2005 when the mortgage market gained huge An example of the products and applications offered to momentum. We offer mortgage loans for up to 75% students between the ages of 16 and 26 who are part of the house value with up to 120-month terms and of the customer segment Akbank refers to as Exi26 exemption from Banking and Insurance Transaction is the “Student Account”. Young accountholders can Tax and Resource Utilization Support Fund on condition withdraw money free of charge at any ATM abroad with that the house to be purchased is given as guarantee. By their neoexi26 debit card, withdraw money at other cooperating with construction companies such as the banks’ ATMs free of charge twice a month to facilitate Housing Development Administration of Turkey (TOKİ) fast money transfer with their families, and shop on the and Emlak Real Estate Investment Trust, we support Internet. Axess exi26 credit card is yet another product urban transformation activities through earthquakeAkbank offers students. Axess exi26 credit card holders resistant, exclusive architectural projects with strong benefit from special campaigns for education, school infrastructures not only in metropolitan cities, but also in expenses, and stationary expenses as well as all Axess Anatolia. campaigns free of charge. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 67 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Customers applying to the Bank’s special call center Services Offered via Affiliated Institutions (Big Red Line – 44 44 253) can both obtain all kinds Our major principle in bank assurance is allowing of legal and technical assistance from mortgage customers to reach insurance and pension products in consultants and apply for mortgage. the easiest and fastest way thanks to our widespread delivery channels. Considering lifetime risks of Hybrid Car Campaigns customers, Akbank offers products with affordable Hybrid-engine vehicles use electric engines in addition prices and coverage for all customer segments. Private to gasoline engines and thus reduce carbon dioxide pension and corporate insurance products of AvivaSA emissions while also offering a solution to air pollution Pension and Life and AkInsurance can be reached resulting from heavy traffic. In order to encourage and through all delivery channels including Akbank ATMs facilitate purchasing of hybrid cars, we designed hybrid and Call Center. vehicle loan campaigns including car promotions, advantageous interest rates, and flexible payment terms in cooperation with Toyota and Honda. Akbank will continue creating similar campaigns to increase the number of environment-friendly vehicles in traffic. Debit and Credit Cards We, as Akbank, offer Axess, Axess Business, Axess exi26, Wings, Wings Business, Free, and Fish credit cards and Neo debit card to meet various demands and needs of customers. • A portfolio of approximately 5.8 million credit cards with our four leading credit card brands – Axess, Wings, Free, and Fish. • A portfolio of 6.2 million debit cards (Neo). • Credit card lending of TL 13.5 billion. • “Member Business Network” of 347,000 members (those using our POS machines). akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 68 / Our Credit Card Brands Examples of New Benefits Launched in 2013 Card Features Axess Breaking new ground in the sector by rolling out the Credit Card Axess credit card offers customers benefits such World of Tariffs in 2011, in addition to tariffs that offer Chip-money, as shopping anywhere in the world, earning chipinterest discount, card fee, discounts and installments in fuel and money, installments, special advantages for exclusive grocery store, Akbank enriched this world in 2013 by adding by adding brands. Akbank actively communicates with Axess the Free Installment Cash Advance to Your Word tariff, thus allowing cardholders through its updated website and social the customers to pick the best tariff for themselves. In addition to media channels such as Facebook and Twitter. “Installment Request” where installment opportunity is granted after The Bank also has the Axess exi26 credit card for the purchases are made and “Deferral Request” where payment for university students and young professionals. For more purchases is deferred to future months, “Skip a Statement” service that information please visit: allows statement balances to be postponed was reintroduced in 2013 http://www.axess.com.tr/ for the Bank’s customers. Axess organized a rewards campaign on the social media (Twitter, Facebook) for the first time in 2013. Wings Cardholders can use their Wings Miles to buy plane tickets, Wings is a credit card for Akbank’s high-income accommodation, insurance for travels abroad, and tours via customer segment who have an active social life and www.GezginlerAlemi.com sponsored by Wings. They can easily plan who travel frequently for either business or pleasure. their trips thanks to special installment options and promotions for For more information please visit: Wings. With the “Miles on Land” system, cardholders can use their http://www.wingscard.com.tr/ Wings Miles to make payments at around 150 Wings Style-member restaurants, hotels, sports and spa centers. Free Free cardholders can benefit from the following services offered In addition to not paying an annual card fee, Free by Axess: standard chip-money rates and installments at member cardholders have the option to enroll in periodic companies; cash solutions, tariffs and orders designed exclusively for campaigns such as extra installments, payment Axess; supplementary card; insurance. The Free Budget service allows deferrals, and chip-money. They can benefit from cardholders to manage their budgets by sending an SMS notification these campaigns in return for a certain fee. stating that they reached the pre-determined expense level. They For more information please visit: can also learn about their available limit, current debt balance, and https://www.kartfree.com/ payment due date via SMS. Fish Monthly rewards lotteries of Fish continued in 2013. Even users who Fish is a credit card that creates closer bonds spent merely TL 10 could participate in the lottery. Fish cardholders between the Bank and the retail market, while won 1,264 awards, including cars and motorcycles, within one year. offering attractive rewards to cardholders. For more information please visit: http://www.fishcard.com.tr/ Neo A shopping card that gives chip-money in shopping and allows for free Neo is a Maestro-brand debit card that allows shopping with this chip-money, Neo continued to encourage customers shopping and cash withdrawal both in Turkey and to use debit cards with several campaigns. Widespread use of debit abroad. For more information please visit: cards also contributed to preventing off-the-books transactions. http://www.akbank.com/consumer/cards/neo.aspx Innovative Applications in Debit Cards and Credit Neo began adding Visa branded debit cards to its Cards portfolio. Akbank continued to render innovative services in 2013 in line with the expectations of its credit card and debit http://www.akbank.com/bireysel/kartlar/neo.aspx card customers whose numbers soared compared to the previous year. These innovations include: Business Credit Card Practices Showing a 53% increase in volume in 2013, Axess Debit Cards and Prepaid Cards Business and Wings Business cards are used by 100 Breaking another new ground in Turkey, Akbank thousand small, medium and large-scale companies enhanced the Neo debit card with “discount feature” for to meet their needs such as fuel oil and wholesale in 2013. Discounts earned by limit-conscious Bank purchase, business travels, accommodation, and office customers who shop with the limit-conscious debit card supplies. Companies can monitor their business card Neo is deposited into their demand deposits within two payments regularly, earn mile points and chip-money, business days. In addition, customers continue to earn and benefit from a variety of campaigns. chip-money from their purchases. Two new commercial card products, “Axess SME” Re-launched in 2013 with its overhauled dynamic and and “Agriculture Card”, that were being developed contemporary design as well as the discount feature, throughout 2013 are planned to be added to the Akbank Commercial Cards portfolio. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 69 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS The difference of Axess SME from other commercial Extensive Service Network cards is that it is designed for artisans and comes Inaugurating new branches throughout the year, ready with an Installment Commercial Loan credit line Akbank continued to broaden the geographic scope of in addition to the credit card limit. Akbank Agriculture its banking services with 985 branches in 79 provinces, Card was designed to allow farmers to pay for their covering all but two provinces in Turkey. Akbank has one agricultural purchases such as gasoline, fertilizer, of the most extensive ATM networks in Turkey with 4,121 pesticides, seedling and seed from member businesses ATMs as of year-end 2013. Following a major increase when they get paid for their produce after the harvest. in the number of Akbank ATMs as a result of focusing on its policy of expanding its ATM network during 2010, In 2013, Axess Business Entrepreneur card was Akbank was in the second place among private sector offered to new entrepreneurs as one of the most banks in terms of number of ATMs since 2011. ATMs innovative products of the sector. The card is within account for 90% of all cash withdrawals and 74% of the scope of the “Entrepreneur Package” that can all cash transactions at Akbank. Akbank ATMs, which only be used by companies operating for less than 2 are part of Turkey’s ATM sharing platform, are open years and it provides an important financing support to all credit or debit cardholders in Turkey. In addition, for entrepreneur SMEs. Another practice launched in Akbank ATMs accept a variety of transactions including 2012 was “Ask for Installments/Ask for Delay”. With making consumer loan payments, term deposit account, this practice, card-holders can make payments in mutual fund transactions, money transfers such as bank installments and delay the payments and can make transfers/EFT/Western Union, bill payments and foreign automatic payment orders for Social Security Institution currency and gold trading. Akbank pays attention to fees either at our branches or via our Internet branch. accessibility and visibility of its branch and ATM network in order for customers who prefer to visit branches Responsible Practices in Debit and Credit Cards and ATMs for financial services to find and reach these Insurance Services in Credit Cards service points easily. We offer our credit card customers a variety of insurance products so as to protect them in the event of For customers who prefer to perform banking accidents, loss, and theft. If the cardholder loses his/her transactions via internet or mobile banking, Akbank job, AKSigorta Credit Card Unemployment Insurance offers a large variety of innovative services while also insures all credit card debts of the card-holder. With serving them through Akbank Call Center. The Call Bodycard Protection Insurance, in case of loss or theft of Center helps nearly 6 million customers with their personal goods such as cards of all banks, keys, mobile various banking transactions in a year with more than phones, wallet, and luggage, professional support is 1,000 employees. 68% of the transactions at the Bank provided. are conducted through Direct Banking channels, making a major contribution to operational efficiency. Innovative Banking Innovations at the Call Center Having completed its 13th year in the industry, Akbank Approach to Facilitate Call Center continues to deliver an exceptional service experience to its customers thanks to its award-winning Access to Services technology infrastructure and customer-oriented service strategy. Akbank Call Center proved its success in these areas once again by winning the best use of technology Akbank continued to roll out many new customerand customer representative awards at the 2013 Turkey oriented products to facilitate access of all members of IMI Call Center Awards. More than 85 million contacts the society, including our customers, to banking services with customers were made at the Akbank Call Center in and to expand its branch and ATM network in 2013. 2013. In addition to the high standard attained in meeting customer needs, Akbank Call Center also reached major sales figures. Akbank Call Center accounted for a significant share of the Bank’s sales in insurance, credit akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 70 / card, revolving credit card loan products while making Customer Experience Management important contributions to the total sales of generalThe Bank is undertaking systematic efforts to make purpose loans and home mortgage loans. Akbank Call interfaces, processes and flows at all Akbank direct Center converted 12% of the inbound calls into sales banking contact points more customer friendly. To this in 2013. The most important factor in the success in end, feedback is elicited from customers for all contact sales is the design of the system and organization based points via surveys and tests and actions to be taken on customer segment and product specialization. In are identified. The end goal is to be the most preferred addition, a specialist team was put together pursuant channels as well as to become the most popular Direct to customer needs in order to provide banking support Banking brand. to foreign nationals residing in Turkey and to render intermediation service for product sales. Innovations in Internet Banking In June 2012, Akbank launched the Akbank Direct brand Major gains in efficiency were attained as a result of that combines internet and mobile banking under one process improvements, intensive efficiency training roof. Today Akbank Direct Internet serves more than administered for employees, and efforts to meet the 1.5 million customers. Akbank is positioning Internet customer need without the need for a second call. The Banking as an online service and sales platform where system recognizes the customers from their voices frequent contact with customers is being converted into thanks to the voice signature application implemented product and service sales. Internet Banking is beginning recently. Placing great emphasis on the effective use to come to the fore as a lucrative channel for customers of social channels, Akbank Call Center is establishing thanks to the special online deposit rates and cost the infrastructure for initiating fast and appropriate advantages for online transactions. communication with customers through the systems being put in place. The Call Center is among the Akbank Akbank Direct Internet was re-launched in November Direct applications implemented at the Zorlu Center 2013 with a new customer experience and design. Branch and it is available for customers. The video chat Major improvements were made in transaction flows service is also made available as part of the Consumer for a more user-friendly customer experience; money Internet Branch and inside the Kiosks for banking transfers as well as many other transactions can transactions and specialized products. now be performed with a single click. The “Where’s My Application” app that was rolled out for Akbank Innovations at ATMs customers in July 2012 allows the Bank’s customers to In an effort to transform the Bank’s ATM network into track their applications for products and services in real a cash transaction center that is open to everybody, time as well as enabling everybody, whether an Akbank whether Akbank customer or not, Akbank unveiled a customer or not, to follow their credit card, personal series of projects in 2013 including company payments, loan and micro loan applications. With its mobile and bill payments, other banks’ payments (Aktifbank, tablet-friendly design, Akbank Direct offers its users an Odeabank), and Western Union. ATMs were enhanced integrated customer experience and thus pioneers the to accept cash deposits in multiple currencies and to next-generation banking era in the sector. Investments open/close foreign currency and gold accounts as well and improvements in Akbank Direct will continue in as trading in these instruments. This represents a major 2014. stride toward the vision of serving all financial needs of Akbank customers through all self-serve channels. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 71 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Innovations in Mobile Banking In 2012 Akbank launched the Akbank Direct Mobile Customer Satisfaction application, which allows customers to perform their To be able offer the best services to its customers, banking transactions such as payments, investments, Akbank identified customer satisfaction as its priority account and credit card information viewing securely, goal. In light of its objective of ensuring maximum quickly and conveniently, as well as the Cep-T Neo customer satisfaction at every moment of contact (Pocket-T Neo) prepaid card in cooperation with Turkcell with the customers, the Bank employs a variety of geared toward people who would like to make their measurement, evaluation and improvement processes. day-to-day purchases and money transfers securely and expeditiously. Measuring, Assessing and Improving Service Quality The Bank employs advanced “customer experienceCustomers began to be able to perform Stock Trading, based measurement and evaluation” systems in Mutual Fund Trading, Virtual Card Transactions, Games accordance with its customer satisfaction-oriented of Chance, and Electricity, Water and Natural Gas service approach. Akbank assesses the quality level Utility Bill Payments through the Akbank Direct Mobile of the service provided at the Branches and through application in 2013. In addition, customers were also Alternative Delivery Channels to identify its strengths enabled to pay their bills with credit card and make and areas of improvement. monthly loan payments using the Akbank Direct Mobile application. Credit Card Cash Advance and Installment In addition, the Bank reaches out to the customers Cash Advance Applications as well as Demand and who have contacted the Bank through the branches Time Deposit Opening Functions were also added to the or Alternative Delivery Channels immediately after Akbank Direct Mobile application. such contact and measures their level of satisfaction from the experience. In addition to these proactive The Akbank Direct Mobile application, which can be assessments, customers can express their level of installed on iPhones, iPads, Android-based mobile satisfaction with the services provided by the Bank to phones, tablets and Windows 8-based computers and customer services department at the kiosks (interactive phones, was downloaded more than 1 million times information terminals) located inside Akbank branches to date. Redesigned completely exclusively for iOS in and via web applications. Measurement results are 2013, the Akbank Direct Mobile application features tracked by branch and by employee and they are shared flat design, the most characteristic property of iOS 7, daily and transparently within the Akbank organization. highlighting simplicity and plainness in application. Strengths as well as areas for improvement are Akbank, which closely monitors global developments in identified using the “Service Quality Scorecards” that are technology and adopts them in banking services in the generated semiannually and action plans are devised most expeditious fashion, broke another new ground in conjunction with the related staff. These closely in 2013 and expanded banking into watches. The first monitored plans ensure improvements and continuous bank in Turkey to allow banking transactions on smart development. watches, Akbank rolled out Turkey’s first “i’m Watch” banking application synchronized with mobile phones In addition to daily measurements, Akbank periodically running on Android and iOS operating systems. The organizes focus groups that bring together customers application allows users to calculate foreign exchange from various segments to listen to their opinions on conversions, view precious metals prices in real time, the Bank’s services in person. Akbank conducts infollow the bid and ask prices of stocks in the BIST depth interviews at customer visits and elicits feedback 100 index, and view their price charts on their smart on service quality. The feedback gathered from these watches. interviews is used as input into customer satisfaction enhancement initiatives. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 72 / Practices Regarding Internal Processes Within Akbank, quality levels of support services given Innovative Ideas of Our Customers and Employees to branches and Alternative Delivery Channels are put Akbank takes heed of customer feedback and creative under the guarantee of Service Level Agreements (SLA). ideas and suggestions from its employees in light of SLAs cover features such as quality, amount, frequency, its target to fulfill the ever-changing and diversifying delivery date, involvement and problem solving time customer demands and to serve them better. expected from the units providing the support service. The situation in SLAs is regularly reported, actions for Initiatives are carried out throughout Akbank to develop innovative ideas and to objectively evaluate improvement are adopted in areas where the target is and implement these ideas. There is a team of not met and targets are increased in areas where SLAs Innovation Envoys, made up of 110 employees from perform better than the target. the Head Office, Regional Directorates and branch employees. Innovation Envoys attend periodical In addition to SLAs, satisfaction level of Akbank’s workshops to create new ideas identified in branches with internal teams is assessed via Internal accordance with the Bank’s strategy and needs of its Customer Satisfaction Survey. Results of the survey are business units, using their learning on creative and shared transparently in the Bank and action plans are innovative thinking techniques and internal innovation devised for continuous development. leadership. Customer Satisfaction Survey In order to create awareness among the employees Our customers can inform us on their expectations on innovation, 1001 Haber (news) -a monthly bulletinvia different channels but in addition to these, we also is issued. 1001 Haber gives examples of innovative perform regular customer satisfaction surveys and practices in both the banking and other sectors, while researches to get feedback. For instance, we daily also containing articles on the issue and success stories from all around the world. monitor customer satisfaction levels with feedback from the kiosks (interactive information terminals), All of the employees can make suggestions via the web applications, and direct phone calls. Outputs of 1001 Ideas and Suggestions System. After a prethe surveys and areas to be improved are regularly evaluation, ideas that are considered to be applicable shared with the channels and employees delivering the are selected and action plans are made. Every related services in a special area in the portal. Areas month “suggestion of the month” is chosen and the that are below the target scores are considered as suggestion and its originator are announced to all areas for improvement and development and efforts of the employees. In addition, customer suggestions are started. In addition, in order to assess expectations received via Akbank Call Center and the social media and satisfaction levels of our customers from various are also regularly included in the Suggestion System segments and to identify areas to be improved, we hold and evaluated in the same way. a Customer Satisfaction Survey every year. During the 2013 activity year, a total of 4,965 suggestions -3,954 from employees and 1,011 from customerswere submitted to the Suggestion System. Since the launch of the Suggestion System in 2008, a total of 4,085 suggestions were accepted and 32% of them were implemented. Examples of received and realized suggestions are: • Placing the mobile password for Akbank Direct Internet login at the beginning of the SMS, • Providing CRB risk report to customers through Akbank Direct Internet, • E-mailing general purpose, vehicle and home mortgage loan payment plans to the customers. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 73 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Complaint Management 2004 Complaint Management quality certification by BSI the same year (2007). The certification efforts further improved business conduct and processes in terms of Setting out from the fact that sustainable financial quality and standardization. The Bank goes through the success is dependent on high customer loyalty in audit stages with the same enthusiasm and discipline today’s fiercely competitive environment, Akbank each year for the certification, which was renewed strives to address customer needs and expectations for the seventh time in 2013. As part of Akbank’s expeditiously. The Bank established the Akbank customer complaint management system, customers Customer Complaint Management Team in 2003 in are informed while their submissions are being order to address all complaints and expectations taken up and evaluated. 27 Service Level Agreements regarding all Akbank products and services. Positioned were signed with business units that are consulted centrally at a single location and highly recognized for resolution. In addition, automatic notification within the entire organization, the team renders and escalation processes for SLA/OLA tracking are superior services to millions of Akbank customers. functioning flawlessly within the system. Customer Complaint Management Customer Complaint Management is in close The Bank’s Customer Complaints Management interaction with the entire organization due to the offers result-oriented solutions to all complaints, nature of its existence. In an effort to increase the demands, objections, suggestions and informationcomplaint management processes and awareness based submittals and responds to customers from and to integrate inputs and outputs into the corporate multiple channels with a single click in a paperless culture, awareness-oriented actions are implemented environment with an ever-enriching preset reply for the entire organization including e-learning training, application. In addition to resolving complaints, animated brochures and handbooks. In addition to the Management performs root cause analyses, general training, the Complaint Management Staff is makes recommendations for improvement and thus supported via technical, personal and innovative training becomes the voice of the customers. The first step in applications as required by the job. The Bank performs the development of Akbank’s Customer Complaint monthly and annual customer surveys and Mystery Management was overhauling the system infrastructure Shopper Studies to measure the satisfaction levels at and switching to the SAP CRM application in 2007. every channel that comes into contact with customers, Integrated with 15 Bank systems, the SAP CRM including the complaint management function, and application is a system that manages all customer tracks this metric at the channel scorecard level. submissions regardless of the channel, including the Customer calls made after the resolution of the branches, on an end-to-end basis; monitors many complaint measure speed, engagement and conduct, details such as SLA/OLA compliance within that life likelihood of working with the Bank, satisfaction from cycle; operates in a paperless environment; possesses the process and from the resolution, which are used effective reporting functions; and, most importantly, can as inputs to generate satisfaction indices, considered be developed according to needs. to be a key performance indicator. In addition, the Bank’s Board of Directors and Senior Management As a result of this change in the structure of the Bank’s receive regular monthly and quarterly reports on customer complaint management system, average customer complaint trends, root causes, recommended time of resolution for 1 million customer submissions solutions, efficiency and satisfaction measurements annually was cut down from three days to two days, from the customer’s perspective; opinions and support SLA compliance increased from 60% to 85%, and rate are sought in matters and projects that require of resolution at first contact jumped from 65% to 93%. implementation and system development. Increased This infrastructure project was published as a success level of awareness, extraordinary penetration of mobile story in the Bank implementation category in 2009. In and internet, rapid advances in technology all require 2012, interface and upgrade to CRM version 7.0 projects the Bank to be by the customer 24 hours a day, seven were completed in order to enhance performance days a week, and on a full-circle basis. Customers and to take advantage of SAP’s technical and new voice their problems and complaints through the functionalities. Correspondingly with the improvement social media, blogs, sharing websites, which allow the in the infrastructure, Akbank was issued the ISO 10002complaint to spread faster and further. Adapting to akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 74 / change, Akbank Complaint Management also tracks all customer experiences on the platforms on a 24/7 basis Process Management and and includes all negative experiences in the complaint process. In addition, the Bank provides specialist Business Development support via “Live Chat” through Direct Internet and Big Red House/Mortgage. Akbank adopted the Business Process Management (BPM) approach as the methodology for business In an effort to achieve absolute customer satisfaction processes management. With this approach, all and to deliver the best banking experience, Akbank elements are evaluated in a holistic manner (especially intends to maintain its leading and pioneering position information technologies, data, organization and in Complaint Management at the same frantic pace. product) and thus customers’ needs are met more efficiently and quickly. Digital (Social) Media and Community Management Akbank Direct continues to have an active presence After the current system is defined, the way customers on the social media. Administering seven Facebook, perceive our Bank’s products and services is identified. eight Twitter, one Youtube, one Google+, one LinkedIn Business development in Akbank uses Simple Six Sigma and one Pinterest accounts for a total of 19 social techniques. Simple Six Sigma is the methodology to media accounts, Akbank has more than 2 million close review and improve ways of doing business from the followers in social media channels. Specially trained perspective of customers based upon the results of customer representatives serve 24/7 and reply to over customer satisfaction surveys and to improve current 25 thousand customer comments each month, offer processes, products and services so as to meet solutions to the complaints, and record suggestions. customer expectations in the most efficient way. The twitter.com/AkbankDestek application, which is a first among Turkish banks, allows customers to reach With the aim of establishing long-lasting relations with Akbank customer representatives via their Twitter customers, Akbank focuses on improving customer accounts, simply as if calling the Call Center. With the experiences and the quality of these experiences. We infrastructure integrated into the Call Center systems, adopt customer-focused perspective as a business customers are served immediately. strategy to manage the Bank from the viewpoint of customers and we shape our customer’s strategy Web loan application processes were overhauled and and process improvement/development efforts in an optimized to improve user experience in 2013. Akbank integrated way. unveiled new processes where customers can apply by submitting only their Turkish identification numbers As examples to process improvement activities at and mobile phone numbers. points of contact with customers we can mention loans, alternative delivery channels access processes, internal operational processes at contact points with customers, and branch improvement activities performed in Focusing on SMEs via Social SME, a real-time accordance with feedback from the branches. Facebook game, Akbank Direct allows SMEs to create growth models for their virtual startup businesses using Akbank products. Players develop growth strategies such as increasing capacity by purchasing new production machines in order to expand the factory; expanding the management team by establishing new departments; and reinforcing the logistics infrastructure by acquiring a warehouse and transportation fleet. These exercises allow them to practice real life strategies as well. The game has reached 85 thousand users to date and won more than 15 awards including a Crystal Apple. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 75 / VALUE ADDED TO OUR CUSTOMERS Operational Efficiency In order to continuously improve operational efficiency, Akbank employs the “Lean Management” methodology that assesses processes from end to end. The Bank’s objective is to both improve customer satisfaction and make the lives of employees easier. In efficiency efforts, feedback received from Bank employees and customers serves as the starting point. Beginning in 2012, these efforts have been focused on making branch processes more effective and they shared transparently within the Bank as part of the “Improvements For You” program. Within the scope of this program, more than 300 improvements were implemented to make the processes leaner, more effective and efficient. While contributing to increased sales results and volumes, these improvements also made it possible to achieve these results with the existing resources. Efficiency gains attained in 2012 have become a source of motivation for other units to perform more comprehensive studies on growing efficiently in 2013. Consequently, the Bank planned and initiated a more extensive transformation program in 2013 that focuses on channels with one-to-one contact with customers (especially branches and Call Center) and processes directly influencing customers. The goal is to showcase Akbank as an example of efficiency and leanness. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 76 / 07. our employees 2013/sustainability report akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 77 / our employees OUR HUMAN RESOURCES HUMAN RESOURCES VISION OPERATING PRINCIPLES Employing the most qualified human resources in the Structuring and assessing all employees in Turkish banking industry and investing in this resource accordance with the objectives and performance of to create value for all of our stakeholders. the organization, Recruiting new employees who will fit in with the Bank’s culture and values, OUR HUMAN RESOURCES Being internal and external customer-oriented, always prioritizing this focus in work relationships, MISSION Supporting all employees with the best human resources applications without discriminating on the basis of language, religion and sect, race, gender, In an effort to support the Bank in its journey toward age, political belief or faith, “Sustainable Leadership”, retaining highly qualified Ensuring the coherence between business human resources at Akbank and recruiting new ones, objectives and HR practices by having a technical improving the existing human resources systems and understanding of major business lines of banking practices as part of this process, designing new ones and speaking the same language with other and carrying out effective communication regarding employees in the organization on a technical level, these. Continuously helping the Bank’s employees with its expertise, know-how and experience in order for PURPOSE OF OUR HUMAN them to improve the performance of their units as well their own personal performance, RESOURCES MANAGEMENT Respecting open communication, confidentiality of personal information, sense of justice, and compliance with code of ethics, • Recruiting the best candidates for the Bank, Planning and implementing proactive applications • Constantly developing the corporate culture and and activities with regard to the management of the business conduct, organization and its human capital without waiting to • Building the organizational structure in accordance be asked to do so, with strategic objectives and ensuring its continuity Establishing and implementing coherent, integrated in order to safeguard the Bank’s effective and and sustainable systems throughout the Bank, productive operation, creating a harmonious synergy by ensuring the • Making effective investments in human resources in participation of all units in this effort, accordance with targets and strategies, Developing practices to help individual business units • Carrying out participatory career planning, attain their goals or making adjustments to existing • Rewarding mechanism that encourages and Bank practices on an as-needed basis, supports superior performance of employees by Creating an environment where employees can way of a goal and competence-based, transparent improve themselves and support their development, performance management system, Ensuring that everybody at the Bank acts with the • Undertaking system and process improvements for awareness that human resource management is the employee engagement. core function of all managers, Taking heed of and solidifying the Bank’s corporate During the course of carrying out these objectives, culture in all decisions taken and all practices Akbank’s Human Resources Department embraces carried out. the principle of being the “strategic business partner” of the business units. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 78 / Our Compass in Every Step: “Our Values” Towards Sustainable Success with the “Best In order to solidify its corporate culture and approach, Professionals” Akbank initiated the “Revision of Corporate Values” project in 2012. Convinced that organizations that unite The Bank believes that moving forward with the “best” around corporate values become successful, the Bank professionals brings the best results. Therefore, formed a sample group of 120 people coming from Akbank’s human resources practices are aimed at various geographical locations and functions such making the Bank “the leader among the most preferred as vice presidents, managers, directors, assistant employers where creative, dynamic and confident directors, specialists, call center agents, and security people who create value choose to work and a company officers and gathered 13 different focus groups in order which employees are proud to be a part of.” to assess how the Bank’s existing values are brought to life and internalized throughout the organization. The Bank’s recruitment policy is to hire qualified, well-educated, innovative people who are open to As a result of this initiative, seven common values that learning and developing constantly and who are define Akbank and being an employee of Akbank were eager to create value for Akbank and its stakeholders, identified: without discriminating on the basis of race, language, religious belief, gender and age. Akbank pursues a fair 1 We Are Bankers from the Heart hiring policy focused on equal opportunity, based upon Energized by being an employee of Akbank, we work predefined recruitment criteria. As part of this effort, with enthusiasm and affection. Akbank strives to hire the most appropriate candidates 2 We Believe in Growing with Our Customers in the most suitable position by employing competenceWe look at the past and the future together with our based objective measurement and evaluation methods. customers and we create value for them. To this end, it is among Akbank’s utmost priorities to 3 We Are Ready for the Future recruit new graduates who do not have professional We continuously improve ourselves and our experience in order to develop future leaders and to business, we pioneer the industry with technology offer them career opportunities within the banking and innovation. sector. 4 We Make Life Easier with Smart Solutions We think analytically, approach issues systematically, Within the framework of business performance and and generate quick and cooperation-oriented productivity, vacant positions within the organization solutions. are first announced to Akbank employees. Applications 5 We Appreciate Trust of Akbank employees for new positions are evaluated We create success by trusting each other and quickly and appointments of worthy candidates are transparency, we instill the same trust in our made in very short order. While recruiting for the customers. Head Office and branches, Akbank prefers to recruit 6 We Support Open Communication candidates living in regions close to its service locations. We communicate with each other and with In our Malta branch, Akbank pursues a policy of customers in a clear, sincere, and timely manner. employing local residents. 7 We Invest in the Community Our Compensation Policy In full awareness of our social responsibilities, we Compensation policies of companies are among the work for a sustainable community. important factors in employee loyalty and performance improvement. Therefore, Akbank’s compensation policy In 2013 we focused on integrating these seven shared is structured to attract the human capital required values of Akbank and its employees into our human for continuous success and to reward, to motivate resources system and on internal communication and to retain high-performing employees. Akbank’s activities. compensation policy is formulated compatible with akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 79 / our employees the Bank’s operations, long-term objectives, and eight weeks for others. In case of transfers, employees risk management structure. In order to ensure fair are given three days for commencing their new posts in compensation, employees with similar roles and the same province and 15 days in another province. If an responsibilities are paid similar salaries and those who employee is transferred to a different unit, he/she can perform better than their benchmarks based on the communicate with the Human Resources Unit to state results of the Performance Evaluation System receive opinions on the change. higher raises and bonuses. In an effort to encourage the development of personal growth and competencies within Akbank, the Bank pays Employee Profile an additional salary to employees who speak a foreign 94.4% of Akbank employees (excluding security staff) language. are university graduates. This is the highest ratio among private and public sector banks in Turkey. The average Akbank’s entry level compensation policy is the same tenure is 7.3 years at Akbank while average years of in all branches and service points. In recruitment service is 7.9 years in the banking industry. 68% of of employees with no previous work experience, Akbank employees work at branches, which are one-tothe average salary is equal to the minimum wage one contact points with customers. for Private Security Staff, 38% more than minimum wage for Assistants, and twice the minimum wage for Our Employees in Figures Management Trainees. As of December 31, 2013, Akbank has a total of 16,258 employees, including the Members of the Board of Major Operational Changes to Affect Employees Directors. If significant changes occur in the employment contracts of employees, notice and notification periods stipulated There are no part-time employees in Akbank, with the in the Labor Code and Collective Bargaining Contract exception of a consultant. Including one to three months are in effect. Periods of notice vary depending on the of internship period of university students, all employees employees’ seniority. For employees with more than are permanent and “full-time”. Benefits provided for three years of service, this period is 11 months for those full-time employees may only vary depending on the within the scope of the collective bargaining contract and person’s performance. Breakdown of employees by service location is presented in the table below. Number of Employees 2011 2012 2013 Head Office* 2,177 2,049 1,821 Akbank Banking Center 2,810 3,010 3,166 Regional Directorates** 551 652 777 Branches*** 9,801 10,604 10,485 Overall 15,339 16,315 16,249 * Excluding the Board of Directors. ** As reported in previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates, not the Head Office, although they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office. The reason is that these employees are actually working in the field. *** Including employees at Malta branch. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 80 / In case of necessity, Akbank generates employment through outsourcing. Number of employees working especially in Direct Banking, Consumer Banking, Information Technologies, and Operations Business Units are available in the table below. 2011 2012 2013 Number of Employees within the Outsourcing System* 1,369 1,423 1,409 * As of November 2012, the Call Center is listed as part of the newly established Direct Banking Business Unit. Gender Distribution Akbank embraces the principle of equality of opportunity without any discrimination on the basis of gender or age. Ratio of female and male employees within the Bank have remained roughly the same over the years. After maintaining the same level in 2010 and 2011, share of female employees increased by 1.1 percentage points to 52% in 2012 and ticked down by 0.2 percentage points to 51.8% in 2013. 2013 Total Number Breakdown by Gender (%) 2011 2012 2013 of Employees Staff Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Board of Directors 87.5 12.5 88.9 11.1 88.9 11.1 8 1 Senior Management 65.8 34.2 64.0 36.0 64.5 35.5 884 486 Mid-level Management 44.1 55.8 45.0 55.0 46.0 54.0 1,073 1,258 Auditors 72.9 27.1 68.5 31.5 70.1 29.9 162 69 Assistant Managers 41.7 58.3 40.3 59.7 39.7 60.3 4,305 6,552 Other* 72.8 27.2 74.7 25.3 73.5 26.5 122 44 Security 99.7 0.3 99.8 0.2 99.5 0.5 1,288 6 Overall 49.1 50.9 48.0 52.0 48.2 51.8 7,842 8,416 * Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support staff, and technicians. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 81 / our employees Age Distribution The average age of Akbank employees is 33.2 as of year-end 2013. In almost every staff category, the largest age group is 30-50. The largest groups in the “under 30” category are “assistant managers” and “auditors”. Pursuant to the Bank’s recruitment policy, only those of full legal age can work at Akbank. There are no employees under the categories of child labor (employees under 15 years of age, at which compulsory education ends) or young labor (over the minimum age for employment and under 18 years of age) categories at Akbank. Students and young workers applying for an internship at Akbank must be seniors if they are high school students and sophomores or juniors if they are university students. 78 university students were employed as interns at the Head Office units between June 2013 and September 2013. Number of student interns at Akbank has a seasonal pattern; there are no interns on the Bank’s payroll as of year-end 2013. Breakdown by Age (%) 2011 2012 2013 Between Between Between Staff Under 30 30 and 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 and 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 and 50 Over 50 Board of Directors 12.5 87.5 22.2 77.8 22.2 77.8 Senior Management 93.8 6.2 95.0 5.0 0.1 95.3 4.8 Mid-level Management 2.9 95.2 1.9 3.1 95.0 1.9 3.3 94.9 1.8 Auditors 53.4 46.6 50.2 49.8 51.9 48.1 0.2 Assistant Managers 44.9 54.9 0.2 43.7 56.1 0.2 40.0 59.8 0.2 Other* 20.2 76.3 3.5 18.2 77.1 4.7 19.9 75.9 4.2 Security 46.2 53.8 45.7 54.3 42.7 57.3 Overall 37.1 62 0.9 35.5 63.6 0.9 31.5 67.6 0.9 * Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support staff, and technicians. Employee Turnover Rate Employee turnover rates and numbers based on location are presented in the table below. The Bank’s employee turnover rate was 10.45% in 2013 due to the increasing competition in the sector. Human Resources Department analyzes the feedback from employees who have left the Bank regarding their reasons for leaving and improvements are made in business processes according to these findings. Employee Turnover Rate* 2011 2012 2013 Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Head Office 9.77 190 10.04 210 11.39 230 Akbank Banking Center 10.36 328 11.5 338 14.20 459 Regional Directorates** 4.13 23 3.95 24 7.22 53 Branches 8.31 812 8.74 904 9.33 970 Overall (average) 8.76 1,353 9.24 1,476 10.45 1,712 * Employees who have left the Bank (including those who retired, resigned, and those whose work contracts were terminated) ** As in the previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates category, rather than the Head Office category, even though they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office, since these employees are actually working in the field. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 82 / Employees are free to resign so long as they comply with the terms on their employment contracts. Forced labor is outside of Akbank’s business principles. Employee turnover rates depending on the age group are presented in the table below: Employee Turnover Rate by Age Group Under 30 Between 30 and 50 Over 50 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number Head Office 13 95 15.1 88 14.27 78 7.7 91 8 118 6.09 145 12.1 4 9.5 4 12.90 6 Akbank Banking Center 15 222 17.6 174 22.38 218 6 100 8.1 155 18.22 231 20 6 39.1 9 29.40 11 Regional Directorates* 4.3 6 6.3 7 14.20 20 4 16 3.1 15 5.35 31 14.3 1 22.2 2 14.72 2 Branches 9.8 375 11.3 325 10.69 265 6.9 406 7.5 555 8.58 673 48.4 31 41.4 24 43.39 32 Overall (average) 11.3 698 13 594 14.03 581 6.7 613 7.5 843 8.85 1,080 31.3 42 29.5 39 29.78 51 * As in the previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates category, rather than the Head Office category. Even though they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office, these employees are actually working in the field. Employee turnover rates depending on the gender is presented in the table below. Percentages of male and female workers who left their jobs are close to each other. The reason for higher employee turnover rate among females compared to males at the Akbank Banking Center is that number of female employees is higher at the center. Employee Turnover Rate by Gender Male Female 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate Rate (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number (%) Number Head Office 9.49 108 9.90 118 10.31 118 10.16 82 10.21 92 12.80 112 Akbank Banking Center 9.74 124 10.52 127 13.28 184 10.78 204 12.18 211 14.88 275 Regional Directorates* 4.37 16 3.90 15 6.59 30 3.66 7 4.05 9 8.26 23 Branches 8.61 414 9.03 447 8.93 438 8.01 398 8.48 457 9.69 532 Overall (average) 8.73 662 9.14 707 9.76 770 8.79 691 9.33 769 11.09 942 * As in the previous years, employees at the Regional Credit Directorates are included in the Regional Directorates category, rather than the Head Office category Even though they report to the Credits Business Unit located at the Head Office, these employees are actually working in the field. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 83 / our employees Performance Management Akbank carries out regular annual system development efforts to make the Performance Management System System more practical, user-friendly and efficient. Performance evaluation of Akbank’s Senior For the evaluation and management of the Management is based on both the Bank’s overall performances of employees, Akbank implements a year-end performance and success criteria that transparent and flexible performance management support long-term sustainable performance. As part system that is capable of responding to changing needs of this effort, Akbank employs the Balanced Scorecard and conducive to improvement. In order to sustain application. Performance of the Senior Management is the Bank’s accomplishments and ensure personal measured on the basis of such perspectives as finance, development, Head Office employees are subject to customer, internal processes, and human resources. performance evaluation once a year and field workers Therefore, the Senior Management’s indicators of goals twice a year. As a result of this evaluation, areas of and success also include performance criteria such development are identified for employees and various as customer satisfaction, employee satisfaction, and training and development opportunities are organized employee turnover rate in addition to financial criteria. in these areas to support their career development. Performance evaluation allow the Bank to determine The criteria of the Akbank Performance Management employees’ competence levels for a variety of roles and System are based upon personal goals and responsibilities. Accordingly, the Bank’s employees get competencies. The types, weights and numbers of the opportunity to continue their Akbank careers in other goals and competencies in the performance forms business units based on organizational needs and their are determined by cooperation between the business own preferences. units and the Human Resources Department. The performance period covers a term of one year. The The aims of the Performance Management System Operations and Digital Scorecard measurements that developed with a management approach that supports are integrated in the Performance Management System and encourages high-level performance are: are conducted twice a year at six month intervals. • To enable employees realize their corporate targets Career Management Policy and to increase corporate performance, The career management policy implemented in Akbank • To guide and develop employees in order to meet gives priority of promotion and transfer within the Bank. their changing and developing needs better, It is another priority of our Bank to ensure a fair and • To align the Bank’s goals with personal goals of effective performance management; to detect, monitor, employees, and develop talents; and to provide employees with • To ensure that employees understand what is career opportunities for self-improvement. expected of them better, get involved with their jobs and stay motivated to attain their targets, In all assignments and promotions provisions such as • To encourage continuous development via open performance, tenor of employment, latest promotion communication and regular feedback and to date, education, experience, having the required increase motivation, competence is considered. In addition, branches and • To evaluate contributions and performances of units are visited to make career interviews and this employees in a fair and objective manner and to creates effective communication in terms of career shape their competence in line with the needs of management. Akbank, • To make correct decisions about career planning, training and other human resources processes of employees and to ensure their personal development in line with such processes. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 84 / “Career maps” that encompass career steps are posted In order to earn the right to benefit from retirement, on the “corporate portal”. As a result, employees have employees should fulfill requirements such as access to detailed information on career maps and job completing a certain period of insurance, having fully families as well as he contact information of Human paid premiums for the required number of days, and Resources team member assigned to support them and having reached a certain age. Employees who fulfill consult with them regarding their career development. these conditions are provided with pension by Akbank Entirety of career principles are stipulated in detail in the Staff Retirement Fund Trust upon their demand. In Human Resources Implementation Principles document calculating the pension, main parameters are the and shared with the employees. working period of the employee, total income within this period and age, as well as consumer price index change Benefits to Employees rates and development rates in our country. Due to such Akbank Staff Retirement Fund Trust (Akbank Tekaüt variable parameters, monthly pensions may differ for Sandığı) each employee. All of our current and retired Akbank employees and their dependents are registered at the Akbank Staff Akbank Private Pension System with Corporate Retirement Fund Trust (Akbank Tekaüt Sandığı), Contribution independent of Turkey’s Social Security Agency. In addition to AKSandık pension, Akbank employees Pensions and healthcare services offered to the are also offered Private Pension System (PPS) Services members of this Fund Trust are in better conditions with some corporate contribution. Senior and midthan the basic services offered by the state owned Social level managers and auditors are included in this PPS Security Agency. plan with corporate contribution. Our Bank contributes to savings of such employees by making additional Retirement payments to the PPS contracts of the above-mentioned Akbank Staff Retirement Fund Trust is a social security employees in a certain ratio of their monthly gross institution as a legal person that provides social salary. Thus we help Akbank employees make savings insurance support to members using the insurance and continue with the same living standards in their premiums collected from employees and employer, with retirement. the provided rights not being inferior to those provided by the Social Security Agency. Conditions for earning the Participation in PPS is optional. The purpose of the right to benefit from insurance support are in parallel system is to ensure that our employees have the same with legal regulations; however, with additional rights living conditions as today when they are retired. In inherent in Akbank Staff Retirement Fund Trust’s status, order to improve employee loyalty and motivation, we this support is improved. attach a special importance to the PPS with corporate contribution and try to increase the number of Premium revenues of Akbank Staff Retirement Fund employees participating in this plan. As a result of such Trust are 33.5% of the employee salary, on condition efforts, number of employees participating in PPS with that it is taken within the maximum monthly revenue corporate contribution increased from 3,424 in 2012 identified by the law annually for insurance premiums. year-end to 4,182 in 2013 year-end. 14% of this is deducted from the employee’s salary and 19.5% is the contribution of Akbank. In addition, Collective Bargaining Agreement premiums amounting to 2% of total annual revenues In our Bank, all employees can become members of of employees are deposited by Akbank to the Trust’s BANKSİS (Union of Bank and Insurance Employees) account, again on condition that these are within the on their own preferences and exercise their rights of stated limits. collective bargaining agreement. As of the end of 2013, 46% of our employees (7,499 people) are within the scope of collective bargaining agreement. Financial rights and administrative relations of BANKSİS nonmembers are defined by our Bank, while those of members are defined by the Collective Bargaining Agreement. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 85 / our employees Due to promotions from positions within the scope of collective bargaining to senior and mid-level Employee Health and management positions that are out of the scope, number of posts within the scope has not increased Safety compared to 2012. Within the framework of the collective bargaining agreement, we provide our Since the year it was founded, Akbank offers a variety of employees working at posts within the scope with opportunities to employees in order to offer them a safe rights such as death benefits, natural disaster benefits, working environment and to meet their health needs. disability compensation, death and injury compensation, Akbank Staff Retirement Fund Trust and emigration compensation for personnel moving to Healthcare services provided by the Akbank Retirement another city. Fund include access to healthcare centers in certain Equal Opportunity Model (EOM) Project provinces. Akbank employees initially get treated in We completed the preparations for the Equal these centers. When they need to see a specialist or Opportunity Model (EOM) project in cooperation with have an operation, they are referred to healthcare KAGİDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) institutions affiliated with the Foundation. Employees in 2011 and the project was launched in 2012 with who reside in the provinces where a Foundation technical support from the World Bank. 11 corporations Healthcare Center does not exist can get service from -including Akbankthat agreed to take part in the affiliated healthcare providers. project were audited by an independent institution in line Information and Trainings on Health with 22 criteria. Information on epidemics and other important diseases is provided regularly under the “Health Column” These criteria are divided into two parts -namely main published on the Akbank Retirement Fund website. In criteria and supporting criteria. The main criteria are as cases of emergency, e-mail notifications are sent. In follows: addition, the Bank conducts fire and earthquake drills • The management’s commitment to equal and administers natural disaster trainings. opportunity • Equal opportunity in recruitment and selection Parental Leave • Equal opportunity in access to trainings Akbank’s female employees are entitled to 16 weeks • Equal opportunity in performance evaluation and of paid maternal leave -eight weeks before and eight promotions weeks after the birth. They can also take unpaid • Career support practices maternal leave for up to six months and 1.5 hours per • Investigation of feedback and complaints day for breastfeeding until the child reaches the age • Communication and corporate advertising of 1. Employees whose wives have given birth are also entitled to three days of paid leave. Akbank Retirement In the independent audit for the EOM project, it was Fund meets child delivery costs Akbank our employees examined whether Akbank’s corporate policies and and provides a variety of additional benefits. procedures, recruitment and selection processes, training, performance evaluation, promotion, career Lost Workdays support practices, corporate communication activities, Due to the nature of its operations and prudent etc. support the concept of equal opportunity. As a practices, occupational diseases or workplace result of the audit, Akbank earned the Equal Opportunity accidents are not experienced at Akbank. Yet, the total Certificate, which is valid for two years. absenteeism (lost days) of 6,177 employees who got sick leaves with official health reports amounted to 48,664 calendar days in 2013. Average sick leave per person, calculated by dividing this figure by the average number of employees, is 2.8 days per year. This ratio was 3.02 days in 2012 and 3.14 days in 2011. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 86 / Career Development and Akbank Academy Organization This academic organization created by Akbank helps Training at Akbank employees successfully carry out their existing job functions while also preparing them for the position they are applying for. Akbankers are provided with career and Akbank’s training system, which has a strategic certification training courses for their existing posts as significance for the Bank, supports the development well as custom designed Talent Pool training programs of all employees and aims to increase motivation and for the positions they are a candidate for. Management work satisfaction. In full awareness of the fact that Trainees and Head Office and branch employees with information is a significant asset and well-equipped “Assistant” designation in their job titles, who just joined human resource is a major competitive advantage, the Bank without any prior experience in the banking the Bank organizes training activities to contribute industry, attend “Management Trainee” and “Core to the personal and professional development of Banking” programmes. its employees. Akbank designs its training courses in accordance with corporate goals and strategies, Akbank managers, who are the leaders of today, are needs of the sector, and areas of development that supported via classroom training, one-to-one consulting were identified based upon employee potential and and online applications in executive development preferences. training programmes to groom the leaders of tomorrow. A new academic organization was created that will Feedback from the programme participants is of critical reflect the core corporate competencies and strategies importance for the effectiveness and success of the in learning mechanisms that will move Akbank forward training efforts. All feedback is submitted to Akbank into the future. To this end, the Bank’s training building Academy by way of online surveys. Survey results was renovated architecturally and functionally and are significant in terms of evaluating and improving began to serve the employees in a more modern and the content of the training, instructors and training corporate setting under the “Akbank Academy” brand. environment. All questions, requests, suggestions and opinions regarding the training courses can be e-mailed to Akbank Academy at akbank.akademi@akbank.com. The Bank employs e-learning method in the areas The importance Akbank gives to training and of credit regulations, foreign trade, consumer and development management process was recognized at commercial loans, basic law, basic accounting, debit the awards in the category of “Human Management” cards and credit card in order to complement classroom given by the Turkish Association of Human Resources career training courses as well as in personal Management (PERYÖN). The Bank won the First development topics such as stress management, Place Prize in the Training and Development category meeting management, communication techniques and among applications from 29 leading companies in 42 team building. In an attempt accelerate the adaptation categories. of employees to new products and processes, the Bank developed e-learning programs in Agricultural Loans, Gram Gold, Premium Travel Insurance, SME Business Plus Insurance, Western Union, SME Health Support Insurance, and Agriculture Card. In addition to these, Akbank Academy also offers personal development-oriented classroom training courses including customer-oriented service, telephone communication, presentation techniques, methods of negotiation, innovation, creative thinking techniques and management skills. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 87 / our employees A total of 1,258,902 hours of training was completed in 2013, corresponding to average training per employee of 11.7 work days. Total number of training days for employees in the last three years and annual average training time per person are presented in the tables below. Total number of training days (1 day = 7 hours) Function 2011 2012 2013 Vice Presidents and Higher 14,454 13,130 11,530 Managers* 10,839 13,471 15,909 Non-Managers* 120,393 153,243 118,344 Total 145,686 179,844 145,783 * Employees at the Manager and IT Manager functions are represented in the “Manager” category and all other functions (including support staff) are in included in the “Non-Manager” category. Average Number of Training Days per Person (1 day = 7 hours) Function 2011 2012 2013 Vice Presidents and Higher 12.4 10.1 8.96 Managers* 6.79 7.1 8.42 Non-Managers* 9.6 11.6 9.35 Total** 9.5 11.7 8.91 * Employees at the Manager and IT Manager functions are represented in the “Manager” category and all other functions (including support staff) are in included in the “Non-Manager” category. ** Total average training hours is calculated on the basis of total training hours in one year/total number of employees in the job function during the previous year. Track Your Development, Shape Your Future (Akbank employees can strengthen the knowledge they gained Development Center) during the training by preparing papers and attending The Akbank Development Center portal, restructured online simulations after the training. As these tasks are with the motto “Track your Development, Shape Your directly related to the employees’ jobs, their success in Future”, is a platform within Akbank continuously training is literally reflected upon the quality of the work supporting the development of the Bank’s employees they perform. Participants succeeding in the certification where they can manage their training planning in programs receive the “certificate of accomplishment”, accordance with their career progression. Akbank which is an important step in their career development. employees can continue their development 24/7 at home The certification system grooms well-equipped, or in the office via the “Akbank Development Center”, competent, innovative, and leading employees in terms which contains all employee e-training modules and of professional and managerial skills, striving to build a can be reached online at any time from any location. corporate culture that “creates its own leaders”. Employees can see their individual training calendar, request training, and get information on questionnaires, Other Training Opportunities for Employees exam results, e-learning and training organizations via Akbank supports its employees in obtaining especially the portal. internationally recognized certifications in their areas of specialization. Fees for such exams and preparatory Certification System (Lifelong Learning) trainings are covered by Akbank pursuant to certain Some of Akbank’s training is subject to the certification criteria. While the number of employees taking such system. In the certification system, employees attend exams in accordance with their specialization in 2011 specified training programs and take exams before was 35, this figure increased to 48 in 2012 and to 94 in and after the program. In some certification programs, 2013. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 88 / Some of the exams the Bank supports are as follows: Bank of Instructors • Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) exam held by the Retired and Internal Instructor Practice CFA Institute: Exam on treasury transactions Know-how and experience of retired Akbank employees • Certified Internal Auditor (CIA) exam held by the are highly valuable for the Bank. Successful Akbank CIA Institute and CMA (Certified Management retirees who possess the skills and interest in carrying Accountants) held by ICMA: Exams on internal audit out training are hired as “instructors” in return for a fee. • The Project Management Professional PMP exam In particular, almost all of the Core Banking training held by the Project Management Institute (PMI), classes for new recruits are administered by retiree which awards the most widely accepted certificate on instructors. Project Management • The Certified Documentary Credit Specialist (CDCS) Similarly, active employees who are specialists in their exam held by the ICC National Committee of fields and who possess the skill to teach can become Turkey, which offers the opportunity of earning the internal instructors. To become an instructor, one internationally accepted title of Certified Letter of should comply with certain criteria and successfully Credit Specialist complete the “Training of the Instructor Program”. • Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) Internal instructors are paid an hourly fee for their Information technologies security management teaching load in addition to the salaries they receive for exam held by ISACA (Information Systems Audit and their regular jobs. Control Association) • Financial Risk Manager (FRM) exam held by New On-the-job Trainings and Coaching System York-based GARP (Global Association of Risk Within the scope of efforts to become a learning Professionals) organization, on-the-job trainings focusing on • Software Testing Expertise Certification exam sharing experiences comes forward. Newly assigned coordinated by the Turkish Testing Board Customer Relationship Managers are matched with representative of International Software Testing high-performing and experienced Training Envoys to Qualifications Board (ISTQB) in Turkey get on-the-job trainings structured in areas such as • Various technical trainings and certificates by Oracle loan analysis, foreign trade, deposits and investment and Microsoft. products. Experienced employees in branches also share their knowledge and analyze cases with their In addition to these, every year certain number of teams. On-the-job trainings are recorded and monitored Akbank employees are selected as future leaders due to in the training system and their results are measured by their high performance and potential get the opportunity looking at the pre and post-tests. to attend the Sabancı University Executive MBA program with full scholarship. Since 2001, 72 employees There are training programs and professional coaching participated in this program. In 2010 and 2011, three practices designed to help Head of Departments and and four employees benefited from the program Managers at Akbank General Directorate, regional respectively. The figure was eight in the academic year directors and regional sales managers with expertise 2013-2014. in Consumer, Commercial and SME Banking to improve competence in technical banking, sales and In line with their roles and responsibilities some management. Through such trainings, managers can employees attend summits, conferences and seminars coach their teams in an effective and target-oriented both in Turkey and abroad. Number of Akbank way. employees participating in training programs abroad rose from 35 in 2012 to 114 in 2013. The Mentoring Program Akbank carries out for the management trainees is aimed at completing their orientation of new graduate employees to the organization as soon as possible and having them embrace the experience, know-how and corporate culture within the Bank. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 89 / our employees Employees enlisted in the programme are supported by Content of these training programmes is determined their mentors in a wide variety of ways, from personal in accordance with the needs of the target audience. development to career advancement, while the mentors Majority of the anti-corruption trainings are for the hone their management and leadership skills. employees working in Akbank branches and especially at counters, but all employees also attend training on Anti-Corruption Training Code of Ethics and Information Security. The banking sector faces corruption risks due to its size and the magnitude of monetary transactions. It has Akbank continuously reviews and reevaluates the topics been determined that corruption can be prevented to a and contents of its anti-corruption training programmes great extent by control systems and training. Armed with based on developments and needs in this area. In 2013 this awareness, Akbank organizes internal classroom the Bank updated the content of its e-learning training training sessions and e-learning applications on modules on Information Security, Security Awareness technical issues as well as on actions to be taken and to and Combating Proceeds of Crime, and shared these be avoided. with all employees. Detailed information on other ongoing training initiatives is presented in the table below. Name/Content of the Training Target Audience 2012 2013 Percentage Percentage of Coverage of Coverage Type of Number of as of YearType of Number of as of YearTraining Participants end (%) Training Participants end (%) Management for Cash in Hand Cash Officers and newly employed Classroom 1,437 100 Classroom 592 100 – Fraud and Pick Pocketing AssistantsOfficers 4 Training Document Protection and Cash Officers and newly employed Classroom 1,678 100 Classroom 716 100 Forgery Trainings AssistantsOfficers 4 Trainings for Detecting and All branch employees E-learning 7,131 75 E-learning 1,313 100 Preventing Fraud Code of Ethics All employees E-learning 11,577 100 E-learning 2,508 100 Newly employed AssistantsOfficers 4, Classroom 1,529 100 Classroom 888 100 Call Center officers, assistant auditors, management trainees Disciplinary Regulations All Employees E-learning 1,728 100 E-learning 2,721 100 Information Security All Employees* E-learning 1,682 100 Newly employed AssistantsOfficers 4, Classroom 1,731 100 Classroom 2,052 82 Call Center officers, assistant auditors, management trainees Operational Risk Operation Officers, Pay Desk Officers Classroom 1,389 90 Classroom 918 100 All branch employees** E-learning 3,418 100 Classroom 737 100 Fighting Proceeds of Crime Branch managers and Newly employed Classroom 2,326 100 E-learning 611 88 AssistantsOfficers 4, Call Center officers, assistant auditors, management trainees All Employees*** E-learning 14,465 100 Classroom 1,804 100 Information Security Standards All employees E-learning 10,494 75 E-learning 4,170 55 Security Awareness All branch employees**** E-learning 4,626 56 E-learning Call Center Security Awareness All customer representatives E-learning 704 100 Total: Classroom 10,090 Classroom 4,875 44 E-learning 55,825 E-learning 670 100 Note: “Percentage of Coverage as of Year-end” means the ratio of the target audience planned to be trained and the employees who already received the trainings. * The training was redesigned in 2013 with a target audience of Operations Officers, Branch Transaction Officers, Cash and Transaction Officers, and Pay Desk Officers. ** The training was updated and re-opened for all employees who have not previously completed it. *** The training was updated in June and was assigned for all employees who have not completed it during the previous cycle as well as all new employees of the Bank. **** The training was updated in October and re-opened for all branch employees. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 90 / Sustainability Trainings which we are a signatory) Dilemma Game. Since the In order to support branch employees in internalizing launch of this Program, approximately 4,600 employees Akbank’s “For You” approach and thus contributing attended these trainings. to the strategy of improving customer perception, a The Sustainability Game was included in the orientation wide-scope training program called “Boomerang” programme for the experienced new hires as of was launched in October 2011. Covering all branch May 2013; 353 new employees participated in this employees from branch managers to security staff, the programme between May 2013 and December 2013. program is based upon six qualities that define the ideal Akbank employee profile who can manage himself/ Objectives of the sustainability training are: herself, the business, and customers well to create • Contributing first to the comprehension, and then to “customer loyalty”. the internalization of Akbank’s sustainability strategy by all employees, An important part of the Boomerang Training Program • Creating awareness for integrating the concept of is the Sustainability Module that was developed to sustainability in business processes, enhance the profile of an Akbank employee who cares • Ensuring that the concept of sustainability is rooted about environmental and social challenges and who in the corporate culture and creating a shared abides by ethical values. This module covers the concept language in this area. of sustainability, practices in the Banking sector and at Akbank, and ethics. During the training participants gain In 2013 the Bank made major strides in integrating a highly effective hands-on learning experience through sustainability into Akbank’s corporate culture and a “sustainability board game” that is adopted specially continued to organize a variety of sustainability trainings. for our Bank on the basis of UN Global Compact (of Akbank is planning to proceed with these trainings in 2014. The table below provides information on participation in sustainability trainings in 2013: Name/Content of the Training 2012 2013 Percentage of Percentage of Coverage as Coverage as Type of Number of Total Hours of of Year-end Number of Total Hours of of Year-end Target Audience Training Participants Training (%) Participants Training (%) Sustainability All branch employees Classroom 2,985 8,242 100 1,274 3,895 100 Sustainability Approach All employees E-learning 870 435 82 2,745 1,373 98 Newly employed AssistantsOfficers 4, Assistant Inspectors Classroom 1,332 2,535 100 1,025 1,666 100 Note: “Percentage of Coverage as of Year-end” means the ratio of the target audience planned to be trained and the employees who already received the trainings. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 91 / our employees Internal Communication and Activities at Akbank Breakfast with the CEO In order to facilitate communication among employees, Once every two months Akbank employees from various develop team spirit, enhance employee motivation, segments and units attend a breakfast meeting with increase loyalty, and share messages of the Bank Akbank’s CEO. At the breakfast gathering attended by management and common targets, Akbank carries out high-performing employees of the year, employees various internal communication efforts and activities on share their opinions and suggestions on the industry various platforms. with the CEO and convey the topics on which they need more support. The Bank’s internal communications and activities are guided by the following objectives: Live Messages from Senior Management • To create an effective communication strategy, to Every three months, Akbank’s CEO shares the quarterly announce this strategy at the right time and through performance evaluation messages live via computer the right channels, and to encourage employees to screens with all employees. Before the broadcast, use the right communication channel, questions of employees are collected and the CEO • To ensure that employees reflect and experience answers these questions live in person. These live the Bank’s brand spirit and to communicate the broadcasts are organized in order to establish a closer corporate culture with the right messages, and more regular communication between the senior • To ensure the continuity of organizations and management and employees, either face-to-face or practices that support corporate loyalty policies for through other communication tools as well as to reach reinforcing the team spirit at Akbank. to the teams in branches. This common ground keeps the internal synergy dynamic and reinforces mutual Internal Communication communication and increases employee motivation to Akbank’s internal communications are geared toward reach common targets. encouraging employees to work in a customeroriented manner, focus on strategic priorities, and gain information about the developments related to the Bank. The most frequently used internal communication channels are the corporate portal, corporate TV, e-mailing, quarterly performance live meetings, breakfast meetings with the CEO, and directors meetings. With the interactive platforms on the corporate portal, infrastructure of which was changed in late 2012, and corporate TV that Akbank reaches its customers, the Bank can also reach employees outside the working hours. In addition, special offers for Akbank employees are announced via e-mails and are available at the Corporate Portal. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 92 / Corporate Portal Company Events Akbank uses the Corporate Portal system to ensure that Akbank organizes social events in order to improve its employees perform their duties more easily, have motivation, reinforce team spirit, and to strengthen access to information effectively, and improve internal internal communications. communication. The infrastructure of the corporate portal was renewed in 2012. The aim of the renewal was Some of the sport activities that Akbank employees to allow internal and external information transfer, to participated in 2013 are as follows: increase operational efficiency in all processes thanks • April 2013: The 22-player Akbank soccer team to state-of-the-art technologies, to create a common participated in the Inter-Company Soccer platform for information, and to ensure easy access to Tournament for the second time. information and consolidation. • June 2013: The 8-player Akbank tennis team took fourth place at the 3rd The Banks Association of “For Us” Turkey Tennis Tournament. The “For Us” section of the corporate portal is an • September 2013: Akbank employees took part in the important channel used for strengthening internal 3-on-3 Inter-Company Basketball Tournament with communications by creating interactive areas through two men’s and one women’s team. Akbank women’s which the Bank can receive feedback from employees. team took second place. • October 2013: Akbank running team consisting Examples from “For Us”: of nine employees participated in the Vodafone• Social activities attended by employees, sponsored ICC Running Marathon that was held • Albums from which employees can download photos at the Belgrad Forest with the participation of from the social events they attended, employees from companies representing 32 distinct • Social responsibility projects that employees industries. volunteer for, • Special advantages offered to Akbank employees by various companies, • Interactive pages of social clubs, Employee Engagement • Bulletin boards on which employees put various items and estates on sale. A key factor in maintaining the motivation and Mechanisms for Employee Opinions and Suggestions performance of employees at a high level, and reflecting There are various mechanisms for employees to these in business results, is the presence of a desirable express their opinions and suggestions to the senior work environment and corporate culture. Seeing management. In addition to the “Why Not” and “Live effective communication as one of the most important Messages from Senior Management” practices tools for success, Akbank regularly conducts an launched in 2012, employees reveal their expectations, “Employee Engagement Survey” at the business unit opinions and suggestions to the senior management level in an attempt to make them feel valued and to through the annual Employee Satisfaction Survey. constantly regenerate itself. The survey is performed They can also share their suggestions about business by an independent research company on a confidential processes through the “Suggestion” system on the basis. Necessary improvement and development Corporate Portal. In addition, “Ethics Line” is a tool that initiatives are carried out based on the results of the enables employees to express issues which they believe survey. According to the results of the 2013 survey, should be resolved within their departments but they opportunities for improvement will be focused on cannot share with their direct managers; and to provide performance management, processes and recognition. support and advice to employees in such circumstances Armed with the awareness of the relationship between when necessary. happy employees and high corporate performance, the Bank believes in the value created by employee engagement and the importance of increasing employee engagement and increases its investments by the day in pursuit of this vision. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 93 / 08. Our Operations and Environment 2013/sustainability report akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 94 / Akbank shows utmost care With the aim of actualizing its environmental policy Akbank has adopted the following commitments: to minimize the impacts • Taking necessary steps to fully comply with the environmental laws and regulations, of its activities on the • Contributing to the protection of natural resources by using energy, water and paper economically, • Carrying out tasks to reduce the amount of waste environment and to use produced in business processes as much as possible, and to rationally recycle the wastes in natural resources more incase waste reduction is not possible, • Covering the environmental sustainability issues in economically. the training programs provided for our employees in order to reduce the environmental impacts of Our Environment Policy activities of our Bank. • Supporting education and awareness projects that and Our Commitments will increase environmental awareness in society and among young persons in particular, • With international collaborations, supporting Akbank considers the following environmental aspects transparency policies that will help reduce as important and primary factors: energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions of our Bank and greenhouse gas emission, paper use and removal and corporate shareholders. disposal of technological waste. Akbank actualizes various practices in order to show progress by means of measuring these aspects according to the internationally accepted quantitative indicators and criteria. In order to increase the awareness and enable the Within Akbank, a system was implemented to regularly adoption of environmental sustainability, Akbank and closely monitor the environmental aspects from has been providing sustainability trainings covering all Akbank branches. Thus, in the upcoming years, environmental issues by means of e-training and measures that will enhance the environmental classroom training programs for all its employees performance of our Bank will be specified and practiced from the security staff to branch managers. and their results will be monitored more effectively. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 95 / Our Operations and Environment Energy Consumption and consumption figures given in the Akbank Sustainability Report were calculated based on heating, electricity and Conservation water costs. Akbank Banking Center (ABC) located in Gebze was opened in 2010, and thus some of our Bank’s buildings Energy consumption and its outcome “greenhouse located in Istanbul were moved to ABC in 2010 and gases” that trigger global climate change are among 2011. Throughout this process, consumption figures the major environmental aspects deemed important of the buildings of the moving units (to ABC) were also by our Bank. The proof of the importance given by our included in the calculations covering the utilization Bank to this issue is the support we provided for the period of the buildings during the year. In consequence, “Carbon Transparency Project” actualized in 2009 by previously used Maslak Operation Center, Gümüşsuyu the Sabancı University Corporate Governance Forum. and Ümraniye Service buildings were closed in 2011. Akbank is one of the first companies in Turkey that has committed to implement climate change strategies and Energy figures collected and reported in international greenhouse gas emission reporting in compliance with standards within Akbank are divided into two main the international standards. groups. The first is the direct consumption of energy obtained from different sources (of energy) in our Bank. Energy Consumption In this group, the main component is the natural gas Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption used for heating purposes. Natural gas is used as the In 2010, a wide scale project was practiced to create main fuel at the Akbank Sabancı Center, ABC and in an energy management system and to calculate fuel most of the other Akbank centers and branches. consumption made for electricity and heating purposes in the buildings where Akbank carries out its activities. In addition; diesel, butane (LPG), coke (coal) and fuel Within the scope of this project, consumption figures oil are also used in Akbank branches. The second is of all buildings including branches were collected in a the electricity purchased by our Bank as an “indirect database. Same as the previous year, also in 2013, the energy”. Direct” and “indirect” energy consumption figures are as follows: Fuel Consumption (Gigajoules/year) 2011 2012 2013 Akbank Sabancı Center 8,918 7,889 7,861 ABC and Other Centers* 16,536 16,371 15,242 Region Offices and Branches (All Fuels) 106,866 88,885 91,167 TOTAL 132,319 113,144 114,270 * Other centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri service buildings. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 96 / Electricity Consumption (Gigajoules/year) 2011 2012 2013 Akbank Sabancı Center 56,864 64,154 67,556 ABC and Other Centers* 69,245 72,383 67,509 Region Offices and Branches (All Fuels) 216,755 221,874 264,920 TOTAL 342,864 358,411 399,985 * Other centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri service buildings. Our Bank continues to make technological infrastructure investments in order to carry on providing its modern banking services with the latest technology. For this reason, the demand for electrical energy is increasing. In 2013, 24 branches and 95 ATMs were added to our Bank’s service points. Energy Saving Practices well. This system was directly deployed in the new On one hand Akbank aims to use energy more branches. With this system, approximately 30% and 14% economically and to make practices that enable energy savings will be achieved in electricity and natural gas efficiency in line with the target of reducing the amount consumption, respectively. of energy required in its operations while on the other hand it continues its activities for raising awareness In 2013, within the scope of the energy efficiency among its employees. activities carried out for the existing branches of Akbank, ventilation system of 140 branches were converted into Energy Saving in Buildings automation system. Akbank is aware of the fact that measurement and monitoring are important factors for the management Energy Savings in Information Technologies of energy used in its branches reaching 1,000. In line Utilization of information technologies in the banking with this aim, in 2011, Akbank established a new sector, is a significant energy consuming factor. Thus, infrastructure necessary for remote measurement and our Bank pays utmost attention to save energy used monitoring of the electrical energy used in its branches. in data centers. The most important step taken in this This infrastructure contains a remote monitoring direction is the process of transition to virtualization system that will minimize the loss of electrical energy technology deployed in 2007. In spite of the rising in the system. The system launched in approximately demand, this technology helped reduce significantly the 300 Akbank branches in the first phase, started working amount of energy required for running the servers in with full capacity as of 2013 year-end covering the the data center and for cooling the system rooms they other branches in need of the system. Enabling a more operate in. efficient use of electrical energy, the system will help reduce carbon emissions and operational costs. Another measure taken in our Bank’s “data centers”, is to prefer products that consume less energy in all Moreover, renovation, launched in 2010, of the new systems purchased in order to make sure that the mechanical automation of the heating/ventilating/airenergy consumption does not increase in parallel to the conditioning (HVAC) system in the branches to ensure increase in the demand for devices. In 2013, systems that the system runs with appropriate configuration older than five years were discarded and new devices according to indoor air quality, continued in 2013, as consuming less energy were purchased instead. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 97 / Our Operations and Environment Fuel Saving with Videoconference and Telepresence presentation transfer is also possible. This allows Videoconference and telepresence devices enable our reductions in fuel consumption and resulting staff to make meetings with their contacts in and outside greenhouse gas emissions due to business travels; we the country without having to travel. In our Bank, such also save work time that otherwise would be spent in systems are increasingly being used and installed. commuting. We plan to install new videoconference systems in 2013. For example, the “telepresence system”, a virtual meeting table, between our Headquarters in Istanbul 4. Fuel Savings in Cash Operations Levent and our Akbank Banking Center in Gebze, was In our Cash Operations unit that offers cash and used for approximately 2,265 hours in 2012 while this cash value transfer to more than 2,100 customers figure reached 4,277 hours in 2013. Moreover, in 2013, and four banks all over Turkey, we started to benefit a video conference (desktop conferencing) system was from the latest advances in geographical positioning launched that enables the General Managers to make technologies. Thanks to an efficient route planning, our video calls with each other. teams covered 8.2 km per transaction in 2013, while the figure was 10 km per transaction in 2008. This In meetings held via these systems, not only visual created 18% increase in efficiency and 8.2% less fuel communication but also mutual document and consumption per transaction. Description 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Kilometers Consumed Per Unit Work 9.8 10.2 8.6 8.1 8.2 Fuel Consumed Per Unit Work 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.1 Carbon Emissions and Reduction Carbon Emissions The fuel and electricity (purchased from the third persons) used in our activities, cause greenhouse gas emission that triggers global climate change. Moreover, the fuel used in personnel shuttles and company cars allocated to senior managers, also lead to greenhouse gas emissions. Various measures are taken within our Bank to minimize the greenhouse gas emission caused by the activities of Akbank. The carbon footprint our Bank is regularly calculated every year to monitor the outcomes of the measures taken. Akbank’s target is to gradually reduce its carbon footprint calculated (based on the sources of the consumed energy) in international standards. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 98 / Carbon Emissions by Primary Energy Source CO2-equivalent carbon emissions caused by fuels used for heating purposes in our Bank are given in the table below: Carbon Emission Caused by the Use of Primary Energy (tons CO2-e/year) 2011 2012 2013 Akbank Sabancı Center 580 513 550 ABC and Other Centers* 1,075 1,064 1,067 Region Offices and Branches (All Fuels) 8,027 6,677 7,293 TOTAL 9,682 8,254 8,910 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri service buildings. Our Bank continues its activities for raising awareness among its employees with efforts for reducing emissions, and increasing energy efficiency and conservation. Carbon Emission Caused by Electricity Consumption CO2-equivalent carbon emission caused by electricity consumption is given in the table below: Carbon Emission Caused by Electricity Consumption (tons CO2-e/year) 2011 2012 2013 Akbank Sabancı Center 6,916 7,804 8,215 ABC and Other Centers* 8,423 8,805 8,209 Region Offices, Branches and ATM/BTMs 27,540 28,550 32,707 TOTAL 42,879 45,159 49,131 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri service buildings. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 99 / Our Operations and Environment Carbon Emissions Generated by Personnel Transportation Personnel service buses are used for mass transportation of employees working at the Sabancı Center and Gebze Akbank Banking Center, where our Head Office units operate. In addition the senior management commutes by private vehicles. CO2-equivalent carbon emissions generated by fuels used in transportation are available in the table below. Carbon Emission Caused by Personnel Transportation (tons CO2-e/year) 2011 2012 2013 Number of personnel using shuttles 4,634 4,685 4,530 Distance (km) 9,100,410 9,153,220 8,011,500 Total tons of CO2-e 3,640 3,661 3,204 An important part of our employees go to work by service buses. The resulting 3,204 tons of CO2-equivalent carbon emission would increase significantly due to individual commute. Therefore, by providing employees with service buses, Akbank achieves an important level of savings in carbon emissions. Paper Use and Savings Paper Use In Akbank, we use a high volume of paper in our operations from contracts of products and services we offer to our customers to correspondences and promotion materials. With the help of its various saving practices the paper consumption of our Bank only increased by a small percentage in spite of its increasing operations. Paper Use (tons)* 2011 2012 2013 Purchasing Department** 1,118 1,107 1,167 Corporate Communication Department 3,5 3 6 TOTAL 1,121.5 1,110 1,173 Paper use per employee amount (kg.) 73 68 72 * Total amount of paper does not include A4 photocopy papers used in branches and materials printed by suppliers (such as reports, etc.). ** The amount of paper sent from our warehouse to the Head Office, Regional Directorates and Akbank Banking Center. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 100 / Paper Savings We continue to implement various measures to reduce the paper use in Akbank. While our previous practices to use paper more efficiently in branches and ATMs continue, we also realized various campaigns such as “Credit Card e-statement” and “Contracted Merchant e-statement” to continue to spread our e-statement for credit cards system which saves a notable amount of paper. With the saving measures -examples of which are given belowwe prevented use of approximately 362.7 tons of paper in 2013. Employees’ knowledge and awareness is key in order to increase the paper savings through projects and increase the figures. Therefore we make various internal announcements and notifications to encourage our employees to save paper. Area of Amount of Paper Saved (tons) Beginning Date Implementation 2011 2012 2013 Contracted Merchants’ Statements 2012 Headquarters 19.8 28 Contracted Merchants’ 2012 Headquarters 0,6 2,3 E-Statements* 2012 Headquarters 0.6 2.3 Credit Card 141,2 214,4 362,7 E-Statements** 2008 Headquarters 141.2 194.0 332.4 Total amount of paper saving per year with the help of saving practices (tons) 141.2 214.4 362.7 * 1 member business bank statement is on average 1.19 A4 pages and 1 envelope. ** 1 extract is approximately 1.1 A4 pages and 1 envelope; 1 A4 paper is calculated as 5 g and 1 envelope is 6 g. Total savings are calculated by taking into account the customers who order e-statements, but are not active card users. Paper Saving Practices Member Business E-statements Credit Card E-Statements We focused on reaching more contracted merchants Since 2008, we have been able to send account within the scope of e-statement application so that statements indicating credit card bills via e-mail they can receive their monthly account statements or SMS. To encourage our customers to use these by e-mail instead of mail. E-statement gives the “e-statements”, we continue our communication opportunity to view the summary of the accounts and activities with the motto “Give Life to Trees”. We saves paper. “Environment Friendly E-statement” also held a campaign in 2012 to collect e-mails of campaign encouraging the contracted merchants customers. Thanks to such encouragement, number in 2012 continued in 2013, as well, to broaden the of cards with e-statements exceeded 2.01 million at scope of this application. We worked on sending the end of 2012, while it was 1.62 million at the end of e-statements directly to the contracted merchants 2011 and approximately 1.2 million in December 2010. who have provided e-mail addresses. Consequently, By the end of 2013, this figure reached 2.43 million. in 2013 approximately 184 thousand contracted merchants started using e-statements. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 101 / Our Operations and Environment Intensive effort was made within Akbank to send Documents that have completed their legal preservation account statements by e-mail instead of posting printed periods at the Archives Center are sent to a contracted statements. The total amount of paper saved was paper company for secure disposal every year. The 362.7 tons as a result of this and other similar efforts. company applies chemical processes on the slit and Due to the decrease in printed “account statements”, baled paper to make pulp and this pulp is used to significant amount of energy was saved since the reproduce paper. machines have been working less. Our branches dispose of their own archived documents Paper Recycling or send them to the Archives Center for disposal. In In addition to saving paper, we aim to reduce our addition to the paper sent to recycle by the Archives environmental footprint by recycling paper wastes. Center, in branches, some precious papers are slit At Kınalı Archives Center in which all branch and and regular paper is used in both sides when possible. Head Office archives are kept, 500 tons of paper Then, these are collected in recycling boxes provided were disposed and recycled in 2013 after the legal by municipalities and non-governmental organizations preservation period ended. such as TEMA (The Turkish Foundation for Combating Erosion Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) to be recycled later on. Total Paper Saving With 362.7 tons of paper saved and 500 tons (amount measured) of paper recycled in 2013 Akbank saved approximately 10,166 trees. (a ton of paper saved, saves 17 trees and a ton of recycled paper saves eight trees.) Water Use and Conservation Water Use Water consumption in Our Bank can be summarized as; water used by the employees, water used in cleaning activities and irrigation used in the maintenance of landscapes., Akbank has a limited water consumption compared to manufacturing companies. Our water use does not have significant impact on a specific water source. Water Consumption (m3/year) 2011 2012 2013 Akbank Sabancı Center 30,664 30,423 34,046 ABM and Other Centers* 69,370 77,764 87,060 Region Offices and Branches 289,181 290,218 266,019 TOTAL 389,215 398,405 387,125 * Other Centers: Zincirlikuyu and Silivri service buildings. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 102 / Water Savings Practices Recycling Toner Cartridges With the aim of achieving water savings, depressurizing Empty toner cartridges of printers have negative systems and aerators that mix water with air are used impacts on the environment if they are not disposed in the taps in our branches, the Akbank Head Office (HO) of properly. To minimize this impact, we initiated a and the Akbank Banking Center (ABC). In addition, in project to recycle the toner cartridges used in printers the HO and ABC, photocell taps are used in WCs where in August 2010. Since then, empty cartridges in all of water is used in great amounts, in order to achieve Akbank buildings, including branches have been sent water savings. to an electronic waste recovery company for recycling. Employees who order new cartridges see a warning on Waste Management their computer screens to send the empty cartridges to Akbank uses a great number and variety of electric a recovery company. This recovery company uses the and electronic devices due to the nature of banking recycled cartridges as fuel for energy generation. operations, which require electronic means in a number of transactions. These devices contain not only valuable We sent a total of 3,072 empty cartridges in 2011 and metals that should be brought back to the economy, but until September 2012, 2,328 cartridges were sent (865 also environmentally harmful materials. Therefore, we from the Head Office and 1,463 from branches) to have several measures to ensure recovery of devices recovery. that have gone out of use within the economy or to reduce potential environmental impact. Starting in October 2012 and continuing in 2013, recycling toner cartridges was taken up as a volunteer In our main buildings, we sort and collect wastes to project. We started to send the empty cartridges to deliver them to recycling companies. For instance, the Turkish Association for the Disabled. Employees used paper, plastics, glass and metals are collected supported the campaign by not only bringing in the in separate boxes and sent to recycling. In addition, oil cartridges used in the office, but also those at home. In retainers are placed between the wastewater line and three months more than 3,200 empty cartridges were the city sewer lines in the kitchens to collect waste oils. sent to the Association. With the revenue generated These waste oils are sent to oil recovery stations to be from refilling these cartridges, disabled students recycled. received scholarships. When floor coverings in buildings need to be replaced, Recovery of Technological Waste we take the environmental performance of carpets and Electronic devices that are no longer appropriate for use other floor coverings into consideration. according to Akbank’s standards are sold to companies in Turkey, as scrap or second-hand products for recovery of the metals and electronic parts. In addition, some of these devices are donated as per the requests made to the Bank. Type and Quantity of Technological Waste 2011 2012 2013 Salvage Auctions Disposal Salvage Auctions Disposal Salvage Auctions Disposal Computer 31 636 527 6,751 263 Screen 1,215 638 524 4,176 255 Passbook Printer 736 898 Dot Matrix Printer 42 43 Laser Printer 707 22 114 1,199 2 POS Device 59,626 58,792 19,539 ATM Device 414 312 143 akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 103 / 09. our community investment 2013/sustainability report akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 104 / With the responsibility of being Akbank Art Center Akbank Art Center was established in 1993 with the aim the “Most Valuable Banking of creating a brand to represent the Bank’s innovative and visionary identity in support of arts. Pioneering the Brand in Turkey”, *while working development of modern arts in Turkey and enabling art events to reach the greatest number of people from all to manage the economic, social, layers of the society, Akbank Art Center continues its efforts as “the place where change never ceases”. and environmental impacts Akbank Art Center celebrated its 20 anniversary inth of its operations responsibly, with special importance in the culture and art life of 2013. Continuously performing in Beyoğlu, a location Istanbul, Akbank Art Center organizes concerts and Akbank also creates value for over 700 exhibitions, interviews, conferences, movie screenings throughout the year. the community by carrying http://www.akbanksanat.com/en out its own projects as well http://www.akbanksanat.com/ as supporting a number of successful initiatives. Akbank Children’s Theater Performing since 1972, Akbank Children’s Theater Culture and Art celebrated its 41st anniversary in 2013. As the first Turkish children’s theater touring in Anatolia and Europe, Akbank Children’s Theater brought the Anish Kapoor in Istanbul excitement and joy of theatre to millions of children The works of Anish Kapoor, the leading international artist of contemporary art in the world, were displayed since the day it was established. Akbank Children’s to the arts enthusiasts in Turkey with Akbank’s support Theater continued to perform at Akbank Art Center in 2013. The stone works of Kapoor, made from marble during the 2012-2013 culture & art season with the and alabaster and mostly never exhibited before, were “Inside Out”. presented to the liking of arts enthusiasts as part of the exhibition that was sponsored by Akbank in the honor of its 65th establishment anniversary. Consisting of iconic works combining sculpture, architecture, engineering and technology such as Sky Mirror and Yellow, the exhibition was made available in the halls and garden of the Sabancı University Sakıp Sabancı Museum from September 10, 2013 until February 2, 2014. * In the “World’s Most Valuable 500 Banking Brands” survey by Brand Finance, an international brand assessment institution, Akbank was selected Turkey’s www.anishkapooristanbulda.com “Most Valuable Banking Brand”. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 105 / our community investment Akbank Jazz Festival Map of Contemporary Art As one of the longest-lasting festivals that reach the As another activity of Akbank Art Center, the Akbank greatest number of viewers in Turkey, Akbank Jazz Map of Contemporary Art continues to reach Turkish Festival has been bringing together music fans and the and foreign art-enthusiasts in print form and on the most renowned jazz performers for 23 years. During the Internet with the aim of reflecting the artistic life in festival that was held from September 25 until October Istanbul in the best way possible in 2013. The Map was 12, 2013, 50 concerts as well as three panel discussions printed five times in 2013 with a total volume of 170,000 and six workshops representing the distinct colors of and reached more people especially during fair and jazz were organized. Hosting a total of 280 musicians, biennial periods. the festival took the excitement of jazz to 19 universities in 11 provinces after Istanbul between November 4 and November 19. “JAmZZ Young Talents Contest” was http://www.akbanksanatharitasi.com/en/ held for the third time as part of the festival in order to support young musicians and to provide them with new opportunities. In addition, “Jazz Workshop at Senior International Istanbul Film Festival High Schools” event aiming to introduce jazz to senior Organized by Istanbul Foundation for Culture and high school students was followed by a great number of Arts (İKSV) since 1982, the International Istanbul Film students. Festival brings the most exclusive and original films to cinemagoers. Since 2004 Akbank has been supporting this Festival that hosts movie stars and master directors and contributes to the growth of a well-rooted cinema http://www.akbankcaz.com/en/ culture in Turkey. In 2013 the Festival lasted for two weeks and 150 thousand cinema fans watched more Akbank Short Film Festival than 200 films in over 20 categories in six movie halls. In Organized by Akbank Art Center, the Akbank Short addition, talks with master movie producers as well as Film Festival reached its audience for the ninth time in workshops and cinema lectures were organized as part 2013. Upon evaluation of 606 films applied, 15 fiction, 10 of the festival. documentary and 10 animation films, for a total of 35 films, were accepted to compete in the National Contest. Contemporary Istanbul In addition to competing films, significant films screened The 8th Contemporary Istanbul Modern Art Fair was in various world festivals were also shown. Cinema fans held on November 7-10, 2013, at the Istanbul Lütfi enjoyed the festival, where a total of 102 films from 29 Kırdar International Congress and Exhibition Center. countries were screened, for 10 days, attending several Participated by 95 modern art galleries and 748 artists workshops and panels. With the “Akbank 9th Short Film from Turkey and abroad, the Fair drew great interest Festival at Universities” event, award-winning films from art collectors, art enthusiasts and the media and of the Festival were screened in 40 universities in the was visited by 67,000 people. Akbank Private Banking provinces of Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Mersin, Eskişehir, has been supporting Contemporary Istanbul since Kocaeli, Sakarya, Edirne, Tekirdağ, Bolu, Bursa, 2007, continuing to contribute to the development of Kayseri, Adana, Gaziantep, Elazığ, Erzurum, Zonguldak, contemporary art in Turkey. Çanakkale, and Kırklareli. www.akbankkisafilm.com akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 106 / Education and Youth Growing its membership steadily, Akbank Thinking Club Akbank “Children: Heroes of the Economy” Project provides young people, the innovative power of tomorrow Akbank launched the “Savings Campaign” in 2012 in order and owners of Turkey’s future, with an opportunity to to create awareness about the importance of savings expand and realize their potential. culture within the society. As part of this campaign, the Akbank “Children: Heroes of the Economy” Project was initiated in 2012 by Akbank volunteers in cooperation www.akbankdusuncekulubu.com with Sabancı University, Söz Advisory and Private Sector Volunteers Association. The project was expanded to provinces outside of Istanbul in 2013. Make a Wish Make a Wish Foundation is an international nonAs part of the 2013 activities of the campaign, speciallygovernmental organization that was founded to make trained Akbank Volunteers gave a seminar on “savings” wishes of children between the age of 3 and 18 and to 11,500 elementary and middle school students. The suffering from a life-threatening illness come true. seminar taught the students about spending, charity and The Foundation helps children realize their dreams saving and emphasized the importance of setting targets with approval from the doctors. Akbank develops for creating a nest egg and saving money with small sums. collaborations with the Make a Wish Foundation as part of its volunteering activities. Akbank’s Savings Campaign events continued during the October 31st World Savings Day and the December 12-18 Entrepreneurship Thrift, Investment and Turkish Goods Week. In addition, In 2013 Akbank continued to support the efforts to as part of the campaign, Akbank’s CEO Hakan Binbaşgil spread the spirit of entrepreneurship in Turkey, train briefed elementary and middle school students on a greater number of entrepreneurs, and increase spending, charity, saving and investing. opportunities for them. Examples of such efforts are provided below. Akbank aims to reach more students as part of the Akbank “Children: Heroes of the Economy” project in the year Endeavor Program and Meetings ahead. Endeavor is an international non-governmental organization established to contribute to economic Akbank Thinking Club development by supporting active entrepreneurs in Akbank Thinking Club was founded in 2008 together with developing countries. In addition to offering special young people, who are important stakeholders in progress financial services to entrepreneurs, Akbank also and innovation, in order to contribute to the development organizes meetings in cooperation with Endeavor. With of creativity potential in Turkey. Open to applications the “İyiGirişim (Good Venture) Summit” and “İyiYatırım from university juniors from across Turkey, the Club (Good Investment) Summit” first organized in 2011 reached 121 members with the 2013-2014 academic year in Istanbul entrepreneurs are educated on various enrollments. topics including leadership, management, financing of entrepreneurs, and angel investors. The Bank continued Club members work in teams on the themes assigned to to encourage entrepreneurship by way of this summit in them each year to generate creative ideas, scenarios and 2013. projects. These projects are assessed by a special jury comprised of academics, specialists and members of the Global Student Entrepreneur Awards press; the team that generates the most admired work “Global Student Entrepreneur Awards” (GSEA) created wins a scholarship for Harvard University Summer School. by Saint Louis University in 1998 aims to promote Members of the Akbank Thinking Club are expected to entrepreneurship among university students and to generate innovative ideas on “how to increase access to contribute to training future entrepreneurs. Akbank financial services” as the theme of the 6th year in 2013. supports the organization of this prestigious challenge akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 107 / our community investment of the global entrepreneurship circle in Turkey The Environment since 2011. University students who have their own Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) businesses participate in the challenge. National Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a global initiative winners have the opportunity to share their knowlaunched in 2000 with the purpose of collecting and how and experiences with other entrepreneurs in sharing information to allow companies, investors, and Turkey and the USA as well as to enter international governments to take measures against the threat of entrepreneurship networks. 130 young entrepreneurs climate change. The Project has been implemented in applied to the 2013 Turkey auditions and Onur Candan, Turkey by the Sabancı University Corporate Management who took first place with his “Visioninteractive” project, Forum and with support from Akbank since 2010. In earned the right to represent Turkey in the grand finals addition to supporting the implementation of the Project, to be held in Washington. Akbank has also been reporting to CDP on its climate change policy and greenhouse gas emissions since 2010. http://www.universiteligirisimci.com Akbank Volunteers In operation since 2011, Akbank Volunteers have been engaged in various areas such as the environment, the Akbank Entrepreneur Development Program disabled, education, and youth. In addition, infrastructure A joint venture of Sabancı University Entrepreneurship of Akbank volunteers was reorganized in line with the Committee (SUGK) and Akbank, the “Akbank opinions of non-governmental organizations with which Entrepreneur Development Program” was created the Bank cooperates. As part of this effort, “Volunteering to endow entrepreneurs with a sound intellectual Leaders” were selected on a voluntary basis from infrastructure allowing them to establish successful Istanbul and 14 other provinces with an Akbank Regional and profitable businesses; to provide the necessary Directorate in an attempt to proliferate the number of training; to carry out applied projects; and to create projects carried out outside of Istanbul, to support the uninterrupted support mechanisms. Celebrating its Akbank Volunteering system in project coordination, 10th year in 2013, the program was designed based and to encourage participation in volunteering projects. on the prevailing conditions in Turkey with an eye “Volunteering Leaders” are expected provide guidance toward the outcomes and experiences of its peers in regarding the projects that may be undertaken in their the world and it was improved during the process. respective responsibility areas and to support the As part of the program, applications for “Social implementation of these projects. As their initiation Entrepreneur Development Program”, which is open to projects, Volunteering Leaders and their deputies participation by social entrepreneurs, were accepted in participated in the “Children: Heroes of the Economy” cooperation with the Sabancı Foundation in 2013. The Project on the October 31st World Savings Day. “Social Entrepreneur Development Program” aims to provide know-how to social entrepreneurs who have The most comprehensive project carried out by Akbank established a foundation, association, cooperative Volunteers in 2013 was the Akbank “Children: Heroes or company and are having problems growing their of the Economy” Project put together as part of the organizations regarding institutionalization and to help “Savings Campaign”. In addition to the October 31st World them expand. 62 entrepreneurs, 17 of which were Savings Day and the December 12-18 Thrift, Investment social entrepreneurs, were admitted to the program, and Turkish Goods Week activities, Akbank volunteers which received applications from every corner of from across the country gave lectures on savings on Turkey this year. December 5th International Volunteer Day, which presents an excellent opportunity to introduce the concept of volunteering to large segments of the society. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 108 / Other features and developments of G4 as well as the changes “The Next Step” in Sustainability Reporting Arrives in brought about by G4 for those entities that will be Turkey under Akbank’s Support complying with G4 in their reporting. The Turkish translation and promotion initiatives for the next generation Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 The GRI Guidelines, the world’s most widely used of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) were launched in sustainability reporting framework, enables companies 2013 under the main sponsorship of Akbank. The Turkey and organizations operating in all industries to report on launching meeting, which was held on January 22, their economic, environmental, social and management 2014 in Istanbul, allowed companies and organizations performances. G4 Guidelines, introduced globally at to benefit from the general description of G4 as well the Global Conference on Sustainability and Reporting as the experiences of the experts on the panel. This held in Amsterdam in May 2013, makes sustainability event also served as a great opportunity for companies reporting standards “more comprehensible and and organizations in Turkey to be informed on the new applicable”. Donations Demand deposit account holders at Akbank can donate money to a variety of associations and foundations that operate in Turkey in pursuit of public interest. Customers can donate money for one-time only or with automatic payment orders to an association or foundation of their choice. In 2013, customers’ donations amounting to approximately TL 6.6 million were transferred to the associations and foundations listed below. Akbank does not charge any bank transfer or EFT fees on the donations made by Akbank customers to the organizations listed below. Associations and Foundations that Received Donations from Akbank Customers in 2013 Açıkkapı Social Responsibility Foundation Turkish Armed Forces Foundation Mother Child Education Foundation Turkish Armed Forces Mehmetçik Foundation Make A Wish Association Aeronautical Association Association for the Support of Contemporary Living Turkish Educational Foundation Children’s Kidney Foundation Turkish Heart Association Darülaceze Directorate Turkish Association for Cancer Research and Control Darüşşafaka Society Turkish Religious Foundation Women Entrepreneurs Association Turkish Educational Volunteers Foundation Is Anybody There Association Turkish Red Crescent Society Foundation for Children with Leukemia Turkish Foundation For Children in Need Of Protection Autism Foundation Turkish Multiple Sclerosis Association Disabled People Foundation Spinal Cord Paralytics Association of Turkey TEMA Foundation Spastic Children’s Foundation of Turkey Tohum Autism Foundation Foundation for the Training and Protection of Mentally Handicapped Children Community Volunteers Foundation akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 109 / akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 110 / GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Index This report contains information on the actions Akbank took to improve its social, environmental and economic performance and the results it achieved during the period between January 1, 2013 and December 31, 2013. The contents of the report are developed in compliance with the B-application level of the G3 version of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which is an internationally recognized reporting standard. The table below has been prepared to facilitate access to information provided within the framework of GRI’s B-level application. G3 Content Index Financial Services Sector Supplement GRI Application Level B Application Level B Assured by STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures REPORT FULLY ON THE BELOW SELECTION OF PROFILE DISCLOSURES OR PROVIDE A REASON FOR OMISSION 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Level of Location of Reason for Reason for Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure omission omission 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Fully p.3-8 3-8 of the organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Fully p:26-40 26-40 opportunities. 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Akbank T.A.Ş. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully p.12-21 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, Fully p.12-21 including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully pp.12-21 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Fully Turkey, Germany, operates, and names of countries with either Dubai and Malta major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully p.12-21 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Fully p.12-21 sectors served, and types of customers/ beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully p.12-21 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully p.12-21 regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully p.12-21 akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 111 / GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX Profile Level of Location of Reason for Reason for Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure omission omission 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) Fully 1 January 2013-31 for information provided. December 2013 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Fourth report was published in 2013. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Fully on the last page of contents. report 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully p. 22-25 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, Fully p. 22-25 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary Fully p. 22-25 of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Fully p. 22-25 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully p. 22-25 calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of Fully p. 22-25 information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Fully p. 22-25 the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Fully p,110-117 in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully External assurance external assurance for the report. was not obtained. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Fully p. 43-45 committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Fully p. 43 body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, Fully p. 43 state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully p. 42, 92-93 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of Fully p. 45, p.84 the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 112 / Profile Level of Location of Reason for Reason for Disclosure Disclosure Reporting disclosure omission omission 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Fully p. 43-45 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise Fully p. 44-45 of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, Fully pp27-29 ,43, 47-50 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for Fully 26-43, 44, 50-58 overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Fully pp3-8,44-45 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Fully 46-53 approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Fully 36-37 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Fully 36-37 associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully 34-36 organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Fully 34-36 with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Fully 34-35 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Fully 25,34-36 through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 113 / GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) REPORT ON THE DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH FOR EACH CATEGORY. YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO DISCLOSE THIS INFORMATION ON THE ASPECT LEVEL FOR EACH PERFORMANCE INDICATOR THAT YOU HAVE REPORTED FULLY ON. FSSS Further DMAs Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure comments DMA PS Disclosure on Management Approach PS Aspects Product Portfolio Partially p. 57, p. 61 FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social Fully p. 28-29, p. 94-103, p. components applied to business lines. 104-109 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening Fully p. 28, p. 31-32, p. 56-58 environmental and social risks in business lines. FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ Fully p. 27-28, p. 34-35, p. 48, implementation of and compliance with p. 58 environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency Fully p. 28, p. 30-34, p. 49, p. to implement the environmental and social 51, p. 53 policies and procedures as applied to business lines. FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business Fully p. 27, p. 39, partners regarding environmental and social p. 56-57 risks and opportunities. Audits Fully p. 47, p. 50, p. 56 Active Ownership Not DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic PerformanceCOMM Fully p12.21, p38-40, p.85-86 Market presence Fully p. 79-80 Indirect economic impacts Fully p.54-76, p.100-103, p.10409 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Fully p.101-103 Energy Fully p.96-97, 100 Water Fully p.102 Biodiversity Fully p.59-61 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully p.98-99 Products and services Fully p.58-59,100 Compliance Fully There were no significant fines or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2013. Transport Fully p.100 Overall Fully p.101-103, p96-97, p.5961, p.100 akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 114 / FSSS Further DMAs Disclosure Level of Reporting Location of disclosure comments DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Aspects Employment Fully p80-86 Labor/management relations Fully p.80, p.85*86 Occupational health and safetyCOMM Fully p.85-86 Training and education Fully p.84-91 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully p.80-81 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully p.32-35, p.57-58, p.88-91 Non-discrimination Partially p.78-79 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully p.85 Child labor Fully p.85 Forced and compulsory labor Fully p.83 Security practices Not Indigenous rights Fully There were no such an incident in 2013. DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Community Fully p.70 Corruption Fully p.46-50, p.90 Public policy Fully p.37 Anti-competitive behavior Fully p.42-45, 53 Compliance Fully There were no significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations in 2013. DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Customer health and safety Not Product and service labelling Fully p70-75 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial Fully p. 7, p. 32-33, p. 48, products and services. p. 51, p. 55 Marketing communications Fully p.51-52 Customer privacy Not Compliance Fully There were no significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services in 2013. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 115 / GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Product and Service Impact Location of Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting disclosure Product portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific Partially p. 57, p. 61 region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to Fully P. 16, p. 17 deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to Fully P. 16, p. 17, p. 56-60 deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess Fully p. 47, p. 50, p. 56 implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures. Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the Not institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative Not environmental or social screening. FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues Not for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. Economic Economic performance EC1COMM Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Fully p12.21 revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Fully p38-40 for the organization's activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan Fully p85-86 obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully No significant financial assistance was received from the government in 2013 Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to Fully 79-80 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyNot based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Partially 78-79 management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Indirect economic impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Fully 54-76, 100-103, 104-109 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect Partially 70 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 116 / Environmental Location of Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting disclosure Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Partially 101-103 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Not materials. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 96-97 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully 96-97 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Fully 97 improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Fully 58 based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Partially 96-100 reductions achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 102 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Fully There were no significant water. water sources near to Akbank business units. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Fully Akbank doesnot have adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity operations in such areas. value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Fully 59-61 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Fully 59-61 impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 117 / GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX Location of Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting disclosure Emissions, effluents and waste EN16COMM Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully 98-99 weight. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Not weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fully 98-99 reductions achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and Not weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not EN22COMM Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially 103 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully The activities of AkBANK didn't cause spill-based environment effect in 2013. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Not waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Fully There wasnot any habitat water bodies and related habitats significantly affected that was affected from by the reporting organization's discharges of water and this charges of water and runoff. runoff, depending on the 2013 activities of Akbank Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Partially 58-59 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Not that are reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number Fully There were no significant of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with fines or sanctions for environmental laws and regulations. non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2013 Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Partially p100 and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Not investments by type. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 118 / Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Location of Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting disclosure Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully p80 contract, and region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Fully p82-83 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully p84-86 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Fully p85-86 agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Fully p80 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Not management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Partially 86 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskNot control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Partially 85-86 with trade unions. Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Fully 88 employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Fully 88-91 that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Fully 84-85 and career development reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully 80-81 employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Not category. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 119 / GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX Social: Human Rights Location of Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting disclosure Investment and procurement practices HR1COMM Percentage and total number of significant investment Partially 57-58 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Fully 32.35 have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Partially 88-91 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Partially 78-79 taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise Fully 85 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Fully 82 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Fully 83 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Fully There were no such indigenous people and actions taken. incident in 2013. Social: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs Fully 70 and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically Partially p. 65, p. 70 disadvantaged areas by type. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for Not disadvantaged people. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Partially 49-50 for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiFully 90 corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully 90, 46-54 akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 120 / Location of Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting disclosure Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Partially 37 development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Fully there were no financial parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. and in-kind contributions to politicial parties and politicians and related insititutions in 2013 Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Fully 42-45, 53 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Fully There were no significant non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws fines for noncompliance and regulations. with laws and regulations in 2013. Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Not products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Fully Akbank provides procedures, and percentage of significant products and information on all of our services subject to such information requirements. banking services and products and these are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. In its website, Akbank provides easy to access information on its products including fees, interest rates, taxes and terms PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Fully 70-75 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of Not beneficiary. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 121 / GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX Location of Indicator Disclosure Level of Reporting disclosure Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Fully 51-52 codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Fully Akbank wasn’t subject regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing to any sanctions in 2013, communications, including advertising, promotion, and concerning with the nonsponsorship by type of outcomes. compliance of marketing communication regulations. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Not breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Fully There were no significant with laws and regulations concerning the provision and fines for noncompliance use of products and services. with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services in 2013. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 122 / UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) INDEX UN Global Compact Index In 2007, Akbank became the first Turkish Bank to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Pursuant to requirements of being a signatory to UNGC, Akbank communicate its progress regarding putting the UNGC Principles into action. This Sustainability Report contains information on our current actions and performance it has achieved as a result. Information disclosed in the report on each aspect can be found using the table below. Page of the Performance UN Global Compact Principles Information Human Rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 27-29, 36-37, 55, 78-79, 82-83, 85-86 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 27-29, 36-37, 55, 78-79, 82-83, 85 Labour Principle 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 27-29, 36-37,78-79, 83, 85 Principle 4.The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 27-29, 78-79, 82-83 Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour. 27-29, 78-79, 82-83 Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 27-29, 78-79, 86 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 36-37, 43-44, 59-61 Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 36-37,59-61 94-104 Principle 9.Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 36-37, 59-61, 96-99 Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 36-37,47-53, 90-91 akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 123 / IDENTITY 2013/sustainability report AKBANK T.A.Ş. HEAD OFFICE Sabancı Center 34330 4. Levent – Istanbul / TURKEY Phone : +90 212 385 55 55 Fax : +90 212 269 77 87 +90 212 280 33 43 www.akbank.com For inquiries about the Akbank Sustainability Report, please contact: Cenk Göksan Investor Relations and Sustainability Department cenk.goksan@akbank.com Arbil Akın Investor Relations and Sustainability Department arbil.oztozlu@akbank.com Ayşe Aldırmaz Investor Relations and Sustainability Department ayse.aldirmaz@akbank.com Akbank Sustainability Report (“the Report”) was prepared solely for informative purposes and does not create a basis for any kind of investment decisions. This report has been originally prepared and published in Turkish. Even though its translation into English has been realized with utmost care and attention for precision, the Turkish version prevails as the original. All contents and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the time the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and constant. All rights reserved. akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 124 / HEAD OFFICE Sabancı Center, 4. Levent 34330 Istanbul / TURKEY Phone : +90 212 385 55 55 Fax 1 : +90 212 269 77 87 Fax 2 : +90 212 269 73 83 http://www.akbank.com/bize-ulasin/gorus-onerileriniz-icin.aspx akbank / SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 126 /
