01 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 KROMANN REUMERT CSR REPORT 2014 PUBLISHED MAY 2014 03 KROMANN REUMERT FOREWORD CSR REPORT MAY 2014 CONTENTS FOREWORD 05 ABOUT THE REPORT Welcome to Kromann Reumert’s CSR Report for 2014. 05 KROMANN REUMERT IN BRIEF At Kromann Reumert we are dedicated to CSR. This report describes our CSR activities in 2013 and presents some of our 07 OUR RELATIONS future initiatives. 08 OUR AMBITIONS Our CSR efforts do not stop with the printing of our CSR Report. We recognize and accept our corporate social respon12 THE CSR ORGANISATION sibility, and continue to integrate it into our day-to-day work, our strategy and our culture. 14 THE 10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 2013 was in many ways a challenging year. But despite the 16 HUMAN RIGHTS challenges, we stayed focused on our CSR work and achieved our goals. 18 LABOUR We have set requirements for our suppliers and further 22 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE developed our management training, our employees’ personal development reviews, our dialogue with up-and-coming 28 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE talented individuals and our IT learning programme. We have reduced our waste levels, and our electricity and water con32 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO sumption and maintained our heat consumption at a stable and reasonable level. We are proud of that. 40 THANK YOU And it also makes us proud to see the high level of commitment our employees display towards cooperation with our pro bono partners. Here we contribute with what we do best – providing legal assistance and advice – and add value to a large number of organisations that carry out important social activities. I hope you enjoy reading the report. Arne Møllin Ottosen, Managing Partner PLEASE ADD ANY COMMENTS YOU MAY HAVE We are happy to receive your feedback on this CSR Report and regarding our CSR efforts in general. Contact Stine Colding Buse at scb@kromannreumert.com. 04 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT 05 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 ABOUT THE REPORT This is Kromann Reumert’s fifth CSR Report and our fifth annuThe report is modelled on the 10 Global Compact principles, al COP (Communication on Progress) to be reported to the UN divided into four themes: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, VISION Global Compact. and Anti-Corruption. The report also focuses on our pro bono partnerships because a considerable number of our CSR efforts With this report we hope to provide our clients, employees and stem from our desire to do pro bono work by doing what a law W E S E T T H E S TA N D A R D other stakeholders with an understanding of Kromann Reumert firm does best – providing legal advice. and the way we work with CSR. The reporting year is spring 2013 to spring 2014. MISSION VA L U E A D D I N G S O L U T I O N S A N D A D V I C E W I T H D E D I C AT I O N A N D F O C U S KROMANN REUMERT IN BRIEF Kromann Reumert is Denmark’s leading law firm with offices leading law firms. We are also active in most of the key interin Copenhagen, Aarhus and London. We employ approxinational lawyers’ organisations, including IBA, ABA, IPBA and VALUES mately 500 people, including around 275 lawyers who cover AIJA, and several of our partners currently hold or have previa range of specialist areas. We focus on providing our clients ously held executive-level positions in the international legal with value-adding solutions that are based on insight into their community. For our clients, the benefits of our distinctive interSPIRITED TEAMWORK – QUALITY businesses. We take a dedicated approach to cooperation – national position include high-quality multi-jurisdictional advice BUSINESS KNOWLEDGE – CREDIBILITY internally as well as externally – and we strive to be a trustand unique access to a range of specialists in almost every part worthy and responsible partner in all respects. of the world. At the same time, we are well placed to help our clients stay abreast of the latest international trends and WE SET THE STANDARD developments, including those that may extend to Denmark. Our vision is to set the standard among law firms. Good is Our services include assisting Danish enterprises in overcoming not good enough – we want to be the best. That is why we the legal challenges they face as they venture out into internademand of ourselves that we consistently stay up-to-date with tional markets. the latest news in the legal world – both in Denmark and internationally. RATINGS Kromann Reumert received several international awards in OUR INTERNATIONAL POSITION 2013. These include being named ”Legal Advisor of the Year Kromann Reumert is a business with a distinct international – Denmark” by Financial Times & Mergermarket, and ”Danish outlook, serving Danish and foreign clients alike. In connection law firm of the year” by Who’s Who. with our new strategy period 2013-2016, we are increasing our focus on our international profile and we expect internaIn 2013, Chambers, IFLR and Legal 500 gave Kromann tionalisation to have a great impact on our work over the next Reumert top rankings in a large number of specialist areas and few years. many of our partners were recommended for their outstanding individual skills. We cooperate with lawyers all over the world and are the only Danish member of the international organisation Lex Mundi, In 2013, the Danish magazine Økonomisk Ugebrev once again consisting of more than 21,000 lawyers in 160 of the world’s awarded Kromann Reumert the title of best Danish law firm. 06 KROMANN REUMERT OUR ORGANISATION 07 KROMANN REUMERT OUR RELATIONS CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 OUR ORGANISATION OUR RELATIONS Kromann Reumert is a partner-owned firm. Our partnership We always strive to assemble cross-disciplinary teams of people Kromann Reumert maintains an active dialogue with different THE BUSINESS COMMUNITY structure is based on a principle of equal sharing which ensures with different specialist skills that together can provide our groups of stakeholders. Through various client surveys, we Many businesses and business organisations make use of our that our clients always receive the best solution, regardless of clients with the best solutions. regularly ask our clients what they think about working with specialists as expert speakers on various topics like Corporate which individual they contact. us, and naturally we carry out employee satisfaction surveys Governance, whistleblowing, anti-corruption, foreign trade and as well. other areas that businesses may need to know about, including in connection with their activities in international markets. DIALOGUE WITH FUTURE EMPLOYEES: TALENT NETWORK We want to help enterprises grow. Therefore, for the secKromann Reumert’s most important resource is our employees ond year running, we have published ”Overview”, a report PARTNERS – this is how it is now and the way it will stay in the future. based on extensive analyses and addressing a topic of current Therefore, for the second year in a row, we created a talent interest to the business community. Last year’s report dealt THE BOARD network for 15 up-and-coming law students from the Uniwith exports to non-EU countries. This year we have analysed versity of Copenhagen, Aarhus University, Aalborg University, initial public offerings in Denmark in light of the absence of and the University of Southern Denmark. This provides us with Danish IPOs and the decision by some Danish businesses to a unique avenue through which to communicate with some list on foreign stock exchanges. Our report highlights 10 speof our future employees and allows us to recognize changing cific proposals that may contribute to strengthening the stock MANAGING PARTNER needs and requirements early on so that we can react in time market in Denmark in the future. You can download the to make a difference. report at www.kromannreumert.com. COO The network is structured around six network meetings and CLIENTS AND COOPERATIVE PARTNERS offers students a chance to develop their communication skills Kromann Reumert’s Executive Forum has held successful and personal strengths. Students are also invited to debate events with the participation of notable business personalissues and share knowledge on a one-on-one basis with a lawities like Eivind Kolding, Henrik Poulsen, Mads Ryder, Peter yer and an assistant lawyer, and are given access to our library Kurstein and others. Our assistant lawyers took the initiative THE BUSINESS BUSINESS SUPPORT and a study seat in Aarhus or Copenhagen for the eight-month of arranging a network event at which the Danish entrepreduration of the Talent Network. neur Johan Bülow gave an introductory presentation. We have organised both internal events exclusively for Kromann The purpose of the network is to provide law students with Reumert employees and external events like open conferpractical insight into law so that during their studies they get ences, networking meetings, seminars and social events. We COMMUNICATIONS, the opportunity to see what it takes to become a good corpohave also hosted numerous other events, including for our rate lawyer – and not least to strengthen the skills required to Alumni Club. All in all, 128 events in 2013 have contributed PRACTICE GROUPS INDUSTRY GROUPS PROJECT CENTRE FACILITY SERVICES master the craft of practising law. to improving relations with our clients and future employees. DEPARTMENTS FINANCE MARKETING AND IT HR KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW Stock exchange listings The chart above reflects our organisational structure. We want to help enterprises grow. Therefore, for the second year running, we have published ”Overview”, How we create growth a report based on extensive analyses and addressing a READ MORE ABOUT KROMANN REUMERT AT WWW.KROMANNREUMERT.COM. topic of current interest to the business community. 08 KROMANN REUMERT OUR AMBITIONS 09 KROMANN REUMERT OUR AMBITIONS CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 OUR AMBITIONS In our CSR Report for 2011, we formulated two overarching AMBITION 1 We continue to promote diversity on boards of directors AMBITION 3 ambitions for our CSR work leading up to year-end 2013: we With respect to ambition 1, we have again achieved an ambithrough our extensive network of individuals who visit us every In 2014 and 2015, we will increasingly direct our pro bono wanted to strive to integrate CSR into our own business and tious goal. A focus on reducing CO2 is an integral part of the day, either to attend events or as clients. In 2013, the Chairman efforts towards children, youth and education. Rising young organisational processes to make it a completely natural part way we act, invest and think in everyday life. We will continue of our Board and Partner, Marianne Philip, collaborated with stars form the basis for not only Kromann Reumert’s growth, of good business, and we sought to be part of the driving force to be ambitious in terms of maintaining and developing results Heidrick & Struggles in the context of the Women Corporate but also for our society, locally as well as globally. We will behind the evolution of CSR in business. through continued emphasis and future growth. Partnerships Directors (WCD) network to increase the number of female continue strengthening our relationships with our pro bono and pro bono work have been further integrated into our legal board candidates. Kromann Reumert will continue to support partners in this area, but also focus on local projects such as We are now into 2014, but this does not mean that any efforts business and we will continue to work with and strengthen this this work. the cooperation with Sortedamskolen from Østerbro. to realise our ambitions should cease. On the contrary, we will development (see ambition 3). continue working towards our two current ambitions while at In 2013, we continued our participation in the Danish camIt is the people at Kromann Reumert who make us successful. the same time formulating a new and third ambition that runs AMBITION 2 paign Verdens Bedste Nyheder (’The World’s Best News’), the Job satisfaction, health, spirited teamwork and pride are imporuntil 2016. With respect to ambition 2, our goal was to increase awareness object of which is to raise awareness about the UN 2015 goals. tant factors in our achievements. Our CSR work should be used of the Global Compact and CSR in business. We have achieved In 2014 we expect to continue to support the UN 2015 goals to a much higher degree to strengthen these elements. Our ambitions also form the basis for the CSR activities dethis through several initiatives. Among other things, we have to fight poverty throughout the world. Our other initiatives to scribed in this report and will remain the foundation for our incorporated information about our involvement in Global fulfil ambition 2 are described in more detail under each of the activities until the end of 2016. Even though our overall ambiCompact and CSR into our corporate presentation which is themes in this report. tions will remain the same, we will continually strive to create used numerous times each year, particularly in connection with new initiatives that contribute to realising our ambitions withseminars, client presentations and training. We also provide in the four themes of human rights, labour, the environment meeting facilities and conduct various brunch meetings for SOS and anti-corruption. Børnebyerne (SOS Children’s Villages), all to further awareness of CSR in the business community. AMBITION 1 AMBITION 2 AMBITION 3 WE WILL STRIVE TO INTEGRATE CSR INTO OUR OWN BUSINESS AND WE WILL STRIVE TO BE PART OF THE DRIVING FORCE IN 2014 AND 2015 WE WILL FOCUS OUR EFFORTS ON ORGANISATIONAL PROCESSES SO THAT IT BECOMES A COMPLETELY BEHIND THE EVOLUTION OF CSR IN THE BUSINESSS PRO BONO WORK AGAINST CHILDREN, YOUTH AND NATURAL PART OF GOOD BUSINESS. SECTOR. EDUCATION. FRAMEWORK AMBITION 1 GLOBAL COMPACT EMPLOYEE-DRIVEN PRO BONO WORK + CO2 AS THE FRAME FOR EMISSIONS TARGETS. AMBITION 2 CSR STRATEGY RAISE AWARENESS OF CSR AND AND INITIATIVES GLOBAL COMPACT. AMBITION 3 FOCUS OUR EFFORTS ON PRO BONO WORK AGAINST CHILDREN, YOUTH AND EDUCATION. Our ambitions also form the basis for the CSR 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 activities described in this report and will remain the foundation for our activities until the end of 2016. 10 KROMANN REUMERT OUR AMBITIONS/CASES 11 KROMANN REUMERT OUR AMBITIONS/CASES CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 THE DENMARK1/2 AMERICA FOUNDATION Every year, Kromann Reumert sends talented lawyers abroad to accumulate skills and experience in foreign legal work. The knowledge they bring back HALF OF THE WORLD’S from their secondments is invaluable. POOR HAS DISAPPEARED DANIDA, UN and the Danish The DENMARK-AMERICA FOUNDATION development organisations was set up to give talented young Danes the opportunity to stay in the USA to IN-HOUSE LAWYER OF THE YEAR obtain formal qualifications and increase the level of knowledge in Denmark, academically, culturally and commercially. An increasing number of Danish businesses are setting up inTalent development and knowledge sharKROMANN REUMERT AND house legal departments and many are expanding their existing ing are keywords at Kromann Reumert. THE WORLD’S BEST NEWS departments. As this trend progresses, Denmark’s in-house lawyers play an increasingly strategic and value-adding role in busiFUNDRAISING EVENT – Kromann Reumert donates DKK 10,000 nesses. In 2013 we launched the In-House Lawyer of the Year DANMARKS INDSAMLING 2014 to the DENMARK-AMERICA FOUNDATION Kromann Reumert continued its work as a partner in the Danish campaign Verdens award together with the Danish Company Lawyers Association to help some of the most able young Bedste Nyheder (’The World’s Best News’) in 2013. We did so primarily as a result of (Danske Virksomhedsjurister (DVJ)). The purpose of the award is people in Denmark study in the USA. our involvement in UN Global Compact. The campaign resonates very specifically with to recognize the value of company lawyers in Danish businesses. Kromann Reumert’s employees together raised DKK 25,600 the UN 2015 goals, which are often applied as a benchmark for the world’s developfor the Danish fundraising event Danmarks Indsamling You can read about our other initiatives ment. The purpose of the campaign is to provide Danes with better knowledge about Company lawyers contribute substantially to strengthening 2014. Kromann Reumert’s partnership added another in previous reports, available for downthe concrete results achieved through development aid and the work to end global Danish business and growth. The award helps highlight and celDKK 124,400 on top of that amount, taking the overall load at www.kromannreumert.com. poverty. The World’s Best News is a call to take the last decisive steps towards fulfilling ebrate the value-adding efforts of company lawyers who deserve contribution to DKK 150,000. the 2015 goals. special recognition for their contributions to the businesses they work for and the Danish business environment in general. We have previously helped the relief organisations behind We helped broadcast that call in 2013 through a number of different channels, including: Danmarks Indsamling establish the contractual foundations > Banner and news on our website In addition to an honourable title, the In-House Lawyer of the for the fundraising show. > Intranet news Year receives DKK 75,000 to donate to a charitable organisation > Management communications in the form of a news column of their choice. > Facebook > Twitter > LinkedIn 012 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT 013 KROMANN REUMERT THE CSR ORGANISATION CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 THE CSR ORGANISATION The people responsible for CSR activities at Kromann Reumert meet regularly to discuss both strategic objectives and practical initiatives. The partner responsible for our pro bono work is charged with overseeing pro bono projects and maintaining contact with the employee-driven pro bono groups. The pro bono groups themselves are responsible for the work they undertake through their selected pro bono partnerships. Our Facility Manager is responsible for Kromann Reumert’s work with climate and the environment, as well as supplier management. Overall responsibility for Global Compact and other CSR-related initiatives is placed with our Communication, Marketing and Knowledge Manager so as to take advantage of the full potential of such initiatives in relation to our strategy and business. WE CONTINUE TO INTEGRATE OUR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INTO OUR DAY-TO-DAY WORK, OUR STRATEGY AND OUR CULTURE 15 KROMANN REUMERT THE 10 PRINCIPLES CSR REPORT 2014 THE 10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should uphold the abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE GLOBAL COMPACT’S 10 7. Businesses should support a procautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion og environmentally friendly PRINCIPLES ARE DIVIDED technologies. INTO FOUR THEMES: HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR, ENVIRONMENT AND ANTIANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all it’s forms, including extortion and bribery. CORRUPTION. 016 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT 17 KROMANN REUMERT HUMAN RIGHTS CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 PRINCIPLES 1-2: HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITMENT The first two Global Compact principles concern human rights. Kromann Reumert helps protect human rights through several partnerships. Among the organisations we work with are OMBOLD, Børnehjælpsdagen (’Children’s Help Day’), Reden (’The Nest’) and Reden International (’The Nest International’). We mainly provide legal assistance to these organisations. Read more about these activities in the ’Partnerships and Pro Bono’ section. RESULTS: MARCH 2013 MARCH 2014 In addition to the various pro bono initiatives described later in this report, we set a goal last year to demand certain standards from 20 of our biggest suppliers and to require them to implement our Code of Conduct. Our progress on this is as follows: Goals Results We will demand certain standards from the To the greatest extent possible, we will seek to cooperate with suppliers largest 20 of our key suppliers that have adopted an ambitious CSR policy and/or meet the UN Global Compact principles or similar principles. We believe this is a very important We will implement our Code of Conduct as a set objective, but restructurings and other challenges over the past year have of standard terms and conditions prevented us from reaching the objective to an extent that we consider satisfactory. We will therefore continue to work on these objectives in 2014. NEW GOALS: MARCH 2014 MARCH 2015 In the coming period we will work towards the following goals and activities: Goals Activities We will demand certain standards from the To the greatest extent possible, we will seek to cooperate with suppliers that largest 20 of our key suppliers have adopted an ambitious CSR policy and/or meet the UN Global Compact principles or similar principles. PRINCIPLES 1-2 When selecting a key supplier, we will check their CSR policy. HUMAN RIGHTS 018 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT 19 KROMANN REUMERT LABOUR CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 PRINCIPLES 3-6: LABOUR COMMITMENT Kromann Reumert’s most important resource is its employees. They are fundamental to our business, and they are the source of the results achieved every day – and the key to helping us maintain our position as the leading law firm in Denmark. It is therefore essential that we do our utmost to ensure that our employees can continue to deliver high-level results. That means they must be nurtured and carefully managed within an environment that is both inspiring and conducive to spirited teamwork. RESULTS: MARCH 2013 MARCH 2014 In our last CSR Report we listed a series of goals and activities, including in relation to the development of leadership training, personal development reviews, and increased learning through IT. We wset out the status of those goals below. WE WILL DEVELOP A NEW LEADERSHIP third-year law students, which gives them insight into a lawTRAINING PROGRAMME yer’s work as well as both a practical approach to legal areas Good leadership is a prerequisite to setting motivating goals for and training in essential legal disciplines. In 2013, our group of all employees while at the same time retaining and attracting law students and student interns also held their first networkthe very best employees. In 2013, we developed a new and ing event with a focus on building new relationships. By conimproved leadership training programme for our lawyers, facilcentrating on the law in practice, and on inspiration via profesitating a continuous focus on leadership throughout their casional expertise and careers, we have been able to build new reer path by way of three modules targeted to suit each stage relationships with students at our events over the past year. of a lawyer’s career. WE WILL FURTHER DEVELOP OUR PERSONAL In addition to offering conventional leadership training, the DEVELOPMENT REVIEW new programme focuses on each individual lawyer’s personal Working together with management, we intended to build development, recognising that effective leadership starts with into the personal development review format an additional the self. The leadership training programme is about self-reflecfoundation on which to think strategically in terms of develtion in order to become a more credible leader. The programme oping skills. During the most recent CSR period, we initiated also focuses on daily mentoring and continuous feedback in the work to further advance our personal development review the form of both constructive criticism and praise. The purpose format but are yet to complete and implement a final design. of the training is to enable participants to set a clear direction and specific objectives for their employees, build trust and WE WILL ACHIEVE INCREASED LEARNING THROUGH IT commitment, inspire others, and create a strong culture. In line with our goal to facilitate a simpler working day for our PRINCIPLES 3-6 WE WILL FURTHER DEVELOP OUR DIALOGUE WITH employees by taking advantage of new IT options, we have introduced Microsoft Lync. Lync is a communications platform LABOUR TALENTED LAW STUDENTS that gives our employees easy access to telephone and video During the reporting period, we have continued our focus on conferences, and online document sharing, among other things. working with talented law students. For the second year runWith the introduction of the system, all employees were given ning, we have completed the eight-month Talent Network for training to maximize the system’s full benefit from the outset. 20 KROMANN REUMERT LABOUR 21 KROMANN REUMERT LABOUR CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 Employees in numbers 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 NEW GOALS: MARCH 2014 MARCH 2015 Number of employees 483 547 596 585 588 557 517 In the coming period we will work towards the following goals and activities: Number of partners 57 54 59 67 70 65 66 Total percentage of women 54,9 53,2 53,2 53,2 54,9 54,2 54,9 Goals Activities Total percentage of female partners 12,25 12,96 13,56 22 20 19,7 19,7 We will increase transparency We will clarify the contents of our career development programme and the skills development in our career development path involved in a career with Kromann Reumert. Together with a project group of ten lawAverage age 35,9 36,2 36,1 35,3 34,6 35 37,1 programmes yers, we will focus on initiatives that can contribute to elucidating and developing our career development programmes. Health 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We will further develop our We will continue developing our existing personal development review format in order to amPercentage of absence due to sickness, per employee 5 5 5 5 3,4 3,5 2,12 personal development review plify results and create a more powerful effect from the reviews. We will ensure that we use our resources in the best possible way and think strategically in terms of developing competencies. Work life balance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Women working reduced hours 37 42 34 32 39 27 38 We will increase our focus on We will develop the opportunities and processes for both national and international secondsecondment ments. Insight and experience from other industries is essential to the advice provided by Men working reduced hours 0 1 1 1 2 0 0 Kromann Reumert. Secondment can help strengthen a lawyer’s commercial understanding, Number of mobile workplaces 250 320 380 410 400 380 356 which will contribute to making Kromann Reumert more visible and differentiating us from other firms. International secondments develop knowledge about cultural differences and improve Results of employee satisfaction survey – work-life balance 60 67 -* 67 -* 68 -* language skills, among other things. (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is the highest) Education 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total number of days that employees spent attending 2400 2600 2600 2700 2500 2100 courses Number of course days per employee 4,3 4,4 4,5 4,5 4,4 4,1 Number of internal courses 70 80 82 80 70 65 Employee satisfaction 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Combined result – employee satisfaction 73 81 -* 80 -* 80 -* (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is the highest) Management (rated on a scale of 1-100, where 100 is 70 74 -* 77 -* 76 -* the highest) The table above shows employee data, calculated every year from 1 January to 31 December. *Since employee satisfaction surveys are carried out every 18 months, no survey was carried out in 2009, 2011 and 2013. The next survey will be conducted in May 2014. 022 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT 23 KROMANN REUMERT ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 PRINCIPLES 7-9: ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE COMMITMENT Kromann Reumert’s work within the areas of environment and climate originates from our vision on climate: We will set the standard within our industry for environmental and climate issues. RESULTS: MARCH 2013 MARCH 2014 Our staff in the Facility Services department continue to be highly involved in efforts to reduce our CO2 emissions, and work continuously to identify new, more effective methods and better products and materials to help us reach our goals. Once again, their commitment has enabled us to achieve good results within the areas of environment and climate. Last year, we set the following goals and completed the following activities: Goals Results We will further reduce our We have installed more motion sensors so that automatic on/off activation will occur from electricity consumption shorter distances in our hallways. Lighting fixtures have been replaced by LED fixtures and we have introduced a ”turn off the light” procedure for those employees who move around late in the day in our offices in Copenhagen and Aarhus. We have stayed up-to-date with the latest products and energy-saving methods, which we have implemented on an ongoing basis. We will make our heating Having reduced our heat consumption to 80 kWh per square metre, we have achieved our more efficient 2011 target to reduce heat consumption to 120 kWh or less per square metre. We will increase our efforts to Throughout the year, we have worked to ensure a high recycling percentage by maintaining sort waste focus on waste sorting, among other things. We have collaborated with TerraCycle® and Arla Harmonie® to limit the amount of plastic taken to Danish reuse incineration plants by participating in the collection programme ”Use the PRINCIPLES 7-9 Lid”. The purpose of the programme is to reuse milk and yoghurt lids for innovative products. We will minimise our water In order to continue minimising our water usage we have installed water-saving aerators for our ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE usage kitchen and toilet taps. 24 KROMANN REUMERT ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 25 KROMANN REUMERT ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE DATA The activities we have undertaken result in the following data: 2010 2011 2012 2013 Waste (tonnes) 142 105 172 144 Waste (tonnes) Electricity consumption (m2) 180 90 Waste sent to be recycled (tonnes) 67 43 62 61 160 80 140 70 Electricity consumption (kWh) 1.776.946 1.746.576 1.516.163 1.407.619 120 60 Electricity consumption (m ) 2 68 66 57 53 100 50 80 40 District heating (mWh) 2.777 2.304 2.241 2.233 60 30 District heating (mWh per m2) 0,11 0,09 0,08 0,08 40 20 20 10 Water usage (m3) 5.485 6.164 5.733 5.539 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Water usage (m3 per m2) 0,21 0,23 0,22 0,21 In 2013 we decided to increase the efficiency of our archive We reduced our electricity consumption from 2012 to 2013 as a shredding processes, which resulted in less waste compared to result of improvements to our power on/off functions, replace2012. ment of our light fittings with LED fittings, and implementation of a ”turn-off-the-light” procedure. MEASURING CO2 Our CO2 targets are based on a CO2 reduction per m2. The following parameters are measured: District heating (mWh per m2) Water usage (m3 per m2) 2010 2011 2012 2013 0,30 0,12 M2 25.999 26.561 26.430 26.430 0,25 0,10 0,08 0,20 CO2 emissions electricity consumption 2010 2011 2012 2012 0,06 0,15 CO2 emissions in total (kg) 810.352 795.470 690.860 594.531 0,04 0,10 CO2 emissions (mWh per m2) 31 30 26 22 0,02 0,05 0 0 In 2011 we attained our original goal ahead of time to reduce our However, we remain ambitious, and therefore we set a goal in 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 CO2 emissions by 20% between 2008 and 2012. Therefore we set 2013 to reduce our CO2 emissions by an additional 5% within a new goal to reduce our CO2 by another 10% leading up to 2015. three years. In other words, our goal was to achieve a total CO2 Last year we achieved a reasonably low consumption level for The reduction in our water consumption level is attributed to district heating, due in part to optimising the operations of installation of water-saving aerators for our kitchen and toilet By 2012 we had already achieved an additional 13% saving. reduction of 15% between 2011 and 2015. That goal was achieved our ventilation plant. We were able to continue at that level in taps. by 2013. Our future ambition is therefore to maintain the present 2013. The challenges will be greater going forward, as it becomes low level, including during periods of growth. increasingly difficult to find ways to realise new reductions. 26 KROMANN REUMERT ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE 027 KROMANN REUMERT MILJØ OG KLIMA CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 NEW GOALS: MARCH 2014 MARCH 2015 We have identified the following goals to work towards before our next Global Compact report: Goals Activities We will reduce our electricity consumption We are planning to replace our photocopying machines with more environmentally friendly models. We will maintain our heating consumption at the We believe that our heating consumption is at a sensible level. We will present level maintain that level in 2014 by continuing to focus on optimisation of our operations. We will focus on sorting our waste It is important to us to ensure that a high percentage of our waste is recycled, and we do this by maintaining an emphasis on sorting. This will remain a focus area for 2014. We will minimise our water usage We will continue our efforts to minimise our water usage, including installing more water-saving aerators for our taps in 2014. We will reduce our travel activities In 2014 we will continue our efforts to reduce our travel activities, through activities like setting up additional video conference rooms. In May 2014 we will participate in Denmark’s largest fitness campaign, ”Bike to Work 2014”, the purpose of which is to reduce pollution, improve public health and reduce traffic crowding. 028 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT 29 KROMANN REUMERT ANTI-CORRUPTION OG CORP. GOVERNANCE CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 PRINCIPLE 10: ANTI-CORRUPTION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMMITMENT We provide advice and hold seminars on internaTransparency International Danmark is the Dantional trade, including Danish and foreign trade ish branch of the global organisation Transparrestrictions (such as ”dual use”). This means ency International (TI), which aims to combat that we contribute to ensuring compliance with corruption and bribery on a global scale. In the sanctions imposed by the UN, EU and other ormost recent Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) ganisations and countries against Iran, Syria and for year-end 2013, Transparency International North Korea, among others. These sanctions ranked Denmark in equal first place with New have been imposed to secure fundamental huZealand with a score of 91 out of 100. This inman rights. Ours is the only Danish law firm to dicates that Denmark is one of the least corrupt have set up ”International Trade” as a separate countries in the world, but with a score of 91 business area and to have recognized a considthere is still room for improvement. erable need among Danish businesses for advice on sanctions and similar rules. As a business partner to Danish enterprises – many with a broad, global perspective – it is imCORPORATE CRIMINAL LAW SINCE OUR portant that we can continue to put anti-corrupLAST REPORT tion on the agenda. Consistent with our efforts Last year we set up a ”Corporate Criminal Law” in previous reporting years, we have sought to practice area to satisfy the increasing demand adapt Global Compact’s 10th principle to Danfor advice from the Danish business sector reish conditions, adding ’Corporate Covernance’ to sulting from tighter legislation to fight financial the title. Corporate Governance is important to crime and specific criminal offences. Since then, us as a law firm, both in terms of encouraging we have provided advice to several businesses corporate governance in our position as confion corporate criminal matters, carried out interdential adviser to many of the largest businesses nal investigations (including as part of risk manin Denmark, and in terms of our own business acagement and compliance work), and provided PRINCIPLE 10 tivities. As a law firm, we are subject to strict ethical guidelines. In 2012 we described our internal advice on compensation for victims of financial crime. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND procedures, and we therefore refer to previous reports available at www.kromannreumert.com. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 30 KROMANN REUMERT ANTI-CORRUPTION OG CORP. GOVERNANCE 31 KROMANN REUMERT ANTIKORRUPTION OG CORP. GOVERNANCE CSR REPORT CSR-RAPPORT 2014 2014 RESULTS: MARCH 2013 MARCH 2014 Below are the goals that we set in our last report, together with the results we have achieved in the period between March 2013 and March 2014. Goals Results We will help raise awareness In cooperation with Copenhagen Business School we have launched and developed a new of CSR and corporate board leadership course, where we also participate in teaching activities. The course includes governance a thorough presentation of good corporate governance recommendations. We have continued our active cooperation with Business Kolding/INSEAD, where a number of Kromann Reumert’s partners continue to teach corporate governance. In 2013 we continued to promote the development of corporate governance through our work in the Committee on Corporate Governance, for which Marianne Philip is Deputy Chairman. We contributed to the drafting of the new recommendations for good foundation governance contained in the Industrial Foundation Committee report from December 2012. The bill was introduced on 12 March 2014. In June we held the seminar ”Bribery and Corruption – Rules, Practice and Red Flags” for 90 representatives, primarily from Danish businesses working globally. We carried out pro bono work for Transparency International in Denmark. We gave a significant number of talks and lectures on Corporate Governance, corruption and bribery at conferences and seminars. NEW GOALS: MARCH 2014 MARCH 2015 In the coming period, we will work towards the following goals and activities: Goals Activities We will help raise awareness We will develop and roll out e-learning tools to help ensure compliance with internal guideof CSR, anti-corruption and lines and international rules. Corporate Governance We will continue promoting corporate governance. We will continue improving our advice to Danish businesses about compliance with international sanctions against countries at war and similar. In both Danish and international forums, we will continue our efforts to focus on compliance with fundamental anti-corruption and related rules, thereby contributing to improving Danish enterprises’ compliance with the rules. We will join the ICC Commission on Anti-Corruption and Corporate Responsibility in Denmark in order to continue contributing to the development of standards. 32 KROMANN REUMERT PARTNERSHIPS 033 KROMANN REUMERT ABOUT THE REPORT CSR REPORT AND PRO BONO CSR REPORT 2014 2014 PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO Kromann Reumert has created partnerships with a range of organisations that our employees assist by providing legal services for free or at a significantly reduced price. The work is done pro bono, which means for the public good. COMMITMENT Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work is carried out in accordance with our pro bono policy, which consists of the following principles: Principle 1 Kromann Reumert’s pro bono projects include work that the firm’s employees perform for free or at a significantly reduced price, where such work is not carried out in furtherance of Kromann Reumert’s own interests. Principle 2 Kromann Reumert carries out relevant pro bono work that is not religious or political in character (although there are some grey areas). Principle 3 OUR PRO BONO WORK IS The scope of our pro bono work is proportionate to our firm’s size and character. BASED ON FOUR CENTRAL Principle 4 In order to coordinate the firm’s collective pro bono efforts, we have put in place a Pro Bono Committee that is responsible for Kromann Reumert’s pro bono work in each of our individual departments. TENETS: CHILDREN & Principle 5 A fundamental principle is that we apply the same rules in handYOUTH, EDUCATION, HUMAN ling pro bono cases as for all of our other work. However, when we consider whether or not to engage in pro bono projects, we undertake a more extensive assessment as to whether a case RIGHTS AND HEALTH could involve a conflict of interest or otherwise be damaging to Kromann Reumert. 34 KROMANN REUMERT PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 35 KROMANN REUMERT PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 OUR PRO BONO PARTNERSHIPS Our pro bono work rests on the commitment of our employees We regularly evaluate our cooperation with partner organisaso our pro bono partner organisations have primarily been tions to ensure that we are applying our resources in the most selected by employees who have a special relationship with the effective and efficient way. To the greatest extent possible, we relevant organisations. This helps us achieve the best outcome try to educate through our pro bono work so that organisaCOPENHAGEN PRIDE REDEN INTERNATIONAL REDEN for both the organisations involved and our employees. tions can become increasingly independent and less reliant on Copenhagen Pride’s mission is to help Reden International (The Nest Reden (or ‘The Nest’) provides female prosour assistance. By way of example, we may assist with drafting promote equality for homosexuals, International) is an organization dedicat of titutes with an escape from the harsh reality Our pro bono work is based on four central tenets: standard documents or provide guidance on how to apply for bisexuals and transsexuals in Denmark. women. It provides practical support for of working on the street; they can get a hot Read more at foreign women involved in prostitution in shower, a meal, a bed for the night, and asfinancial support. www.copenhagenpride.dk. Denmark. Read more at sistance and advice to help them create a > Children & Youth www.redeninternational.dk. life outside of prostitution and drug abuse. Read more at www.reden.dk. > Education In support of our goal to help where help is most needed, we > Human Rights will focus our pro bono efforts on children, youth and education > Health during the next CSR period. DANSK SKOLESKAK OUR PRO BONO PARTNERSHIPS We are proud of our partnerships with these TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL THE DANISH SCHOLASTIC OMBOLD HJERNESKADEFORENINGEN HOVEDHUSET organisations: Transparency International is a global CHESS FEDERATION OMBOLD is the driving force behind Hjerneskadeforeningen (or ‘The Danish HovedHuset (‘The Head House’) opened civil society organisation fighting against The Danish Scholastic Chess Federation an initiative aimed to put sport for the Brain Injury Association’) in Denmark is a in 2006 as a project initiated by The corruption, nepotism, abuse of power, is founded on the principle that schohomeless and socially marginalised on nationwide, independent organisation that Danish Brain Injury Association. As at and bribery. Read more at lastic chess strengthens the intellectual the social-political agenda. works with families affected by brain injury. 1 November 2011, HovedHuset was a www.transparency.dk. and social development of children and Read more at www.ombold.dk. Read more about the association at private institution. They offer specialized youths, which helps them pursue lifelong www.hjerneskadeforeningen.dk. services for people of working age who learning and education. Read more at have sustained a brain injury. Read more www.skoleskak.dk. at www.hovedhuset.dk. LANGSIGTET HJÆLP TIL NØDLIDENDE BØRN BØRNEHJÆLPSDAGEN SOS-BØRNEBYERNE INSTITUT FOR MENNESKERETTIGHEDER ØNSKEFONDEN ASHOKA Børnehjælpsdagen (or ‘Children’s Help SOS-Børnebyerne (or ‘SOS Children’s Institut for Menneskerettigheder (The Make A Wish Ønskefonden aims to fulﬁll Ashoka is a global organization for the Day’) works for the 15,000 foster childVillages’) is part of SOS Children’s Villages Danish Institute for Human Rights) the wishes of children (3-18 years) who world’s leading social entrepreneurs and ren and young people in Denmark, part(International), the world’s largest private includes research, information, education live in Denmark and suffer from a lifeseeks to ﬁnd innovative solutions to some nering with volunteer child and youth humanitarian organisation that seeks to and documentation on human rights in threatening illness. Read more at of the most urgent social problems on the associations and sports clubs. Read more provide help to children in need. Read Denmark and abroad in coopera authorities www.onskefonden.dk. planet. Read more at www.ashoka.org. at www.bhd.dk. more about the Danish branch at in Denmark, the Nordic Council, the www.sos-borneby.dk or see Council of Europe, OSCE, the EU and the www.sos-childrensvillages.org. UN. Read more at www.menneskeret.dk. 36 KROMANN REUMERT PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 37 KROMANN REUMERT PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 RESULTS: MARCH 2013 MARCH 2014 Organisation Activities 2013 In the period March 2013 to March 2014, our lawyers provided 620 hours of pro bono legal advice to the pro bono partner organisations listed above. Further, our administrative employees devoted numerous unrecorded hours to assisting our pro COPENHAGEN PRIDE No activities in 2013. bono partner organisations with tasks like printing materials for them or providing services at events held at Kromann Reumert. REDEN INTERNATIONAL We assisted Reden International in drawing up standard employment contracts for the majority of (an organisation their employee groups and reviewed specific contracts and addenda, and we provided advice in RESULTS FOR EACH INDIVIDUAL PRO BONO PARTNER combating trafficking in connection with the employment of staff within particular areas or for particular projects financed MARCH 2013 1 MARCH 2014 women) by separate funds. Our objective for the period March 2013 to March 2014 was to evaluate the pro bono concept among our employees, and also continue the existing cooperation with all of our pro bono partner organisations. The results are described below. Also, we assisted in the interpretation of collective agreements concerning matters like pay, pension and inconvenience allowance, and we assisted Reden International in defending employee claims in connection with dismissals. Organisation Activities 2013 Finally, we provided advice on the interrelationship between the rules governing self-employed TRANSPARENCY Each year we assist Transparency International Danmark with its assessment of the Danish consultants and the rules governing employees. INTERNATIONAL authorities’ efforts to ensure compliance with the OECD convention on combating corruption among foreign public officials. REDEN We assisted Reden in reviewing certain contracts and provided advice in connection with the (a drop-in centre for employment of staff. DANSK SKOLESKAK We provided legal assistance in connection with Dansk Skoleskak’s use and renewal of fixedwomen in prostitution) (Danish Scholastic Chess term employment contracts, where the fixed-term contracts were based on government grants. We also provided advice in connection with questions concerning leave agreements for students Federation) Further, we provided advice concerning the opportunity for and consequences of entering into and part-time employees and the rules governing changes to terms and conditions. consultancy agreements, including consultancy agreements with former employees. OMBOLD We provided advice in connection with OMBOLD’s transformation from a self-governing instituEDUCATION WORK As part of the City of Copenhagen’s lower-secondary education dynamo we held an education (football for tion to an association, including the production of information letters to contributors and drafting day for 50 ninth-grade pupils at the Sortedam School. The objective was to highlight the transihomeless and socially of relevant documentation in connection with the transformation. tion into post-secondary education and to motivate pupils to pursue a higher education. Before vulnerable individuals) the visit, pupils received social science lessons in democracy and the Danish Constitution, and We made various objections to debt collection proceedings and provided legal advice on dubious on the education day itself they were given a chance to put their knowledge into practice with creditor claims for payments of invoices dating back to 2010. a fictitious role-play trial. They were also given insight into other job functions that are required within a law firm like Kromann Reumert. We provided employment law advice, including the drafting of employment contracts and advice in connection with the summary dismissal of an employee including negotiations with the emIn 2014 we are planning to extend the project to include Ingrid Jespersen’s Gymnasieskole (an ployee’s trade union and advice on the dismissal procedure. upper-secondary school). We printed OMBOLD’s annual report, business cards, flyers, invitations and posters for championWe have made an arrangement with Sortedam School that allows pupils in special need of ship tournaments and other events. practical experience to work as trainees at Kromann Reumert as a supplement to the school’s work experience programme. HJERNESKADEFORENINGEN We provided advice on deduction rules in relation to charitable donations and specific issues (The Danish Brain Injury relating to The Danish Brain Injury Association as a beneficiary of deceased estates. In addition, we are working on plans to cooperate with some of the more socially burdened We provided insurance and maritime law advice in relation to specific events for members of Association) schools in Copenhagen. the association. We have had several school trainees so far. We provided advice relating to the law of association, including issues about quorum and disqualification. BØRNEHJÆLPSDAGEN (Child Over the past year we have provided legal advice on a regular basis, including in connection with Welfare Day) the drafting of a declaration of consent concerning copyright and photography, creating a frameHOVEDHUSET We assisted the organisation in reviewing and drafting specific contracts and provided regular work agreement for a non-profit lottery, and advice concerning the set-up of a committee. (The Head House) advice in connection with the employment and dismissal of staff. 38 KROMANN REUMERT PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO 39 KROMANN REUMERT PARTNERSHIPS AND PRO BONO / CASES CSR REPORT CSR REPORT 2014 2014 Organisation Aktiviteter i 2013 INSTITUT FOR MENNESKENo activities in 2013. RETTIGHEDER ØNSKEFONDEN No activities in 2013. BILLEDE ASHOKA We assisted Living Labs Global & CityMart.com (which is an Ashoka Fellow) in assessing whether contract was subject to a tender obligation, and options for establishing a model to remove the tender obligations for certain public contracting authorities in Europe in accordance with EU procurement law. PRO BONO WORK FOR TRANSPARENCY INTERNATIONAL NEW GOALS: MARCH 2014 MARCH 2015 Combating corruption is an important part of our own In the coming period, we will work towards the following goals and activities: KROMANN REUMERT HAS work and the work carried out with our many clients. As JOINED THE AFRICA internationalisation gathers momentum, a significant numGoals Activities INNOVATION NETWORK ber of our clients are expanding into areas in which corruption is part of the culture. Transparency International is one We will evaluate pro bono work Both internally and together with our external partners, we will undertake of the NGOs actively and widely fighting corruption all over a structured evaluation of our pro bono work to assess whether our current Many of our clients have Africa in their sights as a next target area the world. efforts create the desired results. for growth –─ an area plagued by corruption and where businesses experience a completely different agenda as compared to busiEach year we assist Transparency International Danmark We will involve more employees in our pro In the coming period we will focus on increasing the number of Kromann nesses in Denmark. with its assessment of the Danish authorities’ efforts to enbono work Reumert employees involved in our pro bono projects. sure compliance with the OECD convention on combating We have joined the Africa Innovation Network in order to better corruption among foreign public officials. understand the challenges facing Danish businesses in that part of the world. We have provided lectures to network members on combating corruption in Uganda and East Africa, including focusing in particular on facilitation payments. DEAR EMPLOYEES, THANK YOU! Each year it is a pleasure to read Kromann In 2013 we were successful in achieving many Reumert’s CSR Report. Not just because it of our goals. We could not have done it witharticulates our awareness of Kromann out you. We therefore wish to sincerely thank Reumert’s social responsibility, but also you, and we look forward to continuing our because the report reminds us of the comCSR work in 2014. mitment and drive demonstrated by our employees every single day. Kromann Reumert Management Spirited teamwork is one of Kromann Reumert’s four values. It is a value of particular importance to us, and one that we intend to maintain and protect. The preparation of a CSR Report requires coordination among a large number of individuals in the company. However, compliance with an ambitious CSR policy and the implementation of initiatives supporting our efforts to promote the sustainable development goals of the United Nations requires drive and spirited teamwork from every single employee. COPENHAGEN . AARHUS . LONDON W W W. K R O M A N N R E U M E R T.CO M
