ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 2 DURATEX IN IBASE 106 ABOUT THIS NUMBERS 11 REPORT 3 ASSURANCE REPORT 112 MATERIALITY 5 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 123 DURATEX 15 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121 GEOGRAPHICAL GRI SUMMARY 210 DIVERSIFICATION 16 CORPORATE CORPORATE INFORMATION 223 DRIVERS 17 CREDITS 224 SUPPLIERS 18 TRANSPARENCY AND RESPONSIBILITY IN THE BUSINESSES 58 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND PERFORMANCE 65 DIALOGUE AND RELATIONSHIPS 81 Our People 84 Quality of relationships 98 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 7 MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 30 PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESSES 47 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 3 About this report ABOUT THIS REPORT Materiality ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT Duratex About this report The adoption of the G4 directives in their first year of implementation by GRI is in line with Duratex’s adopts This is the Seventh Annual and Sustainability strategy of taking aspects of sustainability into conReport published by Duratex in accordance with sideration in all its strategic decisions, and of mainthe directives of the Global Reporting Initiative taining a commitment to transparency and openGRI-G4 (GRI), under the “Comprehensive” option, with information referring to the period from Januaness in its dialogue with all its stakeholders. The compilation of this report involved conguideline ry 1 to December 31, 2013. It already follows the recommendations and principles of the new G4 version of the reporting indicators, launched glosultations with the Company’s main executives, as well as the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who provided their view on the content discusbally last year. This represents a step forward in sed. This document represents an evolution in the the model used by the Company, which in its last Company’s governance. Its content has been apreport, published in 2013 referring to the year proved by the Sustainability Committee, which 2012 was still using the G3.1 version of the realso contributed to Duratex’s adherence to level porting indicators. G4-28; G4-29; G4-30; G4-32 G4, helping to set it on the path to next year’s in2016 Platform tegrated report. G4-48 AXIS* PUBLIC In the following chapters, this report shows the Dialogue and relationships Employees, suppliers, clients, the community, specialists, top leaders operational results of the units in Brazil, unless otherwise indicated. The financial data conform to Management and Employees, suppliers, customers, clients, the community, academy, International Financial Reporting Standards (IRFS) environmental performance specialists, governments and regulators and current generally accepted accounting stanTransparency and responsibility Employees, suppliers, customers, clients, academy, opinion leaders, dards in Brazil. Both the financial statements and in the businesses governments and regulatory body the GRI indicators have had their content assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). G4-17; G4-33 *Strategic planning related to each axis of the Platform 2016, and not by material aspect in respect to GRI, as the The report also presents Platform 2016, Duratex’s Company believes that this relationship facilitates the understanding and management of processes. The material asmedium-term plan, developed after a process of pects related to each axis are: economic performance; Market presence; Indirect economic impacts; Purchasing practices; water; biodiversity; emissions; Effluents and waste; Products and services; compliance; Transportation; general; consultation with stakeholders and the approval of Environmental evaluation of suppliers; Mechanisms for complaints and grievances related to environmental impacts; priority themes by the Company’s top management. Evaluation of suppliers for labor practices; Mechanisms for complaints and grievances related to labor practices; investments; Non-discrimination; Freedom of association and collective bargaining; Child labor; Forced or compulsory Queries, comments and suggestions should be labor; review; Evaluation of suppliers for human rights; Mechanisms for complaints and grievances related to human sent in through the Company’s exclusive communirights; Local communities; Evaluation of suppliers impacts on society; Complaints mechanisms and complaints related cation channel sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br. to impacts on society; Health and safety of the client; Labeling of products and services; and Compliance. G4-20; G4-21 G4-31 ABOUT THIS REPORT ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT Materiality O processo de construção da matriz começou em 2010 e The themes deemed material for Duratex in the Placontinuou a ser realizado nos anos seguintes, por meio de tform 2016 building process are as follows: painéis de diálogo com especialistas e colaboradores. • Our people (internal audience) • Quality of relationships (with a focus on suppliers, The content presented in this Duratex Annual and Susclients, communities and specialists) tainability Report is in alignment with Platform 2016, the • Efficient use of natural resources and energy document which formalizes the Company’s strategic plan • Quality and impact of products for the next few years. The content has been divided into • Management of residues and emissions three main key elements: dialogue and relationships; en• Conservation and biodiversity vironmental management and performance; and transpa• Integration of socio-environmental criteria into rency and responsibility within the businesses. management, as well as this report The programs and initiatives associated with each key element have been divided into seven priority themes, defined In the cross-referencing of strategic themes with aspects with the objective of concentrating efforts on projects dedefined under the GRI G4 model, and due to the diversity of emed to be of the greatest importance in the integration of its businesses and the Company’s operation, Duratex has resustainability into management throughout the Company. ached the conclusion that these aspects must be considered The focus is on operating in a unified and cross-cutting important, except for: rights of indigenous people and tradimanner across all the business units in Brazil, thus making tional communities (the units are not located in either traditioit possible to monitor all the results in a more consistent nal communities or indigenous areas), safety practices, unfair and integrated manner. G4-18; G4-20; G4-21 competition and customer privacy. The analysis took into acDuratex began the process of creating its materiality count the impact and characteristics of the Company’s busiindex in 2010, through its First Meeting of Stakeholders, ness divisions, units, internal and external audiences, and proand continues to hold related meetings, such as consultaducts. These aspects have not converged with the material tion panels for dialogue with specialists and employees, in themes, as defined within the scope of Platform 2016. Analysis addition to interviews with members of top management of materiality considers the impacts and characteristics of the and strategic public groups. The strategic themes and prioCompany’s business divisions, units, audiences (internal and rity audiences for the company in the medium term (2013external) and products. From this analysis it is considered that 2016) were defined from the analysis of the results of the Duratex does not have any units in either indigenous or tradi2nd Stakeholders Meeting, Employees Panel, and interviews tional areas, or activities of priority critical risk associated with with alta administração, actions taken in 2012. G4-24; G4-25; the themes not included under materiality. G4-19; G4-27 G4-26 ABOUT THIS REPORT MATERIALITY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 6 Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors MESSAGES Message from the Chief Executive Officer ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 7 MESSAGES Ready to Message from the Chairman which we operate. We are therefore well-prepaof the Board of Directors red to take on challenges arising during more dimeet the fficult periods, as well as being able to make the Financial soundness, robust corporate governance best use of favorable winds in better years. and the consolidation of the 2016 Sustainability I believe that in the last few years we have challenges Platform all contribute to ensuring Duratex’s long and prosperous future. done much to modernize our management and improve our governance. We are on the right ahead track, but there is always room for further im62 years ago Duratex came into being as a provements. One of these improvements was public listed company, with a set of very clear to give greater power to the committees which G4-1; G4-2 principles and values. Today, we have a solid goadvise the Board of Directors. From 2014, new vernance structure, supported by various goverprojects will be submitted for preliminary evaluning bodies the responsibilities and frameworks ation by the Sustainability Committee. Another of which are consolidated into one Board of Diexample of improvements made was the revirectors and its Advisory Committees, which all sion of our risk map, with full participation of follow the best corporate governance practices. the Auditing and Risk Management Committee. For this reason, the Company’s shareholders The Staff, Governance and Nomination Comhave sufficient maneuverability to function in mittee played a fundamental role in the devesuch a way as to guarantee that Duratex’s new lopment of the process for choosing Duratex’s investments and strategy are totally aligned with new CEO. The selection of our Chief Executive their interests and long-term vision. Officer, promoting a director to a higher post In 2013, the results from the Deca and Wood from the Executive Board, proved to be a moDivisions were very satisfactory, despite an ecoment when we were able to put into practice all nomic scenario in Brazil that was unfavorable in the directives and values on which our business various aspects. Our sales showed an increase is based. Ethical behavior, transparency, the vaof approximately 14.2% compared to the prelues that we defend and our organizational culvious year, the result of certain good decisions ture were all clearly evident in a task which took taken to diversify our product portfolio and 18 months, and which was widely recognized by grow both organically and through acquisitions, the market. Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira, who among other factors. formerly occupied the post of director of the We are a financially solid company with pracWood Panel Business Unit, and who has worked tices and processes that produce operational exfor the Company for 27 years, took over the post cellence, and we are the leader in the markets in in April 2013. I am confident that he will be very MESSAGES MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 8 MESSAGES successful as Duratex’s new CEO, and indeed we Last year also saw the conclusion of a number are already seeing positive results. of important investments in the units in QueimaThis change at the head of the Company codos and Jundiaí, in the Deca Division, and ItaLeft to right, standing: mes together with the consolidation of our 2016 petininga and Taquari, in the Wood Division. We Henri Penchas, Francisco Amauri Olsen,* Sustainability Platform, which contains the key also acquired a further stake of 43.62% in TableOlavo Egydio Setubal Junior, Alvaro elements and strategic themes on which we will mac, a leading manufacturer of wood panels in Antonio Cardoso de Souza* and Fabio be working over the next three years. This tool Colombia, through a public share offering. With Schvartsman.* is important to enable us to systemize, evaluate this, our equity stake in that company has now Left to right, seated: Helio Seibel, Alfredo and plan the investments and efforts which we risen to 80.62%, expanding production capacity Egydio Arruda Villela Filho, Salo Davi will be making, to ensure that our businesses and taking another step towards the Company’s Seibel (presidente do Conselho de will be long-lasting, have little impact on the eninternationalization. Over the next few years we Administração), Ricardo Egydio Setubal vironment, and be able to contribute to the dewill be continuing to expand Duratex organically, and Rodolfo Villela Marino. velopment of communities in the proximity of and also possibly through new acquisitions. *Independent members. our 27 industrial plants and forestry plantations. It would have been impossible to achieve such results consistently over the years without the efforts and dedication of our employees. The value of our staff’s engagement in meeting daring targets, as well as their commitment to continuously improving our operations, is something that is impossible to express in our financial statements. However, its impact can be clearly seen in terms of the quality and safety of the products which we deliver to our customers, while at the same time being profitable for the Company. Many thanks to you all, Salo Davi Seibel Chairman of the Board of Directors MESSAGES MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 9 MESSAGES On the path to growth G4-1; G4-2 Message from the productivity, engagement of the various teams, and well as finalizing the acquisition of Thermosystem, Chief Executive Officer leadership development, among other things. in Tubarão (Santa Catarina [SC]), which will enable I wish to emphasize that my motivation during Duratex to enter the electronic shower and solar heAdjustments made to product prices, this whole process stems from not only the challenating markets. It should be borne in mind that this cost controls and flexibility in serving our ges we face and all the work that we have ahead of capacity expansion, because it is still at the ramp-up market all resulted in a 23.3% increase in net us, but also my certainty about the commitment of stage, will be contributing to earnings as its capacity earnings in 2013. our great team, which underpins Duratex’s success utilization rate increases, with full capacity take-up every day. I am most grateful to everyone for their estimated in the second half of 2016. In taking over the job of CEO at Duratex in the support and dedication, which has enabled the I also wish to draw attention to the new Mediumsecond quarter of 2013, after a succession process Company to achieve its objectives in 2013. -Density Fiberboard (MDF) plant in Itapetininga (São that lasted 18 months carried out by the Board of Despite the fact that the growth expected for Paulo [SP]), which began operations in July, with an Directors, I have embraced the challenge of, over the Brazilian economy in 2013 failed to materialize, effective production capacity of 520,000 m3 a year; the next years, working to build a bigger company we still managed to achieve a significant result last the conclusion of the works to increase Mediumthat is increasingly profitable, respected by comyear. In the face of the economic scenario in our -Density Particle Board (MDP) production capacity petitors, admired by stakeholders, and a source of country, we adjusted the prices of our products, in Taquari (Rio Grande do Sul [RS]), which added pride for shareholders and employees alike. strengthened our cost controls and increased the a further 230,000 m3 a year of additional capaciProject Duratex 2020, shared with 100% of the flexibility with which we deal with our orders. We ty from August; the increased production capacity leadership of the Company in visits made to all achieved net sales of R$ 3,872.7 million, an increat the unit at Jundiaí (SP), from 17.0 million to 18.2 the various units in 2013, aims to achieve the straase of 14.8% on the previous year. Earnings befomillion pieces/year of metal bathroom fittings; and tegic size desired by the shareholders through re Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization the conclusion of the works at the unit in Queimados organic growth, acquisitions of strategic targets (EBITDA) came to R$ 1,200.1 million, with an EBI(Rio de Janeiro [RJ]), to add a further 2.4 million pieand also new complementary businesses in order TDA margin of 31%, while recurring net earnings ces/year of vitreous chinaware, which corresponds to diversify our product portfolio. We wish to add amounted to R$ 561,6 million, up 23.3% on 2012. to an increase of 25% to current production capacity, value, without sacrificing profitability, while always We concluded an important expansion phase in to become effective by 2015. strengthening our connection to the values which our industrial units in the Deca and Wood Divisions, In foreign markets, we have plans to expand Tableform the basis of our organizational culture. We increasing our production capacity with investments mac, a leading panel manufacturer in Colombia, the will be investing in planning, cost management, that came to a total of R$ 601.5 million in 2013, as control of which we acquired through a public share MESSAGES MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 10 MESSAGES offering. In Argentina, we discontinued the operations tunity of not only strengthening our environmental of Deca Piazza, thus managing to staunch the losses projects, but also making improvements to environwhich had been steadily increasing without any prosmental education initiatives and the development Left to right, standing: Alexandre Coelho pects of turning the business around, as a result of communities located close to our business units. Nascimento, Roney Rotenberg, Flavio the difficulty of operating in that country. Another of Duratex’s achievements was to be listed, Marassi Donatelli, Marco Antonio Milleo, One of our great areas of progress, however, is refor the second year running, on the Dow Jones SustaiJosé Ricardo Paraíso Ferraz, Paulo César lated to the inclusion of sustainability aspects in the nability Emerging Market Index (DJSI), one of the most Marostica and Flavio Dias Soares (in management of the Company. Historically, Duratex important global indices for companies that adopt memoriam). has always been a benchmark reference in the pregood governance practices and sustainable manaLeft to right, seated: Maria Julieta Pinto servation of biodiversity and in the attention that it gement. We have also, since 2008, been part of the Rodrigues Nogueira, Antonio Joaquim de pays to the environmental and social impacts of its Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) of BM&FBovespa. Oliveira (CEO), Raul Penteado de Oliveira operations. In 2013, in establishing our 2016 SustaiWe also celebrated our inclusion at the Guia Exame Neto and Renato Aguiar Coelho. nability Platform, we carried out a strategic structude Sustentabilidade event, the Época Empresa Verde ring move, prioritizing actions that aim to ensure the awards, in the categories of Industrial Climate Chanperpetuity of the business. Thus, we had the opporge and Especially Outstanding, as well as the winning of another Eco Award, organized by the American Chamber of Commerce in Brazil (Amcham), this time for the Save urinal. Finally, our high level of corporate governance was recognized by Anuário Época Negócios 360º, an initiative of the Dom Cabral Foundation. We begin 2014 with the certainty that Duratex is well-prepared to continue towards its objective of becoming an increasingly global and important player. Our directives are based on strengthening dialogue with our interested audiences and developing innovative products, thus improving general well-being among the population and contributing towards the preservation of the planet. We are building a future with the dream of a better world for everyone. Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira Chief Executive Officer MESSAGES MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 11 DURATEX IN NUMBERS ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 12 DURATEX IN NUMBERS Duratex in numbers Recurring net earnings (R$ million) Below the Company sets out its main 561.6 financial and environmental indicators for the last five years. 439.4 455.5 349.7 253.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Net Revenue Shareholders’ equity* (R$ million) (R$ million) 4,365.0 3,872.7 4,023.6 3,692.8 3,372.5 3,452.5 3,141.9 2,970.3 2,741.8 1,930.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 *Consolidated in IFRS. DURATEX IN NUMBERS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 13 DURATEX IN NUMBERS EBITDA adjusted and recurring* Volume shipped – Wood Division Forestry areas* (R$ million) (m3) (‘000 hectares) 2,635,084 2,668,228 EBITDA MARGIN** 2,312,177 2,268,822 163 1,499,191 31.0 31.0 30.4 55 1,200.1 25.6 26.9 1,024.6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 850.6 799.5 494.8 CULTIVATED FORESTS Volume shipped – Deca Division PRESERVATION AREAS (thousands of pieces) 27,983 2009*** 25,505 25,772 2010 2011 2012 2013 21,638 19,800 *EBITDA – a measure of operational performance adjusted by the variation in the fair value of biological assets and employee benefits. **Consolidated, adjusted and recurring. ***After IFRS adjustments, considering eight months (January to August) of Duratex and four months (September to December) of Satipel + Duratex. *This chart does not include other areas such as roads, improvements, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 electric power networks, etc. DURATEX IN NUMBERS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 14 Duratex Geographical Diversification Corporate drivers PROFILE Suppliers ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 15 PROFILE Revenue Duratex grows 14.8% Due to the quality of its products and flexibility offices in the United States and Europe throuin dealing with customers the Company now gh its subsidiaries Duratex North America and operates in 35 different countries. Duratex Europe N.V., responsible for marketing in 2013 Duratex, founded in 1951, is a Brazilian indusand sales intermediation. G4-5; G4-17 The Company also has an area of approximatrial company that manufactures and sells fitely 237,000 hectares of cultivated forest and nishing products for the construction industry, conservation areas distributed across the states as well as products for the furniture manufactuof São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do ring sector. Through Its two business units, the Sul, 93% of which carry certification from the Deca Division and the Wood Division, the ComForest Stewardship Council® (FSC®). G4-6; G4-9 pany produces metal bathroom fittings and viThis structure guarantees the manufacture treous chinaware, laminated flooring, panels of quality products and customer service with made from MDF and MDP, fiberboard, electroa proven track record, for clients in Brazil and nic showers and other products sold under the 35 other countries in all the world’s continents, Deca, Hydra, Thermosystem, Durafloor and Dupositioning Duratex as the largest manufacturer ratex brand names. G4-3; G4-4 of industrialized wood panels, vitreous chinawaWith its headquarters based in the city of São re and metal bathroom fittings in the Southern Paulo, Duratex has over 11,7 thousand employeHemisphere. In 2013, the Deca Division sold 27.9 es and 15 industrial units strategically located million pieces, while the Wood Division shipped in the states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais, Pera volume of over 2.6 million cubic meters renambuco, Paraíba, Rio Grande do Sul and Rio sults which, combined with a successful investde Janeiro. The Company also has operations ment and expansion strategy, enabled the Comin Colombia, where it holds an equity stake of pany to increase its sales by 14.8% compared to 80.62% in Tablemac, the largest company in the the previous year, attaining a new sales record of panel sector in that country. Duratex also has R$ 3.9 billion. G4-8; G4-9 *This figure includes other areas such as highways, improvements, power grids, etc. PROFILE DURATEX ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 16 PROFILE Through its Deca and Wood Divisions, Geographical Diversification G4-6 Distribuition Center Duratex sells the following products G4-4 Plants Wood Forest • Fiberboard panels, of medium density, that offer various application and finishing possibilities. Ideal PARAÍBA João Pessoa for furniture, moldings and covering in general. 1 sanitary ware plant • MDP panels, produced from selected eucalyptus wood particles, that can be applied to the PERNAMBUCO SÃO PAULO Cabo de Santo furniture industry as well as the building sector. São Paulo Agostinho • High density fiberboard, produced from wood 1 metal 1 sanitary fittings plant ware plant from replanted forests. Jundiaí 1 metal • Laminated flooring for residential and fittings plant e 2 sanitary corporate spaces. ware plants RIO DE JANEIRO Queimados • Luxury Vinyl Tile (LVT) floors, made from Jacareí 1 sanitary bronze ware plant PVC, 100% recyclable, water resistant, allowing industrial valves installation in a variety of residential and RIO GRANDE DO SUL SANTA CATARINA São Leopoldo Tubarão commercial environments. 1 sanitary ware plant Eletronic showers • Wooden skirting board. and solar heater Deca • Vitreous chinaware: sinks, basins, washtubs, lavatory bowls and bidets. • Metal bathroom fittings: taps, mixers, discharge valves, stopcocks (residential and industrial), SÃO PAULO Itapetininga showers and components. MDP and MDF Agudos • Thermosystem: electronic showers and 2 MDP lines and MDF plants, flooring and solar heaters. COLÔMBIA (Tablemac) resin plant (DRI) MINAS GERAIS Manizale MDP Uberaba Botucatu • Accessories: toilet paper roll holders, towel Yarumal MDP Handboard and MDF MDF and MDP Barbosa MDF holders and soap dishes, among other products. Guarne Furniture RIO GRANDE DO SUL Taquari MDF PROFILE GEOGRAPHICAL DIVERSIFICATION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 17 PROFILE Succession Over the years, and always in keeping with the values which guide its Corporate drivers operations, Duratex has made continuous improvements to its management and Mission governance, maintaining relationships To meet our customer’s requirements with with its audiences with the aim of excellence, by developing and offering understanding them and creating a rapport. products and services that contribute to the An important milestone for Duratex during improvement of people’s quality of life, while the period was the succession process for generating wealth in a sustainable manner. its new CEO, recognized by the market as a whole for the transparency with Vision which it was carried out (read more about To be a reference company that is these important advances in the chapters recognized by customers, employees, respectively entitled: Sustainability community, suppliers and investors as Platform and Governance). the best option, due to the quality of our products, services and relationships. Values 15 • Integrity industrial units • Commitment in Brazil • Emphasis on People • Exceed expectations • Continuous improvement • Innovation 11,7 thousand • Sustainability employees G4-56 PROFILE CORPORATE DRIVERS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 18 PROFILE Suppliers Duratex’s main suppliers come from the qualification requirements, something that alfollowing sectors: commerce; mineral proready takes place in the use of service provicessing, machinery and tools, base materials, ders for the collection, treatment and disposal Expenditure on supplies in 2013* paper, metallurgical and chemical industries; of residues. (%) laundry, security and transport services; as In 2013 Duratex had 9,218 suppliers, located in CURVE A 5% well as services for the treatment of residue Brazil, Chile, Italy, Germany, Spain and France, totaSpent with 65% 152 suppliers and the supply of electricity. The Company ling expenditure of R$ 2,604,427,448. In 2013 alone, CURVE B has identified the mineral processing, machithe Company hired 699 new suppliers (7.58%). Spent with 1,371 suppliers nery and tools, and metallurgy sectors as the Currently we do not have the means to deterCURVE C ones where it is most exposed, due to their mine the dimension and extension of the entire Spent with 7,695 suppliers intense use of labor. Duratex’s supplier masupply chain in its sector of operation; however, nagement program aims to disseminate and we are in the process of analyzing a suitable way 30% propagate good practices and include socioof carrying out this measurement in the future. -environmental criteria as part of supplier G4-12; G4-LA14 Total expenditure on supplies R$ 2,604.4 million Total number of suppliers 9,218 *Suppliers are classified under Curves A, B and C, according to their degree of importance for Duratex’s operations. Level A covers suppliers of the greatest importance to the Company. PROFILE SUPPLIERS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 19 Corporate governance Performance of the businesses BUSINESS MODEL ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 20 BUSINESS MODEL Business Duratex 2020 model Strategic planning will be driving the Company for the next decade. Duratex is a publicly listed company which has a mission to generate wealth through the development and offering of products which contribute to people’s quality of life. This objective has been reached based on a strategic plan which runs to 2020, and which includes the following: a diversified product portfolio, verticalized management of the production process, recurring investment in industrial units and forests, and the strategic geographical distribution of the plants, which provides the Company with the ability to respond quickly and flexibly to customer demands. G4-7 Taking a long-term view enables the Company’s executives to identify risks and opportunities for the business, while at the same time guaranteeing its longevity and developing initiatives established as part of Platform 2016 (see more on page 54). In five years, investments totaled R$ 2.9 billion, of which R$ 601.5 million were made ​​ only in 2013. BUSINESS MODEL DURATEX 2020 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 21 BUSINESS MODEL In order to provide support for its plan, the Company has a consistent governance structure, which takes into account and evaluates the directives established, guaranteeing that they are met. The Company also continually invests in expansion, in accordance with the strategic plan defined by its managers. Thus Duratex over the past five years has made investments of around R$ 2.9 billion, with investment of R$ 601.5 million in 2013 alone. The production capacity added to its industrial plants over this period should result in plants running at full capacity by the end of 2016, according to internal estimates. So new capital will have to be invested to ensure further expansion of the Company’s production capacity, as well as innovation in terms of products and processes. One of the investments planned is the construction of the largest industrialized wood panel plant in Latin America, located in the so-called Mineiro Triangle (Minas Gerais [MG]). The project will have two production lines, one for MDP and the other for MDF, which together will have an effective capacity of 1.4 million m3/year and it will expand the company’s total capacity to 5.6 million m3/year, representing capacity expansion of 34%. These production lines will be assembled consecutively, which represents an important reduction in costs; they are due to come into service in the second half of 2016 and 2017. Other investments may include acThe plan is to grow quisitions in segments related to those already in organically and through existence. The Company’s balanced capital strucacquisitions. ture enables it to expand on two fronts, both organically and through acquisitions. BUSINESS MODEL DURATEX 2020 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 22 BUSINESS MODEL HOW VALUE IS ADDED BUSINESS 2013 HIGHLIGHTS (R$ million) Governance Capital invested R$ 601.5 • Continual improvement of Deca Wood • Volumes in each division management Metal bathroom fittings, Laminated flooring, Deca 27,983 pieces (8.6% more than the • Committees and commissions vitreous chinaware, electronic of MDF and MDP, panels previous year) and Wood 2,668,228 m³ governed by regulatory showers and solar heaters and fiberboard (1.3% more than the previous year) frameworks • Sales R$ 3,872.7 • Adoption of policies and RAW MATERIAL USED RAW MATERIAL USED (14.8% up on the previous year) internal standards – such as • Adjusted and recurring EBITDA Copper in the form of bars, brass pipe and Wood, urea resin, formaldehyde the Environmental Policy and R$ 1,200.0 (increase of 17.1% on the strip, copper, bronze scrap, clay minerals and paper Risk Management Policy (clay, kaolin, phyllite), and non-clay previous year) minerals (quartz, feldspar or granite) • Shareholder remuneration R$ 197.3 Strategic planning • Diversified product portfolio New hires 2,923 • Top-down management in the FUNDS ALLOCATED • Investment in skill development R$ 3,5 production process (R$ million) (0.5% of payroll) • Investment in industrial units and forestry units Financial capital Intellectual capital Distribution of value added • Strategic geographical • Shareholders’ equity R$ 4,365.0 • Capital invested in innovation R$ 2,155.5 (total) distribution of industrial plants • Short-term and long-term loans R$ 22 million • Government 34.9% R$ 2,450.8 • Professional staff involved • Employees 30.8% Investments • Cash generation R$ 996.8 in innovation processes 97 • Shareholders 24.1% • Industrial park expansion • Ideas generated by the • Financing 10.2% • Acquisition of companies Manufactured capital Imagine program 585 in related segments in • Fixed assets R$ 3,456.8 • Brand names of value Environmental results Brazil and abroad • Cash used in investment Deca, Hydra and Durafloor • Energy saving 5% • Technology activity R$ 601.5 • Market recognition associated • Reduction in water consumption 5% • Innovation with brand names 21 • Reduction in residues disposed Human capital • Exclusive partnerships 687 of in a landfill 12% Platform 2016 • Employees 11,057* • Use of socio-environmental • Outsourced employees 1,641 Stakeholders and cultural criteria in • Investment in the implementation of • Shareholders and investors decision-making, as well as the Somos Assim program R$ 123,1 K • Financial agents economic criteria • Programs Somos Assim 7 • Clients, consumers and opinion-forming • Establishment of dialogue • Investment in training public, such as architects, decorators, TARGETS 2014-2020 with principal audiences R$ 3,5 million specifiers, customer service agents, Economic aspect • Consideration of values in • Amounts associated with the attraction joiners and plumbers Investments** R$ 3,540 million addition to factors that are of talent R$ 188,3 K • Suppliers purely economic • Employees • Analysis of everything, with Natural capital • Community * Does not include employees abroad, student trainees and a focus on the short and • Planted forest 163 K hectares • Government and society Thermosystem. medium term • Investment in biodiversity conservation • Press ** Includes R$ 1.3 billion in a new project in the Wood Division initiatives R$ 204 K and R$ 320 million on maintenance (amount recurring every year). Does not include possible acquisitions. BUSINESS MODEL DURATEX 2020 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 23 BUSINESS MODEL Differential Innovation, technology, logistics and R$ 3,540 management systems, and continuous million in investment planned improvement. up to the end of 2020. The decision to introduce vertical production has proved to be a significant competitive differential for Duratex in the Brazilian market. The Company has approximately 163,000 hectares of planted forest, on approximately 237,000 hectares of land, principally of eucalyptus trees which are close to the industrial plants. In 2013 used in the manufacture of metal bathroom Taquari, in the Wood Division, were certified this ensured the supply of 93% of the wood neefittings is copper, in the form of bars, brass in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard, a ded for the manufacture of the wood panels and pipe and strip, in addition to the Company’s clear demonstration of how the Company’s boards in the Wood Division, at a lower cost in own copper and bronze scrap. This raw mateindustrial park and other sites have evolved. logistics terms. rial is sold in an organized market and its price For Duratex, receiving certification for its enIn addition to wood, the main materials is also linked to the commodity markets. vironmental management system means that used in the production of MDF and MDP paIn its 15 industrial units, strategically distriit is able to update its processes in order to nels, destined for the furniture market, are rebuted across six Brazilian states (see more on introduce good production practices, with a sin, urea, formaldehyde and paper. The price page 16), Duratex uses high-tech processes view to reducing environmental impacts. of these inputs, supplied to the Company by which transform these inputs and materials One example of this, which demonstrates a number of small and highly specialized ininto products recognized in the market for Duratex’s innovative stance, is the launching of dustries, can vary depending on the dollar extheir high quality, innovative design and duproducts such as the Save urinal, the winner of change rate and the market variation in the rability. The Company also uses management the 2013 Eco Award hosted by Amcham. The prices of these commodities. In order to reand continuous perfection systems in its inproduct, launched by the Deca Division, comduce its supply risk, Duratex decided to build dustrial plants, which enable constant impropletely dispenses with the use of water, becauits own plant, located in Agudos (SP), for the vements to be implemented with a focus on se it is equipped with a deodorizing refill, which, production of resin. All production is destined customer satisfaction, increasing profitability in addition to releasing perfume, has a memfor the industrial units in the state of São Pauas well as reducing and rationalizing the use brane which prevents odors from returning aflo. The plants in Minas Gerais and Rio Grande of natural resources and energy. ter flushing. Save urinals have been installed at do Sul purchase resin from external suppliers. In 2013 the vitreous chinaware plants in Junthe Beira-Rio Stadium in Porto Alegre (RS), the In the Deca Division, one of the main inputs diaí I and II and the units in Itapetininga and headquarters of the World Cup in 2014. G4-EN27 BUSINESS MODEL DIFFERENTIAL ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 24 BUSINESS MODEL Duratex’s certifications • FSC: forestry units in Rio Grande do Sul, São Paulo and Minas Gerais. • ISO 9001: units in Uberaba, Itapetininga, Agudos, Botucatu and Taquari (Wood Division) and Metais São Paulo, Metais Jacareí, Metais Jundiaí, Louças Sul São Leopoldo (Deca Division). • ISO 14001: the following units: Jundiaí-I, Jundiaí-II, Metais Planidil, Louças Sul São Leopoldo and Metais São Paulo (Deca Division); and the units in Itapetininga, Taquari, Uberaba and Agudos (Wood Division). BUSINESS MODEL DIFFERENTIAL ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 25 BUSINESS MODEL Intangible assets R$ 22 million In addition to innovations and the quest for encourage innovation is the Imagine program, continuous improvement in its operations, Duralaunched in 2012, and which has already receitex differentiates itself in its operational market ved more than 1100 suggestions – 585 in 2013 by combining factors which directly contribute alone. The program has the objective of enawere directed for to the generation of value, and which are not bling Duratex to promote and spread a culture innovation in 2013. accounted for in the Company’s balance sheets. of innovation, creating multi-disciplinary relaThese attributes, present in Duratex’s business tionships, networks and multiple skills (both since its foundation, are: internal and external). Almost every employee is able to present Brand names ideas and participate in the Imagine program, The brand names Duratex, Durafloor, Deca and which covers five main areas for the encouHydra are recognized by the market and conragement of innovation: products, processes, sumers alike as being synonymous with qualinew businesses, organization and marketing. ty and reliability. The Company’s logo, updated Only the members of the Commission for Inin 2012, underpins important characteristics for novation, the program’s coordinators and the customers, such as proximity, flexibility, innovainnovation managers are excluded from this tion and dynamism. process. Employees whose work is directly related to Research & Development and InnovaInnovation tion may not present ideas that are an inherent Focusing on perpetuating its businesses and part of their core activity. maintaining its market leadership, Duratex continually invests in the research and development Quality of new products and solutions. In 2013, R$ 22 Duratex’s product quality standard, a benmillion was spent in this area. A team of outschmark reference in the domestic market, is tanding employees monitors new trends in the ensured by operational processes and practivarious segments in which the Company operaces adopted and the results of research in new tes, proposing new technologies for the developroduct development. Also, it counts with a pment of products that meet the demands and highly trained and qualified sales team, techneeds of the consumer. nical assistance with national coverage and One of the Company’s initiatives designed to service channels, such as Customer Service BUSINESS MODEL INTANGIBLE ASSETS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 26 BUSINESS MODEL (SAC), which convey credibility and security to plants, the Company invests in equipment and Technological consumers (read more on page 59). programs to reduce the consumption of water enhancement in and energy, carrying out recycling, appropriately industrial processes Technology disposing of residues, and encouraging the use of combine higher Duratex carries out a continuous process renewable resources for the generation of power. productivity and of technological improvement in its industrial reducing environmental processes, in order to combine increased proGeographical diversification and cost impacts. ductivity and a reduction in environmental management impacts. The industrial park is equipped with The strategic locations of Duratex’s industrial the latest generation of machinery, software plants enables the Company to serve the doand hardware, as well as robotized processes. mestic market with a maximum of agility and The Company also has a Business Continuity quality. In the international market, Duratex is a Plan, which has a system that replicates the shareholder of Tablemac, the largest company in database and stores it externally in a secure Colombia’s panel sector, thus providing it with a environment. The Company’s IT infrastructure strategic presence to serve the Latin American uses cutting-edge technology, based on the market (see more on page 29). SAP platform. Our people Eco-efficiency The dedication of its employees is an important The environmental impacts of Duratex’s prodifferential for Duratex. The Company encouraduction processes, in all its areas of operation, ges the training of its professional staff and the are monitored in a consistent and systemized attraction and retention of talent through a staff manner, with a focus on reducing the use of management process that is both dynamic and natural resources and increasing efficiency. integrated. Duratex has a structure which incluThe wood used in the manufacture of panels des an Ombudsman Service for its employees, and boards comes from forestry plantations. and provides all the important tools that are neManagement of the Company’s forestry plancessary for the development of its activities, such tations has been certified by the FSC and caras a Code of Ethics and Conduct and other interries ISO 14001 certification. In the industrial nal policies (see more on page 84). BUSINESS MODEL INTANGIBLE ASSETS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 27 BUSINESS MODEL Investments and expansion Alert to opportunities in the market, and in a quest for organic and long-lasting growth, Duratex has allocated major investment to the expansion of its industrial park and the acquisition of companies in segments that are related to its existing activities. In 2013 a total of R$ 601.5 million was invested in projects to expand production and shipping capacity, to keep pace with market growth over the next few years. In its Wood Division, Duratex has completed a new plant for the manufacture of MDF panels in Itapetininga, in the state of São Paulo, and has finalized de-bottlenecking works at its MDP panel production unit in the town of Taquari (RS). In the Deca Division, investment was made in expanding production capacity at its units in Jundiaí (SP) and Queimados (RJ). The Company expects these expansion projects to be running at full capacity m3/year, an increase of 34%. These production liby the second half of 2016, directly improving the nes will be assembled and mounted consecutively, The new plant in profitability of its businesses. which will mean a significant cost saving, and whiUberaba will bring Also in 2013, Duratex began to plan the consch are expected to come on stream in the second significant synergies. truction of a new plant in Fazenda Nova Monte half of 2016 and 2017. Carmelo, in the state of Minas Gerais, where wood The Company has also acquired all the forests is already produced to supply other units. With belonging to Caxuana S.A. (21,000 hectares of pine investment of R$ 1.3 billion and more than 1000 and eucalyptus), with the aim of controlling 100% employees under contract during the most intenof its raw material supplies and so ensuring a low se period of the works, the project will have two cost of wood and freight for the new plant, as well production lines, one for MDP and the other for as its existing panel manufacturing plant in UberaMDF. Together these will amount to an effective ba (MG). This investment will produce significant capacity of 1.4 million m3/year and will expand the synergy savings and implies an immediate and perCompany’s total production capacity to 5.6 million manent reduction in freight costs for the supply BUSINESS MODEL INVESTMENTS AND EXPANSION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 28 BUSINESS MODEL of the plant at Uberaba, which represents 25% of sions and reducing the consumption of electricity, from the forest to the industrial plant establishes a Duratex’s current overall production capacity. as well as resin consumption. new global benchmark: today the lowest logging The new facilities are to be built outside conserDuratex’s farms in the region of the so-called distance is 45 km, the benchmark which applies vation areas, in locations where pine and eucalypMineiro Triangle will amount to a total of 107K hecto Duratex’s wood panel and laminated flooring tus trees have been cultivated for more than 30 tares, of which 74K consist of eucalyptus and pine plant in Agudos (SP), where the Company operayears, and will contribute to the social and econoplantations, following the acquisition of the Caxutes the world’s largest MDF production line (with mic development of five municipalities in the soana forests. The average logging distance of 35 km a length of 77 meters and a width of 2.7 meters). called Mineiro Triangle – Araguari, Estrela do Sul, Indianópolis, Nova Ponte and Romaria. In addition to this, the development of this new undertaking will be a milestone for Duratex, seeing that the project has involved the evaluation of social and environmental aspects, while also employing its best practices for the generation of value for shaPrincipal investments reholders, suppliers, clients, employees and surrounding communities. • Queimados Unit (RJ) this plant can produce over 2.4 million vitreous chinaware Each having the capacity to produce 700,000 pieces a year, which represents a 25% increase to current installed capacity. m /year, these new production lines will be the 3 This additional capacity is due to come on stream during 2014 and 2015. largest continuous production lines in the world, each one providing 450 jobs. The manufacturing • Metais Planidil Unit, in Jundiaí (SP) the annual production capacity of this plant will occupy an area of 350,000 m2 and its plant has been increased from 17 million to 18.2 million metal bathroom fitting construction takes into account aspects such as pieces a year. solar water heating, natural illumination of administrative environments, the storage of rainwater, • Itapetininga Unit(SP) at its new MDF panel unit, Duratex will have an effective and the use of water from the showers and basins production capacity of 520K m³ a year. in the changing rooms for the watering of the gardens. Reduction in the use of water and its reuse •T  aquari Unit(RS) the de-bottlenecking of MDP panel production has added in the industrial process will permit a saving of up a further 230K m³ a year in installed capacity, bringing the plant’s production to 50% of consumption. The plant’s energy matrix capacity up to 670K m³ a year. will consist of renewable natural resources, such as biomass (100% of thermal energy). Eco-efficient new technologies will also be used for the reuse of material, generating less residue, reducing emisBUSINESS MODEL INVESTMENTS AND EXPANSION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 29 BUSINESS MODEL In the international market, Duratex continues to be attentive to growth opportunities throuR$ 601.5 gh the acquisition of companies with operations that relate to the furniture and building segments. For this reason, the Company carried out a public offering to acquire a further stake of up to 15% million was invested of the paid-up capital of Tablemac, Colombia’s in 2013 alone. leading manufacturer of industrialized wood paAnnual installed nels. During the offer process, a quantity of shares capacity (in ‘000 pieces)* was offered equivalent to 43.62% of the capital and therefore a larger quantity than the minimum amount that the Company had originally wished EFFECTIVE CAPACITY to acquire. In keeping with its long-term strategy for that country, Duratex decided to acquire all UTILIZATION RATE the shares offered, which represented an investment of approximately R$ 152 million. As a consequence, Duratex’s equity stake in Duratex ended up at 80.62% of the paid-up capital. 36,850 In Brazil, the acquisition of Thermosystem, a manufacturer of electronic showers and solar heating systems located in the town of Tubarão 74% (Santa Catarina [SC]), was concluded at the be4,510 ginning of 2013, with the signing of a contract for all the paid-up capital in that company. The value 83% of this transaction amounted to R$ 56.4 million, Wood Division** which will be paid in installments up to 2016. Deca Division* Duratex also announced the discontinuation of its subsidiary Deca Piazza’s operations in Argentina due to the difficulties of reaching expected levels of profitability for the company in that country. The Argentinian market continues to be **Includes capacity of the unit in Colombia. In ‘000 m³. served by Duratex’s sales structure here in Brazil. BUSINESS MODEL INVESTMENTS AND EXPANSION ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 30 BUSINESS MODEL Corporate governance Governance structure G4-34 These practices have the objective of generating wealth, satisfying customers and maintaining ethical Annual General Meeting and transparent relationships with stakeholders. Board of Directors Since its founding, Duratex has adopted the best corporate governance practices and directives, with the objective of ensuring the perpeCommittee for the Evaluation Auditing and Risk tual and consistent generation of wealth, cusof Transactions with Management Committee tomer satisfaction, and ethical and transparent Related Parties relationships with employees, society and other groups, as well as achieving sustainable growth. Staff, Governance and Duratex, which came into being as a public lisNomination Committee ted company, was able in 2003 to put into practice all those values and principles that serve to guide its management, in the implementation of Disclosure and Trading Sustainability Committee Committee the succession process for its CEO, appointing to the post an executive who already worked at the Company (see more on page 34). Executive Board Management at Duratex is continually improved in accordance with the expectations and demands of the shareholders, and this is carried out by various bodies, committees and commissions, Innovation Commission Investment Commission all governed by clear regulations and accessible to all interested parties. In addition to this, a variety of policies and standards are adopted internally – such as the Environmental Policy and Risk Personnel Commission Risk Commission Management Policy – with the aim of providing guidelines for employees in their activities. BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 31 BUSINESS MODEL Listed on the Novo Mercado, the segment of BM&FBovespa which brings together companies with the highest level of corporate governance, the shares of Duratex are all ordinary – which is to say that they carry voting rights at the Annual General Meeting (AGM). At the AGM, held once a year, among other things, the shareholders elect the members of the Board of Directors and deal with questions related to the remuneration of these members. The shareholders may also convene Extraordinary General Meetings (EGMs) whenever they deem necessary. Duratex forms part of the DJSI and ISE indices For the second year running, Duratex was selected to form Shareholder breakdown* 0.3% part of the DJSI portfolio. This is part of the New York Sto(%) 0.2% ck Exchange, and one of the world’s most rigorous indices, 40.0% which evaluates the economic and socio-environmental per1% formance of listed companies. Duratex was classified in the 11. industrial materials group under the sector for Paper & Forestry Products. In all, 81 companies were selected for this index portfolio, only 17 of which are Brazilian. Duratex has also been included, since 2008, in the ISE, part of BM&FBovespa. Duratex is one of 51 companies listed under this index, which are evaluated for the application of sus.4 % .0 % tainability concepts in the management of their businesses. 28 20 ITAÚSA OTHER LOCAL INVESTORS LIGNA PENSION FUNDS FOREIGN INVESTORS TREASURY Obs.: total shares issued: 605,059,489. Shares held in treasury: 1,405,054. *Main shareholders as at 12/31/2013. BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 32 BUSINESS MODEL Board of Directors In 2013, members of the Board of Directors held 11 Duratex’s highest governing body, the The Chairman of the Board of Directors, as meetings, with a presence Board of Directors, consists of ten memwith the other members, does not have an exeindex greater than 97%. bers, three (30%) of which are independent. cutive post within the Company, thus ensuring Meetings are held at least six times a year the independence of the Executive Board for the in order to define the Company’s strategy, carrying out of the activities necessary for the approve investment plans and assess the development of the businesses. Duratex’s Exeperformance of the business, in addition to cutive Board consists of 11 executives elected by discussing other management matters. In the Board of Directors for a mandate of one year, all, 13 meetings were held in 2013, with an and is responsible for the implementation of acaverage presence of more than 97% of the tion plans and investment programs, which must directors. Themes related to the Company’s be in alignment with the Company’s strategy. long-term strategy took up approximately 38% of the time at these meetings. Members of the Board of Directors have a mandate that is valid for one year, and may be re-elected at the AGM. G4-38 The way in which the Board of Directors operates is defined by its internal regulations, accessible on Duratex’s website. The performance of this body is assessed formally once a year, in accordance with processes and criteria previously established by the Staff, Governance and Nomination Committee, considering economic, social and environmental aspects. G4-44 BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 33 BUSINESS MODEL Members of the Board of Directors Members of the Executive Board G4-39 G4-39 Salo Davi Seibel Chairman Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira Chief Executive Officer Financial and Investor Relations Director and Director of Alfredo Egydio Arruda Villela Filho Vice-president Flavio Marassi Donatelli Corporate Services Ricardo Egydio Setubal Vice-president Maria Julieta Pinto Rodrigues Human Resources Director Álvaro Antonio Cardoso de Souza Independent member Raul Penteado de Oliveira Neto Vice-President of the Deca Division Fabio Schvartsman Independent member Flávio Dias Soares Director of Development and Marketing –Deca Division Francisco Amaury Olsen Independent member Marco Antonio Milleo Industrial Director – Deca Division Helio Seibel Board member Roney Rotenberg Commercial Director – Deca Division Henri Penchas Board member Renato Aguiar Coelho Vice-President – Wood Division Paulo Setubal Neto Board member Alexandre Coelho Neto do Nascimento Commercial Director – Wood Division Rodolfo Villela Marino Board member José Ricardo Paraíso Ferraz Forestry Director Andrea Laserna Seibel Alternate member Paulo Cesar Maróstica Director of Engineering and Development Olavo Egydio Setubal Júnior Alternate member Ricardo Villela Marino Alternate member BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 34 BUSINESS MODEL An ethical and transparent succession process for the presidency After a process carried out over a period of 18 In addition to carrying out a succession proThe market months, with various phases of evaluation, on cess unprecedented in the Company’s history, recognized way the March 21, 2013 Duratex announced to the maDuratex has managed to establish direct consuccession process rket that it had chosen forestry engineer Antonections between its career management powas conducted, nio Joaquim de Oliveira to be the Company’s licies and the professional development of its which was marked new CEO. Having over 27 years of experience employees at the highest levels of its organizaby ethics and within the organization, this executive replational structure. Due to the transparency that transparency. ced Henri Penchas, who stepped down after has been adopted, another candidate for a parhaving reached the age limit of 65 years. ticular post in the management body can be retained without causing any disruption in the Since the beginning of this process, new leaders business structure. of the Wood and Deca Divisions were nominated and instructed to carry out special tasks, The decision to promote an internal employee with a focus on developing the Company’s to the leadership position and the ethical and strategic plan. The last stage of the executive transparent manner in which these succession assessment process, for example, consisted of process was conducted have been recognized the drawing up of an action plan for the next by the market, receiving a special mention in few years, based on clear directives establipublications such as Anuário Época Negócios shed by the shareholders. G4-40 360º, published by Editora Globo. BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 About this report Messages Duratex in numbers PROFILE Platform 2016 attachments 35 Business model Committees and commissions President Duratex also has a number of committees and commissions, that are very active, whose objective is to assist the Board of Directors and the Executive Board, respectively, in the management and decision-making processes. Tereza Cristina Grossi Togni G4-35; G4-36; G4-42; G4-43 The committees established within the Company to provide support for the Board of Directors are: Specialists The Auditing and Risk Management Committee: this committee is responsible for the supervision of internal controls and the manaTereza Cristina Grossi Togni gement of risks inherent in the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as supervising the work carried out by the internal and external auditors. It also assesses the quality Members and integrity of the financial statements. This committee also has a direct communication channel (comite.auditoria@duratex.com.br) for receiving any denouncements of possible faiRicardo Egydio Rodolfo Villela Henri Penchas lures to comply with legal or regulatory requireSetubal Marino ments, any cases of fraud or any errors in internal controls, accounting or auditing activities. The procedure adopted using this communication channel is described in the Policy for Receiving and Dealing with Denouncements and the ComFrancisco bating of Illicit Acts, which can be accessed on Amauri Olsen* Duratex’s website. G4-49; G4-58 *Independent member of the Board of Directors. Business model Corporate governance Annual and Sustainability Report 2013 About this report Messages Duratex in numbers PROFILE Platform 2016 attachments 36 Business model Staff, Governance and Staff, Governance and Nomination ComNomination Committee President mittee: among other activities, this committee analyzes and approves the Company’s corpoÁlvaro Antonio Cardoso de Souza* rate governance structure, the succession process for its managers and the policy for the remuneration and development of its employees. Specialists It ensures that policies and plans exist and are maintained, so resulting in a cohesive, compeBetania Tanure de Barros tent, high-performance workforce. Committee for the Evaluation of Transactions Members with Related Parties: this committee ensures that transactions with related parties are carried Alfredo Egydio Ricardo Egydio out, taking into account Duratex’s interests and Helio Seibel Arruda Villela Filho Setubal observing conditions that are strictly in line with market prices, traded in an independent manRodolfo Villela Marino ner, through a transparent and ethical process, in compliance with the legislation in force. Committee for the Evaluation of Transactions with Related Parties President Francisco Amauri Olsen* Members Álvaro Antonio Fabio Schvartsman* Cardoso de Souza* *Independent Member of the Board of Directors. Business model Corporate governance Annual and Sustainability Report 2013 About this report Messages Duratex in numbers PROFILE Platform 2016 attachments 37 Business model Sustainability Committee: in 2013 this comSustainability Committee President mittee played an active role in the definition of the strategic positioning of sustainability in Álvaro Antonio Cardoso de Souza* the business units to be covered by Platform 2016; in the definition of consequent priority themes; in the adjustment of the organizatioSpecialist nal structure of the area; in the definition of performance metrics; and in the incorporation Tarcila Reis Ursini of sustainability in a cross-cutting manner into the various areas of the Company’s businesses (see more on page. 53). Members Trading and Disclosure Committee: this Daniela Laserna Seibel Fabio Schvartsman* Olavo Egydio Setubal Júnior committee analyzes and discusses facts and events material to the Company to be published in the market, monitors the trading of its Rodolfo Villela Marino Francisco Amauri Olsen* securities, and ensures compliance with the Policy for Trading and Disclosure. *Independent Member of the Board of Directors. Trading and Disclosure Committee President Flávio Marassi Donatelli Members Antonio Joaquim Raul Penteado de Henri Penchas de Oliveira Oliveira Neto Rodolfo Villela Marino Salo Davi Seibel Business model Corporate governance Annual and Sustainability Report 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 38 BUSINESS MODEL In 2013, the importance of the committees • Commission for Personnel proposes The committees, with its was strengthened to enable them to operate and monitors the implementation of staff intensified importance, in a more decisive manner in the management management policies and practices aimed actedmore effectively in the of the Company. The Sustainability Commitat recruiting, developing and retaining talent, conduct of the management of tee, for example, became involved in all dispractices leading Duratex to be recognized as Duratex. cussions relating to new projects and investone of the best companies to work for. ment plans. The Staff, Governance and No• Commission for Risk evaluates and monitors mination Committee was fundamental in the the risks involved in the Company’s operations carrying out of the succession process for the and recommends appropriate policies to new CEO. The Auditing and Risk Management management. Committee, in turn, played an important role in reviewing Duratex’s risk map. The Committee for the Evaluation of Transactions with Related Parties ensures independence in the analysis of this type of transaction. G4-38; G4-40 The commissions that exist at the Company to provide support for the Executive Board are: •E xecutive Commission analyzes and discusses all strategic and operational aspects of Duratex, defining general directives. •C ommission for Innovation aims to ensure growth, competitiveness and profitability through product differentiation within the Company. •C ommission for Investment analyzes Duratex’s competition and competitiveness, in addition to monitoring and approving investments in fixed assets. BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 39 BUSINESS MODEL Make-up of the groups responsible for governance G4-LA12 Board of Directors Committees* Commissions 76% by gender* 92% by gender* by gender* 8% 93% 7% 24% MEN (12) MEN (13) MEN (42) WOMEN (1) WOMEN (4) WOMEN (3) *Members: 17 (Counselors, 10; Specialists, 3; *Members: 45 people. Directors, 3; Others, 1). by age bracket by age bracket 76% by age bracket 56% 69 % 31% 24% UNDER 30 (0) UNDER 30 (0) UNDER 30 (0) BETWEEN 31 AND 50 (4) BETWEEN 31 AND 50 (4) BETWEEN 31 AND 50 (20) OVER 51 (9) OVER 51 (13) OVER 51 (25) 44 % *Full-time and alternates: 13. BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 40 BUSINESS MODEL Code of Ethics and Conduct 100% employees in this respect when joining the Company. G4-HR2; G4-HR9 Duratex places great importance on ethical Any doubts with respect to interpretation not behavior, transparency and respect in its relacovered by the Code must be referred to the Omof the operations tionships with all its audiences. These values are budsman Department, while situations involving are monitored to expressed in its Code of Ethics and Conduct, whipotential conflicts of interest must also be commuensure respect for ch provides operational guidelines for employenicated to this body. In 2013, after the publication es and management members in the carrying of the new version of the Code, the Ombudsman human rights. out of their duties for the Company, and acts as Service conducted five consultations, which covea reference for personal conduct. This Code prored themes such as the communication of potenvides a set of guidelines as to how to proceed in tial conflicts of interest involving employees, clariaccordance with the Company’s values and prinfication of queries and requests for guidance. The ciples. G4-41; G4-56 employees concerned were given the appropriate To this end, the document specifies: guidance, and any instances of deviance from the • Duratex’s commitments to society, in particular Code were corrected. G4-57 its employees, clients, consumers and suppliers; • The standards of conduct expected by employees in the exercising of their personal and professional responsibilities. In 2013, the document – which covers themes such as corporate citizenship, values and solutions for cases of conflict of interest – was updated and given a new graphic format that was distributed to all employees. G4-56 The Code also deals with Duratex’s policies and actions in order to guarantee respect for human rights in its operations and throughout the production chain. The Company, as a signatory of the Global Compact since 2008 (a United Nations initiative to encourage the corporate sector to adopt good socio-environmental practices), monitors the fulfillment of these issues in 100% of its operations, and provides training for all new BUSINESS MODEL CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 41 BUSINESS MODEL The risk map Risk management Duratex’s risk management is carried out based • Credit risk: the Company’s sales policy is direcwas revised on a policy of identifying, monitoring and priorititly associated with the level of credit risk that it zing the principal risks to the Company’s busineswishes to subject itself to in the running of its ses. The risk map, drawn up in 2011, was revised in businesses. Diversification of its receivables porby the 2013 as part of a continual improvement process. The monitoring of risk management is carried out tfolio and selection of its customers, as well as the monitoring of sales financing periods and inCompany by the Auditing and Risk Management Committee, dividual credit limits, are all procedures adopted which answers directly to the Board of Directors. to minimize bad debts and losses. in 2013. G4-45; G4-46; G4-47 Each risk is continually assessed in terms of pos• Environmental risk: the facilities and operations sible occurrence and the financial impact on the of the Company, as well as its forestry base, are businesses. If necessary, Duratex clearly and obsubject to federal, state and municipal laws, as jectively communicates the results of the various well as the regulations and authorizations requisteps of the risk management process to all intered with respect to environmental issues and rested parties, thus contributing to the understanthe health of the population. These activities are ding of the current situation and the efficiency of constantly inspected by government environits action plans. G4-14 mental protection bodies, and for this reason DuAmong the main market risks against which the ratex fulfills all the requirements of the applicable Company strives to protect itself are: environmental regulations. Below are mapped out the main risks and opportunities. G4-2; G4-EC2 •E  xchange rate risk: exchange rate risk refers to a possible reduction in the value of the Company’s assets, or a possible increase in its liabilities, as a consequence of currency variation. Under this policy, the Company periodically monitors the net exposure of its assets and liabilities to foreign currency (natural hedge) and takes out hedging contracts to protect itself against additional exposure. BUSINESS MODEL RISK MANAGEMENT ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 42 BUSINESS MODEL Financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising from climate change G4-EC2 REGULATORY RISKS DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT Taxes Charging of taxes on carbon emissions Increase in operational costs Trend of state regulations with respect to emission reduction targets, as already seen Air pollution limits Increase in operational costs in São Paulo Requirement of greenhouse gas emission inventory for environmental licenses Environmental regulations Increase in operational costs (currently, qualitative monitoring of the emissions is required) Obligatory report on emissions Demand for reporting on carbon emissions Increase in operational costs Trend: increase in emissions by Duratex as a result of new acquisitions or an increase in International agreements Impacts on production emission factors in the National Grid (SIN) PHYSICAL RISKS DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT Alteration to the rainfall cycle increases the risk of drought and diminishes forestry Alterations to rainfall levels Reduction in production capacity production The Brazilian energy matrix is composed, for the most part, of hydro-electric power – Alteration in average rainfall approximately 80%. As a consequence, the security of Brazil's energy supply depends Reduction in production capacity on rainfall, and consequently on the amount of water available in the reservoirs Modifications to rainfall Lack of water for catchment and a decrease in raw materials Reduction in production capacity Modifications to rainfall Increase in the number of forestry fires: reduction in forestry production Reduction in production capacity Reduction in the amount of land available for plantation due to demand for Other physical factors agricultural areas, as a result of alteration in the rainfall pattern, which ends up causing Reduction in production capacity droughts and flooding Changes in natural resources Decrease in inputs Reduction in production capacity Modifications to rainfall levels Reduction in the supply of raw materials Social impacts OTHER RISKS DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT Changes in consumer behavior Calculation of the carbon footprint during the life cycle of the product Increase in cost of capital Management of the supply chain, taking into account environmental Other risks Increase in operational costs and social variables Increase in inflation and/or interest rates, reduction in incomes: reduction Socio-economic conditions Reduction in demand for goods and services in product consumption BUSINESS MODEL RISK MANAGEMENT ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 43 BUSINESS MODEL REGULATORY OPPORTUNITIES DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT Launching of a voluntary Brazilian carbon market Investment opportunities Increase in other Capital markets and trade forms of revenue Carbon stock fixed in planted forests Various regulations Development of technologies, processes, and competitive products and services Growing demand for products and services Regulation of renewable energy Increase in consumption from renewable energy sources Increase in available capital OPPORTUNITIES PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT In the event of extreme events occurring, the Company would be able to supply materials, such Changes to rainfall: drought and floods as reconstituted wood boards, vitreous chinaware and metal bathroom fittings, to help in the Growing demand for products and services reconstruction of infrastructure or to replace less efficient products Changes in natural resources Reuse or recycling of materials Increase in available capital OTHER OPPORTUNITIES DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL IMPACT Increased transparency requirements to meet criteria of indices such as: ISE, GRI, Carbon Reputation Increase in share market value Disclosure Project (CDP), Carbon Efficient Index (ICO2), etc. Increase in the value of the Company's shares Pro-active stance by the Company with respect to strategic management of carbon emissions Reputation in the market/improvement in product image and agreements between companies in the same sector on the part of the consumer BUSINESS MODEL RISK MANAGEMENT ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 44 BUSINESS MODEL Policy for internal controls Duratex adopts a policy of internal controls, with the objective of instituting directives and procedures to ensure that the risks inherent in the Company’s activities are identified and appropriately managed, in accordance with the following aspects: Combating corruption • compliance with laws and applicable Duratex carries out audits, whenever necessary, in all of its regulations; units, in order to identify and minimize risks related to the possible occurrence of corruption cases. Such risks can in• efficiency and efficacy of operations; clude financial losses, damage to the Company’s image and regulatory penalties. • consistency, timeliness and appropriate In 2012, the Ombudsman Department received seven comprotection of information; plaints, four of them referring to corruption cases. All these communications were investigated – two by the Ombuds• safeguarding of assets. man Department itself, and two by the Internal Audit Unit. One of the denouncements investigated by the Ombudsman Department was proven and resulted in the dismissal of an employee and a review of existing processes. The other complaints were not proven. In 2013, seven complaints were received about possible corruption cases, of which two were Management of economic, social investigated and were not proven, the others are under inand environmental aspects vestigation. In all, the Ombudsman Service received a total Duratex bases itself on a policy which defiof ten complaints last year. G4-41; G4-49; G4-SO3 nes its directives and management principles, continuous improvement and communication, Risks associated with corruption can include: in order to ensure the sustainability of its busi• financial losses; nesses, acting in a responsible manner with res• damage to the Company’s image; pect to the socio-environmental aspects that • regulatory penalties. are inherent given the characteristics and scale of each of its units. G4-44 BUSINESS MODEL POLICY FOR INTERNAL CONTROLS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 45 BUSINESS MODEL Occupational Health and Safety Policy Duratex’s Occupational Health and Safety Policy establishes the directives, scope and responsibilities of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System. This system is called Duraseg. It was deveSector participation loped in 2013, with the support of a multi-disciplinary team, involving different areDuratex actively participates in various forums • Association of Forestry Companies from as of the Company (see more on page 88). and is represented in various institutions (see Rio Grande do Sul (Ageflor) list below), which discuss matters and themes • National Power Consumer Association that are relevant to the Company’s businesses. (Anace) These opportunities for dialogue involve a variety of different sector associations and • National Association of Ceramics entities. G4-16 Manufacturers for Coverings, Vitreous Chinaware and Similar (Anfacer) • Brazilian Foundry Association (Abifa) • Brazilian Association of Architectural Firms • Brazilian Furniture Industry Association (Asbea) (Abimóvel) • São Paulo State Center for Industry (Ciesp) • Brazilian Wood Panel Industry Association (Abipa) • Industry Federation of the State of São Paulo (Fiesp) • Brazilian Association for the High Resistance Laminated Flooring Industry (Abiplar) • Brazilian Institute of Financial Executives (Ibef) • Brazilian Association of Planted Forestry Producers (Abraf) • Institute for Forestry Research and Studies (Ipef) • Brazilian Association of Listed Companies (Abrasca) • Leo Madeiras Institute • Commercial Association of Uberaba (Aciu) • Society for Forestry Investigations (SIF) BUSINESS MODEL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 46 BUSINESS MODEL Duratex’s Ombudsman Policy The Company set up the Duratex Ombudsman Servicommunication channels or dealt with internally by ce in 2012, which is an additional channel for dialogue the areas responsible. Duratex’s Ombudsman Policy Ombudsman Service between the Company and its audiences. It receives is available for consultation on the Company’s websicommunication channels and deals with suggestions, consultations, criticisms te under the heading “Ombudsman Policy”, as well as E-mail: ouvidoria@duratex.com.br and praise received. It is the formal forum for the rethrough the Company intranet. G4-49; G4-50 Internet: electronic form on the ceipt of denouncements which may involve deviations Cases relating to deviations from ethical standarcompany website. from the Company’s Values and Code of Ethics and ds (possible cases of harassment and discrimination, Electronic service Conduct. This body answers directly to the CEO and among others) are investigated by the Ombudsman (voicemail): 0800 55 75 77 Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Ombudsman Service, with information being sent to the director of Letters : Av. Paulista, 1.938 – 9º Department submits a report on a quarterly basis on the area involved, and also reported to the CEO and andar – A/C Ouvidoria Duratex – the work it has carried out to the Staff, Governance and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Any cases São Paulo (SP) – CEP 01310-942 Nomination Committee, and makes a presentation on involving managers are communicated to the CEO its activities to the Executive Board every six months. and the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the The Ombudsman Service also The Ombudsman Service provides a rendering of Chairman of the Staff, Governance and Nomination has communication channels its accounts on its operations on a half-yearly basis to Committee. If proven, the cases are also passed on to available for: the Auditing and Risk Management Committee, and the Chairman of the Auditing and Risk Management Employees whenever requested, to the Board of Directors. It also Committee. Depending on the nature of the subject Intranet: electronic form, on the draws up a structure of indicators which enables the matter, the Ombudsman Service may also employ the Ombudsman Service link managers of the various areas to measure the perforservices of the Internal Audit Unit. G4-50; G4-58 Suggestion boxes: available at the mance of their activities and take part in the develoIn 2012 and 2013, the Ombudsman Service carCompany’s units pment process. G4-49, G4-58 ried out an internal campaign at all the units of the The activities of the Ombudsman Service are confiCompany, using a variety of communication vehicles, Suppliers dential, and it accepts anonymous reports. Currently through which it published information on its comSupplier Portal it provides a service to employees from all the busimunication channel, making employees aware of its G4-57; G4-58 ness areas, as well as suppliers. Any reports received existence and how to use it. In this way it ensured that from audiences not yet served by the Ombudsman all employees know about this communication chanService are sent in by the Company’s formal existing nel, and when and how to access it. G4-58 BUSINESS MODEL DURATEX’S OMBUDSMAN POLICY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 47 BUSINESS MODEL Performance of the businesses Main indicators (R$ ‘000, except where otherwise indicated) New acquisitions and the efficiency of the 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Company’s operations have resulted in an SHIPMENTS increase in net revenue and net earnings. Wood (m3) 2,668,228 2,635,084 2,268,822 2,312,177 1,499,191 Deca (‘000 pieces) 27,983 25,772 25,505 21,639 19,800 RESULTS (R$’ 000) Duratex achieved significant results in 2013, Net revenue 3,872,705 3,372,546 2,970,365 2,741,810 1,930,051 despite facing a highly challenging business Domestic market 3,718,366 3,245,573 2,835,969 2,629,069 1,806,665 environment, characterized by rising interest Export market 154,339 126,973 134,396 112,741 123,385 rates, inflationary pressure, a very volatile Recurring EBITDA 1,200,097 1,024,591 839,349 893,002 398,188 exchange rate, and a high level of consumer Recurring net earnings 561,638 455,489 374,860 467,247 181,087 debt. In this environment, the Company reRecurring earnings per share (R$)* 0.88 0.84 0.68 0.85 0.47 ported an increase of 14.8% in net sales, a 17.1% rise in adjusted EBITDA and a 23.3% increase Value added 2,155,494 1,841,928 1,694,756 1,571,236 1,023,504 in recurring net earnings. Contributing to this PROFITABILITY result was the focus on business profitabiliGross margin (%) 37.3 35.1 34.1 40.8 34.4 ty, the right decision taken earlier to expand Recurring EBITDA margin (%) 31.0 30.4 26.9 31.0 25.6 the production capacity organically to meet Recurring net margin (%) 14.5 13.5 11.8 16.0 13.1 perceived growing demand, and a number Return on net equity, recurring (ROE) (%) 13.3 11.8 9.8 13.3 10.5 of acquisitions made in order to diversify the INVESTMENTS Company’s portfolio, in addition to the adopPrograms for education, training and tion of measures to increase the efficiency of 3,078 1,826 956 1,378 1,140 development its operations. Environment 45,048 27,679 26,680 17,574 10,588 Research and Development 22,048 19,118 19,322 23,341 22,580 Plan for the use of funds 601,476 832,214 635,846 459,564 426,964 Number of employees** 11,733 10,601 10,668 9,690 9,003 * Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profits attributable to the Company shareholders by the average weighted quantity of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in treasury. ** Includes employees abroad and student trainees. BUSINESS MODEL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESSES ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 48 BUSINESS MODEL Comparative distribution of value added Duratex’s value added in 2013 amounted to a total of R$ 2,155.5 million, up 17% on the previous year. Of this amount R$ 752.5 million, equivalent Distribution of value added in 2013 to 15.1% of the revenues obtained and 34.9% of (%) the total added value, was destined for federal, state and municipal governments in the form of REMUNERATION TO GOVERNMENT taxes and contributions. G4-EC1 REMUNERATION FOR WORK REMUNERATION TO SHAREHOLDERS REMUNERATION FOR FINANCING 34.9% .2% 10 % 30 .1 .8% 24 14.8% increase in net sales. 23.3% increase in recurring net earnings. BUSINESS MODEL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESSES ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 49 BUSINESS MODEL Significant financial assistance levying of contributions and taxes at the municipal received from the government and state levels. Fundiest, a credit line granted by the Minais Gerais Duratex’s total indebtedness at the end of Development Bank (BDMG), is in the process of being 2003 amounted to R$ 2,450,841K. Two credit lipaid back. As at the end of December 2013, the balannes, in particular – Fundiest and Fundopem (fund ce owing amounted to R$ 140,944K, to be paid back for company operations) – involve a degree of fiby the end of December 2020. The Fundopen credit nancial assistance from the government, althouline is still in the payout phase, and at the end of 2013 gh not significant. Both these credit lines were the balance owed amounted to R$ 16,017K. obtained by the Company as a counterparty to Therefore, these two types of government assistaninvestments carried out in the municipalities of ce amounted to total lending of R$ 156,961K at the Taquari (RS) and Uberaba (MG). These units are end of 2013, which represents 6.4% of the Company’s already contributing, and will continue to contritotal debt. In addition to this, Duratex receives other bute, directly to the social and economic devetax incentives (state and federal), as set out in the lopment of these regions, through the creation table below. In 2013, tax incentives amounted to apof direct and indirect jobs, as well as increased proximately R$ 13.1 million. G4-EC4 Other tax incentives UNIT TO WHICH INCENTIVE PERIOD IN DESCRIPTION OF INCENTIVE OBSERVATION WAS GIVEN FORCE All the Metal Bathroom INSS welfare contribution Fittings and Vitreous calculated as 1% of sales Welfare contribution (INSS) on the sales Chinaware Units of the Federal benefit Dec./14 (products listed under Law No. Company, as well as the N2,546/11) Wood Panel Unit at Taquari Loans authorized to up to Benefit granted by Industrial Development Support Fund (Fain) Louças Paraíba (PB) Indeterminate 60.6% of the project value the state of Paraíba Benefit granted Development program of the state of Loans authorized to up to 75% Louças Recife by the state of Mar./23 Pernambuco (PE) (Prodepe) of the project value Pernambuco Northeast development superintendency Subsidy for 75% reduction in income tax Paraíba and Recife Dec./18 (Sudene) investment BUSINESS MODEL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESSES ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 50 BUSINESS MODEL Deca Division In 2013, the Deca Division substantially outperformed the rest of the market, as a result of its differentials, such as the strength of its brand name, its extensive distribution network, the diversity of its product lines, and the efficiency of Divisão Deca – its after-sales support network. Net revenue in Sales breakdown in 2013 (%) this division increased by 18.2% compared to the previous year. The overall growth in the sector was 3%, as reported in a survey carried out by 9% 2. the Brazilian Construction Materials Industry As0% sociation (Abramat). The volumes shipped by the Deca Division in 2013 amounted to approximately % .8 67 28,000 pieces, up 8.6% on the previous year. 21.2 % This significant result is the consequence of the geographical diversification of the various plants, begun in 2008, seeking to achieve greater proximity to the consumer. In addition to this, the acquisition of the industrial companies Mipel (valves) and Thermosystem (electronic showers and solar heating panels) contributed to the inRESALES/ HOME CENTER crease in earnings. Last year, Duratex also conCONSTRUCTION FIRMS cluded investment at its units in Jundiaí (SP) and WHOLESALE Queimados (RJ) to increase the production caOTHERS 28.0 pacity of metal bathroom fittings and vitreous chinaware. The results of this capacity expansion will be seen during the course of 2014 and 2015. million The performance of the Deca Division was also positively impacted by the discontinuation of the operations of Deca Piazza, in Argentina. As a result of the difficult macroeconomic conditions pieces, approximately, in that country, this subsidiary encountered diffiwere shipped in 2013. culties in achieving expected profitability levels. BUSINESS MODEL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESSES ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 51 BUSINESS MODEL Wood Division The Wood Division, after a successful strategy of price increases at the beginning of 2013, achieved an increase in operational margins. This compensated for the drop in shipment voWood Division – lume compared to the previous year, as a conSales breakdown (%) sequence of market conditions. Of particular note was the 6.4% increase in the sale of coated products, which have a higher added value and a better pricing base. 3.9% 55.3% According to figures released by ABIPA, sales of wood panels in the Brazilian market – which represent approximately 95% of the Division’s sales – increased by approximately 5.6% last 14. 2% year. In this regard, the investments made in the inauguration of the new plant in Itapetininga (SP) and in expansion to capacity at the unit in Taquari (RS) are important in preparing the Company to meet growth in demand and maintain its market leadership. Another significant event in the period was the acquisition FURNITURE INDUSTRY of 43.62% of the paid-up capital of Tablemac S.A., Colombia’s leading wood panel manufacRESALE turer, through a public offering. With this, DuCONSTRUCTION SECTOR % 26. ratex ended up with a controlling equity stake OTHERS 6 of 80.62% of that company, thus reinforcing its internationalization strategy for Latin America. 6.4% increase in sales of coated products. BUSINESS MODEL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESSES ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE PLATFORM 2016 ATTACHMENTS 52 BUSINESS MODEL Capital markets Having a total of 605,059,489 shares in issue and 1,405,054 shares held in treasury, Duratex had a market capitalization of R$ 7.9 billion, based on the closing share price at the end of 2013 of R$ 13.15 per share. The liquidity of the Company’s shares, which had an average daily trading volume of R$ 16.7 million in 2013, contributed to keeping Duratex in the main Bovespa Index (Ibovespa). Duratex also has a differentiated dividends distribution policy, paying out 30% of adjusted net earnings. Listed on the Novo Mercado section of BM&FBovespa, the Company adopts the best corporate governance practices, and since 2011 has adhered to the Abrasca Code for Self-Regulation and Good Practices for Listed Companies. Last year, Duratex won the prize for Best Companies for Shareholders in 2013, awarded by Capital Aberto magazine in the category of companies with assets of between R$ 5 billion and R$ 15 billion. This ranking lists the 150 companies with the highest average daily trading volume on Bovespa, between April 2012 and March 2013. pital market specialists, in addition to one puThe market value of Duratex Duratex’s investors can communicate to blic meeting of Association of Capital Market was R$ 7.9 billion by end of the Company via the e-mail address investiAnalysts and Professionals (Apimec) in São 2013, based on the price of dores@duratex.com.br. In 2013, 182 meetinPaulo, which brought together approximately shares at the end of the year: gs and conference calls were held with ca112 investors. R$ 13.15 per share. BUSINESS MODEL PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESSES ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 53 Transparency and responsibility in the businesses Environmental management and performance Dialogue and relationships Our people Quality of relationships PLATFORM 2016 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 54 PLATFORM 2016 The Board of Directors and the Executive Board have approved Platform 2016 Aligning all the aspects of the business The establishment of this document represents a maturing in Duratex’s strategic plan. For Duratex, the commitment to sustainability is directly related to the perpetuity of its businesses. This objective will be achieved through the building of transparent dialogue, investThe objectives of Platform 2016 ment in innovation and the management of the impacts of the Company’s processes, products and operations. In practice, •T o define the focus and direction of Duratex’s this commitment translates into a more comprehensive way of sustainability initiatives up to 2016 thinking about the business, which takes into account: the use of socio-environmental and cultural criteria in decision-making, •T o promote the integration of this theme in the the establishment of dialogue with the Company’s main audiCompany’s various departments ences, and analysis of the whole, covering the short, medium and long term. •T o improve Duratex’s relationships with its The establishment of Platform 2016, presented to specialists audiences and other audiences in 2013, represents a maturing of Duratex’s strategic sustainability plan. Platform 16 combines the concept, •T o incorporate sustainability criteria into the directives and initiatives that will be developed to guide the Company’s decision-making Company’s agenda over the next few years. PLATFORM 2016 Aligning all the aspects of the business ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 55 PLATFORM 2016 Cycle of dialogue Three key elements, seven themes The definition of the priority themes that form the basis of Platform 2016 involved consultaDIALOGUE AND RELATIONSHIPS tion with both internal and external audiences, in a process supported by the Committee for QUALITY OF RELATIONSHIPS STAFF Customers Sustainability. Created in 2010, this commitTop Management The Community tee answers directly to the Board of Directors Employees Specialists Leaders and consists of board members, independent Suppliers members, external specialists and representatives of the controlling shareholders. The cycle of dialogue was begun in 2010, MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE with the holding of the First Stakeholders’ Meeting. In 2012, with the support of the comEfficient use of Management of residues and Conservation and mittee, two discussion panels were set up – resources and energy emissions biodiversity one to create a dialogue with employees and the other, with specialists – while interviews were carried out with top management to TRANSPARENCY AND RESPONSIBILITY IN THE BUSINESSES define strategic sustainability themes for the Company. In all, input was provided from 22 professionals from top management (17 exInclusion of social and environmental Quality and impact of products criteria in management and in this report ecutives and five members of the Board of Directors), 48 employees and 25 specialists. After interaction with representatives of its audiences and analysis of opportunities, risks ment of a system for the management of suppliand impacts associated with its operations, ers, started last year. Approved by the Executive Duratex has drawn up an operational strateBoard and the Sustainability Committee, Platgy based on three key elements, which cover form 16 was the subject of a public presentation seven strategic themes (see more on pages at the Second Stakeholders’ Discussion Panel, 58, 65, 81). held in 2013, involving the participation of 17 outIn alignment with the strategic themes, a vaside consultants specializing in the Company’s riety of actions will be implemented by 2016. various business areas, as well as 19 representaSome of these initiatives, such as the developtives from Duratex. PLATFORM 2016 Cycle of dialogue ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 56 PLATFORM 2016 Sustainability governance In 2013 Duratex also set up a new sustainabilItaúsa. This Management Department is responsiAt the Wood and Deca Divisions, two susity governance model, which aims to introduce ble for the development of the integrated stratetainability management departments were also this theme right across the board in all areas of gic plan and for the evaluation of opportunities for created, which report to the Vice-presidents of the Company, and become part of the decisionimprovement at the Company, based on the analeach business unit, and which work in cooperamaking process. To this end, training and enysis of external scenarios, materiality and market tion with the Corporate Sustainability Managegagement programs have been set up, with a indicators. This area also coordinates engagement ment Department. This structure has the aim of focus on employees at all hierarchical levels. and dialogue initiatives, policies for social investimplementing strategies and programs at the Internal directors from the various areas of ment and community relationships. G4-45 operational units, as well as control mechanisms the business were invited to participate at meetfor sustainability initiatives. G4-36; G4-37 ings of the Sustainability Committee. In 2013, the Committee invited 17 executives from five departments and different business units, many of them more than once, in addition to inviting wellBoard of Sustainability known people from outside the business, who Directors Committee helped us to increase our knowledge and extend our initiatives, such as: Vania Borgerth, senior adviser on market transparency for the Brazilian Corporate Development Bank (BNDES); Prof Nelson CarCEO Sustainability valho from the Faculty of Economics, Administration and Accounting at the University of São Paulo (FEA-USP); Andre Degenszajn, CEO of the Group of Institutions, Foundations and PriVP of the wood VP of the Deca vate Enterprises (GIFE); Juliana Lopes, Director division Division of the CDP for Latin America; and Marcos Kisil and Rachel Coimbra, president and director of the Institute for the Development of Social Investment (IDIS), respectively, among others. Sustainability in the Sustainability in the Since 2013, the Company has had a Corporate Wood Division Deca Division Sustainability Management Department, which reports directly to the CEO – previously, this area had been allocated to the holding company PLATFORM 2016 Sustainability governance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 57 PLATFORM 2016 Integrated management in the new unit The establishment of a new industrialized Wood to the sustainable management of forestry plantaThe best Panel Unit at the Wood Division, in the so-called tions. In 2013 alone, CESA received more than 600 environmental Mineiro Triangle region in the state of Minais visitors and the plan is to increase its level of activity and social Gerais, exemplifies the manner in which Durain the community after the factory is inaugurated. responsibility tex carries out sustainability management in its practices will be strategic processes. In the economic sphere, Duratex believes that the adopted in the generation of value will be distributed among the installation of the A schedule was set up to provide guidelines for Company, local suppliers, its clients (who will bennew unit. the adoption of the best environmental and soefit from improved cost management) and the surcial responsibility practices from the outset of rounding communities in the various municipalities. the project. The Company’s proposal is that the five municipalities impacted by the new unit (Araguari, Estrela In the social sphere, the plantation already has do Sul, Indianópolis, Nova Ponte and Romaria) will the Buriti Socio-Environmental Education Censhare the benefits of the tax rebates generated by ter (CESA), which provides presentations to the the project’s tax structure. public on a variety of information with respect PLATFORM 2016 Integrated management in the new unit ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 58 PLATFORM 2016 Transparency and Platform 2016 will expand the responsibility in the integration of environmental criteria in the businesses management of the Company. Integrated management Tools permit greater transparency in the process of rendering accounts to stakeholders. One of Duratex’s objectives with the conFor seven years, Duratex has published its which will permit it to further align its busistruction of Platform 2016 is to increase Annual and Sustainability Report in accordance ness strategies with socio-environmental the integration of social and environmenwith the directives of GRI, a multi-stake organiperformance in the rendering of its accounts. tal criteria in its management, identifying zation headquartered in the Netherlands, recIn addition to having good corporate govrisks for the businesses and opportunities ognized internationally for the establishment ernance practices, Duratex is listed on the ISE to add value to its products. To this end, of clear criteria which permit the assessment (part of BM&FBovespa) and the DJSI (part of the Company adopts standards, models of economic, social and environmental perthe New York Stock Exchange). Both indices and international criteria, as well as certiformance of any organization adhering to the take into account the socio-environmental fied management systems, to evaluate its initiative. In 2013, in line with the principles of performance of listed companies (see more performance. The standards and criteria transparency and continual improvement in its on page 31). The Company also includes tarused permit greater transparency in the management, the Company adhered to the G4 gets linked to sustainability in the variable rendering of accounts to employees, supversion of GRI, launched in May. The Comparemuneration of its executives, measuring pliers, consumers, clients, governments, ny is also participating in discussions for the the results achieved on an annual basis. regulatory bodies and society in general. development of an integrated report model, PLATFORM 2016 Integrated management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 59 PLATFORM 2016 Quality and impact of the Company’s products The products sold by the Wood Division and launching, products undergo periodic analyses and Innovative technology Deca Division are planned and manufactured to performance evaluation, to identify areas for possiof showers “Deca Balance” a high standard of excellence to meet client deble improvement. G4-PR1 line enables you to save mands, so improving people’s quality of life and The Deca Division, for example, has a line of water. contributing to the conservation of the environproducts designed to save water, which includes ment. To this end, in 2013, R$ 22million was spent over 150 items, such as sinks, urinals, discharge on the research and development of solutions for systems, showers and taps. The Wood Division the furniture and construction segments. From manufactures panels and flooring with wood from the outset, the Company’s products have complanted forests established on its own land, leased plied with the standards of the Brazilian Technical land and land for which planting assistance is proStandards Association (ABNT) and they undergo vided, granting the Company the right to the first testing in the field and in the laboratory to safecrop of trees. Duratex’s forestry management carguard the health and safety of consumers. After ries certification from the FSC. G4-EN7 Technology contributes to reducing water consumption The Deca Balance line of showers has models with jets that produce from 6 to 12 liters of water per minute, saving water without sacrificing comfort, thanks to an innovative new technology that injects air into the water jet, providing a sensation of greater water volume despite a reduced flow volume. G4-EN7 PLATFORM 2016 Quality and impact of the Company’s products ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 60 PLATFORM 2016 Resin: responsible use In 2013, Duratex held its second meeting of speficient to reconstitute and stabilize the final product. cialists, with the objective of presenting the 2016 This technology allows the processing of eucalyptus Sustainability Platform the result of extensive trees from areas that are 100% reforested, producDuratex uses dialogue work with strategic audiences. One of ing an end-product of standardized reconstituted technology that the results of these discussions was considered wood boards that are durable and stable for use in allows to process significant enough to cover in this report, namely various applications, such as doors, furniture, parti100% of reforested aspects related to urea-formaldehyde resin, used tions, floors, etc. eucalyptus. in the production of reconstituted wood panels. This theme was extensively debated and clarificaThe chemical substance formaldehyde used in the tion was provided to the public. make-up of the resins is produced industrially by the catalytic oxidation of methanol deriving from natuIn the manufacture of reconstituted wood panral gas, using the most modern technologies, under els it is necessary to add a product in the prorigorous safety conditions. duction process which acts as a binding agent for the wood fibers and particles. This comBelonging to the family of Volatile Organic Component, together with pressure and heat, propounds (VOCs), formaldehyde is found naturally in vides a panel that is reconstituted in dimensions the atmosphere, being also produced by plants and impossible to find in nature, offering furniture the metabolism of humans and animals. This wellmanufacturers and other processing industries known chemical is used for a variety of purposes, products that are standardized in terms of width and has been produced and used commercially for and length, allowing cutting with a minimum of more than a century. It is widely used in the producwaste, and a high level of efficiency and operation of adhesives, medicines, cosmetics, disinfectional performance. tants, vaccines and other applications. The addition of this resin is necessary, because the More specifically in the case of the reconstituted natural resin present in the fibers, lignin, is not sufwood panel industry, which uses formaldehydePLATFORM 2016 Resin: responsible use ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 61 PLATFORM 2016 To reduce consumption based resin, the situation leads us to examine the consistent and permanent manner in manufacturing of formaldehyde following three basic groups involved: technology, to improve techniques for reducing the and resins, there have been use of formaldehyde and its residual vapor emission. invested approximately • Workers at the reconstituted wood panel manufacR$ 110 million in a factory turing plants, the resin production plants, and the In the last few years, we have invested in the delast generation. formaldehyde production plants. velopment of applications in the various processes, using, among other things, international expertise • Manufacturers of furniture and other industries that for research on resins, materials and alternative prouse these panels as a raw material, for the issuing of cesses as applied to panel production. From 2008 stock and processing. up to the present time, approximately R$ 110 million has been invested in a plant for the manufacture of • Consumers of the product, in other words furniture formaldehyde and the latestgeneration resins, as in general, partitions and other items, that give off well as in equipment, for the purpose of reducing formaldehyde vapor at different levels. the consumption of this input. Researches Duratex also carries out laboratory research and Duratex has researched this question for more than applications using pilot plants, to obtain panels 30 years through its own experiments and the work that have the lowest level possible of resin, prefcarried out by international organizations, and up erably completely free of formaldehyde. In this to the present time has not found any evidence that regard, the Company has already invested apthis resin, in the manner and quantity used in its panproximately R$ 25 million in a process to produce els, is potentially prejudicial to human health. resin-free MDF. Up to the present time we have not achieved complete success in the stabilization There are indeed ongoing discussions on this quesand production of this type of panel, but we contion, as well as requests for the revision of risk classitinue to believe in this line of research, and are fication, among the various international bodies and continuing with our work in this area. institutions. As with all chemical products, when produced, hanIndependently of the questions described above, dled and processed in commercial concentrations, and bearing in mind that resin accounts for a sigspecial care and protection measures are required nificant percentage of costs in the production prowith respect to the environment and worker safety. cess, Duratex has been monitoring and investing in a In this regard in respect to its working environment, PLATFORM 2016 Resin: responsible use ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 62 PLATFORM 2016 Duratex complies with the criterion set by the ABNT In accordance with national standards, we produce At Duratex, this in its Regulatory Standard No.15, as applied to UnE2 panels (vapor emission of more than 8 and less theme is directly healthy Activities and Operations: a maximum daily than or equal to 30 mg/100 g of board) and, dependMonitored through exposure (eight hours), of 1.6 parts per million (ppm) ing on demand, products with low vapor emission in the forum, involving or 2.3 mg/m³. accordance with the European E1 standard (less than the Presidency or equal to 8 mg/100 g of board) and the US stanand the Board of Improvements to this standard are carried out by dard (California Air Resources Board [CARB], with Directors. a tripartite commission, consisting of government, amounts below 0.11 ppm for MDF). For this purpose, employers and employees, and the figures set by all our MDF production lines are certified by the US Regulatory Standard No.15 are based on the Ameriregulatory authority Forestwood. can Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) of 2002. It is worth remembering, that in general production terms, fiberboard, which represents approximately 6% Duratex operates in such a manner as to keep of total volume produced, does not have resin added, its panels free of residual formaldehyde, in comand is formaldehyde-free. pliance with the regulatory standards stipulated by the ABNT: NBR 15316:2014 for MDF and NBR With the process of bringing Brazilian standards in line 14810:2013 for MDP. with those in Europe, there have been considerable advances made in control methods for the testing of panThe Company participates in technical committees for els coated on both sides using the gas analysis method. the revision of standards for reconstituted wood panThis method measures the real rate of vapor emission of els, which aim to bring national production in line with the panel, in contrast to the previous extraction concept, European standards, for which the categories E1 and thus permitting an effective control of vapor emissions E2 apply (which have lower vapor emission rates). at safe levels for the end-user. Through the sector body ABIPA, of which we are a Given this methodological concept,, which is more part, we participate in sector programs for fiber and accurate for coated products, the percentage of the wood particle panel quality, which are evaluated and Company’s products and low emission reaches a level controlled by an independent external body. This of 35% of the expedition. work is used to certify production companies under the Brazilian Program for Habitat Quality and Productivity, created by the Ministry of Cities. PLATFORM 2016 Resin: responsible use ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 63 PLATFORM 2016 Corporate Awards 2013 Eco Prize: granted for the past 31 years by Amcham, Abrasca Prize for the Value Generation: granted by Social and which has been a pioneer in recognizing corporate Abrasca, the Company won the award under the catenvironmental criteria sustainability; Duratex was awarded the prize for egory Outstanding in the Sector in 2013 Paper, Pulp Sustainable Practices, in the Product and Service and Would Madeira as the best case of value creation In 2009, Duratex helped in the conCategory, for its Save urinal, which completely elimbetween 2009 and 2012. struction of the Carbon Efficient inates the use of water in its functioning. Index (ICO2), of BM&FBovespa, Best Companies for Shareholders in 2013: granted by and since then responds it volunBest company in the Construction Materials and the magazine Capital Aberto, Duratex won the prize tarily. The objective of the index Decorations Segment: awarded by the magazine in the category of companies with assets between R$ is to provide recognition to the IstoÉ Dinheiro; Duratex won the prize in this cat5 billion and R$ 15 billion. The prize recognizes comcompanies that are more efficient egory for the seventh year running. panies that stand out in terms of profitability of the in their activities that produce carbusiness, share price performance, share liquidity, corbon emission, based on the report Época Green Company Award: granted by the porate governance and sustainability. from these companies on their magazine Época and the consultancy firm PwC, greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). Duratex won the prize in the category of Industry The Best of Dinheiro Rural: designated by the magazine Climate Changes for its specific work on global Dinheiro Rural, Duratex’s forestry area was recognized This initiative encourages greater warming. The Company was also recognized at as the best in the Reforestation sector. The ranking’s transparency in reporting on Durathe Época Outstanding Special Green Company main criteria focuses on the evaluation of companies’ fitex’s environmental performance, Awards, for its environmental initiatives. nancial performance. while at the same time providing greater visibility for the developÉpoca 360º Business: granted by the magazine Sustainability Ranking – Guia Exame: this publication, proment of greenhouse gas emission Época Negócios; Duratex won the Corporate Govduced by Exame magazine, selected Duratex as the Most management initiatives. Internally, ernance award. For the second year running it was Sustainable Company in the Construction Materials Secit functions as a tool for analysis also selected champion of the Construction and tor. The report published in Guia Exame paid special attenand improvements to management. Decoration Materials Sector. tion to the Company’s work in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, through the substitution of diesel oil with wood chips as fuel, along with its increased use of natural gas. PLATFORM 2016 Corporate Awards 2013 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 64 PLATFORM 2016 Other prizes and awards, by division WOOD DECA Top brand names: the brand name Durafloor was chosen as Top brand names: the Deca brand was the most remembered brand the best supplier in the Flooring and Laminates segment. name in the vitreous chinaware and metal bathroom fitting segments. It also won the category of Top Master, which covers all the compaPini awards: granted by the magazine Construção Mercado, nies in the architecture and decorations sectors. Duratex has won the prize in the Laminated Flooring category every year since 2003. Pini awards: granted by the magazine Construção Mercado, Deca was the winner in the Vitreous Chinaware and Metal Bathroom Fittings category. Award for Corporate Excellence in 2013: granted by Ciesp, the plant in Agudos was the winner in the Large Size Industry category. Master Awards: granted by the National Association of Construction Material Merchants (Anamaco), Deca won the prize in the category Top Mobile 2013 – Most Remembered Brand Names: the of Metal Bathroom Fittings non-water saving, and the vitreous chiwood panel business unit was the winner in the wood panel naware category – Major Companies. category for the sixth year running. Telha Norte – Large Clients: Deca was awarded first prize in the Vit4º Henrique Luiz Roessler Environmental Merit Award: reous Chinaware and Metal Bathroom Fitting categories. granted by the magazine Ecologia e Meio Ambiente, these awards recognize the work on the reuse of residues develGreen Building Awards 2013: granted by the magazine Green Building, this oped by Duratex at its São Leopoldo unit (RS), which recyaward recognized Deca as one of the most significant brand names in the cles approximately 99% of its prime raw material residues for sustainable construction market. The choice was made by readers of the other segments. publication, ranking the brand name in first place in three categories: lavatory bowls, showers and metal bathroom fittings. 16º Top of Mind: granted by the magazine Casa & Mercado, Duratex was the winner in four categories. The brand names Deca and Durafloor were the most remembered in their operational segments. Deca was ranked in first place in three segments: Vitreous Chinaware and Metal Bathroom Fittings (87%), Metal Lavatory Fittings (83%) and Showers (65%). PLATFORM 2016 Other prizes and awards, by division ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 65 PLATFORM 2016 Environmental Continuous improvement Management systems carry FSC, ISO 9001 and management ISO 14001 certification. Total investment and expenditure on environmental protection in 2013 G4-EN31 and Duratex contributes to the conservation of (R$) natural resources, through the use of innovative Disposal of residues performance processes and efficient management. Analysis and monitoring of indicators, the definition 11,906,359 of internal policies and the carrying out of reTreatment of emissions search all enable continual improvements to be made, while adding value to Duratex’s products, 1,228,123 with a focus on innovation. Certifications (ISO 14001 and FSC) The management systems adopted by Duratex carry certification from the FSC (forestry management and custody chain), ISO 9001 (quality) 12,821,524 and ISO 14001 (environmental management). Costs associated with prevention measures The Company uses a series of environmental indicators which enable it to assess the efficiency 3,460,992 of its processes in the rational use of natural reCosts of environmental management sources and the evolution of environmental performance in its industrial units. 15,353,606 In 2013, the Company invested R$ 45.048 Environmental education million in environmental actions, an increase of 63%*compared to 2012. G4-EN12 73,807 R$ 45.048 Projects for the conservation of biodiversity million 204,202 invested in environmental Obs.: *Expansion of investments and scope taken into account. actions in 2013. PLATFORM 2016 Environmental management and performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 66 PLATFORM 2016 Environmental targets Environmental indicators evaluate the Duratex has established targets for various efficiency of processes environmental aspects – water, effluent, resiin the rational use of dues and energy – for each industrial unit. In natural resources. 2013, 51% of the targets established the previous year were reached: 67% in the Wood Panel Units, 24% in the Vitreous Chinaware Units and 100% In the Metal Bathroom Fittings Units. Targets (number) ESTABLISHED ATTAINED NOT ATTAINED Panels 24 16 8 Vitreous 21 5 16 chinaware Metal bathroom 4 4 0 fittings Total 49 25 24 PLATFORM 2016 Environmental management and performance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 67 PLATFORM 2016 Conservation ronmentally safe manner, and so guaranteeing the tance, as well as biological control. When necand biodiversity G4-EN12 health of the trees. essary, crop protection chemicals are applied Duratex maintains a system for the active prefollowing the best practices with respect to perHaving a total of 237K hectares of land, which vention and combating of outbreaks of fire in order sonnel safety and protection of the environment. includes the Company’s own land and leased to protect its tree plantations, conservation areas, Duratex also has a program for the genetic imland, including planted forestry areas, conservamachinery and facilities. The experience gained provement of its eucalyptus trees, which focuses on tion areas and areas with other uses (rights of through these fire control measures is applied to a search for genetic materials which, in addition to way for electricity transmission networks, agrineighboring communities, and in assisting local improving productivity in terms of wood per culticultural buildings, etc.), Duratex sets great store authorities when asked to do so, thus contributing vated hectare, are more resistant to pests, diseases in the protection of biodiversity, the management to creating a culture of fire prevention. and climate variations such as drought and frost. In of its forestry plantations and the rational use of Pest control in the planted forests is primar2013 new clones and offspring with these characnatural resources. ily carried out by selecting trees with high resisteristics were liberated for commercial planting, the With the application of the latest techniques, Duratex’s forestry management has the objective of increasing the quality and productivity of its planted forests. One of the strategic decisions taken by the Company, for example, was the advance preparation and organization of all the documents needed to carry out Rural Environmental Registration (CAR), planned for 2014 and established under the new Forestry Code. Minimum cultivation, a technique used by the Company in soil preparation, serves as a reference for agribusiness sectors which have not yet applied this technology. With this procedure, the planting of new trees is carried out while maintaining accumulated forestry residues, so involving little soil turnover and thus increasing soil protection. Fertilization follows a program which includes different types of analysis, both of the soil and of cultivated areas, ensuring that the application of fertilizer is carried out in an enviPLATFORM 2016 CONSERVATION AND BIODIVERSITY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 68 PLATFORM 2016 results of which will be seen in the gains achieved In adopting the guidelines of Proforest1 and in terms of biodiversity at a global, regional when these trees are felled in six years’ time. the principles, criteria and indicators of the and national level (AVC12). In Minas Gerais, the In partnership with universities and research inFSC, Duratex has identified its areas of high ecosystems are considered to be rare, threatened stitutes, Duratex also contributes to a number of conservation value (AAVC). The following are or in danger of extinction (AVC33). G4-EN11 biodiversity monitoring programs in the conserconsidered to fall into this category: the RPPN vation areas on its various properties. These initiaOlavo Egydio Setúbal Nature Reserve; a portion of 1 Proforest – an institution affiliated with the University of Oxford, in England, created in 2010 to provide accessibility tives, in addition to encouraging the qualification 245.92 hectares of the Fazenda João XXIII, in Pilar to sustainability initiatives, governmental and non-governof specialists in various areas of study, enable the do Sul (SP); 2,315.45 hectares on the Fazenda mental departments, and civil society organizations. benefits of forestry management to be identified Nova Monte Carmelo (MG); and 2,004.05 2 AVC1 – contain areas of significant biodiversity value, at a global, regional or national level. in terms of fauna and flora conservation. hectares on the Fazenda Água Emendada (MG). 3 AVC3 – areas where there are ecosystems that are considThe areas in São Paulo have significant value ered to be rare, threatened or in danger of extinction. Protected areas One of the innovations introduced by the Company has been the training and encouragement given to its employees to participate in wildlife monitoring projects that involve the placing of fauna on Total number of species included on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) a central registry, by voluntarily photographing or Red List of Threatened Species and other conservation lists G4-EN14 communicating the existence of species seen during their activities in the forestry areas. These regisSTATE LEGISLATION FEDERAL LEGISLATION IUCN RED LIST tries drawn up are given to specialists, and become SÃO PAULO MINAS GERAIS RIO GRANDE DO SUL part of the Company’s databank. Among DuraFAUNA tex’s protected areas is the Olavo Egydio Setúbal, Critically threatened (CR) 4 1 5 Nature Reserve, located in the town of Lençóis Endangered (EN) 10 6 7 3 3 Paulista (SP) and approved in 2008 by the state Vulnerable (VU) 18 11 12 13 9 government of São Paulo as a Private State HeriAlmost threatened (NT) 11 1 11 tage Reserve (RPPN Estadual – Resolution SMA Data missing (DD) 2 No. 29/2008). At approximately 600 hectares, the FLORA RPPN is classified as one of the richest reserves Critically threatened (CR) 1 of native forest in the interior of São Paulo, being Endangered (EN) 6 1 2 the home to species of substantial value in terms Vulnerable (VU) 1 2 17 3 1 of biodiversity conservation. The site has facilities Almost threatened (NT) 12 where researchers can work and stay, as well as a Data missing (DD) 1 reception area for visitors. G4-EN11 PLATFORM 2016 CONSERVATION AND BIODIVERSITY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 69 PLATFORM 2016 Duratex also has land in Environmental Protection Areas (APAs). In São Paulo, there are 7,707.06 hectares along Batalha River and 16,348.23 hectThe Piatan Environmental Nursery (AVAP), located in the municipality of Agudos (SP), and CESA, in Estrela do Sul (MG), received approxi6K visitors received as ares in Corumbataí, Botucatu and Tejupá. And mately six thousand visitors in 2003, including in Minas Gerais there are 125.71 hectares along employees, clients, learning institutions and othpart of environmental the Uberaba River. The Company does not have er groups from the community. These two locaeducation initiatives any land classified as “weakened zones” with retions are maintained by Duratex with the objec(AVAP and CESA). stricted use as part of its Conservation Unit, in tive of promoting awareness in the community compliance with the National System of Conserwith respect to environmental questions related vation Units (SNUC) agreement. G4-EN11 to forestry activity. Protected or restored habitats G4-EN13 AREA (HECTARES) STATE TYPE OF OWNERSHIP TOTAL CONSERVATION* Leased 17,427.25 3,867.60 Partnerships with universities Owned 112,836.60 27,397.77 São Paulo Currently, Duratex is involved in the development of 13 Incentivated 3,064.78 projects in partnership with the following universities: Subtotal 133,328.63 31,265.37 Leased 75,327.86 19,430.47 •Federal University of Uberlândia (UFU) Owned Minas Gerais •State University of São Paulo (Unesp) Incentivated 1,324.48 •University of São Paulo (USP) Subtotal 76,652.34 19,430.47 Leased 3,628.70 1,325.10 Studies of fauna and flora are carried out at the forestOwned 7,231.11 2,963.38 ry units and involve more than 30 researchers, including Rio Grande do Sul Incentivated 16,368.31 teachers, postgraduate students and student trainees, who Subtotal 27,228.12 4,288.48 produce their Master’s and Doctorate dissertations based TOTAL 237,209.09 54,984.32 on this material, which are subsequently made available to the universities as a reference. *Permanent preservation area (APP), legal reserve, lake, etc. Obs.: base registration date 12/20/13. PLATFORM 2016 CONSERVATION AND BIODIVERSITY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 70 PLATFORM 2016 Continual monitoring Duratex of the impacts of participates in planted forests the Flow Tower Program, which has studied the balances of Duratex monitors and actively participates in (CIRAD), Ipef, the Luiz de Queiroz Agricultural carbon, water and discussions on climate change and other enviCollege (Esalq), USP and the North Carolina nutrients over ronmental impacts associated with its activiState University (NCSU). In addition to this, eight time throughout ties. One of the most innovative projects, of national companies in the forestry sector particthe eucalyptus which the Company is a part, is the Flow Towipate in this project with Duratex. forest cycle. er Program, which since 2008 has studied the balances of carbon, water and nutrients over Using a series of sensors, indicators are contintime throughout the eucalyptus forest cycle. ually measured, such as temperature, humidity, The project aims to clarify, among other issues, CO2 concentration, wind speed and direction. how carbon sequestration takes place in bioThe soil is monitored with sensors installed up mass and soil, as well as researching the susto 10 meters deep, which capture the humidtainability of high-producing forests. ity and nutrient content available for the forest. The trees are measured and evaluated, a proThe Flow Tower is installed in an area of 200 cess which includes the use of equipment that hectares, on Duratex’s property. The program analyzes photosynthesis and sap flow in the tree is coordinated by the French Agricultural Retrunks. search Centre for International Development PLATFORM 2016 CONSERVATION AND BIODIVERSITY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 71 PLATFORM 2016 Monitoring of Emissions greenhouse Duratex monitors greenhouse gas emissions, and since 2007 has published a greenhouse gas emisGreenhouse gas emissions – 2013 (tCO2e) gas emissions sion inventory based on the GHG Protocol, a methESCOPOS odology used to quantify and classify gases emitScope 1* 235,426.41 ted as a result of its processes and activities. The in(GHG) formation collected has been audited by independent companies since 2011, ensuring the credibility Scope 2** Scope 3*** 81,021.04 137,992.61 Biogenics**** 577,160.07 of its historical database and the improvement of its operations. The Company has also voluntarily comIntensity of emissions***** 0.000082 pleted the CDP questionnaire for the past seven Substances which destroy or are harmful to the ozone layer, controlled 2,888.24 years, highlighting initiatives taken to reduce emisby the Montréal Protocol sions in its various production sectors. NOx (t) 3,422.32 One example of these initiatives was the substiSOx (t) 1,345.10 tution made in its energy matrix in 2013 at its Wood Panel Unit in Agudos. The BPF oil and diesel used Obs.: Responses to indicators G4-EN15; G4-EN16; G4in the boilers were replaced by natural gas, resultEN17; G4-EN18; G4-EN20; G4-EN21. Units were included, the operational control of which ing in a reduction of 38,837.09 tCO2e – equivalent is Duratex’s responsibility. to 16% of total direct emissions of 2013 Duratex. The potential global warming of the gases listed is in accordance with the Fourth Assessment Report of At this plant, the sludge which results from effluent the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. treatment is used for the production of agricultural *Emissions directly related to the Company’s activities. compost, avoiding the need to send 12,745.50 tons **Emissions indirectly linked to the consumption of electricity. of this residue for disposal in landfill. The decompo***Emissions indirectly related to outsourced servicsition of this material corresponds to the emission of es (transfer between plants and transport of residue, 5,311 tCO2e of greenhouse gases up to 2040. products, inputs and wood, in addition to outsourced operations) The target for reducing greenhouse gas emis****Substances originating from living organisms. sions set by Duratex, of 0.7% under Scope 1 by *****Intensity of emissions = metric tons of CO2 un2014, was reached, since the drop in emissions der Scope 1 and 2 (316,447.44) per net revenue ((R$ 3,872,705,000.00). between 2012 and 2013 was 11%. G4-EN19 In all these initiatives, Duratex has opened up a dialogue with other companies and organizations in the sector, with the objective of contributing PLATFORM 2016 Emissions ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 72 PLATFORM 2016 to the generation of knowledge and the dissemiup of optimized routing schedules that reduce economically and safely. nation of good practices. One of the discussion the distance traveled as well as journey time for forums is the Brazilian Paper and Pulp Associathe transport of employees. tion (Bracelpa), which discusses methodologies With respect to the transport of parts and for the quantification and verification of carbon products between units, the Deca Division has a stocks in the sector. Duratex also participates in telemetry system in place installed on all its vea working group of the GHG Agricultural Protohicles, allowing their use to be monitored, while col for the definition of directives that quantify motorists are given guidelines on how to drive the level of emissions in this sector. Transport G4-EN30 The principal environmental impact of Duratex’s transport activities is through the consumption of fuel, the emission of greenhouse gases and possible black smoke. To mitigate these effects, and as a preventive measure, the Wood Division has procedures in place to verify the operational condition of equipment and vehicles under contract, in addition to requiring preventive maintenance which allows the efficient consumption of fuel and compliance with appropriate emission standards. In the Deca Division, there are controls in place for vehicles and services provided (transport of passengers, parts and products, among others) and periodic testing for black smoke. Vehicles that fall short of the permitted limits, in accordance with the legislation, receive notification. If a second warning proves necessary they are then prohibited from entering the industrial units. Another initiative implemented is the drawing PLATFORM 2016 Emissions ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 73 PLATFORM 2016 The study Water assesses Duratex has produced a study that evaluunitshave index 2 (low to medium risk). In this ates the situation of water resources in rivcontext, Duratex monitors the management of er basins of the units of the São Paulo state, the hydric resources in each basin, for the purstatus of water where they are located. This survey takes into account data from the 2013 Brazil Hydric Repose of monitoring public policies that aim to increase the supply of water. G4-EN9; G4-EN26 resources sources Report, released by the National Water In addition to this study, in 2013 the Company Agency (ANA), and Aqueduct, a tool designed responded voluntarily to the CDP Water Discloby the World Resources Institute (WRI). These sure questionnaire. This enables organizations institutes consider the hydric resources situato report on data such as the volume of water tion at a global, national and state level, as well captured, the disposal of effluents and possible as that of each hydrographic basin where the situations of hydric vulnerability in the regions in Company is present, considering the most rewhich they operate. cent data provided by international organizaDuratex also has targets and programs aimed tions, governmental bodies and hydrographic at reducing water consumption in its industrial basin committees. units and production processes, as well as enDuratex’s units in the state of São Paulo carcouraging the reuse of the water captured. In ry out water catchment for their production 2013, the Company captured 5,961,752.06 m3 of processes from three Hydric Resource Hydrowater, 5% less than the amount captured in 2012. graphic Management Units (UGRHi) in the basin This reduction was achieved by the Wood Diviof the River Tietê. This catchment does not sigsion through increased water reuse as well as imnificantly affect the basin, but according to the provements in the measurements taken. Also in study’s assessment, all the hydrographic basins 2013 Duratex broadened its monitoring scope, to where the Company has a presence are strongly include the capture of water at the Metals Unit in dependent on public investment, in a wide variJacareí, part of the Deca Division. G4-EN8 ety of sectors, for their continuing management. Water reuse in 2013 came to a total of Taking the geographical coordinates of each 2,579,980.32 m3, 2% more than the previous year. plant, it is possible to establish – using the WRI Of the total water captured, 43% was reused, with tool – the average hydric risk associated with the Wood Division being responsible for 90% of each unit. The Deca Vitreous Chinaware Units this reuse. G4-EN10 in Recife, Paraíba and Queimados have a risk index of 3 (medium to high risk). The other 12 PLATFORM 2016 Water ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 74 PLATFORM 2016 Total and percentage of water drawn off, by source – 2013 G4-EN8 (m3) Water catchment, percentage and total volume CONCESSIONAIRE* of water recycled and reused G4-EN8; G4-EN10 (m3) 753,546 12.6% DIVISIONS VOLUME CAPTURED VOLUME OF REUSE PERCENTAGE* (%) LOCAL WATERCOURSE** Wood Division 4,983,031.00 2,315,692.80 46 Forestry 369,989.69 12,345.00 3 3,401,426 57.1% Deca Metals 233,764.00 101,974.26 44 SUBTERRANEAN*** Deca Vitreous 369,001.76 149,968.26 41 Chinaware Corporate 5,965.61 0 0 1,794,434 30.1% RAINWATER**** 0.2% Volume captured 12,345 5,961,752.06 TOTAL Volume of reuse % 2,579,980.32 Percentage 43% *Municipal water supply and supplies from other water companies. **Surface water. ***Artesian and semi-artesian wells. ****Rainwater directly collected and stored by the organiza*Percentage of volume captured by each Business Division. tion. PLATFORM 2016 Water ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 75 PLATFORM 2016 Deca PROÁGUA Deca PROÁGUA permits a complete diagnosis of The program contributes to avoiding a given environment, implementing water conproposes solutions waste in urban centers sumption measurement by sector, eliminating to promote leaks, drawing up maintenance plans, diagnosefficiency in water ing consumer habits and promoting reuse of wausage in buildings. The cross-referencing of data about the demter, including rainwater, among other initiatives. ocratic distribution of the Brazilian population and the distribution of water resources in Brazil gives rise to concern about the conservation and rational use of water. The Southeast, for example, has 42% of the population, but only 6% of Brazil’s total stock of freshwater. In view of this situation, the Company launched its Deca PROÁGUA program, which proposes concrete solutions for promoting the efficient use of water in buildings in Brazil’s urban centers. With a network of over 150 authorized service outlets, the project will contribute to avoiding waste in residential, commercial and industrial buildings, as well as buildings in the health and education networks. Various planned initiatives will be carried out in module form, with the support of specialist companies, and will also focus on raising the awareness of the occupants of the buildings being monitored. PLATAFORMA 2016 Water ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 76 PLATFORM 2016 DECA Effluents PARAMETERS PANELS* CHINAWARE** DECA METALS*** BDO (mg/l) 116.5 10.4 53.1 COD (mg/l) 469.6 48.2 333.9 Another indicator that is constantly moniPercentage and total of effluent TSS (mg/l) 54.8 – – tored is the disposal of effluents. In 2013 efdisposed of, by destination G4-EN22 fluents disposed of amounted to a total of (m3) *Average of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BDO), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD )and Total Solids in Suspension (TSS) 2,854.631,88 m3, down 11% compared to 2012. DESTINATION TOTAL of all the Wood Panel Units. This result reflects the improvements made to Public network 518,233.32 **Average of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BDO) and the production process in the Wood Division, Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)of all the Deca Vitreous Local watercourse 432,824.52 Chinaware Units, except for Queimados which have increased the level of water reuse ***Average of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BDO) and Septic tank 8,859.84 in industrial operations and reduced the genIrrigation field 1,894,714.20 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) of all Deca units, except for Thermosystem. eration of effluents. It is important to point out that the scope of measurement has been expanded, to include the Metals Unit in Jacareí and the domestic effluent from Louças Sul. Part of the effluent volume, 1,894,714.20 m3, was distributed in the form of field irrigation for the production of the grass used as biomass in the generation of thermal energy, accounting for 66.4% of the total. The effluents generated are sent to the Effluent Treatment Stations at the industrial units, enabling improvement to be made in the quality of the water and appropriate disposal, in accordance with the environmental legislation in force. Of the total amount of effluents disposed of, 7.8% underwent physical-chemical treatment; 0.1% biological treatment; 22.4% physical-chemical and biological treatment; and 69.7% natural decomposition in the soil (irrigation fields and septic tanks). G4-EN22 PLATFORM 2016 Effluents ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 77 PLATFORM 2016 Consumption and percentage of energy within the organization in 2013 Energy – all energy sources G4-EN3 Among the advances made by the Company, of particular note was the replacement of the TOTAL % energy matrix at the unit in Agudos, in the Panel Electricity 3,057,782 27.5 Division. This was carried out in 2013, replacing diesel and BPF oil with natural gas. The total Natural gas 1,808,399 16.3 reduction of these fuels (stationary sources⁴) Gasoline 24,752 0.2 amounted to 84% and 45%, respectively. Of DuEthanol 4,348 0.04 ratex’s initiatives to improve energy efficiency, Diesel 382,108 3.4 of particular note were the improvements made LPG 51,017 0.5 to the production process in the Deca Vitreous Biomass 5,054,216 45.5 Chinaware Units, with the installation of a heat recuperator in the new oven, rationalization in BPF OIL 730,943 6.6 the functioning of grinders and compressors, and lighting control optimization in the loading of the ovens, among other changes. In Botucatu (SP), part of the Wood Division, for example, there was an increase in the use of biomass powder in its boilers, a substance which has a higher calorific value than woodchips. In this way, in 2013 this unit managed to reduce its consumption of BPF oil by 38%. In the forestry units, Duratex also managed to introduce improvements, phasing out some of its large-size processors and replacing them with more energy-efficient equipment, between 12 and 18% larger. G4-EN6 4 Stationary sources – equipment such as boilers, albums, burners, turbines, heaters, incinerators, motors, bright lights, etc., in a fixed location. 5 Mobile sources – transport vehicles, such as cars, trucks, trains, planes, ships, etc. PLATFORM 2016 Energy ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 78 PLATFORM 2016 With these initiatives, the Company achieved of the Corporate Renewable index, compiled by Consumption from renewable a 5% reduction in energy consumption using the Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF). G4-EN6 sources such as biomass, same comparison scope as in 2012 (without the The consumption of all energy sources is monibiodiesel and ethanol, inclusion of mobile sources 5). Taking into account tored in the industrial and administrative units, and represents 68% of the the enlargement of the scope of measurement of every year targets are established and programs Company’s energy matrix. this energy indicator (inclusion of mobile sources) are implemented to reduce energy consumption. this reduction becomes 1%, amounting to a total consumption of 11,113,565.46 GJ. With respect to the Company’s energy matrix, 68% of consumption was from renewable sources – biomass, biodiesel and ethanol – and 82% from electric power according to the results reported in the Brazilian Electricity System Monthly Monitoring Bulletin published by the Ministry for Mines. Thus Duratex consumed a total of 3,526,120.55 GJ of energy from non-renewable sources and 7,587,444,90 GJ from renewable sources. Consumption of energy outside the Company came to a total of 1,680,093.85 GJ in 2013, and the energy intensity amounted to 0.002870 GJ, calculated based on total electricity consumption divided by net revenue. G4-EN3; G4-EN4; G4-EN5; G4-EN6 The use of biomass, in turn, represents 45.5% of the energy matrix. As a result of this and other initiatives, which have allowed the Company to increase the level of renewable sources used in the generation of electricity, Duratex featured in the Brazilian renewable energy rankings, as part PLATFORM 2016 Energy ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 79 PLATFORM 2016 Residue management Total residue disposed of in 2013 amounted to 231,098.95 tons, an increase of 11% comDestination of residues G4-EN23 (t) 72% was the pared to 2012, due to the higher volume of resincrease in waste METHOD OF PROCESSING 2013 (%) idues from infrastructure building works and Recycling 61,497.29 26.61% sent for recycling. improvement to the data reported on. G4-EN23 With regard to the residues sent to indusSanitary landfill 7,163.91 3.10% trial and sanitary landfill sites, there was a reIndustrial landfill 40,912.31 17.70% duction of 12% compared to the previous year and a 72% increase in the level of recycling. Co-processing 1,526.19 0.66% These advances made are the result of a resiIncineration 8.78 0.004% due eco-transformation project at the Wood Compost 21,938.14 9.10% Unit in Agudos, which makes use of the sludge from the Effluent Treatment Station and the Autoclave 0.01 0.00% ash from the burning of biomass for the proGeneration of energy 97,034.61 41.99% duction of organic compost. In 2013 17,474.40 Returned to supplier 379.79 0.2% Unidade de Agudos tons of residue were directed to this project. Part of this result is also due to recycling of Decontamination 238.16 0.1% waste in the foundry area of the Deca Metals Chemical treatment 199.68 0.1% It is also important to point out that in Division, which was previously sent to indus2013 the unit in Agudos completed inReuse 199.98 0.1% trial landfill sites. vestment of more than R$ 3 million. This The Deca Division also has a structured Total residue handled 231,098.85 100% amount was spent on the production of program for the reuse of raw material resiorganic compost, produced by using the dues in the new production cycle for vitreous sludge from the Effluent Treatment Stachinaware and metal bathroom fittings. The tions and ash from the burning of biomass. amount reused has been increasing every year, eration of energy, corresponding to 97,034.61 This signified processing of 17,474 tons reaching a substantial figure, as shown in the tons. G4-EN2; G4-EN23 of residue which, as a consequence, was table below. The Company produced 5,381 tons of dangernot disposed of in a landfill. In the metal bathroom fittings plants of the ous residue in 2013, with non-dangerous residue Deca Division, the metal residue (metal shavamounting to 225,717 tons. Duratex does not ings) is reused in the production process, while transport residue classified as dangerous inter42% of Duratex’s residues are used for the gennationally. G4-EN23; G4-EN25 PLATFORM 2016 Residue management ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 80 PLATFORM 2016 Materials management. These involved an increased numMaterials used, by weight G4-EN1 (t) In 2013 the Company consumed 4,563.542 ber of trees per acre, genetic material and more MATERIAL TOTAL GROSS VALUE tons of raw materials, chemicals, fertilizers and concentrated applications of fertilizer in the iniDECA DIVISION materials associated with production and cultial growth phase of the forestry cycle. Louça 205,766 tivation processes, up 5% on 2012. The Wood In addition to these materials, the Vitreous Bronze 11,751 Division used 60,064 tons of fertilizer in its Chinaware Units used 14,186,320 tons of packBrass casting 3,962 forestry management, an increase of 8% comaging material, while the Metal Bathroom FitBrass tube 517 pared to the previous year, in order to ensure tings Units used 19,061,642 tons of material for Brass disc and strip 406 productivity in the face of changes in forestry the same purpose. G4-EN1 Zamak 129 Bar 4,569 Plastic 1,893 WOOD DIVISION Wood process (humid base) 3,884,379 Fertilizers 60,064 Lubricants (production process) 514 Resin acquired from third parties 113,784 Formaldehyde 103,524 Concentrated urea formaldehyde 16,605 Urea 67,618 Melamine 5,551 Paraffin emulsion 11,535 Aluminum sulfate 2,405 Ammonium sulfate 2,694 Paper acquired from third parties 13,572 Paint 1,652 Methanol 43,815 Sawn wood (humid base) 4,964 Other materials* 1,873 TOTAL 4,563,542 *Silicon emulsion, Varnish, Caustic Soda (conc. 50%), Sulphuric acid, Diethylene glycom (DEG), Termite insecticide, Caprolactam, Paraffin, Acid grease, Di-ethanolamine liquid 98-100%, Ammonium hydroxide liquid 24% and Hydroxi-ethyl triazine liquid 78.5%. PLATFORM 2016 Materials ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 81 PLATFORM 2016 Focus on Dialogue and relationships Initiatives aim to create closer relationships and strategic improve business performance. audiences The process of analyzing the impact of Duratex’s products and activities, consultations with various specialists in 2010, 2012 and 2013, and ships, taking into account the characteristics of each audience, the initiatives developed within the context of dialogue and relationships are dithe building of Platform 16 all formed the basis vided into two fronts. for the identification of priority audiences. One of these concerns initiatives with respect So as to guarantee the quality of the relationto employees, leaders and top management. On this front, one of the main projects developed was the restructuring of the Human Resources Department, responsible for strategic staff management. In addition to this, improvement in the organizational climate, as measured by climate research, was one of the non-financial targets included in the evaluation criteria for executive performance. The other front involves Duratex’s efforts to guarantee the quality of its relationships with suppliers, clients, specialists in different areas and the communities close to its industrial plants and forestry areas. As these audiences have different interests and expectations, specific actions and communication channels are developed. The panel dialogues with specialists in sustainability – such as those carried out in 2012 and 2013 – constitute an important tool for the identification of aspects and themes which enable Platform 2016 to evolve within the Company. PLATFORM 2016 Dialogue and relationships ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 82 PLATFORM 2016 Duratex’s communication channels and relationship programs with its audiences SHAREHOLDERS Quarterly conference calls on economic-financial results Road shows and public meetings in Brazil and abroad Investor relations site E-mail alert for publicizing events of interest Quarterly reports containing discussion of economic-financial results and social and environmental performance Committee for Disclosure and Trading Policies for Trading in Securities and the Disclosure of Material Acts or Facts Sustainability information bulletin Code of Ethics CLIENTS Customer service via telephone and e-mail Technical assistance Development of products with a focus on eco-efficiency Trade fairs, meetings and showroom Websites of the Wood and Deca Divisions Specific communication vehicles of the business areas Ciclo Saber (knowledge cycle) and Vender (sales) training programs Communication channel: sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br OPINION FORMERS Communication channel Sala de Imprensa (press room) on Duratex’s website Training sessions Awards and publicizing of works carried out Communication channel: sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br PLATFORM 2016 Dialogue and relationships ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 83 PLATFORM 2016 EMPLOYEES Duratex Ombudsman Service Code of Ethics “How We Are” Program, with our Mission, Vision and Values Noticeboard journal, intranet, videos and communication campaigns; direct communication initiatives such as Café com Ideias (coffee morning for the exchange of ideas) and road shows; Duramais (last longer) program, with events focused on well-being, motivation, celebration and recognition Education and training programs Internal recruitment program providing employees with opportunities for growth and new experiences Staff, Governance and Nomination Committee Sustainability portal, internal information channel with information on themes, straw polls, and space for comments Sustainability Bulletin Communication channel: sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br Organizational satisfaction survey SUPPLIERS Duratex Ombudsman Service Code of Ethics Buying policy Guidelines on technical characteristics for the launching of new products Annual meetings with suppliers as part of the Management Program Support and technical assistance for small producers in the South of Brazil Communication channel: sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br COMMUNITY Support for social projects Programs for supplementing income Visitors’ Centers (AVAP and CESA) Management of requests from interested parties (registered under the scope of FSC and ISO) Participation in associations and organizations of public interest, such as the Ethos Institute for Socio-Environmental Responsibility, Global Compact, Green Building, FSC, Fiesp, GHG Agricultural Protocol, Pró Ética (pro-ethics), Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, Brazilian Commission for Integrated Report Monitoring, Platform for Sustainable Leadership, Brazilian Corporate Network of ACV. G4-15 Communication channel: sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br PLATFORM 2016 Dialogue and relationships ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 84 PLATFORM 2016 More Our people The Company has strengthened its human flexibility resource centers in the industrial and forestry units, as well as its central offices. to meet Duratex has 11.7 thousand employees who work of which translate into the “How We Are” program. demand in its industrial units, the forestry units and the adManagement tools have been improving in a ministrative headquarters. Management of this hucontinuous manner, always seeking to be in alignman capital is focused on the professional develment with the best market practices and encouropment and training of these people, promotion aging efficiency in the Company’s processes. In of quality of life and maintenance of an agreeable 2013 Duratex established a model for the operaworking environment. Duratex also concerns itself tion of the human resources nucleus for the corwith ensuring the best possible safety conditions porate area, each business unit, and the Deca and of its operations, as well as reinforcing its organiWood Divisions, providing greater agility in the zational culture, company values and identity – all meeting of demands and consistency in the implementation of strategy and corporate programs directed at employees. Various areas of Human Resources were also strengthened with the aim of reformulating and implementing various programs for training, internal communication and career development and recognition. A practical example of this progress is the application of climate research, carried out for the first time with all the Company’s employees. Previously, this important tool for evaluation and dialogue with the Company’s professional staff only extended as far as coordinators and managers. Another important change was introduced in the process for selecting and hiring new employees, previously the responsibility of the managers of each business area; from last year this has been coordinated by a professional human resources specialist. Duratex last year also concluded the installation of PLATFORM 2016 Our people ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 85 PLATFORM 2016 Duratex has 11,733 employees Employee profile* G4-10 (2013) 9,818 39 the human resources SAP system, which began to operate in 1,2 2014, providing more agility in the measurement and evaluation of a number of indicators involving human resources management. The system will permit the integration of all the programs such as the evaluation of employee performance, training, remuneration, and employee benefits, among others. With this new structure, Duratex also managed to place MEN added emphasis on the publication of tools, such as the WOMEN Code of Ethics and Conduct (revised in 2013) and the “How We Are” program, implemented since 2010, which embodies the Company’s Values, Mission and Vision of 2010. In the *All employers have a contract that runs indefinitely. “How We Are” pamphlet, corporate identity and the way Does not include student trainees, employees abroad and Thermosystem. business should be conducted are explained in a direct and objective manner, providing operational guidelines for employees. G4-56 Distribution of employees by region* G4-10 In 2013, the Duramais program was also launched. This (2013) initiative involves all the units, and sets out a series of engagement initiatives to reinforce themes such as well-being, employee satisfaction and professional worth, thus NORTHEAST SOUTHEAST SOUTH strengthening the organizational climate and culture. Another initiative developed was the Vamos Juntos (Let’s Go Women 67 1,093 79 Together) program, whose objective is to assist in the distriMen 1,383 7,568 867 bution of information and the promotion of dialogue. This creates closer relationships between the Company’s leaders (executive board and managers) and their teams. *Does not include student trainees, employees abroad and Thermosystem PLATFORM 2016 Our people ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 86 PLATFORM 2016 Total number of employees, new hiring rates and employee turnover G4-LA1 New Hires 2.65% Turnover* 4.40% 0.12% (%) (%) % 1.58 0.77% 1.41% UP TO 30 YEARS OF AGE UP TO 30 YEARS OF AGE BETWEEN 31 AND 49 BETWEEN 31 AND 49 50 AND OVER 50 AND OVER total 1.41% total 1.74% Number of employees leaving (%) NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES LEAVING 2013 Up to 30 years of age 1,256 Between 31 and 49 857 50 and over 105 Total 2,218 *Turnover rate: (Turnover of employees (new hires and dismissals)/2)/ Headcount. PLATFORM 2016 Our people ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 87 PLATFORM 2016 Leadership development With a focus on its growth strategy and business In 2013, Duratex invested R$ 3,078,425.97 in the Over 234 K hours of training offered expansion, Duratex has also improved its initiatives offering of over 234K hours of training for its emfor its employees. and programs for the training and development of ployees. Employees occupying management posts its leaders, and in 2013 created the Platform for received 4500 training hours. The Company also Management Development, for more than 80 manallocated R$ 473,932.16 to provide formal educaagers. Based on information collected as part of tional support for 126 employees, including grants climate research, complaints sent to the Ombudsfor graduation and post-graduation courses as man Department and other sources, this platform well as language and technical courses – in total, consolidates the content and training that should R$ 3,552,358.13 was invested in employee training be addressed in order to improve leaders’ capabiliand development. G4-LA9; G4-LA10 ties in the management of their teams. In 2014, this platform will be expanded to include an additional 250 coordinators in the industrial units. G4-LA11 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING, PER EMPLOYEES HOURS OF TRAINING (YEAR) EMPLOYEE 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Executive Board 2 3 0 3 56 0 1.5 18.7 0 Management 698 675 720 1,334 12,262 4,568 1.9 18.2 6.3 Administration 1,901 1,900 2,016 36,564 34,841 36,140 19.2 18.3 17.9 Production 7,789 7,775 8,321 185,463 141,847 193,516 23.8 18.2 23.3 Total 10,390 10,353 11,057 223,364 189,006 234,224 21.5 18.3 21.2 PLATFORM 2016 Leadership development ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 88 PLATFORM 2016 Duraseg PROCEDURES Management System Duraseg, Duratex’s occupational health and Compliance with legislation safety management system, is based on three key elements: staff awareness and training, full compliance with Brazilian legislation, and the maintenance and updating of equipment. The program also establishes a policy for occupational health and safety, a manual for systems Duraseg operation and operational procedures which must be followed by employees. The program also ensures the distribution of individual protection equipment and the carryEQUIPMENT PEOPLE ing out of periodic medical and clinical examinations, for the purpose of monitoring the health of Suitability of equipment employees exposed to certain types of disease Equipment Awareness and Training and poor health, such as loss of hearing, musCompliance with legislation cular alterations, intoxication, skin diseases and respiratory illnesses. G4-LA7 The initiatives developed by Duratex in the area of health and safety have made it possible to reduce the number of accidents involving time off work among its workforce, as can be seen in the Formal agreements reduction in the main health and safety indicators (see table on p. 92). However, the Company Duratex makes every effort to go through the necessary worker health and believes that continuous improvement is fundasafety procedures, the use of which is obligatory, as well as hold an election mental to this aspect of the business. G4-LA6 of an Internal Commission for the Prevention of Accidents (Cipa). For this The project began in February 2012, and many purpose the Company has a clause in its labor agreements and collective initiatives have already been implemented in union agreements with respect to health and safety and its business segments 2013, as a result of the work developed. Dissemi– Wood/Forestry and Metal Bathroom Fittings/Vitreous Chinaware. G4-LA8 nation of the program to all employees will take place during 2014. PLATFORM 2016 Duraseg ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 89 PLATFORM 2016 HEALTH AND SAFETY 2013 2012 2011 2013 Accidents involving time off work 130 145 140 DISTRIBUTION ACCIDENTS ACCIDENTS NOT INVOLVING TIME INVOLVING TIME DAYS LOST ABSENTEEISM TFA* TGA** BY REGION Variation from one year to another -10.30% 3.60% -1.40% OFF WORK OFF WORK Accidents not involving time off work 74 90 101 South 12 4 206 0.91 5.49 113.12 Days lost through time off work 1,372 1,208 1,174 Southeast 100 68 2,738 0.99 3.73 159.61 Days lost through transport 1,763 2,062 2,296 Northeast 18 2 191 2.15 6.36 71.47 Days calculated and debited 0 300 0 Total days 3,135 3,570 3,470 2012 Absenteeism – supported by a doctor’s certificate 1.03% 1.63% 0.92% ACCIDENTS ACCIDENTS NOT DISTRIBUTION INVOLVING TIME INVOLVING TIME DAYS LOST ABSENTEEISM TFA* TGA** BY REGION Absenteeism – due to accidents 0.11% 0.12% 0.10% OFF WORK OFF WORK Work-related deaths 0 1 0 South 14 13 153 1.62 5.66 86.61 Accident frequency rate (days lost/HHT) 4.2 5.5 5.1 Southeast 116 77 2,963 1.62 5.49 184.87 Accident severity rate (ACM/HHT) 144.8 174.5 172.8 Northeast 15 0 454 2.6 5.62 170.14 Obs,: days lost are calculated as being the sum of all the days lost due to time off work + days lost through transport, 2011 HHT: staff-hours worked, ACCIDENTS ACCIDENTS NOT ACM: accidents involving time off work, supported by a doctor’s certificate, DISTRIBUTION INVOLVING TIME INVOLVING TIME DAYS LOST ABSENTEEISM TFA* TGA** BY REGION OFF WORK OFF WORK South 22 13 388 0.8 8.98 205.03 Southeast 104 77 2,991 0.92 4.29 178.1 Northeast 14 11 91 2.27 10.04 65.25 * TFA: accident frequency rate. ** TGA: accident severity rate. PLATFORM 2016 Duraseg ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 90 PLATFORM 2016 886 is the number of Duratex Ombudsman Service Implemented in 2012, Duratex’s Ombudsman In 2012, of the 569 complaints received from complaints received Service provides an additional dialogue channel employees, 434 were sent on to the respective for employees and suppliers. It helps to ensure management areas for assessment and resolufrom employees. that the Company’s Values and Code of Ethics tion. The others were not dealt with by the Omand Conduct are put into practice, as well as budsman Department due either to a lack of contributing to the development of processes adequate detail in order to proceed, or disconand behavioral aspects. tinuance on the part of the complainant. Already in 2013, from 886 complaints received from employees, 750 were referred to management areas for assessment and placement. The other complaints received were not treated due to lack of detailed information or discontinuance of continuity in the process by the protester. In 2013, the subjects touched on for the most part (76%) were related to technical issues – norms, policies, processes, procedures and infrastructure. The remaining reports (24%) referred to behavioral questions involving leaders or teams. Employees entering into contact with the Ombudsman Service have the choice of whether or not to identify themselves. If identification proves necessary for a specific process, the Ombudsman Service requests authorization from the complainant. In 2014, the Ombudsman Service will be its communication channel with employees, widening its scope and placing emphasis on the concepts behind it. Additionally, in 2012, 233 complaints were received from other groups, not yet dealt with by this communication channel. In 2013, 576 communications were received. G4-50 PLATFORM 2016 DURATEX OMBUDSMAN SERVICE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 91 PLATFORM 2016 Training At five units, the Ombudsman Department implemented a pilot initiative in June 2013 known Dissemination of the Ombudsman as the “Unit Ombudsman Service”, with the inService process* G4-SO4 volvement of 293 participants from different hi2% erarchical levels, and 75 suppliers at the manEmployees trained % 18% agement level. For example: at the Estrela do in 2012** 12 Sul unit, the initiative involved presentations (%) to 16 managers (supervisors, coordinators and 68% managers) as well as to 50 employees involved COORDINATION (11) in the forestry plantation process. A stand was SUPERVISION (1) also set up at which the team made itself availMANAGEMENT (7) able to answer any queries. At the plant in UberOTHERS** (41) aba, the presentation was made to 38 managers, while the stand was set up at a kiosk outside the exit of the restaurant, in all three shifts. Themes were covered such as the Ombudsman Service process, the Code of Ethics and Conduct and *Total participants: 60. **Engineers, specialists, analysts, secretaries, technicians, Company Values. In 2012, the same initiative agricultural workers, etc. was disseminated to 60 employees. This mobile 3% Ombudsman Service initiative will be evaluated Employees trained 26 % for possible continuation in 2014, as well as inin 2013** troduction at the Company’s other industrial, (%) % 61 forestry and corporate units. G4-SO4 COORDINATION (31) SUPERVISION (75) 11% MANAGEMENT (8) OTHERS** (179) *Total participants: 293. **Engineers, specialists, analysts, secretaries, technicians, agricultural workers, etc. PLATFORM 2016 Training ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 92 PLATFORM 2016 Information is one of the principal assets of any Nature of employee communications dealt company and it is necessary to protect it in order with by the Ombudsman Service to guarantee the continuity of Duratex’s operations G4-50 and the credibility of its businesses. For this reason, in June 2013 Itaú Unibanco held a seminar on this TYPE 2012 2013 theme for employees of the Company. In a dynamic Consultation 6% 6% and practical manner the seminar presented themes Praise 3% 5% such as fraud prevention, the value and leakage of Criticism 74% 81% information, password management, and care to be Denouncement (deviation from taken with smart phones and social media, among 9% 3% ethical standards) others. The idea is to share ways of making day-toSuggestion 8% 5% day routines even more secure. Another important factor was the certification of the professional staff members who work in the Ombudsman Department. In October 2013 members of the Duratex Ombudsman Service team participated in the 40th ombudsman training course and 29th ombudsman certification exam. After approval in the qualification exam, these professional staff members were officially certified as Members of the Brazilian Ombudsman Association (ABO). Information security seminar HIERARCHICAL LEVELS NUMBER OF INVITEES Directors 1 Managers 11 Coordinators 15 Analysts 6 Lawyers 2 Auditors 4 Secretaries and assistants 6 Total 45 PLATFORM 2016 Training ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 93 PLATFORM 2016 Paratodos (for everyone) Program The Paratodos Program, launched in 2012 to broaden the theme of diversity in staff management, is focused on Duratex’s hiring and inclusion of employees with some type of disability. Last year, the Company hired a further 85 disabled employees, and made advances in the selection and inclusion of these professional staff members in its various business areas, through training and qualification directed at managers. One of the differentials of this program was the mapping of all Duratex’s units to identify posts in which disabled persons can be hired and the respective requirements of these posts. In this way, there can be more extensive inclusion and valuing of diversity over the next few years. At Lençóis Paulista, the majority of the 27 disabled persons – a level 80% higher than the quota established by law – are employed in the production of saplings in the nursery. The other units of the Company are in the process of developing initiatives to fulfill their legal quota. In 2013, Duratex hired 85 handicapped employees and advanced in the way of selection and inclusion of these professionals. PLATFORM 2016 Paratodos (for everyone) Program ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 94 PLATFORM 2016 Remuneration policy and employee benefits Duratex has a remuneration policy that is deProportional relationship between the lowest salary within the fined in accordance with its salary and job posiorganization and the local minimum salary, by gender G4-EC5 tion plan, which covers all the posts at executive 2013 2012 2011 level within the Company. The plan is constructVARIATION VARIATION ed based on the relative weighting of the various GÊNERO R$ IN 2013 WITH R$ IN 2012 WITH R$ 2012 2011 job positions, salary levels in the marketplace, Total Minimum Salary 8,814.00 9.0% 8,086.00 14.3% 7,074.17 and internal balancing of the various functions. Total lowest salary – Male 9,221.79 2.8% 8,967.19 11.0% 8,080.85 Every year salary research is carried out on inclusive* Female 10,873.45 35.2% 8,045.10 11.4% 7,224.67 remuneration practices and employee benefits among national and multi-national companies *Including profit-sharing and bonus. in various sectors of activity. It is important to point out that there are no remuneration differences between the sexes Proportion of base salary between within the Company. Differentiation occurs as a men and women G4-LA13 result of criteria based on meritocracy. (%) 2013 2012 2011 Proportional relationship between salary Managers* 3.3 -3.6 -3.9 increases for the highest-paid and the average salary of the organization, by country G4-55 Administration 15.5 12.4 10.9 Production -23.5 -38.4 -36.6 % INCREASE Best paid 6.80% Obs.: nominal average payroll of females/nominal average payroll of males. *Managers = directors employed full-time + managers + department heads + supervisors. Average salary of other employees 7.39% Difference 0.59% 2013 CORPORATE DECA MADEIRA *To carry out this calculation, the highest salary was used and compared with the lowest salary, to verify the variation in salManagers* -27.5% 15.0% -9.2% ary increases. Subsequently a calculation was made to verify Administration -17.4% 26.2% 1.3% the difference between salary increases for the average salary of the other employees, in relation to the highest-paid in Production 0.0% -11.5% -34.0% the organization. Only full-time employees were taken into account, with two directors being excluded who had not yet Obs.: nominal average payroll of females/nominal average payroll of males. been registered as “Consolidated under the Labor Laws” (CLT). *Managers = directors employed full-time + managers + department heads + supervisors. PLATFORM 2016 Remuneration policy and employee benefits ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 95 PLATFORM 2016 The ratio of the total annual remuneration of Degree of commitment on behalf of the •G roup life insurance and personal accident the highest-paid individual in the organization employee: insurance: for all employees, with different to the average total annual remuneration of the • Absenteeism levels of coverage and individual other employees amounted to 15.72, due to the • Product quality participation, according to salary bracket. special short-term incentive plan. This is the result of targets applied using a model based on Among the benefits offered by Duratex to its • S  upplementary pension plan (PAI-CD): for all balanced scorecard methodology, structured employees, of particular note are the following: employees who participate in the Fundação Itaúsa around two dimensions – the collective dimenIndustrial pension plan. Its structure is based on sion using corporate indicators and those of the • Medical assistance: for all employees and a contribution by Duratex of between 50% and units, and the individual dimension. G4-54 their legal dependents up to the age of 24, with 100% of the amount contributed to the plan by Annual salary adjustments are made in different standards of coverage and different employees. In 2013, this pension plan had 5,650 accordance with the indices defined in levels of individual participation, according to active participants, 716 participants who are selfthe collective wage agreements, and are hierarchical level. The plan is based on a cosponsored, with deferred proportional benefit, negotiated with each category of worker. participation system. and 247 receiving benefits linked to Duratex. The The variable remuneration policy, for manCompany’s contributions to this plan came to a agement and above, aims to incentivize • Meals or food vouchers in the workplace: total of R$ 7.2 million, an amount coming from employees to reach and exceed targets for all employees, with amounts differing by the fund consisting of installments against the and obtain results. In addition to this, the geographical region and individual contribution, account balance of the sponsor, not included in the majority of employees are eligible for the according to salary bracket. calculation of benefits. G4-EC3; G4-LA2 Profit-Sharing Program. Introduced in 1995, this program aims to provide an incentive for individual performance, work as a Rates of return to work and retention after maternity/paternity leave G4-LA3 team, and the engagement of everyone in the effort to expand and create value for TOOK LEAVE IN RETURNED TO REMAINED AT RATE OF RETURN WORK the Company. G4-52 2012 WORK WORK TO WORK RETENTION RATE Variable remuneration is based on reachMaternity leave 44 44 31 100% 70.45% ing two targets based on the following diPaternity leave 333 333 333 100% 100% mensions: G4-LA11 Total 377 377 364 100% 96.55% Concept used Local performance: Considers, of the employees who took leave in 2012 and returned in 2013, the number who left the Company • Productivity permanently in 2013. • Value added or cost PLATFORM 2016 Remuneration policy and employee benefits ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 96 PLATFORM 2016 The indicators of the variable remuneration in sustainability have been expanded to all the managers, Variable remuneration based which will be on sustainability assessed in 2014. Duratex’s remuneration policy for the Board Sustainability is one of five key elements on of Directors and the Executive Board is estabwhich the variable remuneration of Duratex’s lished and updated based on market research, Executive Board is based, with targets develwith a tranche of this remuneration linked to oped in accordance with the peculiarities of targets and results. This helps to engage proeach department and business unit, consistfessional staff in the quest for the creation of ing of various performance indicators. long-lasting value. Last year, the variable remuneration indicators The main performance indicators are linked to based on sustainability were extended to all financial results, projects and specific targets managers, who will now be evaluated in 2014. for each business area, as well as a combinaThe Company is committed to continually imtion of individual targets for each manager, esproving these targets and increasing the numtablished using the balanced scorecard methber of employees involved. G4-51; GR-52 od, and based on aspects relating to finance, customers, processes, sustainability and staff, all within the guidelines of the Company’s strategic plan. PLATFORM 2016 Variable remuneration based on sustainability ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 97 PLATFORM 2016 Local hiring New managers hired in 2013 At Duratex, there is no policy that gives prefercame from the existing staff, ence to hiring local residents. However, in all its through promotion. units there is a practice of hiring residents the region for all job levels. With respect to members of top management, the Company’s practice is to make new appointments through internal promotion and based on merit, from employees who are already part of the workforce, and, as a consequence, those who live locally. In 2013, there was no external hiring at management level. All seven new managers were promoted from the existing workforce, and are therefore members of the local community. G4-EC4 Proportion of members of top management recruited from the local community* G4-EC6 2013 2012 2011 100% 40% 100% *In 2013 there was no external hiring at management level. All the new managers came from our existing workforce and were promoted internally, and therefore are members of the local community. PLATFORM 2016 Local hiring ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 98 PLATFORM 2016 Project for Quality of relationships disseminating In its relationships with its various audiences, Duratex seeks to contribute to the development of Brazilian society and the building of a business chain that is fair and minimizes socio-environmental and economic impacts. Various tools are used to ensure ethical, transparent and beneficial good relationships between the Company and its stakeholders. practices Suppliers pliers that are part of the GFD, who were advised of Duratex has developed the Duratex Supplier their deficiencies. A plan for improvements is to be Management Program (GFD) to develop closer created for joint action with the suppliers in quesrelationships with its suppliers, disseminate good tion to be implemented in 2014. G4-EN33; G4-LA15; G4practices and define socio-environmental, ecoHR11; G4-SO10 nomic, and quality criteria that must be met, as Duratex hired 40 suppliers based on environwell as level of service criteria for the selection of mental criteria, a figure that represents 0.43% of supplier partners. In 2014, the Company made imthe 9,218 already contracted. These suppliers reprovements to the GFD, increasing the number of ceive waste and also provided services in 2012, bevisits to suppliers and consultations with a view to cause there were no new suppliers contracted for finding opportunities for improvement. All supplithis type of service in 2013. G4-EN32 ers that receive waste are part of the GFD, which Suppliers in the service sectors, namely procesoperates on the premise of carrying out auditing in sors of ceramic minerals and providers of buildloco by a technical team (environmental engineers ing security and transport, are those that have the or technicians, who evaluate socio-environmental highest probability of violating the right to exercise conditions). Only after this evaluation, if approved freedom of association and collective wage barby the technical team, can a supplier be contracted. gaining, or using child labor or compulsory forced G4-56; G4-EN32 labor. Among the suppliers that are part of the GFD In total, 24 suppliers were evaluated by Duratex program, there were no operations identified that in 2013, on questions related to environmental impresent a significant risk of such instances occurpact, labor practices, human rights and social matring. G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR6 ters, with no significant impact being registered The Northeast of Brazil is the most vulnerable in under the last two items. The Company identified this regard as a consequence of its social, politisignificant impacts in the operations of some supcal and legal conditions. In its risk map Duratex has PLATFORM 2016 Quality of relationships ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 99 PLATFORM 2016 identified a series of actions to mitigate this type Purchases from local suppliers* G4-EC9 of risk, which will be implemented in 2014, such OPERATIONAL UNITS R$ (%)** as finding alternative suppliers in other regions. In 2013 no operations were identified that present a São Paulo (SP) 462,970,276 17.78 significant risk of occurrence of cases of forced or Jundiaí (SP) 93,828,051 3.60 compulsory labor, child labor or violation of the Uberaba (MG) 73,852,292 2.84 right to exercise freedom of association and collecBotucatu (SP) 70,107,283 2.69 tive wage bargaining. G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR6 Itapetininga (SP) 38,663,474 1.48 In 2013, Duratex hired a specific consultant to Recife (PE) 28,461,833 1.09 carry out visits to its strategic suppliers in Brazil, so Agudos (SP) 21,831,684 0.84 as to identify environmental, social and legal risks. João Pessoa (PB) 20,774,008 0.80 No operations were identified that present any sigTaquari (RS) 12,784,346 0.49 nificant risk of violation of the right to exercise freeSão Leopoldo (RS) 9,888,164 0.38 dom of association and collective wage bargaining. Queimados (RJ) 378,025 0.01 In 2014, 30 new visits are planned to carry out an Total 833,539,437 32.00 evaluation of new suppliers, and the re-evaluation of certain companies already visited, in order to *Those that have headquarters in the same cities as the Duratex’s manufacturing (operational) units. **Calculation of the percentage is obtained by the following equation: total bought from the supplier/total monitor the implementation of ongoing improvebought in 2013. ments. G4-HR4; G4-HR5; G4-HR6 In 2013, in addition to implementing the GFD, the supply area, which is centralized and independent of the Company’s industrial operations as a way of Duratex holds second supplier meeting ensuring appropriate governance of this process, was restructured. This restructuring was carried out The 2nd meeting of the GFD, held in June 2013, covered the theme with the aim of achieving greater efficiency in the “The Supply Management Chain and Its Socio-Environmental process of acquiring inputs, materials and services, Impacts”. At the event, major suppliers of the Company attended thus separating the strategic side from the operapresentations on themes such as the Ombudsman Service and tional side. The area also has a specific division for Sustainability, and participated in two workshops: The Supply the management of the Company’s energy matrix, Chain and Climate Change, and Greenhouse Gas Inventory. and the hiring of sub-contractors, as well as a division to deal with the purchasing of imported equipment and inputs. PLATFORM 2016 Quality of relationships ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 100 PLATFORM 2016 Ombudsman Service Clients In its relationships with its customers – ap8.52 was the proximately 4 thousand in the Wood Division satisfaction rate and 24K in the Deca Division – in addition to of the evaluated The supplier Ombudsman Service providing specific channels for communication received eight reports* in 2012, and 27 and the carrying out of customer satisfaction services. communications in 2013. Of the reports research, Duratex promotes loyalty initiatives, received in 2013, 18 were dealt with and with the support of the Marketing and Commufor the most part concerned payment nication areas. One of the Company’s targets, in processes. The other communications alignment with Platform 2016, is the structured isfaction score of 7.40 (on a scale from 1 to 10) received from suppliers in 2013 were dialogue mechanisms that include attributes and and a recommendation index of 8.21. A satisfacnot dealt with either due to the absence aspects of sustainability in discussions. tion rate of 8.52% was registered for the service of detailed information or because The Deca Division has sales affiliates to serve provided by the sales team, as well as high levels the issue was resolved before the construction companies and retailers, and also of satisfaction with the products supplied. In all Ombudsman process could begin. In has a pre-sales team whose job it is to promote the categories evaluated, the scores were higher 2014, the Ombudsman team will be the attributes of the brand in the offices of archithan 8.70. G4-PR5 increasing the level of communication tects and construction firms. G4-PR4 The Wood Division, in addition to having teams with suppliers. G4-50 In order to evaluate the level of consumer satdedicated to forming direct relationships with In June 2013, the Ombudsman isfaction with its products, Duratex carries out manufacturers and retailers in the furniture segDepartment gave a presentation at market research and analysis. Deca’s Customer ment linked to the marketing area, carries out the GFD workshop, with 75 strategic Service Department carries out a monthly audit, an annual customer satisfaction poll in both the suppliers in attendance. This covered based on a sampling of service orders carried domestic and international markets. All the relathemes such as the Company’s Mission, out by the authorized service network. In 2013 tionship activities with the Wood Division’s cusVision and Values and the process of the level of customer satisfaction identified as tomers and consumers are focused on building the Ombudsman Service. G4-SO4 a result of these audits was 94.5%, which demand embedding the brand name, developing the onstrates the high degree of reliability attributmarket, and particularly promoting techniques *Figures refer to the period from January to Deed by consumers to the Division’s products and and applications for product use, providing traincember 2012. The Ombudsman Service was formally opened on May 23, 2012. Before its opening, services. A satisfaction poll is also carried out by ing for professional staff in the building sector, denouncements received were dealt with by the Ibope, of clients in the construction industry and and supplying technical assistance for the instalInternal Audit Department. commercial retail, with the aim of evaluating the lation of Durafloor panels. G4-PR5 products supplied and services provided by the Duratex has a series of policies and norms for Company. In 2013, Deca obtained a general satinformation security, aiming to guarantee the PLATFORM 2016 Clients ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 101 PLATFORM 2016 confidentiality, integrity and availability of infortrial clients (especially the furniture sector), while Ibope is one of mation, as well as the restriction on the supply of the other takes care of the Wood retail segment satisfaction surveys confidential information (Norm NTI-3 of the Inand the construction materials sector. Support is conducted with clients in formation Security Policy and Norm NSC-1 of Anprovided to these areas by specialist teams in the construction industry and nex AD-46, Directives for Buying Professionals). communications, product development, technical retail trade sector. In Duratex’s Code of Ethics, provision is made for assistance and customer relations areas. G4-PR4 confidential information, agreements, contracts, projects, studies, etc. to be kept secure and secret, with only limited access by employees who need to acquaint themselves with the content in order to perform their duties. In 2013, no cases of non-compliance were identified with respect to violation of privacy or loss of client data. G4-PR8 Accepted in all markets, without any type of restriction on sale, Duratex’s products meet all the requirements for customer and consumer information on their packaging – when necessary, warning messages are included about precautions to be taken in the use of the products. In its instruction manuals, Deca encourages the appropriate disposal of its packaging and recyclable products. All relevant information is shown on labels and packaging and presented through the customer service offered. In 2013, no cases were identified of non-compliance with voluntary codes with respect to customer and consumer health and safety or in regard to the labeling of products and services. Nor were any complaints received with respect to violation of privacy or loss of client data. G4-PR2; G4-PR3; G4-PR4; G4-PR8 In the Wood Division, customer service is divided into two areas. One is responsible for indusPLATFORM 2016 Clients ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 102 PLATFORM 2016 Community Duratex also invests in a variety of social and Uberaba (MG), which will begin in 2014, with the ciation (Angá). The river, which supplies water to cultural projects, with the objective of estabobjective of evaluating and publishing informamajor cities in the region, will be studied by relishing closer relationships with the communition of a socio-environmental nature of interest to searchers in a survey of fauna, flora and soil in the ties surrounding its industrial units and forestthe Company and local society. One of the first area. In this way, the environmental impacts of the ry plantations. In 2013 the Company began an initiatives begun last year is the “Environmental integrated and sustainable management of natuassessment of the funds it has provided under Diagnosis of the Uberabinha River Basin”, which is ral resources can be better analyzed and underthe incentive laws, with the objective of avoidbeing carried out in partnership with the Mineiro stood by the population. The plan is to complete ing its initiatives being spread too thinly, as well Triangle Socio-Environmental Management Assothe project by the end of 2014. as involving the communities in the municipalities close to its units. This initiative involves the evaluation of already existing initiatives and programs, associated processes and responsibilities, and any improvements needed. Last year R$ 9.4 million was spent on external social investment initiatives. At the Fazenda Nova Monte Carmelo, where Duratex will be building a new unit of the Wood Division, one of the Company’s operational mechanisms to promote local community development involves discussions with the public authorities. This is because the forestry area in which the unit will be established covers five municipalities in the state of Minas Gerais: Araguari, Estrela do Sul, Indianópolis, Nova Ponte and Romaria. Duratex is proposing that the taxes generated by the new plant be divided among all five municipalities, in order to ensure growth that is fair and evenly distributed in the region. In 2013, Duratex also began structuring a community relationship plan focused on the community in the region of the municipality of PLATFORM 2016 Community ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 103 PLATFORM 2016 Local development incentives The wood for the manufacture of sheets and panels in Duratex’s plants located in the state of Rio Grande do Sul is for the most part provided by local farmers who plant Local impact G4-EC7 eucalyptus trees on their properties. In 2013 the Company began to structure a program In 2013, capital expenditure was limited to examong the locality of the new plant and neighto provide incentives for small rural proppansion of production capacity in locations boring municipalities. G4-EC7 erty owners to produce this raw material. where suitable infrastructure already exists. The main investments included the completion As a social measure, given the implementation These incentives, already carried out by of a new MDF production unit in Itapetininga of the MDF plant in Itapetininga and the introDuratex on a small scale, will provide farm(SP), de-bottlenecking at the unit in Taquari duction and maintenance of a forestry unit, uners with the possibility of receiving techni(RS), and a new Vitreous Chinaware Unit in der a contract with the BNDES, bicycle racks cal assistance with the cultivation of sapQueimados (RJ). All these localities have and open-air gymnasiums have been set up in lings, and provide them with a significant good access and suitable infrastructure. Duthe municipalities of Cabo de Santo Agostinho supplementary income from the selling of ratex’s activities contributed R$ 752.5 million (PE), João Pessoa (PB), Queimados (RJ) and the trees after a seven-year growth period. in the form of taxes levied by municipal, state São Leopoldo (RS), involving a total investment and federal governments. In addition, investof R$ 800 thousand. The use of these spaces is At the same time, this represents an opment of a social, environmental and cultural free and the local municipality is responsible for portunity for Duratex to differentiate itnature was made in its operational regions, of their maintenance. Under the incentive laws, Duself in the market, because in this way the a total of R$ 44.8 million. The Company is firatex has allocated approximately R$ 800 thouCompany will have access to wood supplinalizing a study for a new greenfield project sand for the construction of the Lençóis Paulista ers closer to its industrial units, with whom (a project which has no restrictions imposed Theater and the refurbishment of the Agudos it will have closer direct relationships. One on it as a result of previous work) in a region Theater. These building works are in their initial of the long-term targets is to obtain FSC where there is a scarcity of projects. As a way phase, and for this reason no data is yet availcertification for these local incentive projof dividing the wealth to be generated in the able on their impacts for society. G4-EC7 ects. G4-EC8 form of taxes, a negotiated model has been drawn up to distribute the taxes to be levied PLATAFORMA 2016 Local impact ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL ATTACHMENTS 104 PLATFORM 2016 Social projects and initiatives supported by Duratex Professional training • Tide Setúbal municipal joinery school Environmental education • Escola Formare program • Environmental Sapling Nursery (AVAP) • Income generation • Socio-Environmental Education Center (CESA) • Inclusion program for the disabled •B  uscando o Futuro (looking ahead to the Sport future) • Athletes of the Future program (PAF) • Visits by technicians • Bicycle racks and open-air gymnasiums Culture Other programs • Town Square Theater • Honey from the forest •C  antinho do Saber (knowledge corner) – Duratex’s ecology library For more details about the projects listed, • Ler é Preciso (the need to read) community readers should access the website: www. library duratex.com.br/Sustentabilidade/pt/Sociedade/ • Encena Brasil (Brazil theater) • Cinemas – Cineco •P  ro-Cine SP • 30x Biennial exhibition • Young designer awards PLATFORM 2016 Social projects ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 105 Ibase Assurance report Management report and financial statements Financial statements GRI summary Corporate information Credits ATTACHMENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 106 ATTACHMENTS Ibase 1 – CALCULATION BASE 2013 R$ ‘000 2012 R$ ‘000 2011 R$ ‘000 Net Revenue (RL) 3,872,705 3,394,399 2,970,365 Operational Result (RO) 821,979 692,566 576,366 Gross Payroll (FPB) 719,565 614,030 496,313 Total Value Added (VAT) 2,155,494 1,841,928 1,694,756 2 – INTERNAL SOCIAL INDICATORS 2013 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2012 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2011 (R$ '000) Food 29,622 4.1% 0.8% 1.4% 23,999 1.3% 0.7% 1.3% 22,568 Compulsory social charges 213,495 29.7% 5.5% 9.9% 180,295 9.8% 5.3% 9.8% 180,472 Private pension plan 7,196 1.0% 0.2% 0.3% 6,765 0.4% 0.2% 0.4% 6,177 Health 33,819 4.7% 0.9% 1.6% 25,168 1.4% 0.7% 1.4% 21,014 Occupational health and safety 14,207 2.0% 0.4% 0.7% 12,311 0.7% 0.4% 0.7% 11,098 Education 474 0.1% 164 242 Culture 57 0 28 Professional training and development 3,078 0.4% 0.1% 0.1% 1,826 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 1,732 Creche and childcare assistance 135 104 63 Sport 307 146 204 Employee profit-sharing 38,773 5.4% 1.0% 1.8% 30,649 1.7% 0.9% 1.7% 34,071 Transport 16,673 2.3% 0.4% 0.8% 15,108 0.8% 0.4% 0.8% 13,557 Others 3,955 0.5% 0.1% 0.2% 2,296 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 2,073 Total – internal social indicators 361,791 50.3% 9.3% 16.8% 298,831 16.2% 8.8% 16.2% 293,299 ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 107 ATTACHMENTS 3 – EXTERNAL SOCIAL INDICATORS 2013 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2012 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2011 (R$ '000) Education 1,288 0.5% 0.1% 0.2% 5,056 0.3% 0.1% 0.3% 1,176 Culture 4,769 0.6% 0.1% 0.2% 1,819 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 3,049 Health and sanitation 0 575 0 Sport 3,335 0.2% 0.1% 1,805 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0 Combating of hunger and food insecurity 0 0 0 Sector indicator ND 0 0 Others 583 0.1% 78 2 Total contributions to society 9,392 0.9% 0.2% 0.3% 9,333 0.5% 0.3% 0.5% 4,227 Taxes (excluding social charges) ND 0 0 Total External social indicators 9,392 1.4% 0.3% 0.5% 9,333 0.5% 0.3% 0.5% 4,227 4 – ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2013 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2012 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2011 (R$ '000) 4.1 – Investments related to the Company’s production/operation Expropriation of land 0 0 0 Environmental contingencies and liabilities 0 169 385 Program for technological and industrial development 3,517 0.5% 0.1% 0.2% 3,370 0.2% 0.1% 0.2% 0 Energy conservation 0 0 0 Environmental education 73 160 177 Sector indicator 0 0 0 Others 41,458 5.7% 1.1% 1.9% 24,148 1.3% 0.7% 1.3% 26,503 Total investment related to the Company's production/ 45,048 6.2% 1.2% 2.1% 27,847 1.5% 0.8% 1.5% 27,065 operation 4.2 – INVESTMENTS IN EXTERNAL PROGRAMS AND/OR PROJECTS 2013 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2012 (R$ ‘000) % OF FPB % OF RL % OF VAT 2011 (R$ '000) Environmental projects in communities 0 0 14 Preservation and/or recuperation of degraded environments 0 41 49 Others 0 0 0 Total investment in external programs and/or projects 0 41 63 Total investment in the environment (4.1 + 4.2) 45,048 6.2% 1.2% 2.1% 27,888 1.5% 0.8% 1.5% 27,128 ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 108 ATTACHMENTS DISTRIBUTION OF INVESTMENT IN THE ENVIRONMENT 2013 (R$ ‘000) 2012 (R$ ‘000) 2011 (R$ ‘000) Total investment in environmental prevention measures 16,560 2,597 3,990 Total investment in environmental maintenance measures 28,488 25,081 22,704 Total investment in environmental compensation measures 0 210 434 Number of environmental, administrative and court cases brought against the entity 4 5 3 Amount of fines and compensation payments of an environmental nature, determined by 21,170 241,280 49,762 administrative and/or court proceedings ( ) has no targets ( ) has no targets ( ) has no targets With respect to the establishment of annual targets to minimize residues, reduce consumption in general in the ( ) fulfills 51 to 75% (x)  fulfills 51 to 75% (x)  fulfills 51 to 75% production/operational process and increase efficiency of the (x)  fulfills 0 to 50% ( ) fulfills 0 to 50% ( ) fulfills 0 to 50% use of natural resources, the Company: ( ) fulfills 76 to 100% ( ) fulfills 76 to 100% ( ) fulfills 76 to 100% 5 – WORKFORCE INDICATORS 2013 2012 2011 No. of employees at the end of the period 11,057 10,353 10,390 No. of employees joining during the period 2,923 2,220 2,647 No. of employees leaving during the period 2,218 2,399 2,128 No. of outsourced employees 1,641 1,822 1,929 No. of student trainees 78 87 107 No. of employees over 45 years of age 1,603 1,460 1,387 NO. OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE BRACKET 2013 2012 2011 Less than 18 years of age 213 115 99 Between 18 and 35 years of age 6,467 6,192 6,362 Between 36 and 45 years of age 2,774 2,586 2,542 Between 46 and 60 years of age 1,544 1,140 1,334 Over 60 years of age 59 50 53 ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 109 ATTACHMENTS NO. OF EMPLOYEES BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL: 2013 2012 2011 Illiterate 11 7 0 Elementary education 3,886 2,891 3,017 High school/technical education 5,682 5,716 5,631 Higher education 1,120 1,467 1,491 Postgraduates 358 272 251 No. of women who work at the Company 1,239 1,117 1,109 % of management posts occupied by women 10.30 9.60 8.4 No. of men who work at the Company 9,818 9,236 9,281 % of management posts occupied by men 89.70 90.40 91.6 No. of Black people who work at the Company 3,288 2,988 2,978 % of management posts occupied by Black people 10.60 10.40 10.9 No. of disabled employees 344 302 283 GROSS REMUNERATION BROKEN DOWN BY: 2013 2012 2011 Employees R$ 372,489 R$ 331,761 R$ 315,498 Managers R$ 14,534 R$ 12,837 R$ 13,581 DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE HIGHEST SALARY PAID BY THE COMPANY AND 2013 2012 2011 THE MINIMUM SALARY (NATIONAL OR REGIONAL) Difference between the lowest salary paid by the Company and the minimum salary 24.90% 2.90% 0% Source Payroll/National Payroll/National Payroll/National ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 110 ATTACHMENTS 6 – RELEVANT INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO THE EXERCISING OF CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 2013 2012 2011 Ratio between the highest and lowest paid remuneration in the 63.94 99.13 89.76 Company Total number of accidents in the workplace 204 235 241 ( ) Directors ( ) Directors ( ) Directors Social and environmental projects developed by the Company (x) Directors and management (x) Directors and management (x) Directors and management were defined by: ( ) All employees ( ) All employees ( ) All employees ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management Standards of safety and cleanliness in the working environment ( ) All employees ( ) All employees ( ) All employees are defined by: (x) Everyone + CIPA (x) Everyone + CIPA (x) Everyone + CIPA ( ) Has no involvement ( ) Has no involvement ( ) Has no involvement With respect to freedom to join a syndicate, the right to collective bargaining and internal representation of employees, (x) Follows the norms of the ILO (x) Follows the norms of the ILO (x) Follows the norms of the ILO the Company: ( ) Encourages and follows the ILO ( ) Encourages and follows the ILO ( ) Encourages and follows the ILO ( ) Directors ( ) Directors ( ) Directors The private pension scheme includes: ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management (x) All employees (x) All employees (x) All employees ( ) Directors ( ) Directors ( ) Directors Profit-sharing includes: ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management ( ) Directors and management (x) All employees (x) All employees (x) All employees ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered In the selection of suppliers, the same standards of ethics and socio-environmental responsibility and adopted by the ( ) are suggested ( ) are suggested ( ) are suggested Company: (x) are required (x) are required (x) are required ( ) has no involvement ( ) has no involvement ( ) has no involvement With respect to the participation by employees in voluntary ( ) supports ( ) supports ( ) supports work, the Company: (x) organizes and encourages (x) organizes and encourages (x) organizes and encourages ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 111 ATTACHMENTS 2013 2012 2011 at the Company 40.991 at the Company 39.022 at the Company 51.515 Number of consumer complaints and criticisms at Procon 41 at Procon 54 at Procon 42 In court 113 In court 105 In court 62 at the Company 100 at the Company 100 at the Company 100 % of complaints and criticisms dealt with or resolved: at Procon 100 at Procon 100 at Procon 42 In court 22,60 In court 13 In court 18 Amount of fines and compensation payments to clients at Procon 0 at Procon 0 at Procon 0 determined by consumer defense and protection bodies or in the courts: n court 171.090 n court 66.508 n court 69.433 ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE ENTITY TO RESOLVE OR MINIMIZE THE CAUSES OF COMPLAINTS: 2013 2012 2011 Number of labor-related court cases: 833 brought against the entity 540 375 341 ruled as having a case to answer 149 156 128 ruled as groundless 78 37 53 Total amount of fines paid and compensation payments paid as determined by 7,223,669 4,500,955 2,894,529 the courts Total value added for distribution (R$ ‘000) 2,155,494 1,841,928 1,694,756 DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED 2013 (R$ ‘000) OF TOTAL 2012 (R$ ‘000) OF TOTAL 2011 (R$ ‘000) Government 752,542 34.9% 618,393 33.6% 566,449 Employees 662,731 30.7% 559,077 30.4% 536,658 Shareholders 222,893 10.3% 157,951 8.6% 128,848 Third parties 220,079 10.2% 204,747 11.1% 216,789 Retained 297,249 13.8% 301,760 16.4% 246,012 Note item 4.2 “preservation and/all revitalization of degraded environments”. Amounts refer to fulfillment of Terms of Adjustment to Conduct (TACs). CIPA: Internal Commission for Accident Prevention. Ibase: Brazilian Institute of Social and Economic Analyses. ILO: International Labour Organization. Procon: Consumer defense and protection body. ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 112 ATTACHMENTS Independent auditor’s limited assurance report on the based on the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000, “Assurance (a) planning the work, taking into consideration the mainformation related to sustainability included in the Engagements Other than Audit and Review”, also issued teriality and the volume of quantitative and qualitative Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013 by the CFC, which is equivalent to the international staninformation and the operating and internal control sysdard ISAE 3000, “Assurance engagements other than autems that were used to prepare the information related To the Board of Directors dits or reviews of historical financial information”, issued by to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Duratex S.A. the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board Report for 2013 of Duratex; São PauloSP (IAASB). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements, (b) understanding the calculation methodology and the Introduction and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance procedures adopted for the compilation of indicators We have been engaged by Duratex S.A. to present our limthat the information related to sustainability included in through interviews with the managers responsible for the ited assurance report on the compilation of the information the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013, taken as a preparation of the information; related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainwhole, is free from material misstatement. ability Report for 2013 of Duratex S.A. (“Duratex”) for the (c) applying analytical procedures to quantitative inforyear ended December 31, 2013. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accormation and making inquiries regarding the qualitative indance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and formation and its correlation with the indicators disclosed Management’s responsibility ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making inquiries of manin the information related to sustainability included in the The management of Duratex is responsible for the prepaagement and other professionals of the entity involved Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013; and ration and fair presentation of the information related to in the preparation of the information, as well as applying sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us (d) obtaining evidence for the most significant GRI G4 Report for 2013, in accordance with the guidelines of the to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the informaindicators included in the Annual and Sustainability ReGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) and for such internal tion taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement port for 2013 and presented in the “GRI Summary”; control as it determines is necessary to enable the prepalso requires the performance of additional procedures aration of information free from material misstatement, when the independent auditor becomes aware of matThe limited assurance engagement also included the apwhether due to fraud or error. ters that lead him to believe that the information taken plication of procedures to assess compliance with the as a whole might present significant misstatements. guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4) Independent auditor’s responsibility applied in the preparation of the information related to Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the inforThe procedures selected are based on our understandsustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability mation related to sustainability included in the Annual and ing of the aspects related to the compilation and preReport for 2013. Sustainability Report for 2013, based on our limited assentation of the information related to sustainability insurance engagement carried out in accordance with the cluded in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013, We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufTechnical Communication CTO 01, “Issuance of an Assurother circumstances of the engagement and our analyficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited ance Report related to Sustainability and Social Responsis of the areas in which significant misstatements might assurance conclusion. sibility”, issued by the Federal Accounting Council (CFC), exist. The following procedures were adopted: ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 113 ATTACHMENTS Scope and limitations Conclusion The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are Based on the procedures performed, described herein, no substantially less detailed than those applied in a reasonable matter has come to our attention that causes us to assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance believe that the information related to sustainability inof an opinion on the information related to sustainability included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013 cluded in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013. Conof Duratex S.A. has not been compiled, in all material resequently, we were not able to obtain reasonable assurance spects, in accordance with the guidelines of the Global that we would become aware of all significant matters that Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion. If we had São Paulo, April 24, 2014 performed an engagement with the objective of issuing an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible PricewaterhouseCoopers misstatements in the information related to sustainability inAuditores Independentes cluded in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2013. ThereCRC 2SP000160/O-5 fore, we do not express an opinion on this information. Manuel Luiz da Silva Araújo Non-financial data are subject to more inherent limitaContador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 “S” SP tions than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate and estimate these data. Qualitative interpretations of the relevance, materiality and accuracy of the data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Furthermore, we did not consider in our engagement the data reported for prior years, nor future projections and goals. ATTACHMENTS Ibase ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 114 ATTACHMENTS Executive Board Meeting Minutes Summary Held on February 17, 2004 DATE, TIME AND PLACE: on February 17, 2014, b) it has revised, discussed and agreed with the at 9 a.m. at Avenida Paulista, 1938 – 5º andar, em financial statements, referring to the financial São Paulo (SP). year ending December 31, 2013. PRESIDING: Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira – PreMEETING CLOSURE: There being no further busisident; and Flavio Marassi Donatelli – Secretary. ness to attend to and with no one wishing to make any additional comments, the meeting was declared QUORUM: All the elected members of the closed, with the meeting minutes duly written up in Executive Board. the record book, which having been read and approved, were signed by all those present, as set out below. DECISIONS TAKEN UNANIMOUSLY: Having examined the financial statements referring to São Paulo (SP), February 17, 2014. the financial year ending December 31, 2013, and the report from PricewaterhouseCoopers Signed: Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira – Chief ExeAuditores Independentes, the Executive Bocutive Officer; Raul Penteado de Oliveira Neto – Direcard decided, unanimously and in observance tor Vice-President of the Deca Business Unit; Renato of the terms set out in subparagraphs V and VI Aguiar Coelho – Director Vice-President of the Wood of Article 25 of CVM (Brazilian Securities ExPanel Business Unit; Alexandre Coelho Neto do Naschange Commission) Instruction No. 480/09, cimento, Flavio Dias Soares, Flavio Marassi Donatelli, to declare that: José Ricardo Paraíso Ferraz, Marco Antonio Milleo, Maria Julieta Pinto Rodrigues Nogueira, Paulo Cesar a) it has revised, discussed and agreed with Maróstica and Roney Rotenberg – Directors. the opinions expressed in the report issued by PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores InFLAVIO MARASSI DONATELLI dependentes; and, Investor Relations Director ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 115 ATTACHMENTS Report from the Committee for Auditing and Risk Management Introduction The Committee for Auditing and Risk Managecontrols used in the mitigation of these risks, as ment of Duratex S.A., created in November 2009, well as verifying the fulfilment of the policies and has the following main responsibilities: (i) to suprocedures determined by the Management, inpervise the internal control processes and the cluding those that focus on the drawing up of management of risks inherent in the activities of the financial statements. the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as the work carried out by the Internal and External AuPricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independiting Units; and (ii) to evaluate the quality and dentes is responsible for the auditing of the fiintegrity of the financial statements. nancial statements and must insure that they satisfactorily represent, in all relevant aspects, the Responsibilities equity and financial position of Duratex S.A. and The Management is responsible for correctly its subsidiaries, and ensure that they are drawn during up the financial statements of Duratex up in accordance with the current accounting S.A. and its subsidiaries and affiliates, as well practices in force in Brazil, as determined by the as the implementation and maintenance of inCVM The Brazilian Securities and Exchange ternal control systems and the management of Commission. risks in keeping with the size and structure of the Company. It also falls to the Management to In the fulfilment of its tasks, the analysis and establish procedures that guarantee the quality evaluations carried out by the Committee are of the processes which generate the financial based on information received from the Mainformation. nagement, the Internal Audit Unit, the external auditors and the executives responsible for risk The Internal Auditing Unit has the task of evamanagement, and for the internal controls in the luating the risks in the principal processes and various segments of the Organisation. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 116 ATTACHMENTS Activities of the Committee » To acquaint itself with the Report on Internal During the course of the year 2013, the ComControls drawn up by the External Auditors, mittee for Auditing and Risk Management met as at 31.12.2012. on 13 occasions, with the following objectives: » Discussion of points that require attention or » To carry out a review of the Committee’s goimprovement observed in the work carried verning procedures. out by the External Auditors, with respect to internal controls and accounting aspects. » To carry out a review of the policies of the Internal Audit Unit, Receiving and Dealing » Approval of the Work Plan for the Internal with Denouncements, Indebtedness and FiAudit Unit for 2014. nancial Applications. » Analysis of the results of the work carried » To analyse financial, operational and enviout by the Internal Audit Unit. ronmental risks and the principal internal controls for risk mitigation, in meetings with » Monitoring of the action plans arising from Directors of the Organisation. the recommendations of the Internal Audit Unit, as a result of meetings with the » Discussion and analysis of the principal acCompany’s directors. counting practices used in the preparation and drawing up of the quarterly financial » To acquaint itself with and the monitor the statements and the annual balance sheet. activities of the Ombudsman Department. » To acquaint itself with the main contingency » To carry out an evaluation of the external plans involving the Company. and internal audits, and the self-evaluation of the Committee. » To analyse the Reference Form before it is filed with the CVM – The Brazilian Securities In November and December 2013, the PresiExchange Commission. dent of the Committee participated in the process for the selection of the new company audi» Discussion and approval of the External tors, pursuant to Article 31 of CVM Instruction No. Auditor’s work planning for the year 2013. 308, of 14.5.1999, which makes provision for the rotation of external auditors every 5 years. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 117 ATTACHMENTS At the second meeting in 2014, held on Februmitations to the scope of its operation, is of the ary 12, the financial statements of 31.12.2013 were opinion that the individual and consolidated fidiscussed and analysed. nancial statements of 31.12.2013 have been drawn up in compliance, respectively, with accounting Conclusion practices adopted in Brazil and with the InterThe Committee for Auditing and Risk Managenational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) isment, based on the information received and the sued by the International Accounting Standards activities carried out during the period, with due Board (IASB), and recommends their approval consideration given to its responsibilities and liby the Board of Directors. São Paulo, February 17, 2014. Committee for Auditing and Risk Management Tereza Cristina Grossi Togni – President Francisco Amauri Olsen (from August/2013) Henri Penchas Ricardo Egydio Setúbal Rodolfo Villela Marino ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 118 ATTACHMENTS Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of Directors and Shareholders Management’s responsibility Duratex S.A for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation We have audited the accompanying financial and fair presentation of the parent company fistatements of Duratex S.A (“Parent Company”), nancial statements in accordance with accountwhich comprise the balance sheet as at Deceming practices adopted in Brazil, and for the conber 31, 2013 and the statements of income, comsolidated financial statements in accordance with prehensive income, changes in equity and cash the International Financial Reporting Standards flows for the year then ended, and a summary (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting of significant accounting policies and other exStandards Board (IASB) and accounting practicplanatory information. es adopted in Brazil, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enWe have also audited the accompanying conable the preparation of financial statements that solidated financial statements of Duratex S.A and are free from material misstatement, whether its subsidiaries (“Consolidated”), which comprise due to fraud or error. the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2013 and the consolidated statements of inAuditor’s responsibility come, comprehensive income, changes in equity Our responsibility is to express an opinion on and cash flows for the year then ended, and a these financial statements based on our audit. We summary of significant accounting policies and conducted our audit in accordance with Brazilian other explanatory information. and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 119 ATTACHMENTS An audit involves performing procedures to Opinion on the parent company obtain audit evidence about the amounts and financial statements disclosures in the financial statements. The proIn our opinion, the parent company financial cedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgstatements referred to above present fairly, in all ment, including the assessment of the risks of material respects, the financial position of Duramaterial misstatement of the financial statetex S.A as at December 31, 2013, and its financial ments, whether due to fraud or error. performance and its cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with accounting practices In making those risk assessments, the auditor adopted in Brazil. considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the Opinion on the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit financial statements procedures that are appropriate in the circumIn our opinion, the consolidated financial statestances, but not for the purpose of expressing ments referred to above present fairly, in all maan opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s terial respects, the financial position of Duratex internal control. An audit also includes evaluatS.A and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013, ing the appropriateness of accounting policies and their financial performance and their cash used and the reasonableness of accounting esflows for the year then ended, in accordance with timates made by management, as well as evalthe International Financial Reporting Standards uating the overall presentation of the financial (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting statements. Standards Board (IASB) and accounting practices adopted in Brazil. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to proEmphasis of matter vide a basis for our audit opinion. As discussed in note 2.1 to these financial statements, the parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil. In the case of Duratex S.A., these practices differ from IFRS applicable to separate financial statements only in relation to the measurement of investments in subsidiaries based on equity accounting, while IFRS requires measurement based on cost or fair ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 120 ATTACHMENTS value. Our opinion is not qualified in respect of subject to the same audit procedures described this matter. above and, in our opinion, are fairly presented, in all material respects, in relation to the financial Other matters statements taken as a whole. Supplementary information statements of value added São Paulo, February 17, 2014 We also have audited the parent company and consolidated statements of value added for the year ended December 31, 2013, which are the rePricewaterhouseCoopers sponsibility of the Company’s management. The Auditores Independentes presentation of these statements is required by CRC 2SP000160/O-5 the Brazilian corporate legislation for listed companies, but they are considered supplementary Carlos Alberto de Sousa information for IFRS. These statements were Accountant CRC 1RJ056561/O-0 “S” SP ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 121 ATTACHMENTS Financial Statement Index for 2013 and 2012 Management Report.............................................................................................................123 2.13 Biological Assets.................................................................................................. 156 Balance Sheet............................................................................................................................... 137 2.14 Loans and Financing......................................................................................... 156 Statement of Income............................................................................................................ 139 2.15 Accounts Payable to Suppliers and Provisions...................................157 Statement of Comprehensive Income.................................................................140 2.16 Current and Deferred Income Tax and Social Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity...........................................141 Contributions on Net Income.......................................................................157 Statement of Cash Flows................................................................................................. 143 2.17 Employee Benefits.............................................................................................. 158 Statement of Value Added............................................................................................. 145 2.18 Capital........................................................................................................................ 158 Note 1 – Operations................................................................................................................ 146 2.19 Revenue Recognition........................................................................................ 158 Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies........................ 147 2.20 Leases....................................................................................................................... 159 2.1 Basis of Preparation...............................................................................................147 2.21 Distribution of Dividends and Interest on Capital............................ 159 2.2 Consolidation..........................................................................................................148 2.22 Discontinued Operations............................................................................... 159 2.3 Presentation of Segmented Information................................................150 Note 3 – Critical Accounting Judgments and Estimates..................160 2.4 Foreign Currency Translation........................................................................150 Note 4 – Financial Risk Management.....................................................................161 2.5 Cash and Cash Equivalents...............................................................................151 4.1 Financial Risk Factors............................................................................................161 2.6 Financial Assets.......................................................................................................151 4.2 Capital Management........................................................................................... 165 2.7 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities............. 154 4.3 Fair Value Estimates............................................................................................ 165 2.8 Trade Accounts Receivable............................................................................ 154 Note 5 – Cash and Cash Equivalents..................................................................... 167 2.9 Inventory.................................................................................................................... 154 Note 6 – Trade Accounts Receivable........................................................................167 2.10 Intangible Assets................................................................................................. 155 Note 7 – Inventory................................................................................................................... 169 2.11 Property, Plant and Equipment.................................................................... 155 Note 8 – Other Receivables........................................................................................... 169 2.12 Impairment of Non-Financial Assets....................................................... 156 Note 9 – Recoverable Taxes and Contributions......................................... 170 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 122 ATTACHMENTS Note 10 – Deferred Income Tax and Social Contribution.................. 170 Note 11 – Related Parties.................................................................................................... 172 Note 12 – Investments in Subsidiaries and Associates.......................... 174 Note 13 – Property, Plant and Equipment........................................................ 178 Note 14 – Biological Assets (Forest Reserves)............................................180 Note 15 – Intangible Assets.............................................................................................182 Note 16 – Impairment Testing of Goodwill...................................................... 184 Note 17 – Loans and Financing................................................................................... 185 Note 18 – Debentures Convertible into Shares............................................ 189 Note 19 – Accounts Payable..........................................................................................190 Note 20 Contingencies...................................................................................................190 Note 21 – Rural Leases........................................................................................................ 194 Note 22 – Stockholders’ Equity.................................................................................. 194 Note 23 – Insurance Coverage.................................................................................... 198 Note 24 – Net Sales Revenue....................................................................................... 198 Note 25 – Expenses, by Nature.................................................................................. 198 Note 26 – Financial Income and Expenses..................................................... 199 Note 27 – Other Operating Income (Expenses), Net......................... 200 Note 28 – Income Tax and Social Contribution........................................ 200 Note 29 – Stock Option Plan........................................................................................ 201 Note 30 – Private Pension Plan.................................................................................203 Note 31 – Earnings Per Share..................................................................................... 206 Note 32 – Information on Business Segments........................................... 207 Note 33 – Discontinued Operations.................................................................... 208 Note 34 – Subsequent Events................................................................................... 209 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 123 ATTACHMENTS Management Report Markets and Economic Scenario Industry Association (ABRAMAT). This indicator For yet another year, Duratex has delivered measures the sales variations within the construcsignificant results even in an extremely challengtion sector in the domestic market. Performance ing business environment, characterised by an was affected by the weak results for the sector increase in interest rates, inflationary pressure, a in the fourth quarter, with a marked slowdown, high degree of exchange rate volatility and high particularly in retail channels. In spite of this challevels of consumer debt. lenging external environment, the Deca Division once again substantially outperformed the sector According to figures from the Brazilian Panas a whole. Net Revenue in the domestic market el Industry Association (ABIPA), the volume of increased by 18.0%. Even excluding the sales of panels shipped in the Brazilian market grew by the recently acquired operation (Thermosystem), 5.6%, compared to 2012, stimulated, among othorganic sales growth was above the sector aver factors, by the provision of consumer credit. erage, at 10.9%. This result by the Deca Division, This performance corresponds a correlation of which is extremely positive, can be explained by approximately 3x the GDP growth estimated at its broad-based distribution network, the diveraround 2% for 2013. In this same period the Wood sity of its product lines and the force of its brand Division, with a focus on expanding its margins, name, in addition to the justified consumer perreported volume growth of 1.3%, with recurring ception of superior product quality. EBITDA rising by 20.3% We expect 2014 to be another year equally reThe construction materials industry, which is plete with major challenges. related to the Deca Division, reported growth of 3%, one percentage point less than initial expecStrategic Management tations for the year of 2013, according to the index The Company continues to believe in the strength published by the Brazilian Construction Materials of its markets and its ability to differentiate itself ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 124 ATTACHMENTS from the competition. To this end it is maintainIn addition to projects to organically increase ing its policy of expanding its production capacproduction capacity, Duratex has made other imity, having invested R$ 601.5 million in 2013 in the portant acquisition moves. At the beginning of following projects: 2013, the Company concluded the acquisition of all of the shares of the paid-up capital of TherIn the Wood Division: mosystem, a manufacturer of electronic showers and solar heating systems. The total value of this i) Completion of the new MDF plant in Itapetintransaction amounted to R$ 56.4 million. inga – SP, which began operations in July 2013, with an effective production capacity Another important move came about with the of 520,000 m³ a year. This unit should reach announcement of a Public Offering for the Acfull capacity utilisation by 2016, according to quisition of Shares of Tablemac, with the objecinternal estimates, and tive of obtaining effective control of that operation. This Public Offering ended on January 22, ii) Finalisation of the debottlenecking works 2014, with the acquisition of all of the tendered on the MDP production line in Taquari (RS), shares, representing 14,772,002,647 shares, at which added 230,000 m³ of additional proa price of COP$8.60 per share, represented an duction capacity a year from August 2013. additional investment of approximately R$152 million in the Colombian company. As a conseIn the Deca Division: quence, Duratex ended up with 80.62% of the capital of Tablemac. As a result of the acquisii) An increase in production capacity at the tion of control of this company, and in accorunit in Jundiaí/SP, from 17.0 million to 18.2 dance with CPC 15, we are recognizing the writemillion pieces/year of metal bathroom fitdown of goodwill acquired in relation to the first tings, and tranche of 37%. The value of the writedown is $ 53.6 million, which is an non-recurring event and ii) The conclusion of the investment in the unit has no effect on cash. at Queimados/RJ, creating additional capacity of 2.4 million pieces a year of vitreous With respect to its expansion strategy, Duratex chinaware, representing an increase of 25% remains alert to any possible acquisition opporto current capacity. This production capactunities that may arise. A balanced capital strucity should start to come on the market durture and the desire to achieve complementarity ing 2014 and 2015. in its product lines and the geographical diverATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 125 ATTACHMENTS sification of its existing operations, could all be R$ 152 million for the purchase of an additionmotivating factors in this direction. al equity stake at Tablemac, through a public tender offer. During the year, the Company announced the discontinuation of its operations in Argentina Discontinued Operations Deca Piazza, as a result of the company’s diffiAs a result of the discontinuation of the operaculty reaching the expected levels of profitability. tions of the subsidiary Deca Piazza S.A., located The Argentinian market continues to be served in Argentina, the Company, in view of its obligaby Duratex’s sales structure in Brazil. tion to comply with CPC 31 (IFRS – non-current assets maintained for sale and discontinued opFor the year 2014, the Company´s investerations), has segregated the amounts referring ment amounts to approximately R$500 million, to this operation and has consolidated them unto be concentrated on the maintenance of its der specific headings: non-current assets and units, its forestry areas and planting, in addiliabilities associated with assets maintained for tion to the expansion of its production capacsale in the balance sheet, as well as discontinued ity for metal bathroom fittings and electronic operations, in the financial statements. showers. This figure does not include possible investments as a result of acquisitions, such As a consequence, adjustments have been as the additional investment of approximately made to past results, namely for 2013 and 2012. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS SUMMARY 3º tri/13 4º tri/12 2013 2012 (in IFRS and R$ ‘000) 4Q13 3Q13 4Q12 2013 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Volume shipped Deca (‘000 items) 6,486 7,578 6,606 27,983 25,772 Volume shipped Wood (m3) 718,526 689,236 699,965 2,668,228 2,635,085 Consolidated Net Revenue 1,008,148 1,027,694 930,692 3,872,705 3,372,546 Gross Profit 348,886 395,082 332,217 1,443,667 1,183,457 Gross margin 34.6% 38.4% 35.7% 37.3% 35.1% EBITDA according to CVM 527/12 (1) 352,420 398,821 351,839 1,433,259 1,188,447 EBITDA Margin CVM 527/12 35.0% 38.8% 37.8% 37.0% 35.2% Adjustments for non-cash events (42,169) (84,324) (42,609) (207,463) (154,060) >> continue ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 126 ATTACHMENTS >> continuation CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS SUMMARY 3º tri/13 4º tri/12 2013 2012 (in IFRS and R$ ‘000) 4Q13 3Q13 4Q12 2013 2012 Non-recurring Events (3) (5,739) (4,059) (7,750) (25,699) (9,796) Recurring Adjusted EBITDA (2) 304,512 310,438 301,480 1,200,097 1,024,591 Recurring Adjusted EBITDA margin 30.2% 30.2% 32.4% 31.0% 30.4% Net Income (4) 70,289 170,200 149,400 520,142 459,711 Recurring Net Income 118,124 166,141 145,060 561,638 455,489 Recurring Net Margin 11.7% 16.2% 15.6% 14.5% 13.5% INDICATORS Current ratio (5) 1.98 2.09 1.86 1.98 1.86 Net indebtedness (6) 1,453,998 1,561,428 1,369,710 1,453,998 1,369,710 Net indebtedness/EBITDA LTM (7) 1.17 1.27 1.33 1.17 1.33 Average Net Equity 4,371,198 4,289,979 3,984,562 4,225,728 3,852,098 ROE (8) 6.4% 15.9% 15.0% 12.3% 11.9% ROE Recurring 10.8% 15.5% 14.6% 13.3% 11.8% SHARES Basic net earnings per share (R$) (9) 0.1132 0.2828 0.2720 0.8809 0.8375 Closing share price (R$) 13.15 13.19 13.50 13.15 13.50 Net equity per share (R$) 7.23 7.25 6.66 7.23 6.66 Shares held in treasury (shares) 1,405,054 1,415,054 828,677 1,405,054 828,677 Market Value (R$1,000) (10) 7,938,056 7,962,070 8,157,116 7,938,056 8,157,116 (1) EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciaand the effect of the discontinuation of the Argentinian tion and Amortization): a measure of operational perforoperation, Deca Piazza. mance pursuant to CVM Instruction 527/12. (3) Events of an non-recurring nature, namely: (2) EBITDA adjusted for non-cash events arising from in 2013: (+) R$ 42,318,000, relating to the reversion of a the variations in the fair value of biological assets and surplus deriving from the closed defined benefit pension business combination, in addition to extraordinary events plan of Fundação Itaúsa, (-) R$ 14,362K relating to the ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 127 ATTACHMENTS discontinuation of the operations of Deca Piazza and (-) Dividends/Interest-On-Equity R$ 2,257K referring to other adjustments. Shareholders are statutorily guaranteed a min2012: (+) R$16,395K relating to the reversion of halfimum obligatory dividend of 30% of the adjusted yearly PIS and (-) R$6,599K relating to discontinued opnet profit for the period. erations (Deca Piazza, Argentina). (4) 4Q13: write-off related to the first installment of 37% For the year as a whole, the total gross remuacquired in the capital of Tablemac of (-) US$ 53,574K neration to shareholders amounted to R$222.7 (5) Current Liquidity: Current Assets divided by Curmillion, equivalent to an adjusted net value of rent Liabilities. Indicates the amount available in R$ to R$197.3 million, or approximately R$0.33 per cover each R$ of short-term obligations. share. This figure is equivalent to 40% of the ad(6) Net Debt: Total Debt (–) Cash. justed net earnings for the period, and thus 33% (7) Leverage calculated on the EBITDA for the last 12 higher than the required dividend. months, adjusted for accounting and non-cash events, A net distribution was previously paid out on but considering events of non-recurring nature. August 15, 2013, in the form of interest-on-equity, (8) ROE (Return on Equity): measure of performance amounting to R$80.9 million. Therefore the balarrived at by dividing Net Earnings for the period, annualance, with a net value of R$116.4 million or apized in the quarter, by the average shareholders’ equity. proximately R$0.19 per share, will be distributed (9) Net earnings per share are calculated by dividing the to shareholders from February 28, 2014 onwards. earnings attributed to the Company’s shareholders by the average weighted quantity of ordinary shares in circulation Value Added during the year, excluding ordinary shares held in treasury. Value Added in the period totalled R$2,155.5 (10) Market capitalization was calculated based on the million, up 17.0% compared to the previous year. share price at the end of the period, multiplied by the Of this amount, R$752.5 million, equivalent to number of shares in issue (605,059,489 shares), net of 15.1% of the revenue obtained, and 34.9% of the shares held in treasury. Note that the number of shares Total Value Added, was paid to the federal, state has been adjusted for periods prior to April 2013, due to a and municipal governments in the form of taxes stock dividend that was distributed in that month. and contributions. Distribution of Value Added in 2013 Remuneration for Labour: 30.8% Remuneration to Government: 34.9% Remuneration for Financing: 10.2% Remuneration to Shareholders: 24.1% ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 128 ATTACHMENTS OPERATIONS 3º tri/13 4º tri/12 2013 2012 Wood Division HIGHLIGHTS 4Q13 3Q13 % 4Q12 % 2013 2012 % SHIPMENTS (in m ) 3 STANDARD 416,449 396,081 5.1% 426,192 -2,3% 1,543,240 1,577,830 -2,2% COATED 302,077 293,155 3.0% 273,773 10,3% 1,124,988 1,057,255 6,4% TOTAL 718,526 689,236 4.2% 699,965 2,7% 2,668,228 2,635,085 1,3% FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (R$1,000) NET REVENUE 675,351 655,944 3.0% 621,158 8.7% 2,505,914 2,216,095 13.1% DOMESTIC MARKET 646,140 627,092 3.0% 595,848 8.4% 2,382,404 2,113,785 12.7% EXPORT MARKET 29,211 28,852 1.2% 25,310 15.4% 123,510 102,310 20.7% Net Unit Revenue (in R$ per m shipped) 3 939,91 951,70 -1.2% 887,41 5.9% 939,17 841,00 11.7% Unit cash cost (in R$ per m shipped) 3 (500,82) (518,72) -3.5% (469,79) 6.6% (490,40) (459,08) 6.8% Sales expenses (64,580) (63,166) 2.2% (52,969) 21.9% (244,693) (208,701) 17.2% General and administrative expenses (15,402) (14,959) 3.0% (15,550) -1.0% (63,273) (62,090) 1.9% Operating profit before financial results (1) 84,526 168,027 -49.7% 148,238 -43.0% 540,039 456,826 18.2% Depreciation,amortization and depletion (1) 133,960 73,770 81.6% 72,078 85.9% 337,980 272,833 23.9% Depletion tranche of biological assets 57,071 57,039 0.1% 47,121 21.1% 218,088 162,778 34.0% EBITDA according to CVM 527/12 (2) 275,557 298,836 -7.8% 267,437 3.0% 1,096,107 892,437 22.8% EBITDA Margin according to CVM 527/12 40.8% 45.6% 43.1% 43.7% 40.3% Variation in fair value of biological assets (40,863) (73,753) -44.6% (39,933) 2.3% (191,519) (144,574) 32.5% Employee benefits (1,008) (5,483) -81.6% (5,185) -80.6% (7,797) (9,981) -21.9% Others (192) (192) 0.0% 4,830 -104.0% (357) 4,638 -107.7% Non-recurring event (3) (6,224) -100.0% (15,803) (10,316) 53.2% Recurring Adjusted EBITDA 233,494 219,408 6.4% 220,925 5.7% 880,631 732,204 20.3% Recurring Adjusted EBITDA Margin 34.6% 33.4% 35.6% 35.1% 33.0% (1) Included under these headings, in 4Q13, is the result of loss in the result. In this case, Duratex incurred an accounting nature. In this way, in keeping with best practice, there follows the write-off of the premium paid for the control of Tablemac, write-off of the premium of R$53.6 million, with no cash effect. the calculation of the indicator which best reflects the Comseeing that the initial stake of 37% was acquired for COP12.00 (2) Refers to EBITDA, in accordance with the system set pany’s cash generation. per share with control acquired for COP8.60 per shar. This is out by CVM Instruction 527/12. Based on this result, and in (3) 1Q13 (+)R$18,060K refers to the reversal of the surplus due to the application of CPC 15 – “Combination of Businesses order to better represent the Company’s operational cash arising from the close defined benefit pension plan of Funda(Acquisition of Control by Stages)”, which determines that Dugeneration, two adjustments have been made: (1) the stripção Itaúsa and (-) R$2,257K referring to other adjustments. ratex must again measure its previous equity stake acquired in ping out of events of an accounting and non-cash nature In 2012, events of this nature included the reversion of the the company at its fair value, recognising any resulting gain or from EBITDA, and (2) disregarding events of an extraordinary half-yearly PIS. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 129 ATTACHMENTS The Wood Division produced a record perforR$880.6 million for the year, represented an inmance in the year, both in terms of shipment levcrease of 20.3% compared to 2012, with an inels as well as the sales revenue achieved. crease in EBITDA Margin to 35.1%, 2.1 percentage points higher than the margin reported in 2012. The panel shipment volume in 2013 increased In 4Q13, EBITDA totalled R$233.5 million, with by 1.3% compared to 2012, reaching the historic EBITDA Margin of 34.6%, a nominal increase of level of approximately 2.7 million cubic meters. 5.7% compared to the same period in 2012. Taking a sector comparison, this performance was below the 5.6% increase in demand. Despite the During the year, several important investments coming onstream of new capacity, the Company were concluded, already operational, which recovered its price base , in January 2013, seasonshould contribute to putting the Company in a ally speaking is a less favourable period. Deca’s better position in the market with respect to its profitability improved as a result of the successful competitors. At the beginning of September 2013, strategy, as evidenced by the evolution of 20.3% the first commercial sheet of MDF was shipped, of recurring EBITDA. In 4Q13, the Company’s shipmanufactured at the new plant in Itapetininga/ ments were up 2.7%, compared to the same peSP, which has an annual production capacity of riod a year earlier, already including a contribution 520,000 m³. Additionally, the investment in refrom the new MDF plant in Itapetininga, inaugumoving the bottleneck in the MDP production rated in the third quarter of 2013. capacity of the unit at Taquari/RS was concluded, adding 230,000 m3 of production capacity The higher volume shipped, the repositioning of to the plant. Finally, at the end of the quarter, the pricing base and the improvement in the mix the first sheet of High Gloss finish was produced, of products shipped, all drove up Net Revenue to thus creating an addition to the Division’s sales an unprecedented figure of R$2,505.9 million for portfolio, as well as enriching its sales mix. the year, and R$675.4 million for 4Q13. The rise in Net Unit Revenue provides evidence of these factors, having increased by 11.7% on an annual basis. Meanwhile, the unit cash cost increased by 6.6%, representing a significant improvement in operating margins. Because of this factor, the recurring adjusted operational result, measured by EBITDA, of ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 130 ATTACHMENTS As a complement to its market communicaDeca Division tions published on May 18 and November 8, 2012 Due to the discontinuation of the Deca Piazza and September 2, 2013, Duratex also announcoperations in Argentina, and consequently applies to its shareholders and the market in general cation of CPC 31 (IFRS), the values below are net that it has concluded a public tender offer for of the results of the Argentine operation are conthe acquisition of the shares of Tablemac S.A., solidated under “Discontinued Operations”. a leading company in the Colombian market in the manufacture of industrialised wood panels. 14,772,002,647 shares were acquired at a price of COP$8,60 per share, representing an additional investment of approximately R$152 million in that company. The results from Tablemac, which up to this moment had been recognised in accordance with the equity income result method, would from January 2013 form a part of Duratex’s consolidated results. DECA DIVISION 3º tri/13 4º tri/12 2013 2012 HIGHLIGHTS 4Q13 3Q13 % 4Q12 % 2013 2012 % SHIPPED (in ‘000 items) Basic products 2,142 2,651 -19.2% 2,249 -4.8% 9,429 8,761 7.6% Finishing products 4,344 4,927 -11.8% 4,357 -0.3% 18,554 17,011 9.1% TOTAL 6,486 7,578 -14.4% 6,606 -1.8% 27,983 25,772 8.6% Financial Highlights (R$1.000) Net Revenue 332,797 371,750 -10.5% 309,534 7.5% 1,366,791 1.156.451 18.2% Domestic market 325,472 364,120 -10.6% 303,390 7.3% 1,335,962 1,131,788 18.0% Export market 7,325 7,630 -4.0% 6,144 19.2% 30,829 24,663 25.0% Net unit revenue (in R$ per item shipped) 51.31 49.06 4.6% 46.86 9.5% 48.84 44.87 8.9% Unit cash cost (in R$ per item shipped) (29.93) (27.78) 7.7% (27.69) 8.1% (27.83) (25.60) 8,7% >> continue ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 131 ATTACHMENTS >> continuation DECA DIVISION 3º tri/13 4º tri/12 2013 2012 HIGHLIGHTS 4Q13 3Q13 % 4Q12 % 2013 2012 % Sales expenses (50,232) (53,767) -6.6% (44,662) 12.5% (201,123) (166,751) 20.6% General and administrative expenses (16,892) (16,428) 2.8% (13,062) 29.3% (64,625) (46,814) 38.0% Operating profit before financial results 53,143 79,350 -33,0% 70,270 -24.4% 281,940 241,177 16.9% Depreciation and amortization 17,981 16,576 8.5% 16,410 9.6% 69,574 61,432 13.3% Discontinued operations 5,739 4,059 41.4% (2,278) (14,362) (6,599) EBITDA according to CVM 527/12 (1) 76,863 99,985 -23.1% 84,402 -8.9% 337,152 296,010 13.9% EBITDA margin according to CVM 527/12 23.1% 26.9% 27.3% 24.7% 25.6% Employee benefits (106) (4,896) -97.8% (2,321) -95.4% (7,790) (4,143) 88.0% Discontinued operations (5,739) (4,059) 2,278 14,362 6,599 Non-recurring events (3,804) (24,258) (6,079) Recurring adjusted EBITDA 71,018 91,030 -22.0% 80,555 -11.8% 319,466 292,387 9.3% Recurring adjusted EBITDA Margin 21.3% 24.5% 26.0% 23.4% 25.3% (1) Includes Discontinued Operations (Deca Piazza, surplus in Duratex’s defined benefit closed employee Argentina). retirement plan and 2012 (+) 6,079K referring to the (2) 2013: (+) R$24,258K referring to the reversion of the recovery of half-yearly PIS. The results obtained by Deca were a record. The revenue greatly exceeds the overall growth in volume shipped reached an unprecedented 27.9 revenue in the finishing materials sector, meamillion items (26.2 million if the volume shipped sured based on the ABRAMAT index. According by Mipel and Thermosystem is disregarded). The to this, sector revenue grew by 3.0% during the repositioning of the pricing base, together with year, compared to an initial forecast of 4.5%. the increase in the level of shipment volume, took Net Revenue up to R$ 1,366.8 million, representIt is worth pointing out that the performance of ing an annual increase of 18.2%. This growth in the sector, including Deca, was adversely affected ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 132 ATTACHMENTS in 4Q13. During the period, there was a reducas this operation has been incurring losses on a tion in the rhythm of shipment volumes which continuing basis. exceeded that of previous periods. According to ABRAMAT, sales of these products fell by 6.1% in On a positive note, we draw attention to the December 2013 compared to the same month completion of the acquisition of Thermosystem in 2012, and down 16.1% compared to November. (electronic showers and solar heating panels), in Deca reported a drop in sales of 9.4% compared January 2013, and the repositioning of Mipel, acto the same month in 2012, and down 15.1% comquired in the second half of 2012, other highlights pared to November. We believe this performance include investments in the units in Jundiaí (SP) to be transitory, arising from high levels of stock and Queimados (RJ) to increase their production in the retail chain. The projected growth in the capacities of metal bathroom fittings and vitrebuilding materials sector for 2014 is 4.0%, acous chinaware, respectively. The results of these cording to ABRAMAT. expansion projects will be seen during 2014 and 2015. Recurring adjusted EBITDA for the year, of R$319.5 million, with an EBITDA margin of 23.4%, Capital Markets and exceeded the result for 2012 by 9.3%. In the Corporate Governance fourth quarter this result was R$71.0 million, with At the end of 2013, Duratex had a market capitalian EBITDA margin of 21.3%, lower than the figsation equivalent to R$ 7,938.1 million, based on a ure reported in the immediately preceding peclosing share price of R$ 13.15. It is important to bear riod. This performance can be explained by the in mind that in April 2013 there was a stock diviincrease in costs, evidenced by the growth in dend of 10%, which increased the quantity of shares Unit Cash Costs on the same basis as revenue, in in circulation from 550,054,081 to 605,059,489. 2013, and 3.1 percentage points higher than this over the quarter, following the collective wage inDuring the quarter, 246,100 trades were carcrease agreement in the metal bathroom fittings ried out in the shares of Duratex on the spot segment during the period, and costs associated market of BM&FBovespa, with a total of 75.9 milwith the ramp-up of the vitreous chinaware unit lion shares traded which represents a total tradinaugurated in Queimados/RJ. ing volume of R$1,022.5 million, an average daily trading volume of R$16.7 million. This level of liIt should be pointed out that Deca has disconquidity ensured the presence of the Company’s tinued its activities in Argentina, which should shares in the Ibovespa portfolio, which consists benefit the future performance of the Division, of 60 different shares, and for which the principal ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 133 ATTACHMENTS inclusion criteria are linked to share liquidity. their business management. The shares of Duratex are listed on the Novo Another event of note during the year was the Mercado, a segment of BM&FBovespa which obtaining of the prize “Best Company for Sharebrings together companies with the highest levholders in 2013” in the category of companies el of corporate governance. The Company also with assets of between R$ 5 billion and R$ 15 bilhas a differentiated dividend policy requiring lion, promoted by Capital Aberto magazine. The it to distribute a minimum of 30% of adjusted ranking lists the 150 companies with the highest net earnings, while also adhering to the Abrasdaily trading volume on Bovespa, between April ca Self-Regulation and Good Practices Code for 2012 and March 2013. Listed Companies , and adhered to the Arbitration Chamber to solve any shareholder claims. It is important to point out that, in 2013, Duratex was selected, for the second year running, to form part of the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index (DJSI), one of the most demanding listing indices which evaluates the ecoShareholding Structure nomic and socio-environmental performance of as at December 2013 listed companies. The Company was classified in the industrial materials group, in the Paper & ForItaúsa and Families estry Products sector. In all, 81 companies were Ligna and Family selected to be part of this portfolio, of which 17 Pension Funds 28.4% were Brazilian. 11. 1% Foreign Investors 0. 2% Additionally, the shares of Duratex remained Other part of the new 2013/2014 version of the Treasury BM&FBovespa Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), which remains in force from January 0.3% 6, 2014 to January 2, 2015. The shares of Duratex have featured as part of this index since 20% its 2008/2009 edition. The Company is one of 51 listed companies in the segment that evaluate the application of sustainability concepts in 40% ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 134 ATTACHMENTS Social and Environmental Responsibility increase in the number of employees comAt the end of the period, the Company had pared to 2012 is related to the acquisition of 11,733 employees, who received total remuThermosystem, in addition to the hiring of neration of R$99.1 million in the quarter. The new staff following the inauguration of the new production units. (amounts in R$ ‘000) 4Q13 3Q13 % 4Q12 % 2013 2012 % NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 11,733 11,844 -0.9% 10,601 10.7% 11,733 10,601 10.7% Remuneration 99,055 96,096 3.1% 86,151 15.0% 378,095 331,761 14.0% Obligatory legal charges 53,053 54,017 -1.8% 48,070 10.4% 207,687 185,786 11.8% Differentiated benefits 23,936 21,817 9.7% 17,047 40.4% 83,736 66,676 25.6% nual and Sustainability Report in accordance During 2013 the Company directly applied with the directives of the Global Reporting IniR$30.5 million in environmental initiatives, of tiative (GRI), a multi-stakeholder organisation, particular note being the treatment of effluents, based in Holland, recognised internationally the collection of residues and the maintenance of as establishing clear criteria which permit the forestry areas. This figure represents an increase evaluation of economic, social and environof 10.2% compared to investments of this nature mental performance of the organisations. In carried out in 2012. 2013, in line with the principles of transparency and continual improvement and manageOther highlights for the period include the proment, the Company adhered to the G4 version gram for the dissemination of Platform 2016, which of GRI, launched in May. The Company keeps was replicated by employees in the various units, abreast of discussions regarding the developbeing part of the working dialogue and relationship ment of an integrated reporting model, which seeking to impact the greatest possible number of will permit further alignment between busiemployees with respect to the current sustainabilness strategy and socio-environmental perity panorama. It also seeks to connect trends and formance in the rendering of its accounts to global and national directives with the reality at public audiences. Duratex and its more recent proposals in this area. The 2013 EXAME Guide recognised Duratex For seven years, Duratex has published its Anas the most sustainable company in the BuildATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 135 ATTACHMENTS ing Sustainability Materials Sector. The publication, ognition attests to the existence of an environnow in its 14th edition, carries out the largest mental management system in the unit producand best-known assessment of corporate sustion process, and contributes to improving the tainability in Brazil. The Guide highlighted the operational management model and increasing work of the Company in its reduction of greenthe differentiation of Duratex’s products with house gas emissions by replacing diesel oil as consumers looking for companies with more refuel with wood chips, and the expansion of its sponsible and differentiated practices linked to use of natural gas. sustainability. The Deca Vitreous Chinaware Business Units (Jundiaí I and Sul), Deca Metals (São Duratex’s commitment to innovation and the Paulo and Jundiaí) and Panels (Agudos, Itapetinefficiency of its products was recognised by the inga, Taquari and Uberaba) also carry this certimarket, which highlighted the Deca Division as fication. the winner of the Eco-prize, for its “Save” urinal, an innovative product which does not use waDuring the fourth quarter, a number of projter. In addition to this, readers of Green Buildects of a social, cultural and sporting nature were ing magazine, published by Nova Gestão, elected carried out, of particular note being: (i) “ProjeDeca and Durafloor as outstanding brand names to Esportivo Futuros Craques”, implemented in in sustainable construction. Deca was ranked the city of São Paulo, through the Association first in the category of lavatory bowls, showers for the Development, Education and Recuperaand metal bathroom fittings, while Durafloor was tion of Those with Special Needs (ADERE), (ii) awarded third place in the flooring category. The EX4 Cultural Project in Schools, which held eight presentations at Unified Education Centers The forestry unit at Taquari (RS) obtained FSC® in the city of São Paulo and put on a show at Sesi certification (Forest Stewardship Council), which da Vila Leopoldina, (iii) The “Popular Cinema Culapplies the standards of the International Countural Project – Cineco” which has the purpose of cil for Forestry Management. Duratex’s other forproviding encouragement and dissemination of estry units in the states of São Paulo and Minas cinema, in addition to the refurbishment of pubGerais already carry this certification. lic spaces carried out in the cities of Estrela do Sul (MG), Uberaba (MG), São Leopoldo (RS) and The Vitreous Chinaware Unit Jundiaí-II received Taquari (RS). a recommendation for the certification of its Environmental Management System, in accordance Other projects were started in the fourth quarwith the requirements of ISO 14001:04. This recter and remain ongoing, such as: (i) “A Step for ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 136 ATTACHMENTS Education”, which serves 160 children between January-December 2013, PricewaterhouseCoopers the ages of 18 and 17, in the Paraisópolis comwas hired for services not related to external aumunity, using football as a tool for social includit, regarding the revision of the Declaration of sion and the development of ethical and citizenIncome Tax (DIPJ 2013) of Duraflora S.A and Duship values, integration into society (for example ratex S.A., but have not reached the threshold of through away matches) and qualifications. The 5% of the total spent on the same audit of the project also provides supplementary nutrition, Company’s financial statements. transport, nutritional monitoring, as well as providing psychological, medical and dental care. Independent Auditors’ justification – PricewaThe project was begun in October 2013, and is terhouseCoopers designed to run for one year, (ii) “Young DesignThe provision of other professional services not ers”, which aims to increase awareness of the valrelated to external audit, described above, does ue of design, helping to disseminate this culture not affect the independence or objectivity in across the Country. The program includes Indusconducting the external audit made in Duratex trial Design presentations at Brazilian universities S.A. and its subsidiaries. The regarding Duratex across the country and serves as a stimulus for S.A. in the provision of services not related to exyoung talent in this area. ternal audit is based on principles that preserve the independence of the Independent Auditors, Independent Auditors all considered in the provision of the service proThe Company’s policy for procuring non-extervided above. nal audit services from its independent auditors is based on internationally accepted principles Acknowledgements that preserve the independence of the auditors, We are deeply grateful for all the support reand consists of the following principles: (a) the ceived from our shareholders, the dedication and auditor should not audit their own work, (b) the commitment of our employees, the partnerships auditor should not carry out management funcwe have with our suppliers and the confidence tions within the client, and (c) the auditor must placed in us by our clients and consumers. not promote the interests of the client. The Management In accordance with CVM Instruction 381, dated January 14, 2003, and Circular Letter CVM/SNC/ SEP nº 02/2006 of December 28, 2006, Duratex and its subsidiaries reported that for the period ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 137 ATTACHMENTS BALANCE SHEET (In thousands of Reais) PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) ASSETS Note 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 CURRENT ASSETS 2,009,732 1,876,992 2,588,905 2,364,965 Cash and cash equivalents 5 511,239 617,307 996,843 1,032,077 Trade accounts receivable 6 851,367 753,721 913,362 796,008 Inventory 7 508,949 385,768 546,948 414,633 Other receivables 8 78,692 56,887 42,377 33,586 Recoverable taxes and contributions 9 53,767 59,248 80,572 83,094 Other credits 5,718 4,061 6,733 5,567 Discontinued operations 33 2,070 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,343,871 5,052,917 5,589,422 5,393,633 Related parties 11 13,597 Restricted deposits 25,366 23,407 28,290 25,717 Other receivables 8 35,378 34,363 62,691 62,216 Pension plan credits 30 99,245 84,867 107,927 92,232 Recoverable taxes and contributions 9 49,256 44,054 50,544 45,462 Deferred income tax and social contribution 10 48,060 51,188 61,530 63,655 Investments in subsidiaries and associate 12 1,678,474 1,550,565 121,446 173,704 Other investments 298 298 772 772 Property, plant and equipment 13 2,856,325 2,694,105 3,456,787 3,257,083 Biological assets 14 1,125,616 1,102,337 Intangible assets 15 537,872 570,070 573,819 570,455 TOTAL ASSETS 7,353,603 6,929,909 8,178,327 7,758,598 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this interim financial information ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 138 ATTACHMENTS BALANCE SHEET (In thousands of Reais) PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Note 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,087,568 1,074,507 1,305,132 1,268,582 Loans and financing 17 569,505 560,261 710,075 675,892 Debentures 18 6,298 5,882 6,298 5,882 Suppliers 188,999 206,480 180,167 211,829 Personnel 125,970 101,736 138,462 111,392 Accounts payable 19 70,708 63,387 110,822 102,366 Taxes and contributions 47,391 45,724 79,426 69,973 Dividends and interest on capital 78,697 91,037 78,697 91,248 Discontinued operations 33 1,185 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,901,030 1,835,421 2,508,190 2,466,411 Loans and financing 17 1,397,866 1,380,930 1,625,525 1,617,211 Debentures 18 108,943 102,802 108,943 102,802 Contingencies 20 84,591 88,769 123,808 125,444 Deferred income tax and social contribution 10 279,624 251,931 505,593 485,707 Accounts payable 19 30,006 10,989 144,321 135,247 STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 22 4,365,005 4,019,981 4,365,005 4,023,605 Capital 1,705,272 1,550,246 1,705,272 1,550,246 Costs on issue of shares (7,823) (7,823) (7,823) (7,823) Capital reserves 323,342 314,984 323,342 314,984 Revaluation reserves 74,993 83,332 74,993 83,332 Revenue reserves 1,860,195 1,665,920 1,860,195 1,665,920 Treasury shares (18,344) (10,101) (18,344) (10,101) Carrying value adjustments 427,370 423,423 427,370 423,423 Equity attributable to equity holders 4,365,005 4,019,981 4,365,005 4,019,981 of the parent company Noncontrolling interests 3,624 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 7,353,603 6,929,909 8,178,327 7,758,598 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this interim financial information ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 139 ATTACHMENTS STATEMENT OF INCOME (In thousands of Reais) PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) CONTINUING OPERATIONS Note 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 NET SALES REVENUE 24 3,610,721 3,245,404 3,872,705 3,372,546 Variations in the fair value of biological assets 14 191,519 144,574 Cost of products sold (2,450,386) (2,243,023) (2,620,557) (2,333,663) GROSS PROFIT 1,160,335 1,002,381 1,443,667 1,183,457 Selling expenses (420,465) (371,319) (445,816) (375,452) General and administrative expenses (110,259) (94,665) (127,898) (108,904) Management expenses (14,432) (12,706) (14,433) (12,837) Other operating income (expenses), net 27 19,263 (6,346) (36,284) 9,715 Equity in the results of investees 111,263 130,290 2,743 2,024 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE FINANCIAL RESULT AND TAXES 745,705 647,635 821,979 698,003 Financial income 26 59,432 45,142 102,656 89,050 Financial expenses 26 (166,339) (155,239) (219,621) (207,878) PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS 638,798 537,538 705,014 579,175 Income tax and social contributions current 28 (89,848) (74,445) (155,797) (111,893) Income tax and social contributions deferred 28 (29,030) (3,837) (14,713) (972) Net income for the year from continuing operations 519,920 459,256 534,504 466,310 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 33 Net income for the year from discontinued operations (14,362) (6,599) NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 519,920 459,256 520,142 459,711 Net income attributable to: Owners of the company 519,920 459,256 From continuing operations 534,282 465,855 From discontinued operations (14,362) (6,599) Noncontrolling interests From continuing operations 222 455 Net income per share (R$): Basic: 31 0.8809 0.8375 0.8809 0.8375 Diluted: 31 0.8553 0.8128 0.8553 0.8128 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this interim financial information ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 140 ATTACHMENTS STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Periods ended December 31 (In thousands of Reais) PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 519,920 459,256 520,142 459,711 Other components of comprehensive income Participation in the comprehensive income (loss) of subsidiaries 3,947 4,696 3,947 4,696 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR, NET OF TAX 523,867 463,952 524,089 464,407 Attributable to: Owners of the company 523,867 463,952 523,867 463,952 Noncontrolling interests 222 455 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 141 ATTACHMENTS Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (In thousands of Reais) Costs on Carrying Total issue of Capital Revaluation Revenue value Treasury Retained Noncontrolling Stockholders’ Note Capital shares reserves reserves reserves adjustments shares earnings Total interests equity BALANCES AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 1,550,000 (7,823) 307,932 89,721 1,355,588 416,823 (23,032) 3,689,209 3,601 3,692,810 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR Net Income for the year 459,256 459,256 455 459,711 Participation in the comprehensive 4,696 4,696 4,696 income of subsidiaries TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE 4,696 459,256 463,952 455 464,407 INCOME FOR THE YEAR Share options granted 29 7,052 7,052 7,052 Sales of treasury shares 12,931 (1,998) 10,933 10,933 Adjustment of debentures convertible 1,904 1,904 1,904 into shares Capital increase 246 246 246 Interest on capital 2011 complement (682) (682) (682) Realization of revaluation reserve (6,389) 6,389 APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR Allocated to the legal reserve 22,963 (22,963) Interest on capital 1st half-year 22 d (62,032) (62,032) (62,032) Interest on capital 2nd half-year 22 d (89,963) (89,963) (89,963) Dividends 2nd half-year 22 d (638) (638) (638) Proposed additional dividend 22 d 4,863 (4,863) Appropriation to tax incentives (Article 9,902 (9,902) 195 Law no. 6.404/76) Appropriation to reserves 273,286 (273,286) (432) (432) BALANCES AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 1,550,246 (7,823) 314,984 83,332 1,665,920 423,423 (10,101) 4,019,981 3,624 4,023,605 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this interim financial information >> continue ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 142 ATTACHMENTS >> continuation Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity (In thousands of Reais) Costs on Carrying Total issue of Capital Revaluation Revenue value Treasury Retained Noncontrolling Stockholders’ Note Capital shares reserves reserves reserves adjustments shares earnings Total interests equity BALANCES AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 1,550,246 (7,823) 314,984 83,332 1,665,920 423,423 (10,101) 4,019,981 3,624 4,023,605 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR Net Income for the year 519,920 519,920 222 520,142 Participation in the comprehensive 3,947 3,947 3,947 income of subsidiaries TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE 3,947 519,920 523,867 222 524,089 INCOME FOR THE YEAR Share options granted 29 8,358 8,358 8,358 Acquisition of treasury shares (14,751) (14,751) (14,751) Sales of treasury shares 6,508 215 6,723 6,723 Capital increase 1 1 1 Capital increase using revenue reserves 155,025 (155,025) Interest on capital 2012 complement (5,833) (5,833) (5,833) Realization of revaluation reserve (8,339) 8,339 APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR Allocated to the legal reserve 25,996 (25,996) Interest on capital 1st half-year 22 d (95,184) (95,184) (95,184) Interest on capital 2nd half-year 22 d (73,817) (73,817) (73,817) Dividends 2nd half-year 22 d (4,340) (4,340) (4,340) Proposed additional dividend 22 d 49,330 (49,330) Appropriation to tax incentives (Article 8,958 (8,958) 195 Law no. 6.404/76) Appropriation to reserves 270,849 (270,849) (3,846) (3,846) BALANCES AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 1,705,272 (7,823) 323,342 74,993 1,860,195 427,370 (18,344) 4,365,005 4,365,005 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this interim financial information ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 143 ATTACHMENTS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands of Reais) PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL 638,798 537,538 705,014 579,175 CONTRIBUTION FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS ADJUSTMENTS: Depreciation, amortization and depletion 256,084 237,057 625,666 499,932 Variations in the fair value of biological assets (191,519) (144,574) Interest, foreign exchange and monetary variations, net 146,552 142,860 177,125 160,752 Equity in the results of investees (111,263) (130,290) (2,743) (2,024) Provisions, disposal of assets 39,917 23,504 54,652 10,870 (Increase)/Decrease in Assets Trade accounts receivable (91,098) (112,292) (125,014) (140,660) Inventory (123,181) 1,880 (132,676) (3,150) Other assets (14,921) 10,109 (20,207) 5,636 Increase (Decrease) in Liabilities Suppliers (17,481) 41,769 (31,423) 52,304 Personnel liabilities 24,234 4,048 27,460 6,520 Accounts payable 465 17,206 11,464 47,736 Taxes and contributions (43,383) (15,483) (52,863) (18,904) Other liabilities 4,565 (20,537) (16,529) (27,845) Cash provided by operations 709,288 737,369 1,028,407 1,025,768 Income tax and social contribution paid (73,828) (69,105) (121,714) (90,507) Interest paid (116,073) (136,683) (138,308) (162,600) CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 519,387 531,581 768,385 772,661 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES: Investments in biological, fixed and intangible assets (376,594) (597,101) (567,621) (832,214) Advance for future capital increase in subsidiaries (118,200) Acquisition of subsidiary (56,402) (33,855) Dividends received from subsidiary 31,273 124,457 >> continue ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 144 ATTACHMENTS >> continuation PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Capital increase in subsidiaries (18) Net cash received on the merger of subsidiary 359 CASH USED IN INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (401,741) (590,485) (601,476) (832,214) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Financing 544,804 544,154 577,248 695,922 Debentures (6,320) 101,364 (6,320) 101,364 Amortization of financing (549,144) (234,060) (571,489) (321,555) Interest on capital/Dividends (191,427) (122,251) (191,638) (122,453) Loans from subsidiaries (13,602) Treasury shares and others (8,025) 10,933 (11,871) 10,933 NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (223,714) 300,140 (204,070) 364,211 Exchange variations on cash and cash equivalents 1,927 1,260 INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH FOR THE YEAR (106,068) 241,236 (35,234) 305,918 OPENING BALANCE 617,307 376,071 1,032,077 726,159 FINAL BALANCE 511,239 617,307 996,843 1,032,077 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 145 ATTACHMENTS STATEMENT OF VALUE ADDED (In thousands of Reais) PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 REVENUE 4,665,632 4,184,983 4,976,560 4,344,815 Gross sales revenue 4,599,471 4,142,437 4,911,231 4,286,056 Other revenue 72,709 44,862 72,050 61,295 Allowance for doubtful accounts (6,548) (2,316) (6,721) (2,536) Inputs acquired from third parties (2,659,521) (2,434,086) (2,289,842) (2,089,790) Cost of sales (2,283,756) (2,103,126) (1,889,520) (1,744,161) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others (375,765) (330,960) (400,322) (345,629) Gross value added 2,006,111 1,750,897 2,686,718 2,255,025 Depreciation, amortization and depletion (256,084) (237,057) (625,597) (499,803) Net value added 1,750,027 1,513,840 2,061,121 1,755,222 Value added received through transfer 170,695 175,432 94,373 86,706 Financial income 59,432 45,142 102,656 89,050 Equity in the results of investees 111,263 130,290 2,743 2,024 Results from discontinued operation (11,026) (4,368) Value added to be distributed 1,920,722 1,689,272 2,155,494 1,841,928 DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED Personnel compensation 578,113 504,683 662,731 559,077 Direct compensation 477,238 422,967 542,322 460,038 Benefits 68,197 51,206 83,736 66,676 Severance indemnity fund (FGTS) 30,768 28,443 34,663 30,269 Other 1,910 2,067 2,010 2,094 Government taxes 657,989 572,729 752,542 618,393 Federal 414,433 362,921 504,484 403,769 State 240,848 208,083 243,740 211,423 Municipal 2,708 1,725 4,318 3,201 Financing remuneration (interest) 164,700 152,604 220,079 204,747 Stockholders’ remuneration 519,920 459,256 520,142 459,711 Interest on capital/ dividends 222,671 157,496 222,671 157,496 Retained earnings 297,249 301,760 297,249 301,760 Minority interests 222 455 Total value added distributed 1,920,722 1,689,272 2,155,494 1,841,928 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 146 ATTACHMENTS Notes to the Financial Information as at December 31, 2013 (All amounts in thousands of Brazilian Reais, unless otherwise indicated) Note 1 – Operations a) General information Duratex S.A. (the Company) is a publicly-tradThe Wood Division operates five industrial ed corporation headquartered in the city of São plants in Brazil, responsible for the production of Paulo SP, Brazil. Its controlling shareholders are hardboard, medium density particle (MDP) panItaúsa Investimentos Itaú S.A., which has sigels, medium, high and super density fiberboard nificant operations in the financial and industrial (MDF, HDF and SDF) panels, Durafloor laminate sectors, and Companhia Ligna de Investimentos, flooring and components for the furniture induswhich operates principally in the retail market, the try, as well as operating an industrial resin prodistribution of civil construction and woodworkduction plant. ing materials, and in property construction and rental. The Deca Division operates ten industrial plants in Brazil, responsible for the production of The main activities of Duratex and its subsanitary ceramic and metal products under the sidiaries (collectively the Group) comprise the trademarks Deca, Hydra, Belize, Elizabeth and manufacture of wood panels (through its Wood Thermosystem. Division), vitreous chinaware, sanitary ceramics, metal products and showers (the Deca Division). b) Approval of financial statements Duratex presently has 15 industrial plants in BraThe financial statements (Parent Company and zil, and maintains branches in the main Brazilian Consolidated) were approved by the Board of cities. Duratex also has commercial subsidiaries Directors of Duratex S.A. on February 17, 2014. in the United States and Europe. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 147 ATTACHMENTS Note 2 – Summary of Significant The presentation of individual and consolidatAccounting Policies ed Statements of Value Added Statement is reThe main accounting policies applied in the quired by the Brazilian corporate legislation and preparation of these financial statements are as Brazilian accounting practices for listed compaset out below. These policies were consistently nies. As result, the IFRS does not require the disapplied to the exercises presented. closure of that statement. It is considered supplementary information, without prejudice to the 2.1 – Basis of Preparation financial statements. The financial statements were prepared on the basis of historical costs, with financial assets held (b) Individual financial statements for trading and financial liabilities (including deThe individual financial statements of the Parrivative instruments) measured at fair value. ent Company were prepared in accordance with the accounting practices adopted in Brazil, The preparation of financial statements reissued by the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncequires the use of certain critical accounting esments Committee (“CPC”) and are being pretimates and the use of judgment by the Comsented together with the consolidated financial pany’s management in the process of applying statements. the Group’s accounting policies. The areas requiring the highest level of judgment and havIn the individual financial statements, subing the greatest complexity, as well as the areas sidiaries are accounted for under the equity where assumptions and estimates are signifimethod. The same adjustments are made in cant to the financial statements, are disclosed both the individual and consolidated financial in Note 3. information, in order to arrive at the same net income and stockholders’ equity attributable (a) Consolidated financial statements to the parent company’s shareholders. In the The consolidated financial statements were Company’s case, the Brazilian accounting pracprepared and are being presented according to tices applied to the individual financial informathe accounting practices adopted in Brazil, intion differing from the IFRS applicable to the cluding the pronouncements issued by the Braseparate financial statements only in respect of zilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee the valuation of investments in subsidiaries and (CPCs), as well as by International Financial Reassociates based on the equity method of acporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the Internacounting, where IFRS requires valuation at cost tional Accounting Standards Board (IASB). or fair value. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 148 ATTACHMENTS 2.2 – Consolidation transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the fair value of the assets transferred, 2.2.1 – Consolidated Financial Statements liabilities incurred and equity instruments issued The following accounting policies were applied by the Company. The consideration transferred to the preparation of the financial statements: includes the fair value of assets and liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration agree(a) Subsidiaries ment, if applicable. Acquisition-related costs are Subsidiaries are all entities (including specificrecognized in the income statement as incurred. purpose entities) whose financial and operating The identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities policies can be controlled by the Company and and contingent liabilities assumed in a business in which the Company has a shareholding excombination are initially measured at their fair ceeding half of the voting rights. value on the acquisition date. The group recognizes non-controlling interests in acquirees either The consolidated financial information includes at their fair value or at the non-controlling interthe following companies: Duratex S.A. and its diest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net rect subsidiaries: Duratex Florestal Ltda., Estrela assets. The measurement of the non-controlling do Sul Participações Ltda., Duratex Empreendiinterest is determined for each acquisition. mentos Ltda., Duratex Comercial Exportadora S.A., Thermosystem Indústria Eletro Eletrônica The excess of the consideration transferred Ltda., Bale Comércio de Produtos para Conthe amount of any non-controlling interest in strução S.A., Mykonos Administração e Participathe acquiree and the acquisition date fair value ções Ltda., and its indirect subsidiaries: Duratex of any previous equity interest in the acquiree North America Inc., Duratex Europe NV, Duratex over the fair value of the group’s share of the Belgium NV, TCI Trading S.A., and Deca Piazza identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as S.A. (presented as discontinued operations). goodwill. If the acquisition cost is less than the fair value of the net assets of the acquired subIn view of the fact that Tablemac S.A. is not sidiary, the difference is recognized directly in controlled by any company of the Duratex Group, the statement of income. on December 31, 2013, its net income was recognized using the equity method. Intercompany transactions, as well as the balances and unrealized gains and losses in relation The business combination is accounted for to those transactions, were eliminated. The subbased on the acquisition method. The amount sidiaries’ accounting policies were adjusted to ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 149 ATTACHMENTS ensure consistency with the accounting policies group does not recognize further losses, unless of the Company. it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. (b) Transactions with and participation in noncontrolling entities 2.2.2 – New Accounting Standards, These are recorded in a manner identical to Amendments and Interpretations not transactions with the Group’s shareholders. For yet Effective acquisitions of non-controlling ownership interThe following new accounting standards, ests, the difference between any consideration changes and interpretations were issued by paid and the acquired portion of the controlling the International Accounting Standards Board shareholder’s net assets are recorded in stock(IASB) but were not effective for 2013. The early holders’ equity, as along with the gains or losses adoption of these standards, though encouron sales to non-controlling shareholders. aged by the IASB, was not allowed in Brazil by the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Com(c) Associates mittee (CPC). Associates include all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” addresses the generally accompanying a shareholding of beclassification, measurement and recognition of tween 20% and 50% of the voting rights. financial assets and financial liabilities. IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010. Investments in associates are accounted for It replaces those parts of IAS 39 that relate to under the equity method, and are initially recogthe classification and measurement of financial nized at historical cost. See Note 2.12 for details instruments. IFRS 9 requires financial assets to of the impairment of non-financial assets, includbe classified into two measurement categories: ing goodwill. those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortized cost. The determination is The Group’s share of the profits and losses of made upon initial recognition. The classification associated companies is recognized in the statedepends on the entity’s business model for manment of income and its share of the changes in aging its financial instruments and the contractureserves is recognized in the Group’s reserves. If al cash flow characteristics of the instrument. For the Group’s share of the losses of an associate financial liabilities, the standard retains most of equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, including any other unsecured receivables, the in cases where the fair value option is selected ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 150 ATTACHMENTS for financial liabilities, the portion of the fair valthis amendment will be implemented in future ue change due to an entity’s own credit risk is novations of derivatives. recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates 2.3 – Presentation of Segmented Information an accounting mismatch. The Company is still Segmented information is presented consisanalyzing the full impact of IFRS 9. The adoption tently with the segmented information provided of IFRS 9 is applicable from January 1, 2015. to the main operating decision maker. The main operating decision maker, responsible for alloIAS 32 – “Offsetting financial assets and financating funds and evaluating the performance of cial liabilities” (amendments to IAS 32 – “Financial operating segments, is the Company’s Board of Instruments: Presentation”) These amendments Directors, which is in charge of the Group’s straclarify the meaning of “currently has a legally entegic decision making, with the support of the forceable right to offset the recognized amounts” Supervisory Board. and also clarify the applicability of the IAS 32 offsetting criteria to settlement systems (such 2.4 – Foreign Currency Translation as central clearing house systems) which apply gross settlement mechanisms that are not simul(a) Functional currency and presentation currency taneous. The amendments to IAS 32 are effective The items included in the financial statements for annual periods beginning on or after January of each of the companies are measured using 1, 2014. The Company believes that these amendthe main currency of the economic environment ments are not expected to have any significant in which the respective company operates (the effect on the consolidated financial statements. functional currency). The individual and consolidated financial statements are being presented IAS 39 – “Novation of derivatives and conin Brazilian Reais, which is the Company’s functinuation of hedge accounting” (amendments tional and presentation currency. to IAS 39 – “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”) – Under the amendments (b) Transactions and balances there would be no need to discontinue hedge Transactions in foreign currencies are conaccounting if a hedging derivative was novated, verted into the functional currency using the exprovided certain criteria were met. The amendchange rates prevailing on the transaction dates, ments are effective for annual periods beginor on the valuation dates in the event that the ning on or after January 1, 2014. The Company items are remeasured. Exchange gains and losses has not novated its derivatives in 2013; however arising from the settlement of those transactions ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 151 ATTACHMENTS and from the conversion at period-end exchange foreign entity and translated at the closing rates of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign exchange rate. currencies are recognized in the statement of income as financial income or expenses, except 2.5 – Cash and Cash Equivalents when they are recorded in stockholders’ equity Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank and considered to be a hedge of net investments. deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three (c) Companies of the group with different months or less, and subject to an insignificant functional currencies risk of changes in value. The net income and financial position of the subsidiaries located abroad (none of which have 2.6 – Financial Assets the currency of a hyperinflationary economy), whose functional currency differs from the pre2.6.1 – Classification sentation currency (Brazilian Reais), are convertThe classification of financial assets is detered into the presentation currency as follow: mined by management when they are initially recognized, and depends on the purpose for • Assets and liabilities are translated at the exwhich they were acquired. The financial assets change rate on the balance sheet date; are classified into two categories: • Income and expenses are translated at the (a) Financial assets measured at fair value average exchange rate for the month in through profit or loss which they are recorded; These are financial assets maintained for trading, acquired mostly for short-term sale, includ• All resulting exchange-related differences ing derivatives not designated as hedge instruare recognized in stockholders’ equity as ments, which are classified as current assets. “accumulated conversion adjustments” and are recognized in the statement of income Derivatives are also categorized as held for when the investments in the subsidiaries trading, unless they have been designated as are realized; hedging instruments. • Goodwill and fair value adjustments result(b) Loans and receivables ing from the acquisition of a foreign entity Loans and receivables represent non-derivaare recognized as assets and liabilities of the tive financial assets with fixed or determinable ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 152 ATTACHMENTS payments which are not quoted in an active marstatement of income in “Other net gains (losses)” ket. They are included in current assets, except in the period in which they occur. Dividends from for those maturing at least 12 months after the financial assets measured at fair value through balance sheet date, which are classified as nonprofit or loss (e.g. shares) are recognized in the current assets. Loans and receivables represent income statement as part of other operating intrade accounts receivable, other accounts recome net when the Company establishes the ceivable and cash and cash equivalents, except right to receive dividends. for short-term investments. The fair values of publicly quoted assets and 2.6.2 – Recognition and Measurement liabilities are based on their current purchase Purchases and sales of financial assets are recprices. If the market for a financial asset (for seognized on the trading date, which is the date curities not listed in a stock exchange) is not acwhen the Company and its subsidiaries commit tive, the Company establishes fair value by using to buy or sell the asset. valuation techniques. These techniques include the use of transactions with third parties, referLoans and receivables are recorded at amorence to other substantially similar instruments, tized cost using the effective interest rate method. analysis of discounted cash flow models and option pricing models making the maximum use Financial assets classified at fair value through of information generated by the market and the profit or loss are initially recognized at their fair least possible use of information generated by value, and transaction costs are charged to the the management of the Company. results. Financial assets are written off when the rights to receive cash flow from the investments 2.6.3 – Offsetting of Financial Instruments have been realized or transferred, and, in the latFinancial assets and liabilities can be reported ter case, as long as the Company and its subat their net amounts in the balance sheet only sidiaries have transferred virtually all of the risks when there is a legal right to offset the amounts and benefits of ownership. Financial assets mearecognized and there is an intent to settle them sured at fair value through profit or loss are subon a net basis, or to realize the asset and settle sequently recorded at fair value. the liability simultaneously. Gains or losses resulting from fluctuations in 2.6.4 – Impairment of Financial Assets the fair values of financial assets measured at fair At the end of each reporting period, the Compavalue through profit or loss are presented in the ny evaluates whether there is objective evidence ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 153 ATTACHMENTS that a financial asset or group of financial assets b) National or local economic conditions corhas been impaired. An asset or group of financial relating with adverse changes in the payassets is deemed to be impaired, and impairment ment situation of the portfolio’s borrowers losses are incurred, only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more c) National or local economic conditions events occurring after the initial recognition of correlating with defaults on the portfothe assets (a loss event) which will have an imlio’s assets. pact on the estimated future cash flow from the financial asset or group of financial assets which The Company and its subsidiaries first evaluate can be reliably estimated. whether there is objective evidence of impairment. The criteria used by the Company to determine The loss amount is measured as the difference whether there is objective evidence of an impairbetween the book value of the assets and the presment loss include: ent value of estimated future cash flow (excluding future credit losses not yet incurred) discounted • Financial difficulties of the issuer or debtor; based on the interest rates originally contracted for the financial assets. The book value of the assets is • A breach of contract, such as a default or reduced and the amount of the loss is recognized delay in the payment of interest or principal; in the consolidated statement of income. If a loan or investment maintained through maturity has a • The disappearance of an active market for that variable interest rate, the discount rate utilized to financial asset due to financial difficulties; measure the impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined in accordance with • Observable data indicating a measurable the contract. For practical purposes, the Company reduction in the estimated future cash and its subsidiaries can measure the impairment flow from a financial asset portfolio since based on the fair value of the instrument, obtained the initial recognition of those assets, even by utilizing an observable market price. if the decrease cannot yet be allocated to the individual financial assets in the portIf, in a subsequent period, the value of the imfolio, including: pairment loss decreases and the decrease can be objectively related to an event occurring after a) Adverse changes in the payment situathe impairment has been recognized, such as an tion of the portfolio’s borrowers improvement in the debtor’s credit classification, ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 154 ATTACHMENTS the reversal of the previously recognized impaireign operation is partially or totally transferred ment loss is recognized in the consolidated stateor sold. ment of income. 2.8 – Trade Accounts Receivable 2.7 – Derivative Financial Instruments and Trade accounts receivable are recorded and Hedging Activities maintained at the nominal value of the amounts Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value obtained on sales of products, plus exchange on the date when the derivative agreement is envariations, where applicable. Trade accounts retered into, and are subsequently remeasured at ceivable mainly relate to short-term operations, fair value through the results. and are therefore not discounted to their present value, as no significant adjustments would arise Derivatives are contracted as a form of financial from this. The provision for doubtful receivables risk management, and the Company’s policy is (allowance for doubtful accounts or impairment) not to enter into leveraged derivative transactions. is made based on the analysis of the risk of realization of the credit receivables, at an amount Although the Company does not have a hedge considered sufficient by management to cover accounting policy, it has designated certain debts potential losses on the realization of these assets. at fair value through profit or loss, because of the existence of derivative financial assets directly Recoveries of written-off items are credited related to loans, as a means of avoiding the recto “other operating income (losses), net”, in the ognition of gains and losses in different periods. statement of income. Hedges of net investments in foreign opera2.9 – Inventory tions are recorded as cash flow hedges. Any gain Inventory is stated at the average purchase or loss on the hedging instruments is recognized or production cost, not exceeding the replacein stockholders’ equity in “accumulated converment cost or realizable amount, whichever is sion adjustments”, and the gains or losses relatless. Imports in transit are stated at the cost of ed to the non-effective portion is reported in the each import. statement of income immediately in “other operating income (loss), net”. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises the cost of raw materials, direct Gains and losses accumulated in equity are inlabor, other direct costs and related direct procluded in the statement of income when the forduction costs (based on normal capacity). The ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 155 ATTACHMENTS net realizable value is the estimated selling price and licenses acquired during a business combiin the normal course of business, less the estination are recognized at their fair value on the mated costs of completion and the estimated acquisition date. Since they have a defined usecosts necessary to make the sale. ful life, trademarks and licenses are subsequently recorded at cost less accumulated amortization. 2.10 – Intangible Assets Intangible assets represent goodwill, customer Contractual relationships with customers – portfolios, trademarks, patents and rights of use customer portfolio of software. They are stated at acquisition cost Only customer relationships acquired during less amortization over the period, calculated usa business combination are recognized at fair ing the straight line method, in accordance with value on the acquisition date. Customer relationthe established useful life. ships have finite useful lives and are recorded at cost less accumulated amortization. AmortizaGoodwill tion is calculated using the straight line method Goodwill is the positive difference between the over the expected useful life of the customer reamount paid or payable for the acquisition of a lationship. business and the net fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary or business Software combination. Goodwill is not amortized, but it is Acquired software licenses are recorded as tested annually to identify whether there is any capital expenditure at the amount of the costs need to record impairment losses. incurred to acquire the software and prepare it for use. The cost is amortized over the estimated Goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating useful life of the software. Units for impairment. The allocation is made to the Cash Generating Unit or group of Cash Gen2.11 – Property, Plant and Equipment erating Units that is expected to benefit from Items of property, plant and equipment are the business combination on which the goodstated at their cost of acquisition, formation or will arose, and are identified for each operating construction, including financing costs related to segment. the acquisition of qualifying assets, less accumulated depreciation calculated using the straight Trademarks and patents line method, and taking into consideration the Separately acquired trademarks and licenses estimated economically useful lives of the assets, are initially stated at historical cost. Trademarks which are reviewed at the end of each year. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 156 ATTACHMENTS Subsequently incurred costs are added to an which there is separately identifiable cash flow asset’s book value, or are recognized as a sepa(Cash Generating Unit level). rate asset, as applicable, only when it is likely that the future economic benefits associated 2.13 – Biological Assets with the asset will be realized, and the cost of Forest reserves are recognized at their fair the asset can be reliably measured. The book value, less the estimated selling costs at harvest values of replaced items and parts are written time, as described in Note 14. For immature planoff. All other maintenance and repair costs are tations (up to one year old), the cost is considrecorded in the results for the year in which the ered to approximate the fair value. Gains or losscosts are incurred. es on the recognition of biological assets at their fair value, less selling costs, are recognized in the The book value of property, plant and equipresults. The depletion appropriated to the results ment is reduced to its recoverable amount if the is made up of the formation costs portion and book value exceeds the estimated recoverable the fair value adjustments portion. amount. The formation costs of these assets are recogGains and losses on disposals are determined nized in the results as incurred. The effect of the by comparing the results with the book value variation in the fair value of a biological asset is and are recognized in “other operating income presented in a separate account in the statement (losses), net”. of income. 2.12 – Impairment of Non-Financial Assets 2.14 – Loans and Financing Assets which have an indeterminate useful Borrowing is initially recognized at its fair value life, such as Goodwill, are not subject to amorwhen funds are received, net of transaction costs, tization and are tested annually for impairment. and subsequently stated at amortized cost, that The assets subject to depreciation or amortiis, with the addition of charges and interest prozation are tested whenever there is objective portional to the period elapsed (calculated on a evidence that the book value may not be repro rata basis), using the effective interest rate coverable. For this purpose, the companies method, except for borrowing hedged by derivatake into consideration the effects arising from tive instruments, which is stated at fair value. obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. For impairment testing purBorrowing costs that are directly attributable poses, assets are grouped at the lowest level for to the acquisition, construction or production ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 157 ATTACHMENTS of a qualifying asset, i.e. an asset that requires a to settle the obligation, and reflecting the risks substantial period of time to prepare for its inspecific to the obligation. tended use or sale, are capitalized as part of the cost of the asset when it is probable that these 2.16 – Current and Deferred Income Tax costs will result in future economic benefits to and Social Contributions on Net Income the entity which can be reliably measured. Other The income tax and social contributions are borrowing costs are recognized as expenses in calculated based on the net income for the year the period in which they are incurred. before taxation, adjusted for inclusions and exclusions in accordance with the tax legislation. 2.15 – Accounts Payable to Suppliers and Deferred income tax and social contributions are Provisions recognized on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and Suppliers their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Accounts payable to suppliers are obligations to pay for goods or services that were purchased In practice, tax adjustments to the accounting in the ordinary course of business, and are classinet income, such as the inclusion of expenses and fied as current liabilities if payment is due within exclusion of revenue, are temporary differences one year. Otherwise, the accounts payable are and generate deferred tax assets or liabilities. presented as non-current liabilities. Accounts payable are initially recognized at their nominal These taxes are recognized in the statement value, which is equivalent to the fair value, and of income, except for the proportion related to subsequently measured at amortized cost using items directly recognized in equity. In this case, the effective interest rate method. the tax is also recorded in equity. Provisions Income tax and social contributions are preProvisions are recognized when there is a sented in liabilities on a net basis when there are present legal or constructive obligation resulting amounts payable, or in assets when the amount from past events, and it is likely that a disbursepaid in advance exceeds the total owed at the ment of funds will be required to settle the oblireporting date. gation, and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognized for future operatDeferred taxes and contributions are recoging losses. Provisions are measured at the presnized only if their offsetting against future taxent value of the amount expected to be required able income is probable. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 158 ATTACHMENTS 2.17 – Employee Benefits The fair value of the options granted is calculated at the grant date of the options, and at each a) Pension plans financial statement date the Company revises its The Company and its subsidiaries offer all of their estimates of the quantity of shares it expects to employees a defined contribution plan managed issue, based on the vesting conditions. by Fundação Itaúsa Industrial. The regulations of the plan establish that the sponsoring companies (c) Profit sharing will make a contribution ranging from 50% to 100% The Company and its subsidiaries compenof the amount contributed by the employees. The sate their employees through profit sharing if Company previously offered a defined benefit plan established performance targets are met. This to its employees, but this plan is being phased out, remuneration is recognized as a liability and an with enrollment not permitted for new participants. expense in the operating results (under cost of goods sold, selling expenses and administrative In relation to the defined contribution plan, the expenses) when the employee fulfils the estabCompany and its subsidiaries have no further lished performance conditions. payment obligations after the contributions are made. The contributions are recognized as em2.18 – Capital ployee benefit expenses when they fall due. ConThe common shares are classified in equity. Intributions made in advance are recognized as an cremental costs directly attributable to the isasset to the extent that these contributions lead sue of new shares or options are presented in to an effective reduction in future payments. equity as a deduction from the funds obtained, net of taxes. (b) Share-based compensation The Company offers its executives a compenThe amount paid for the acquisition of treasury sation plan based on stock options, according to shares, including any directly attributable costs, which it receives their services as consideration is deducted from the equity attributable to the for the stock options granted. The fair value of shareholders until the shares are cancelled, sold the employee services, received in exchange for or utilized in the stock option plan. the stock options granted, is recognized as an expense, with a corresponding entry to stock2.19 – Revenue Recognition holders’ equity during the period in which the Revenue represents the fair value of the conexecutives render the services and acquire the sideration received or receivable for the sale of right to exercise the stock options. products in the normal course of the activities ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 159 ATTACHMENTS of the Company and its subsidiaries. Revenue is straight line method, over the contractual period. stated net of taxes, returns, discounts or rebates granted, as well as the elimination of intercompa2.21 – Distribution of Dividends and ny sales, and is recognized when its amount can Interest on Capital be reliably measured, and when it is probable The distribution of dividends to Company that future economic benefits will be obtained by shareholders is recognized as a liability in the fithe Company and specific criteria for each of the nancial statements at the end of each year, or on relevant activities have been met. interim dates, as determined by the Supervisory Board. The balance is calculated based on the (a) Sales of goods minimum dividend established in the Company’s Sales revenue is recognized on the delivery of bylaws, net of the amounts approved and paid the products, as well as upon the transfer of the during the year. risks and benefits to the buyer. Any additional portion in excess of the mini(b) Financial income mum mandatory dividend and which is declared Financial income is recognized in accordance by management after the accounting period of with the elapsed period, using the effective inthe financial statements but before the date of terest rate method. When an impairment loss is authorization of the financial statements is reidentified on a financial instrument, the Company corded under “Proposed additional dividends” in and its subsidiaries reduce the book value to its the stockholders’ equity, and its effects are prerecoverable value, which corresponds to the essented in Note 22, item d. timated future cash flow, discounted at the original effective contractual interest rate of the inAs provided in the bylaws, the Company may strument. pay interest on capital, attributing the amounts as dividends. The tax benefit of the interest on 2.20 – Leases capital is recognized in the statement of income. The Company has lease contracts on land utilized for forestry activities. In these contracts, the 2.22 Discontinued Operations risks and rights of ownership are retained by the Discontinued operations, arising from compolessor, and the leases are therefore classified as nents that were disposed of or classified as held operating leases. The costs incurred in operatfor sale, are disclosed separately in the financial ing lease agreements are recorded as part of the statements from the rest of the Company’s opcost of formation of biological assets, using the erations, and, refer to the company Deca Piazza ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 160 ATTACHMENTS S.A., located in Argentina, which was discontinThe following are the main estimates and asued due to the loss of competitiveness and resumptions that entail a substantial risk of requircurring operational losses: ing adjustments to the book values of assets and liabilities: • Statement of income The income and expenses from discontinued operations and a) Risk of variations in the fair value of biological gains and losses resulting from write-off of assets held for sale assets are presented in “Net The Company used several estimates to value income for the period from discontinued its forestry reserves in accordance with the methoperations”. odology established by CPC 29/IAS 41. These estimates were based on market references, and Details of the related discontinued operations are subject to changes which could impact the are described in Note 33. Company’s financial statements. Specifically, a 5% reduction in standing wood prices would reNote 3 – Critical Accounting sult in a reduction in the fair value of biological Judgments and Estimates assets by about R$ 37,964, net of tax effects. If During the preparation of the financial inforthe discount rate used were increased by 0.5%, mation, accounting judgments, estimates and this would result in a reduction in the fair value assumptions are utilized to record the amounts of biological assets of about R$ 8,312, net of tax of certain assets, liabilities and other transeffects. actions. The estimates and accounting judgments adopted by management were based b) Estimated impairment of goodwill on the information available at the date when The Company and its subsidiaries test the posthe financial information was prepared, based sible impairment of goodwill on an annual basis on experience of past events and forecasts for in compliance with the accounting policy prefuture events. The financial statements include sented in Notes 2.10 and 2.12. The balance could several estimates, including the useful lives of be impacted by changes in the economic or marproperty, plant and equipment items, the realket scenario without, however, creating a signifiization of deferred tax credits, the allowance cant effect on stockholders’ equity. for doubtful accounts, inventory losses, the evaluation of the fair value of biological assets, c) Pension plan benefits and provisions for contingencies and impairThe current value of assets related to pension ment losses. plans depends on a number of factors that are ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 161 ATTACHMENTS determined using actuarial calculations. These Group has an exchange rate risk policy establishcalculations involve a series of assumptions, ining the maximum amount in foreign currency to cluding the discount rate and current market which it is exposed in relation to exchange rate conditions. Any changes in these assumptions variations. will affect the corresponding book values. In line with the risk management procedures, Note 4 – Financial Risk Management the objective of which is to minimize the foreign exchange exposure of the Company and its sub4.1 Financial Risk Factors sidiaries, hedging mechanisms are maintained, in The Company and its subsidiaries are exposed order to mitigate, in large part, the foreign exto market risk in relation to fluctuations in interchange exposure. est, and also to exchange rates and credit risk. (II) Derivatives: In terms of derivative instruConsequently, risk management is based on ments, no verifications, monthly settlements or the policies approved by the Board of Directors, margin calls are made, and the contracts are and is monitored by the Audit and Risk Comsettled upon maturity and recorded at fair value, mittee. The Company and its subsidiaries have considering the market conditions for terms and procedures to manage these situations and can interest rates. use hedging instruments to reduce the impact of the risks in this regard. These procedures include The outstanding contracts as at December 31, monitoring the level of exposure to each market 2013 were as follow: risk, in addition to establishing decision-making levels. All hedging transactions entered into by a US$ vs. Interbank deposit certificate (CDI) the Group are intended to protect its debts and swap agreements investments. The Group does not utilize leverThe Company had eight agreements of this naaged financial derivatives. ture, with an aggregate notional amount of US$ 207,049,000, and varying maturities up to June (a) Market risk 18, 2018, being an asset (purchase) position in US Dollars and a liability (sale) position in CDI. (I) Exchange rate risk: Exchange rate risk arises from the risk that there will be a reduction in the The Company made these agreements in order value of the Group’s assets or an increase in its to convert its debts denominated in US Dollars liabilities due to changes in exchange rates. The into debts indexed to the CDI. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 162 ATTACHMENTS b Fixed rate vs. Interbank deposit certificate (CDI) swap agreements The Company had five agreements with an agThe Company made these agreements in order gregate amount of R$ 144,897, maturing through to convert its total fixed interest rate debts into November 4, 2016, consisting of an asset posiCDI-indexed debts. tion at a fixed rate and a liability position at a percentage of the CDI. c Calculation of the fair value of positions The fair value of the financial instruments was The subsidiary Duratex Florestal Ltda., had two calculated by utilizing the estimated present valagreements with an aggregate amount of R$ ue of both liability and asset positions, where the 163,545, maturing on September 21, 2015, being difference between the two represents the maran asset position at a fixed rate and a liability poket value of the swap. sition at a percentage of the CDI. Statement of consolidated position of derivative financial instruments Reference Value Accumulated Effect (notional) Fair Value (current period) Amount Amount receivable/ payable/ 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 received paid I. Swap contracts Asset position Foreign currency (USD) 436,876 258,711 486,864 264,340 46,423 Fixed rate 308,442 349,770 334,283 411,218 338 Liability position CDI (745,318) (608,481) 774,385 (651,169) II. Future contracts (NDF) Commitment to purchase Foreign currency (USD) 24,373 (70) ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 163 ATTACHMENTS The gains or losses on the transactions listed the Group. The analysis involves a Probable Sceabove were offset against the liability and asset nario (Base Scenario) plus two other scenarios positions in interest rates and foreign currency, (under the terms determined by CVM 475/08) the effects of which were recognized in the firepresenting a 25% and 50% deterioration in the nancial statements. risk variables. d Sensitivity analysis For the rates of risk variables used in the probThe table below sets out a sensitivity analyable scenario, BM&FBOVESPA (São Paulo Stock, sis of the Company’s financial instruments, inFutures and Commodities Exchange)/ Bloomcluding derivatives, and describes the risk sceberg quotations for the respective maturity dates narios which could generate material losses for were used. Sensitivity analysis table Amounts in thousands of R$ Probable Possible Remote Risk Instrument/Operation Description Scenario Scenario Scenario Interest rate risk SWAP FIXED / CDI Increase CDI (7,533) (21,768) (36,256) Subject to hedge: fixed rate loans. 7,533 21,768 36,256 Net Effect Foreign SWAP US$ / CDI (Res.2770 e Res. Decrease (22,637) (180,704) (338,771) exchange 4131) US$ Subject to hedge: foreign currency (increase 22,637 180,704 338,771 debt (US$) US$) Net Effect Total (III) Cash flow or fair value risk derivative transactions to hedge against interest associated with the interest rate rate volatility. Interest rate risk is the risk that an economic loss will be suffered due to adverse changes in (a) Credit Risk interest rates. This risk is continually monitored in The Group’s sales policy is directly associated order to evaluate any possible need to contract with the level of credit risk it is willing to accept ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 164 ATTACHMENTS in the course of its business. The measures ad(b) Liquidity risk opted to minimize defaults or losses on accounts The Company and its subsidiaries have a debt receivable include: the diversification of the policy which defines the limits and parameters Group’s portfolio of receivables, the selection of for debt, and the minimum funds which should its customers, and the monitoring of sales financbe maintained, the latter being the higher of the ing terms and individual position limits. following: an amount equivalent to 60 days of net revenue or the amount of the debt servicing In relation to temporary cash investments and expenses plus dividends and/or interest on capiall other investments, the Company follows the tal forecast for the following six months. policy of working only with blue-chip institutions and not concentrating its investments on any The liquidity position is managed on a daily baone economic group. sis, by means of monitoring the cash flow. Listed below are the maturities of the Company and its subsidiaries’ contracted financial liabilities presented in the financial statements: Parent company Consolidated Less than 2015 From 2017 After Less than 2015 From 2017 After 1 year and 2016 to 2021 2022 1 year and 2016 to 2021 2022 12/31/13 Loans/ Debentures 575,803 1,020,686 476,402 9,721 716,373 1,184,132 540,615 9,721 Suppliers 188,999 180,167 Total 764,802 1,020,686 476,402 9,721 896,540 1,184,132 540,615 9,721 The budget projection approved by the Board of Directors for the next fiscal year, if achieved, shows that the Company will be able to generate sufficient cash to meet its obligations. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 165 ATTACHMENTS 4.2 Capital Management The Company and its subsidiaries manage their This is achieved through capital cost optimizacapital with the objective of ensuring the contion and controlling the level of indebtedness as tinuity of their operations, as well as providing a result of monitoring the financial leverage index shareholders with a return on their investment. based on the ratio of net debt to total capital. Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 A -Loans, financing and debentures 2,082,612 2,049,875 2,450,841 2,401,787 Short term 575,803 566,143 716,373 681,774 Long term 1,506,809 1,483,732 1,734,468 1,720,013 B-(-) Cash and cash equivalents 511,239 617,307 996,843 1,032,077 C=(A-B) Net debt 1,571,373 1,432,568 1,453,998 1,369,710 DStockholders' equity 4,365,005 4,019,981 4,365,005 4,023,605 C/D=Financial leverage index 36% 36% 33% 34% The financial leverage has remained at the same The Company and its subsidiaries apply CPC 40/ levels presented in the previous year, absorbing IFRS 7 for financial instruments measured at fair valdisbursements made as part of the investment ue, which requires the disclosure of the measurement plan and the payment of 70% of the amount criteria used. As the Company has only Level 2 deagreed for the acquisition of Thermosystem. rivatives, it uses the following valuation techniques: 4.3 Fair Value Estimates • The fair value of the interest rate swap is calIt is assumed that the book values of accounts culated based on the present value of the receivable from customers and accounts payable estimated future cash flow based on the to suppliers, less the provision for loss (impairyield curves adopted by the market; ment), are close to their fair values. The fair value of the financial liabilities for disclosure purposes • The fair values foreign currency forward is estimated by discounting the future contraccontracts are determined based on future tual cash flow at the current market interest rate exchange rates at the balance sheet dates, which is available to the Company and its subsidwith the resulting amounts discounted to iaries for similar financial instruments. their present values. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 166 ATTACHMENTS The consolidated financial instruments (by category/level) are presented below: Financial liabilities Loans and designated receivables Financial liabilities at fair value Total 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 996,843 1,032,077 996,843 1,032,077 Trade accounts receivable 913,362 796,008 913,362 796,008 Call option (*) 2,498 2,498 Restricted deposits 28,290 25,717 28,290 25,717 Total 1,938,495 1,853,802 2,498 1,938,495 1,856,300 LIABILITIES Loans/ debentures 1,672,944 1,790,093 777,897 611,694 2,450,841 2,401,787 Suppliers 180,167 211,829 180,167 211,829 Dividends/ Interest on capital 78,697 91,248 78,697 91,248 Derivative financial instruments (**) (4,034) (11,562) (4,034) (11,562) Total 1,931,808 2,093,170 773,863 600,132 2,705,671 2,693,302 (*) Value recorded in “Other accounts receivable”, non-current assets. (**) Derivative financial instruments are presented at the net value, as assets or liabilities, and are all Level 2 financial instruments. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 167 ATTACHMENTS Note 5 – Cash and Cash Equivalents Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Cash and banks 35,023 25,391 50,450 38,839 Fixed income securities 163 286 1,539 2,525 Bank deposit certificates 476,053 591,630 945,160 990,713 Reclassification to discontinued operations (note 33) (306) TOTAL 511,239 617,307 996,843 1,032,077 The bank deposit certificates in Brazil earn inAlthough they have long-term maturities, bank terest with reference to the CDI rate, and deposdeposit certificates can be redeemed at any time its abroad in US Dollars earn a fixed interest rate. without loss of remuneration. Note 6 – Trade Accounts Receivable Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Domestic customers 830,149 739,795 905,769 785,733 Foreign customers 54,238 42,094 41,467 39,127 Allowance for doubtful accounts (33,020) (28,168) (33,815) (28,852) Reclassification to discontinued operations (note 33) (59) TOTAL 851,367 753,721 913,362 796,008 The balances of accounts receivable by maturity are as follow: Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Not yet due 833,849 743,921 896,134 786,291 Past-due up to 30 days 10,655 4,111 10,750 4,228 From 31 to 60 days 1,166 852 1,166 858 From 61 to 90 days 545 688 586 715 From 91 to 180 days 3,527 3,048 3,527 3,048 More than 180 days 34,645 29,269 35,074 29,720 TOTAL 884,387 781,889 947,237 824,860 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 168 ATTACHMENTS The Company and its subsidiaries have a Credit ers’ equity, or a combination of these. ConPolicy in place, the objective of which is to estabsideration is also given to the average volume lish the procedures to be followed when granting of monthly purchases. The decision as to the credit in commercial operations, and sales of prodcredit limit is always supported by an evaluaucts and services, both domestically and abroad. tion of the economic and financial situation, an examination of the relevant documents and the The credit limit is determined based on a credit customer’s reputation. analysis, considering the history of the customer, its capacity as a borrower, and market information. Customers are classified as A, B, C or D based on the length of the Company’s relaThe credit limit is defined with reference to a tionship with the customer and their payment percentage of net revenue and the stockholdhistory. Length of Classification Payment history % of customer portfolio relationship 12/31/13 12/31/12 A over 5 years Punctual 63% 57% B over 3 years Up to 1 day late, on average 6% 7% C below 3 years Over 1 day late, on average 27% 33% D Defaulted 4% 3% The maximum credit risk exposure at the date of this report is the book value of each class of trade accounts receivable listed above. The Group has not pledged any receivables as collateral for liabilities. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 169 ATTACHMENTS Note 7 Inventory Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Finished goods 125,428 91,507 144,709 104,529 Raw materials 206,279 152,822 209,664 160,213 Work in progress 92,104 69,455 103,156 76,691 General warehouse 81,991 69,853 83,717 70,967 Advances to suppliers 3,147 2,131 5,702 2,233 TOTAL 508,949 385,768 546,948 414,633 Note 8 – Other Receivables Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Current Dividends receivable 42,509 31,273 Fundação Itaúsa Industrial (pension plan) 14,037 14,037 Sale of farms/ properties 16,080 15,101 22,098 20,718 Others 6,066 10,513 6,242 12,868 Total Current 78,692 56,887 42,377 33,586 Non-Current Fundação Itaúsa Industrial (pension plan) 16,377 16,377 Sale of farms/ properties 8,238 21,548 10,371 28,978 Forest incentives 12,411 12,276 Others 10,763 12,815 23,532 20,962 Total Non-Current 35,378 34,363 62,691 62,216 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 170 ATTACHMENTS Note 9 – Recoverable Taxes and Contributions The Company has recoverable federal and state tax credits, the composition of which is as follows: Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Current Income tax and social contribution to be offset 16,244 14,692 25,429 22,877 ICMS, PIS and COFINS on the acquisition of property, 26,859 29,566 28,078 31,381 plant and equipment (*) PIS and COFINS to be offset 2,679 5,931 10,553 13,846 ICMS and IPI recoverable 7,333 9,039 15,350 13,857 Others 652 20 1,162 1,133 Total 53,767 59,248 80,572 83,094 Non-Current ICMS, PIS and COFINS on the acquisition of property, 49,256 44,054 50,544 45,462 plant and equipment (*) Total 49,256 44,054 50,544 45,462 (*) The recoverable amounts for State Value-Added Tax (ICMS), Social Integration Program (PIS) and Social Contribution on Revenue (COFINS) were mainly generated from the acquisitions of property, plant and equipment items for the industrial plants. Under current legislation, the PIS/COFINS credits will be utilized within 12 and 24 months, and the ICMS credits within 48 months. Note 10 – Deferred Income Tax and Social Contribution Deferred income tax and social contribuliabilities, and adjustments made to comply tions are calculated on income tax and social with CPCs/IFRS. The tax rates applied in this contribution losses, temporary differences berespect are 25% for income tax and 9% for sotween the tax and book bases of assets and cial contributions. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 171 ATTACHMENTS Deferred tax assets are recognized to the exincome. These projections are prepared on the tent that it is probable that future taxable inbasis of internal assumptions and using future come will be available to utilize temporary difeconomic scenarios, and are, therefore, subject ferences, considering the projections of future to change. Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 26,330 29,722 32,402 34,327 Temporarily non-deductible provisions: Provision for sundry labor charges and costs 16,257 12,222 17,729 13,405 Provisions for losses on inventory 692 3,326 742 3,371 Provision for adjustment of assets to market value 2,307 2,203 2,309 2,205 Provision for commission payable 1,735 1,777 1,735 1,777 Sundry provisions 5,339 10,194 9,873 13,569 Swap result (cash vs. accruals basis) 14 Deferred tax asset to be recovered after 12 months 21,730 21,466 29,128 29,328 Provision for sundry labor charges 9,683 9,929 11,281 10,886 Tax provisions 8,893 9,316 14,679 15,118 Allowance for doubtful accounts 2,363 1,209 2,377 1,209 Provision for losses on investments 469 469 469 469 Sundry provisions 192 150 192 1,253 Effect of business combination CPCs / IFRS 130 393 130 393 Total deferred tax assets 48,060 51,188 61,530 63,655 Non-current liabilities Income tax and social contributions on revaluation reserve (29,912) (32,685) (56,211) (61,510) Income tax and social contributions on present value adjustment of loans (7,748) (8,405) (7,748) (8,405) Income tax and social contributions on Swap result (cash vs. accruals basis) (17,285) (3,583) (17,285) (4,337) Income tax and social contributions on depreciation (25% credit of social contribution) (3,272) (8,005) (11,885) Income tax and social contributions on goodwill based on future profitability (15,175) (8,936) (15,175) (4,199) Income tax and social contributions on sale of real estate (4,097) (6,303) (5,278) (8,369) Income tax of subsidiary located abroad (Deca Piazza) (699) Income tax and social contributions on other fiscal obligations (91,956) (69,585) (95,538) (69,620) Income tax and social contributions on CPC/IFRS adjustments (113,451) (119,162) (300,353) (316,683) Total deferred tax liabilities (279,624) (251,931) (505,593) (485,707) ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 172 ATTACHMENTS Note 11 – Related Parties a) Balances and transactions with subsidiaries Controlled companies Associate Tablemac Description Duratex Coml. Exportadora Duratex Florestal Thermosystem 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 Assets Trade accounts receivable 33 55 4 5,636 Dividends receivable 472 42,509 30,801 Accounts receivable 41 11 Subsidiaries 13,597 Liabilities Suppliers 25,774 21,620 Subsidiaries 4 5 Results Sales 28 20 13 10,979 1,899 Purchases (295,751) (265,299) Financial 2 2 123 Others 6 35 Indirect subsidiaries Description TCI Trading Duratex North America Deca Piazza 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Assets Trade accounts receivable 11,056 8,863 7,929 6,788 Accounts receivable 22 9 Liabilities Suppliers 1,010 Results Sales 29,620 27,637 655 3,508 Purchases (37,808) (80,755) Financial 783 633 1,039 635 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 173 ATTACHMENTS b) Transactions with other related parties Leo Madeiras Leroy Merlin Ligna Description Maqs.& Fer. Ltda Cia Bras. Bricolagem Florestal Ltda. Elekeiroz S.A. 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Assets Trade accounts receivable 12,601 16,610 26,805 30,130 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 2,500 Liabilities Suppliers 556 Results Sales 82,354 91,520 110,356 92,043 785 Purchases (29) (7,132) (29,368) (25,550) Lease costs (*) (22,079) (13,446) (*) Refers to the costs of the rural leasing agreement with Ligna Florestal Ltda. (controlled by Ligna de Investimentos) entered into by the subsidiary Duratex Florestal Ltda. in connection with land used for reforestation. The monthly charges for this lease amount to R$ 1,515. The agreement will expire in July 2038, but may be renewed automatically for a further 15 years, readjusted annually based on the variation of the National Consumer Price Index (INPC), calculated by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). The increase in the amounts paid in 2013 mainly refers to the retroactive adjustment of the leases of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul amounting to R$ 6,370, as detailed in Note 21. Itaúsa Itaúsa Description Itautec S.A. Empreendimentos S.A. Investimentos S.A. Itaú Unibanco Itaú Seguros 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Assets Financial investments 199,104 532,725 Trade accounts receivable 3 27 114 Liabilities Suppliers 492 Results Sales 37 75 36 428 350 Rent expenses (2,841) (2,525) (937) Insurance expenses (2,645) (3,187) Remuneration on financial investments 29,056 27,063 Financial expenses (133) Other operating income (expenses), net (2,471) (2,917) (1,250) (2,505) ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 174 ATTACHMENTS The transactions with related parties are realc) Management remuneration ized in the course of the Company’s business, The remuneration paid or payable to the exand are at normal market conditions. ecutives of the Company and its subsidiaries up to December 31, 2013 was R$ 14,433 in fees (R$ Financial investments from Banco Itaú S.A are 12,837 December 31, 2012), R$ 13,934 in the form made under normal financial market conditions, of profit sharing (R$ 15,645 December 31, 2012), and within the limits set by the Company’s manageand R$ 6,736 in the form of long-term remunerament. The amounts presented as financial income tion based on stock options (R$ 5,694 Decemrepresent earnings on investments, and financial exber 31, 2012). penses refer to fees for the collection of receivables. Note 12 – Investments In Subsidiaries and Associates a) Change in investments Direct subsidiaries Duratex Duratex Estrela Duratex Duratex Ind. Met. Thermosystem Bale Com. Mykonos Coml. Exp. Florestal do Sul Empreend. Europe Jacareí Eletro Eletron. Prod. Admin. Part. Total Number of shares/quotas held (Thousand) Common 6 182 Preferred 10 52 Quotas 12 2,874 19,243 Interest % 100.00 99.99 99.99 99.99 99.99 99.99 99.99 Capital 190,200 700,006 12 2,874 196,812 19,243 10 10 Equity 143,975 1,465,452 5,576 6,822 133,049 28,945 10 10 Net income (loss) for the year (69,326) 173,659 179 353 (65,916) 6,398 Changes in investments As at December 31, 2011 36,822 1,325,565 5,267 6,078 7 1,373,739 Amortization of goodwill (67) (2,894) (2,961) Equity in results of investees 1,988 127,385 130 391 (7) 403 130,290 >> continue ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 175 ATTACHMENTS >> continuation Direct subsidiaries Duratex Duratex Estrela Duratex Duratex Ind. Met. Thermosystem Bale Com. Mykonos Coml. Exp. Florestal do Sul Empreend. Europe Jacareí Eletro Eletron. Prod. Admin. Part. Total Acquisition of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 46,343 46,343 Variation in unrealized revenue 820 820 Capital increase 47,000 47,000 Exchange variation on equity 4,802 4,802 Dividends (472) (123,344) (123,816) Merger of subsidiary on 12.28.2012 (13,026) (13,026) Reclassification of goodwill to intangible assets (16,174) (16,174) Reclas. of goodwill to property, plant and equipment (14,652) (14,652) Advances for capital increases 118,200 118,200 As at December 31, 2012 209,160 1,329,539 5,397 6,469 1,550,565 Amortization of goodwill (64) (1,342) (1,406) Equity in results of investees (69,326) 173,659 179 353 6,398 111,263 Acquisition of Thermosystem Eletro Eletrônica Ltda 56,402 56,402 Establishment of Bale Com. Produtos p/construção S.A. 9 9 Establishment of Mykonos Admin. e participações Ltda. 9 9 Exchange variations on equity 4,141 4,141 Dividends (42,509) (42,509) As at December 31, 2013 143,975 1,460,625 5,576 6,822 61,458 9 9 1,678,474 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 176 ATTACHMENTS Indirect subsidiaries Associate Deca Piazza North America Duratex Europe Duratex Belgium TCI Trading Jacarandá Mimoso Tablemac Number of shares/quotas held (Thousand) Common 32,545 500 19 1,880 7,401 12,529,839 Preferred 7,401 Quotas Interest % 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 37.00 Capital 15,272 885 196,812 46,762 17,634 54,332 Equity (6,956) 7,709 133,049 34,205 20,147 328,233 Net income (loss) for the year (13,774) (27) (65,916) (13,680) 237 (2,389) Changes in investments As at December 31, 2011 6,133 5,799 17,475 16,407 94,828 Amortization of goodwill 1,078 Equity in results of investees (6,599) 379 (8,432) (2,218) 2,296 (5) 2,024 Acquisition of shares of Tablemac 119,541 Goodwill Tablemac 44,478 Establishment of investee 155 Capital increase 6,888 176,908 47,300 Exchange variation on equity (278) 559 8,221 2,666 6,583 Dividends (2,193) Merger of subsidiary on 04.30.2012 (94,823) Variation on interest % 7 As at December 31, 2012 6,144 6,737 194,179 47,903 16,510 173,704 Amortization of goodwill 118 Equity in results of investees (13,774) (27) (65,916) (13,680) (76) (884) Dividends (100) (1,382) Exchange variations on equity 674 999 (4,416) (3,538) 16,186 Acquisition of shares of TCI Trading 3,813 Disposal of exchange variations on Goodwill of Tablemac 9,202 3,520 Disposal of Goodwill Tablemac (66,296) As at December 31, 2013 (6,956) 7,709 133,049 34,205 20,147 121,446 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 177 ATTACHMENTS b) Acquisition of subsidiary In January 2013 Duratex S.A. completed the acness combinations” approved by CVM Resolution quisition of all of the capital quotas of ThermosysNo. 665 of August 4, 2011 and therefore assets tem Indústria Eletro Eletrônica Ltda, for a total of and liabilities were stated at their fair value. R$ 56.4 million, after price adjustments for variations in working capital according to the contract. Details of the book value, fair value acquired This transaction is covered by CPC 15 R1 “Busiand goodwill are as follow: FAIR VALUE BOOK VALUE OF THE ACQUIRED ENTITY ASSETS 53,610 41,138 Cash and cash equivalents 2,738 2,738 Trade accounts receivable 11,055 11,221 Inventory 12,365 10,185 Recoverable taxes and contributions 792 792 Other credits 845 854 Property, plant and equipment 16,086 15,279 Intangible assets 69 69 Trademarks 9,660 Liabilities 22,785 18,592 Suppliers 3,246 3,318 Loans and financing 7,884 7,884 Personnel 2,135 2,135 Taxes and contributions 2,924 2,924 Deferred income tax and social contribution 5,965 1,700 Accounts payable 631 631 Total net assets 30,825 22,546 Goodwill 25,577 Price paid on the acquisition 56,402 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 178 ATTACHMENTS Note 13 – Property, Plant and Equipment Structures and Machinery, equipment Assets in Furniture Other Parent company Land improvements and facilities progress and fixtures Vehicles assets Total Opening balance as at 01/01/2012 Cost 86,630 604,026 2,583,262 295,245 26,481 24,536 92,880 3,713,060 Accumulated depreciation (225,352) (1,020,020) (17,980) (16,690) (63,258) (1,343,300) Net book value 86,630 378,674 1,563,242 295,245 8,501 7,846 29,622 2,369,760 As at 12/31/2012 Opening balance 86,630 378,674 1,563,242 295,245 8,501 7,846 29,622 2,369,760 Acquisitions 220 619 69,141 432,402 1,562 596 6,809 511,349 Write-offs (208) (15,101) 12,406 (91) (1,042) (761) (4,797) Depreciation (22,168) (168,977) (1,430) (1,998) (7,175) (201,748) Transfers 19,891 60,860 (81,281) 418 (1,929) 2,041 Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 3,836 3,604 9,852 167 323 21 1,738 19,541 Net book value 90,686 380,412 1,519,017 658,939 9,283 3,494 32,274 2,694,105 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 90,686 627,932 2,708,014 658,939 28,693 22,182 102,707 4,239,153 Accumulated depreciation (247,520) (1,188,997) (19,410) (18,688) (70,433) (1,545,048) Net book value 90,686 380,412 1,519,017 658,939 9,283 3,494 32,274 2,694,105 As at 12/31/2013 Opening balance 90,686 380,412 1,519,017 658,939 9,283 3,494 32,274 2,694,105 Acquisitions 2,500 838 40,330 336,075 3,620 67 3,807 387,237 Write-offs (5,155) (5) (84) (851) 748 (5,347) Depreciation (24,101) (185,469) (1,687) (1,084) (7,329) (219,670) Transfers 19,076 132,319 467,425 (623,371) 715 105 3,731 Net book value 112,262 489,468 1,836,148 371,638 11,847 1,731 33,231 2,856,325 Balance as at 12/31/2013 Cost 112,262 761,089 3,210,614 371,638 32,944 21,503 110,993 4,621,043 Accumulated depreciation (271,621) (1,374,466) (21,097) (19,772) (77,762) (1,764,718) Net book value 112,262 489,468 1,836,148 371,638 11,847 1,731 33,231 2,856,325 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 179 ATTACHMENTS Structures and Machinery, equipment Assets in Furniture Other Consolidated Land improvements and facilities progress and fixtures Vehicles assets Total Opening balance as at 01/01/2012 Cost 604,346 628,237 2,558,737 295,543 34,396 50,984 97,502 4,269,745 Accumulated depreciation (239,091) (967,719) (25,035) (32,162) (65,903) (1,329,910) Net book value 604,346 389,146 1,591,018 295,543 9,361 18,822 31,599 2,939,835 As at 12/31/2012 Opening balance 604,346 389,146 1,591,018 295,543 9,361 18,822 31,599 2,939,835 Acquisitions 1,919 1,745 77,181 434,133 1,829 1,068 8,124 525,999 Write-offs (2,407) (301) (15,466) 12,403 (111) (2,334) (765) (8,981) Depreciation (22,737) (177,146) (1,593) (5,361) (7,475) (214,312) Transfers 21,317 60,972 (82,081) 418 (2,160) 1,534 Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 3,773 2,538 6,896 225 20 1,090 14,542 Net book value 607,631 391,708 1,543,455 659,998 10,129 10,055 34,107 3,257,083 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 607,631 653,536 2,688,320 659,998 36,757 47,578 107,485 4,801,305 Accumulated depreciation (261,828) (1,144,865) (26,628) (37,523) (73,378) (1,544,222) Net book value 607,631 391,708 1,543,455 659,998 10,129 10,055 34,107 3,257,083 As at 12/31/2013 Opening balance 607,631 391,708 1,543,455 659,998 10,129 10,055 34,107 3,257,083 Acquisitions 27,050 845 42,932 348,523 3,811 453 4,329 427,943 Write-offs (511) (1,274) (5,999) (44) (265) (2,112) (60) (10,265) Depreciation (24,695) (195,644) (1,887) (3,739) (7,808) (233,773) Transfers 19,482 132,461 474,964 (633,456) 758 1,689 4,102 Acquision of Thermosystem 361 1,704 11,308 551 511 138 705 15,278 Goodwill Thermosystem 198 914 (1,489) 1,040 167 18 3 851 Exchange variations (82) (150) (57) (1) (290) Discontinued operations (40) (40) Net book value 654,129 501,473 1,869,470 376,612 13,223 6,502 35,378 3,456,787 Balance as at 12/31/2013 Cost 654,129 787,996 3,209,979 376,612 41,738 47,764 116,564 5,234,782 Accumulated depreciation (286,523) (1,340,509) (28,515) (41,262) (81,186) (1,777,995) Net book value 654,129 501,473 1,869,470 376,612 13,223 6,502 35,378 3,456,787 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 180 ATTACHMENTS Assets in progress refer mostly to the expantogether with a supply network, provide the sion of the industrial plants in Itapetininga-SP, Company with a high degree of self-sufficiency Taquari-RS, Metais-SP e Queimados-RJ. As at in terms of wood supplies. December 31, 2013 these formalized contracts for the expansion of industrial plants totaled apAs at December 31, 2013 Duratex Florestal Ltda. proximately R$ 114.7 million. (previously named Duraflora S.A.), had roughly 139,500 hectares of planted areas (December 31, As provided for in Technical Interpretation 2012: 140,200 hectares), in the States of São PauICPC 10 of the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncelo, Minas Gerais, and Rio Grande do Sul. ments Committee, as approved by CVM Resolution No. 619/09 in 2012, the Company reviewed a) Fair value estimate the estimated useful lives of its key assets in orThe fair value is calculated based on an estider to calculate the depreciation: mate of the volume of wood ready for harvesting, at the current prices for standing wood. In Annual depreciation rates this respect there are exceptions for: (i) forests Structures and improvements 4.00% which are less than one year old, which are statMachinery, equipment and facilities 6.70% ed at cost (because the cost approximates the Furniture and fixtures 10.00% fair value in such cases), and (ii) forests in formaVehicles 10% to 20% Other assets 10% to 20% tion, for which the discounted cash flow method is employed. Note 14 – Biological Assets Biological assets are measured at fair value, (Forest Reserves) less selling costs at the time of harvesting. Through its subsidiary Duratex Florestal Ltda. (previously named Duraflora S.A.), the Company Fair value is determined by valuing the estiis the owner of eucalyptus and pine forest remated ready-to-harvest volumes at current marserves, which are primarily utilized as raw mateket prices, based on volume estimates. The asrials for producing wood panels, floors and comsumptions utilized were: ponents, and also for sale to third parties. i. Discounted cash flow – the estimated volThese reserves guarantee supplies to the facume of ready-to-harvest wood at current tories, and also protect the Company against the market prices, net of costs still to be incurred risk of future wood price increases. Integrated and the capital costs of the respective land with the manufacturing facilities, these reserves, (brought to their present value). ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 181 ATTACHMENTS ii. Prices – the cubic meter prices in R$ obb) Composition of balance tained from market surveys carried out by The biological assets balance is made up of the specialized firms surveying regions and cost of forest formation and adjustments to fair products similar to those of the Company, in value, as shown below: addition to prices obtained from third party transactions in active markets. 12/31/13 12/31/12 Cost of formation of biological assets 595,096 545,248 iii. Differentiation the volumes harvested were Difference between cost and fair value 530,520 557,089 categorized and valued according to: (a) Fair value of the biological assets 1,125,616 1,102,337 species, either pine or eucalyptus, (b) region, (c) destination, either sawmill or processing. The forests are unencumbered by any third party liens or pledges, including to financial instiiv. Volume – the estimated volumes ready for tutions. In addition, none of the Company’s forharvesting (i.e. in the sixth year for eucalypests has a restricted legal title. tus trees and in the twelfth year for pine) were based on the projected average proc) Changes in balance ductivity for each region and for the two speThe following are the changes in the balance cies. Average productivity may vary based from the beginning to the end of the year: on age, rotation, climatic conditions, quality of seedlings, fires, and other natural risks. In 12/31/13 12/31/12 the case of mature forests, the actual volOpening balance 1,102,337 1,094,220 Variation in fair value umes of wood are utilized in order to arrive Volume/price 191,519 144,574 at the estimates. Rotating physical inventory Depletion (218,088) (162,778) is realized from the second year of a forest’s Variation in book value life, and the effects of this are incorporated Formation 132,407 114,811 into the financial statements. Depletion (82,559) (88,490) Final balance 1,125,616 1,102,337 Effect of the variation in fair value of biological v. Regularity expectations regarding future assets in the Statement of Income wood prices and volumes are reviewed at Variation in fair value 191,519 144,574 least every quarter, or when the rotational Depletion at fair value (218,088) (162,778) physical inventory is concluded. The adjustments related to the variations of the fair value are the results of higher prices in the present value of standing wood, and higher productivity. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 182 ATTACHMENTS Note 15 – Intangible Assets Goodwill due Trademarks to future Customer Parent Company Software and patents profitability portfolio Total Opening balance as at 01/01/2012 Cost 43,572 2,653 226,819 383,378 656,422 Accumulated amortization (19,541) (53,916) (73,457) Net book value 24,031 2,653 226,819 329,462 582,965 As at 12/31/2012 Opening balance 24,031 2,653 226,819 329,462 582,965 Additions 2,729 243 2,972 Amortization (6,743) (25,601) (32,344) Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 303 989 2,402 12,783 16,477 Net book value 20,320 3,885 229,221 316,644 570,070 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 46,604 3,885 229,221 396,161 675,871 Accumulated amortization (26,284) (79,517) (105,801) Net book value 20,320 3,885 229,221 316,644 570,070 As at 12/31/2013 Opening balance 20,320 3,885 229,221 316,644 570,070 Additions 1,308 809 2,117 Amortization (7,283) (565) (26,467) (34,315) Net book value 14,345 4,129 229,221 290,177 537,872 Balance as at 12/31/2013 Cost 47,912 4,694 229,221 396,161 677,988 Accumulated amortization (33,567) (565) (105,984) (140,116) Net book value 14,345 4,129 229,221 290,177 537,872 AVERAGE ANNUAL AMORTIZATION RATE 20% 0% 0% 6.67% ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 183 ATTACHMENTS Goodwill due Trademarks to future Customer Consolidated Software and patents profitability portfolio Total Opening balance as at 01/01/2012 Cost 43,981 2,661 226,819 383,378 656,839 Accumulated amortization (19,769) (53,916) (73,685) Net book value 24,212 2,661 226,819 329,462 583,154 As at 12/31/2012 Opening balance 24,212 2,661 226,819 329,462 583,154 Additions 3,098 245 3,343 Write-offs (111) (111) Amortization (6,807) (25,601) (32,408) Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 303 989 2,402 12,783 16,477 Net book value 20,695 3,895 229,221 316,644 570,455 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 47,271 3,895 229,221 396,161 676,548 Accumulated amortization (26,576) (79,517) (106,093) Net book value 20,695 3,895 229,221 316,644 570,455 As at 12/31/2013 Opening balance 20,695 3,895 229,221 316,644 570,455 Additions 1,795 803 2,598 Write-offs (72) (5) (77) Amortization (7,431) (565) (26,467) (34,463) Acquision of Thermosystem 64 5 69 Goodwill Thermosystem 9,660 25,577 35,237 Net book value 15,051 13,793 254,798 290,177 573,819 Balance as at 12/31/2013 Cost 49,058 14,358 254,798 396,161 714,375 Accumulated amortization (34,007) (565) (105,984) (140,556) Net book value 15,051 13,793 254,798 290,177 573,819 Average annual amortization rate 20% 0% 0% 6.67% ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 184 ATTACHMENTS Note 16 – Impairment Testing of Goodwill a) Goodwill on acquisition of the companies b) Goodwill on the acquisition of Tablemac S.A. Cerâmica Monte Carlo, Satipel, Metalurgica Ipê e As described in Note 34, Duratex acquired an Thermosystem. additional 43.62% of the shares of Tablemac, gainThe impairment testing was carried out by the ing control of the company. In compliance with Company’s management, taking into considCPC 15 – “Business Combinations” regarding step eration the cash-generating assets. In this test acquisitions, the Company should write down its were considered long-term discounted cash flow previous investment and remeasure it based on projections, and the nominal discount rate was the newly held equity interest at its fair value as at set at 15.89%, with no need for impairment, since the date of acquisition. In advance of this disposal, the amounts are fully recoverable. the Company analyzed the need for impairment of goodwill recorded upon the initial acquisition of Tablemac in 2012, at a total of R$ 53.6 (R$ 66.3 relating to the goodwill and R$ 12.7 relating to the exchange variations previously recorded in the stockholders’ equity) and the related loss was recognized in the income statement for 2013. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 185 ATTACHMENTS Note 17 – Loans and Financing 12/31/13 12/31/12 NON NON TYPE CHARGES AMORTIZATION GUARANTEES CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT Parent Company Local currency BNDES TJLP + 2.2% p.a Monthly and Quarterly Surety Itaúsa Invest. Itaú S.A. 59,869 145,184 60,045 204,458 BNDES TJLP + 2.7% p.a Monthly Guarantee Cia Ligna de Investimentos 31,511 24,031 31,606 55,369 BNDES TJLP + 2.8% p.a. Monthly and Quarterly Surety 70% Itaúsa 30% natural person 57,599 244,923 19,790 143,652 BNDES 4.7 % p.a. Monthly and Quarterly Surety 70% Itaúsa 30% natural person 4,334 13,556 BNDES Selic + 2.16% p.a. Monthly Surety 70% Itaúsa 30% natural person 877 3,353 Guarantee Duratex Coml. Exportadora BNDES REVITALIZA 9 % p.a. June 2013 50,168 S.A. BNDES REVITALIZA with Swap 8 % p.a. August 2014 50,583 483 49,974 BNDES PROGEREN TJLP + 2.85% p.a December 2015 Promissory Note 29,042 25,000 56 50,000 FINAME TJLP + 2.3% p.a./ Fixed 3.4 % p.a. Monthly and Quarterly Chattel mortgage and PN 2,144 33,544 999 13,583 INDUSTRIAL CREDIT with Swap 12.7 % p.a Up to April 2015 Surety Duratex Coml. Exportadora S.A. 6,653 52,543 110,464 54,706 INDUSTRIAL CREDIT 101.2 % of CDI Up to November 2015 Surety Duratex Coml. Exportadora S.A. 273,905 184,483 54,946 384,044 EXPORT CREDIT with Swap 8 % p.a. Up to November 2016 617 52,870 FLOATING RATE NOTE 109.3% of CDI Up to May 2013 140,840 Guarantee Companhia Ligna de FUNDIEST 30 % IGP-M per month Up to December 2020 17,370 123,574 4,048 135,801 Investimentos FUNDOPEM IPCA + 3% p.a Up to July 2026 Surety 70% Itaúsa 30% natural person 16,017 9,793 PROINVEST / PRO FLORESTA IGP-M + 4% p.a / IPCA + 6% p.a Up to January 2018 Surety Ligna and Mortgage of assets 11,922 13,812 13,518 21,415 Discounted Rural Promissory Note 5.5 % p.a. Up to April 2014 Promissory Note 7,720 24,893 Total Parent Company Local currency 554,146 932,890 511,856 1,122,795 Parent company Foreign currency BNDES Basket of currencies + 2.2 % p.a Monthly Surety Itaúsa Invest. Itaú S.A. 6,744 18,889 5,917 22,342 BNDES Basket of currencies + 2.4 % p.a Monthly Guarantee Cia Ligna de Investimentos 4,633 4,265 4,066 7,776 BNDES US$ + Libor + 1.6 % p.a Monthly Surety Itaúsa Invest. Itaú S.A. 1,186 3,041 1,037 3,679 BNDES US$ + Libor + 2.1 % p.a Monthly Surety 70% Itaúsa 30% natural person 351 898 307 1,086 >> continue ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 186 ATTACHMENTS >> continuation 12/31/13 12/31/12 NON NON TYPE CHARGES AMORTIZATION GUARANTEES CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT RESOLUTION 2770 / Swap US$ + Libor + 1.7% p.a. Up to April 2014 Surety Ligna Mortgage and trust 1,617 2,894 1,965 RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + 1.9% p.a. Up to March 2013 Surety Duratex Florestal Ltda. 33,821 RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + Libor + 1.7% p.a. August 2015 Promissory Note 340 103,543 308 103,194 RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + Libor + 1.5% p.a. December 2015 Promissory Note 63 118,159 55 118,093 RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + Libor + 1.5% p.a. May 2016 Promissory Note 143 50,837 RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + Libor + 2.0% p.a. June 2018 Promissory Note 91 107,851 RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + Libor + 1.5% p.a. July 2016 Promissory Note 191 57,493 Total Parent company Foreign currency 15,359 464,976 48,405 258,135 TOTAL PARENT COMPANY 569,505 1,397,866 560,261 1,380,930 Subsidiaries Local currency RURAL CREDIT NOTE with SWAP 9.4 % p.a. September 2015 Surety Duratex S.A. 68,129 102,140 111,159 63,473 EXPORT CREDIT NOTE 105.3% of CDI June 2015 Surety Duratex S.A. 68,292 56,460 114,977 BNDES TJLP + 2.9% p.a Monthly and Quarterly Surety 70% Itaúsa 30% natural person 2,629 66,645 2,761 56,701 BNDES PROGEREN 9 % p.a. Monthly Trade note 901 516 LEASING Fixed 1.3 % p.a Monthly Machinery and equipments 324 23 FINAME Fixed 5.6 % p.a Monthly and Quarterly Chattel mortgage and PN 263 1,875 263 1,130 FUNDAP 1 % p.a. Monthly Surety Duratex Coml. Exportadora S.A. 32 65 Total Subsidiaries Local currency 140,570 227,659 114,248 236,281 Subsidiaries Foreign currency Working capital Argentina (HSBC/ 1,383 Patagonia Bank) TOTAL SUBSIDIARIES 140,570 227,659 115,631 236,281 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED 710,075 1,625,525 675,892 1,617,211 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 187 ATTACHMENTS Loans and financing designated at fair value to restrictive covenants in accordance with usuCertain loans and financing (identified in the al market practice, which in addition to certain table above as SWAPS) were designated at fair common obligations specify the following: value through profit or loss. a) The MDP plant in Taquari and MDF plant in a) Sureties and letters of guarantee Uberaba present operating licenses, adopt Sureties and letters of guarantee securing measures and actions intended to avoid or the borrowing of Duratex S.A. were granted by remedy damage to the environment, and Itaúsa S.A., totaling R$ 474,249 (R$ 419,717 as at measures related to occupational health and December 31, 2012), Companhia Ligna de Invessafety. In the loan agreement for the Taquari timentos, amounting to R$ 232,735 (R$ 243,525 MDP plant, the covenants are based on the as at December 31, 2012), Duratex Comercial Exconsolidated balance sheet of Companhia portadora S.A., totaling R$ 517,584 (R$ 654,328 Ligna de Investimentos, which should mainas at December 31, 2012) and Duratex Florestal tain: current liabilities below 60% of total liLtda., totaling R$ 33,821 as at December 31, 2012. abilities and EBITDA margin above 13%. In In the case of loans and financing obtained by the financing agreement for the Uberaba subsidiaries, sureties were granted by Itaúsa S.A., MDF plant, the covenants are based on the totaling R$ 48,492 (R$ 41,623 as at December balance sheet of Duratex S.A, which should 31, 2012), Duratex S.A., totaling R$ 295,021 (R$ maintain a debt coverage limit by means of 289,609 as at December 31, 2012) and Duratex a ratio of net bank debt to EBITDA (*) of Comercial Exportadora S.A., totaling R$ 32 (R$ not more than 3.5 times, and a ratio of gross 65 as at December 31, 2012). debt to gross debt plus stockholders’ equity of not more than 0.75. b) Other guarantees For the loans and financing obtained by the b)HDF plant in Botucatu, MDFII plant in Agusubsidiary Thermosystem Indústria Eletro Eledos, industrial resins in Agudos, ceramics in trônica Ltda, sureties were granted of machinery Jundiaí, Deca sanitary metals in São Paulo and equipment totaling R$ 347 and trade notes and Jundiaí, and forestry area during the totaling R$ 1,417. contractual period, maintain the following ratios in the Duratex S.A. annual audited c) Restrictive clauses balance sheet: (i) EBITDA (*)/Net Financial Loans from the National Bank for Economic Expenses: above or equal to 3.0 (ii) EBITDA and Social Development (BNDES) are subject (*)/Net operating revenue equal to or above ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 188 ATTACHMENTS 0.20, and (iii) Stockholders’ Equity/Total AsBased on the available information, the consets equal to or above 0.45. tractual obligations related to 2013 were met. If these contractual obligations are not met, Du*EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Deratex S.A. should provide additional guarantees. preciation and Amortization) d) Loans and financing from non-current liability by maturity. Debt with financial institutions Maturities 12/31/13 Parent company Consolidated Year Local currency Foreign currency Total Local currency Foreign currency Total 2015 458,865 237,187 696,052 620,005 237,187 857,192 2016 206,257 118,377 324,634 208,563 118,377 326,940 2017 90,112 1,561 91,673 91,705 1,561 93,266 2018 73,650 107,851 181,501 91,051 107,851 198,902 2019 44,056 44,056 74,231 74,231 2020 41,878 41,878 55,987 55,987 2021 8,351 8,351 9,286 9,286 Other 9,721 9,721 9,721 9,721 Total 932,890 464,976 1,397,866 1,160,549 464,976 1,625,525 12/31/12 Parent company Consolidated YEAR Local currency Foreign currency Total Local currency Foreign currency Total 2014 485,005 13,126 498,131 613,649 13,126 626,775 2015 367,033 234,848 601,881 421,167 234,848 656,015 2016 119,649 8,797 128,446 121,813 8,797 130,610 2017 56,632 1,364 57,996 58,002 1,364 59,366 2018 42,385 42,385 57,296 57,296 2019 23,600 23,600 48,085 48,085 2020 22,151 22,151 32,272 32,272 2021 2,424 2,424 2,876 2,876 Other 3,916 3,916 3,916 3,916 Total 1,122,795 258,135 1,380,930 1,359,076 258,135 1,617,211 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 189 ATTACHMENTS Note 18 – Debentures Convertible into Shares As at February 8, 2012 the first private issue of (i) Fixed investment in the Company’s industrial debentures, with a floating guarantee and conunit in Itapetininga – SP in related to a new producvertible into common shares of the Company, was tion line for the manufacture of MDF, a new low presapproved. These debentures were and are to be sure coating line, and a new low pressure line for the issued through private subscription. The proceeds impregnation of laminated paper from the debentures are to be allocated as follow: (ii) The acquisition by the Company of locally manufactured machinery and equipment needed for (i). Balance as at December 31, 2013 Issue Type of Maturity Qty Face Price as of Composition date debenture date debentures value issue date Annual finance charge Short term Long term Total IPCA index + interest of 6% p.a. private 252 working days in the year 1st Issue 01/15/12 convertible 01/15/17 777,000 128.70 99,999.9 annual payments, on January 15 into shares of each year Used in the capital increase (1,875) As at December 31, 2013 775,125 6,298 108,943 115,241 The fair value of the liability component, included in non-current borrowing, was calculated using the market interest rate for an equivalent bond without conversion rights. The residual amount, representing the subscription bonus, is included in stockholders’ equity as a carrying value adjustment. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 190 ATTACHMENTS Note 19 – Accounts Payable Parent company Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Current Advances from customers 4,364 2,653 24,253 26,082 Statutory share 13,292 11,142 13,292 11,142 Freight and insurance payable 13,094 13,440 13,094 13,440 Distributed earnings (from SCP's) to shareholders 10,301 9,055 Commission payable 7,687 6,828 8,541 7,263 Product warranty and technical support 7,816 7,078 7,816 7,078 Acquisition of land used for reforestation 2,113 2,063 Other 24,455 22,246 32,009 26,243 Reclassification to liabilities from discontinued operations (597) Total Current 70,708 63,387 110,822 102,366 Non-Current Partnerships in which some partners are passive 97,939 97,939 Acquisition of Thermosystem 21,329 21,329 Advances from customers 13,979 Acquisition of land used for reforestation 4,752 Other 8,677 10,989 20,301 23,329 Total Non-Current 30,006 10,989 144,321 135,247 Note 20 Contingencies The provision for contingencies in relation to these processes takes into consideration the a) Contingent liabilities evaluation of the likelihood of loss by the ComThe Company and its subsidiaries are parties pany’s legal advisors. to judicial and administrative processes relating to labor, civil, and tax matters which arise in the Based on the opinion of its legal advisors, the normal course of their business. Company’s management believes that the recorded ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 191 ATTACHMENTS provision for contingencies, presented below, is sufficient to cover any potential losses relating to these processes. Parent company Tax Labor Civil Total Balance as at December 31, 2011 66,281 18,400 7,050 91,731 Monetary variance and interest 2,693 3,096 288 6,077 Constitution 11,665 17,553 423 29,641 Reversal (13,650) (13,650) Payments (1,101) (10,671) (6,937) (18,709) Closing balance as at December 31, 2012 65,888 28,378 824 95,090 Judicial deposits (2,152) (3,618) (551) (6,321) Balance as at December 31, 2012 after offsetting of judicial deposits 63,736 24,760 273 88,769 Balance as at December 31, 2012 65,888 28,378 824 95,090 Monetary variance and interest 2,685 7,349 157 10,191 Constitution 1,440 9,578 11,018 Reversal (5,316) (11,096) (16,412) Payments (669) (6,710) (7,379) Closing balance as at December 31, 2013 64,028 27,499 981 92,508 Judicial deposits (1,067) (6,239) (611) (7,917) Balance as at December 31, 2013 after offsetting of judicial deposits 62,961 21,260 370 84,591 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 192 ATTACHMENTS Consolidated Tax Labor Civil Total Balance as at December 31, 2011 127,307 21,207 7,050 155,564 Monetary variance and interest 5,873 3,479 288 9,640 Constitution 15,889 18,985 423 35,297 Reversal (34,994) (34,994) Payments (1,101) (12,180) (6,937) (20,218) Closing balance as at December 31, 2012 112,974 31,491 824 145,289 Judicial deposits (15,433) (3,861) (551) (19,845) Balance as at December 31, 2012 after offsetting of judicial deposits 97,541 27,630 273 125,444 Balance as at December 31, 2012 112,974 31,491 824 145,289 Monetary variance and interest 4,432 8,149 157 12,738 Acquisition of Thermosystem 1,429 30 95 1,554 Constitution 1,749 12,689 14,438 Reversal (7,445) (12,129) (19,574) Payments (1,752) (7,701) (9,453) Closing balance as at December 31, 2013 111,387 32,529 1,076 144,992 Judicial deposits (14,149) (6,424) (611) (21,184) Balance as at December 31, 2013 after offsetting of judicial deposits 97,238 26,105 465 123,808 Tax contingencies mainly relate to legal disthe Regional Federal Court was opposed to the cussions regarding the Plano Verão (Governsentence, the Company obtained, by means of ment economic plan), in particular a lawsuit a writ of prevention, the suspension of the apdemanding the right to update the 1989 fiscal peal to the Superior Court of Justice, and the year balance sheet utilizing the full IPC inflation judgment was upheld. As at December 31, 2013 index (gross rate) of 70.28%, or the difference of a provision of R$ 52,595 (R$ 51,485 as at De51.83%, thereby avoiding distortions of the Comcember 31, 2012) was made relating to the offpany’s balance sheet and the related income setting of income tax and social contribution on tax burden due to the non-recognition of the net income. actual inflation rate. A judgment was obtained acknowledging the right to adjust the balance b) Potential losses sheet using the rate of 42.72%, which was in efThe Company and its subsidiaries are involved fect for the fiscal years 1994 to 1996. Though in other tax lawsuits with a risk of loss classified ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 193 ATTACHMENTS as potential in the opinion of the legal advisors. c) Contingent assets The main amounts are: R$ 213,506 related to The Company and its subsidiaries have filed lethe taxation of the revaluation reserve in the gal actions for the refunding of certain taxes and corporate operations of demerger constituted contributions. According to the legal counsel, by the subsidiary Estrela do Sul Participações the likelihood of success in these cases is high. Ltda. between 2006 and 2009, and R$ 34,167 is Because the amounts, presented below reprerelated to the question of incidence and credit sent contingent assets, they have not been recof ICMS. ognized in the Company’s financial information: 12/31/13 12/31/12 IPI credit premium from 1960 to 1985 111,030 104,201 Monetary Restatement of Federal Power Company (Eletrobás) credits 10,577 10,254 Refund of withholding Tax on Net Income (ILL) paid on dividend 11,314 10,783 distributions from 1989 to 1992 INSS (Social Security) Accident Insurance (SAT), alteration of rural tax rate, 4,694 5,444 transport benefits (fares and passes) and health insurance plan COFINS judicial deposit 3,408 PIS calculation basis 945 2,125 PIS and COFINS Manaus Free-Trade Zone 383 1,486 PIS and COFINS remittance of commission on overseas sales 2,055 1,952 Other 2,705 1,128 Total 143,703 140,781 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 194 ATTACHMENTS Note 21 – Rural Leases Considering that the price of three CF MDP panels, (uncoated, 15 mm thick), indexed in the Amounts involved contracts until now, no longer represents the Rural leases are agreements entered into by only and main product produced in these rethe subsidiary Duratex Florestal Ltda. (controlled gions, and that MDF has recently come to repby the Company) with Ligna Florestal Ltda (conresent a significant percentage of revenue, the trolled by Companhia Ligna de Investimentos), in following changes were made: (i) the price of the connection with property in Minas Gerais and Rio lease was adjusted to a value in line with market Grande do Sul, where the Company’s forests are conditions for similar contracts (readjusted to located. The monthly charges for these leases 13.9%), (ii) the process of readjustment changed are R$ 1,515. from the Company’s average price for the sale of MDP panels, to the National Consumer Price On October 3, 2013 the Board of Directors apIndex (INPC) calculated by the IBGE, and (iii) proved a proposal submitted by the Board in the contract previously had a maturity date in relation to the revision claim of Ligna Florestal 2036, but now has a maturity date in 2038, and Ltda for an addition to the land lease contract maintained the automatic renewal for a further 15 between Ligna Florestal Ltda and Duratex Floyears. These changes are retroactive to July 2011 restal Ltda. and their effects have already been considered in Note 11. Thus, Duratex S.A. will pay R$ 18,180 per This approval was based on the unanimous year from 2014 to 2038. opinion of the Committee for Evaluating Transactions with Related Parties that recommended In compliance with CPC 06 – “Leases”, the subthe approval of the terms of the amendments and sidiary Duratex Florestal Ltda. records the costs also considered the technical opinion of Poyry of the rural lease agreements using the straight Engenharia Ltda Silviconsult that new conditions line method. applied are strictly in line with the market conditions for similar contracts. Note 22 – Stockholders’ Equity a) Capital The Company’s authorized capital is 920,000,000 shares, and the fully subscribed and paid-up capital is R$ 1,705,272, represented by 605,059,489 registered common shares with no par value. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 195 ATTACHMENTS In the year of 2013 the capital was increased through: (1) The issue of common shares subscribed and paid-up by debenture holders, as shown below: Prior amount Corporate Issued Current value (in (in Brazilian Reais) Prior Qty. Action shares Increased value Current Qty. Brazilian Reais) 1,550,246,461.69 550,054,041 MBD 01/23/2013 30 409.56 550,054,071 1,550,246,871.25 1,550,246,871.25 550,054,071 MBD 02/14/2013 10 137.33 550,054,081 1,550,247,008.58 (2) According to the Ordinary and Extraorb) Treasury shares dinary General Meeting held on April 22, 2013 nº of shares Amount the capital increased from R$ 1,550,247 to R$ 1,705,272 through the capitalization of reserves Balance as at December 31, 2012 828,677 10,101 and a simultaneous bonus share issue, attributAcquisitions 1,060,000 14,751 ing to shareholders one new ordinary share for Sale of treasury shares (552,285) (6,508) every ten ordinary shares held as at April 22, 2013 Bonus share issue 68,662 (record date). Balance as at December 31, 2013 1,405,054 18,344 Prices Weighted Lastest Minimum Maximum Average Quotation 2.86 15.67 13.06 13.15 Based on the most recent market quotation as at December 30, 2013, the value of the Company’s treasury shares was R$ 18,476 (R$ 12,306 as at December 28, 2012). ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 196 ATTACHMENTS c) Equity reserves Parent company and Consolidated 12/31/13 12/31/12 Capital Reserves 323,342 314,984 Premium on the subscription of shares 218,720 218,720 Tax incentives 13,705 13,705 Prior to Law 6404 18,426 18,426 Options granted 84,934 77,089 Options granted to be appropriated (Note 29) (12,443) (12,956) Revaluation Reserves 74,993 83,332 Revenue Reserves 1,860,195 1,665,920 Legal 145,012 119,016 Statutory 1,639,243 1,524,389 Additional proposed dividend 49,330 4,863 Tax incentives (Article 195 Law no. 6.404/76) 26,610 17,652 Treasury shares (18,344) (10,101) Carrying Value Adjustments 427,370 423,423 The amount presented in the Capital Reserves The Reserve for Increasing Working Capital, and balance as a premium on the subscription of (iii) The Reserve for Capital Increases in Investees. shares refers to the additional amount paid by the shareholders in relation to the nominal valThrough a proposal to be effected by​​ the Board ue per share at the time of the subscription for of Directors, the excess of revenue reserves comthe shares. pared to the capital will be capitalized in 2013. The amount of Options Granted in the Capital Tax incentives refer to: R$ 15,074 (R$ 10,730 in Reserves balance represents the recognition of 2012) of PRODEPE Pernambuco State Developthe awarding of the options on the grant date. ment Program, R$ 5,629 (R$ 3,361 in 2012) of the FAIN Paraíba Industrial Development Support As provided for in the bylaws, the balance apFund and R$ 5,907 (R$ 3,561 in 2012) SUDENE propriated to the statutory reserve will be utilized The Superintendency for the Development of the for: (i) The Reserve for Dividend Equalization, (ii) Northeast. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 197 ATTACHMENTS d) Dividends and interest on capital Under the bylaws, the stockholders are assured a mandatory minimum dividend corresponding to 30% of net income. Presented below is the dividend calculation, the amounts paid/credited and the balance payable. Dividends as at December 31, 2013 were calculated as follows: Net income for the year 519,920 (-) Legal reserve (25,996) (-) Tax incentives (8,958) (-) Realization of revaluation reserve 8,339 Adjusted net income 493,305 Minimum compulsory dividend (30%) 147,991 Withholding Dividends declared in the year Gross amount Net amount tax (IRRF) The Board of Directors at a meeting held on July 22, 2013 resolved to credit interest on capital, on account of the compulsory dividend for 2013, the amount of R$ 0.157629832 per share 95,184 (14,277) 80,907 totaling R$ 95,184, which payment was made by August 15, 2013. The Board of Directors at a meeting held on December 16, 2013 decided to pay, on December 30, 2013, ad referendum of the General Meeting, interest on own capital on account of the 73,817 (11,073) 62,744 compulsory dividend of 2013 an amount of R$ 0.122283940 per share totaling R$ 73,817, which payment will be made by April 30, 2014. Dividends proposed at 12/31/2013 53,670 53,670 Stockholders remuneration 222,671 (25,350) 197,321 Exceed minimum mandatory dividend 49,330 49,330 As described in Note 2.21, any dividend portion As at December 31, 2013 a total of R$ 49,330, in excess of the minimum mandatory dividend the portion in excess of the minimum mandatory declared by management after the accounting dividend, under the bylaws, was recorded in the period of the financial statements, but before the caption “Proposed additional dividends” in the date of authorization for the disclosure of the fistockholders’ equity. nancial statements, is not recorded as a liability and its effects are disclosed in the Notes. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 198 ATTACHMENTS Note 23 – Insurance Coverage As at December 31, 2013, the Company and its insurance coverage for its forests. To minimize subsidiaries had insurance coverage against fire the risk to these, it maintains an internal fire briand various risks relating to property, plant and gade, fire trucks and motorized forest guards. equipment, inventory and civil liabilities totalThe Company has not suffered losses as a result ing R$ 3,838 million. The Group does not have of forest fires. Note 24 – Net Sales Revenue The reconciliation of gross and net sales revenue is as follows: Parent Company Consolidated (*) 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Gross sales revenue 4,599,471 4,142,437 4,911,231 4,286,057 Domestic market 4,447,195 4,017,842 4,756,892 4,159,083 Foreign market 152,276 124,595 154,339 126,974 Taxes and contributions on sales (988,750) (897,033) (1,038,526) (913,511) Net sales revenue 3,610,721 3,245,404 3,872,705 3,372,546 (*) net from discontinued operations Note 25 – Expenses, by Nature Parent Company Consolidated (*) 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Variation in fair value of biological assets (191,519) (144,574) Variations in the inventories of finished products and (527,305) (441,166) (483,008) (430,722) work in process Raw materials and consumption materials 2,096,993 1,898,440 1,901,721 1,727,048 Remuneration, charges and benefits to employees 613,176 557,389 698,132 615,798 Depreciation charges, amortization and impairment 224,837 206,385 539,709 470,212 Transport expenses 221,901 197,353 227,503 199,396 Advertising expenses 67,456 58,503 74,597 58,565 Other expenses 284,052 232,103 235,617 177,722 Total 2,981,110 2,709,007 3,002,752 2,673,445 (*) net from discontinued operations ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 199 ATTACHMENTS Note 26 – Financial Income and Expenses Parent company Consolidated (*) 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Financial income Remuneration on financial investments 31,473 30,393 68,131 61,323 Foreign exchange variances 15,144 3,727 16,579 6,290 Indexation adjustment 6,609 6,373 9,076 10,638 Interest and discounts obtained 5,352 4,733 5,873 5,073 Fundap Discount 2,755 5,817 Other 854 (84) 242 (91) Total 59,432 45,142 102,656 89,050 Financial expenses Charges on financing -Local currency (112,926) (137,709) (144,227) (170,949) Charges on financing -Foreign currency (65,819) (9,877) (65,819) (9,305) Foreign exchange variances (8,179) (4,911) (10,193) (7,319) Indexation adjustment (5,414) (2,340) (7,386) (4,722) Derivatives 33,251 8,376 36,447 14,400 Bank charges (4,132) (4,820) (4,495) (5,476) Tax on financial operations (1,640) (2,635) (2,203) (3,703) Other (1,480) (1,323) (21,745) (20,804) Total (166,339) (155,239) (219,621) (207,878) Total financial result (106,907) (110,097) (116,965) (118,828) (*) net from discontinued operations ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 200 ATTACHMENTS Note 27 – Other Operating Income (Expenses), Net Parent company Consolidated (*) 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Amortization of customer portfolio (26,467) (25,817) (27,567) (26,103) Profit sharing and Stock Options (22,292) (19,385) (22,292) (19,385) Pension plan credits 56,696 12,465 58,013 14,124 Tax recovered as a result of the PIS six-monthly credits, Complementary Law 10,729 No. 7/70 Reversal of tax contingencies 10,028 10,028 Reversal of provision for income tax on customer portfolio of merger subsidiary 16,311 16,311 Gain (Loss) on disposal of assets and other operating income and expenses 11,326 52 9,136 4,011 Reversal of Goodwill Tablemac (53,574) 19,263 (6,346) (36,284) 9,715 (*) net from discontinued operations Note 28 – Income Tax and Social Contribution a) Reconciliation of income tax and social contribution expenses The reconciliation of income and social contribution tax expenses, at their nominal and effective rates, is as follows: Parent company Consolidated (*) 12/31/13 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/12 Profit before Income tax and social contribution 638,798 537,538 705,014 579,175 Income Tax and Social Contribution at the rates of 25% and 9%, respectively (217,191) (182,763) (239,705) (196,920) Income tax and social contribution on additions and deductions from the result 98,313 104,481 69,195 84,055 Income from foreign investments (31,978) (6,506) Interest on capital 59,661 53,225 59,661 53,225 Equity in results of investees 37,829 44,298 933 688 Other additions and exclusions 823 6,958 40,579 36,648 Income tax and social contribution on profit for the period (118,878) (78,282) (170,510) (112,865) In the results: Current income tax and social contribution (89,848) (74,445) (155,797) (111,893) Deferred income tax and social contribution (29,030) (3,837) (14,713) (972) (*) net from discontinued operations ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 201 ATTACHMENTS b) Effects of Provisional Measure No.627 Note 29 – Stock Option Plan On November 11, 2013 Provisional Measure No. As provided for in the bylaws, the Company 627 was published and, among other provisions: has a stock option plan, the objective of which is to integrate executives into the Company’s me• Revoked the Transitional Tax Regime – RTT; diumand long-term development process, enabling them to benefit from the value that their • Amended Decree Law No. 1,598/77 related work and dedication adds to Duratex’s shares. to the corporate Income Tax and Social Contribution on Net Income; These options grant their owners the right, pursuant to the Plan’s conditions, to subscribe to • Dealt with the potential tax on profits or divcommon shares of Duratex’s authorized capital. idends paid in the period January 1 2008 to December 31, 2013; The rules and operating procedures of the Plan are proposed by a Committee designated by the • Established the method of calculation of inCompany’s Board of Directors. This Committee terest on capital from the year 2008 to 2013, submits proposals to the Board of Directors reusing the equity accounts that were meagarding the implementation of the Plan. sured in accordance with the provisions of Law 6.404/76, disregarding the amounts reOptions will only be granted for fiscal years durlated to the carrying value adjustment and ing which sufficient profits are earned to permit the revaluation reserve; the mandatory minimum dividend distribution to shareholders. The total quantity of options to be • Introduced a new system for the taxation of granted during each fiscal year should not exprofits earned by subsidiaries abroad. ceed 0.5% of the total number of shares owned by the controlling and non-controlling shareholdThe Company’s management has analyzed ers at the end of the same fiscal year. the main impacts and has concluded that the adjustments to be made based on the ProviThe exercise price payable to Duratex will sional Measure, not yet approved by Congress be defined by the Committee when grantand not regulated by the Federal Revenue, are ing the option. In order to define the exernot significant. cise price, the Committee will consider the average price of Duratex’s common shares in BM&FBOVESPA trading sessions for a period ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 202 ATTACHMENTS of five to 90 days prior to the option issue tablished will be readjusted, until the month date. This will be at the discretion of the Comprior to the exercise of the options, based on mittee, which may make an upward or downthe IGP-M index, or, in its absence, an index ward adjustment of up to 30%. The prices esspecified by the Committee. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total stock options granted 2,659,180 2,787,050 2,678,901 2,517,951 1,333,914 1,875,322 1,315,360 1,561,061 Exercise price on the grant date 11.16 11.82 15.34 9.86 16.33 13.02 10.21 14.45 Fair value on the grant date 9.79 8.88 7.26 3.98 7.04 5.11 5.69 6.54 Deadline to exercise 10 years 10 years 10 years 8 years 8 years 8.5 years 8.8 years 8.9 years Vesting period 1.5 years 1.5 years 1.5 years 3 years 3 years 3.5 years 3.8 years 3.9 years The following economic assumptions were utilized to determine these amounts: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Volatility of share price 34.80% 36.60% 36.60% 46.20% 38.50% 32.81% 37.91% 34.13% Dividend yield 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% Risk-free rate of return (1) 8.90% 7.60% 7.20% 6.20% 7.10% 5.59% 4.38% 3.58% Actual exercise rate 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% The Company settles this benefit plan by transferring shares, which are kept in treasury until the the actual exercise of the options by the executives. (1) General Market Price Index (IGP-M) ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 203 ATTACHMENTS Statement of value and appropriation of the options granted: Balance to be Exercised Competence Grant Qty Vesting Term for Grant Option Total from 2007 Other Date Granted Date Maturity price Dec/12 Dec/13 * Price Value to 2011 2012 2013 Periods 03/30/06 2,659,180 from 06/30/07 to 12/31/16 11.16 48,856 53,740 11.42 586 586 01/31/07 2,787,050 from 06/30/08 to 12/31/17 11.82 1,588,612 1,445,154 10.36 24,758 24,758 02/13/08 2,678,901 from 06/30/09 to 12/31/18 15.34 1,649,682 1,512,330 8.47 19,456 19,456 06/30/09 2,517,951 from 06/30/12 to 12/31/17 9.86 922,476 830,467 4.64 9,194 8,447 747 04/14/10 1,333,914 from 12/31/13 to 12/31/18 16.33 1,464,818 1,420,779 8.21 8,716 4,451 2,250 2,015 06/29/11 1,875,322 from 12/31/14 to 12/31/19 13.02 1,868,298 1,859,377 5.11 9,208 1,374 2,809 2,609 2,416 04/09/12 1,315,360 from 12/31/15 to 12/31/20 10.21 1,315,360 1,287,309 5.69 6,997 1,492 1,917 3,588 04/17/13 1,561,061 from 12/31/16 to 12/31/21 14.45 1,498,804 6.54 8,981 2,109 6,872 Total 16,728,739 8,858,102 9,907,960 87,896 59,072 7,298 8,650 12,876 Effective exercise rate 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% 96.63% Value established 84,934 57,081 (1) 7,052 (2) 8,358 (3) 12,443 (4) (1) Amount recorded against income from 2007 to 2011 (2) Amount recorded against income for 2012 (3) Amount recorded against income for 2013 (4) amount to be recorded against income until December 2015 (*) Includes bonus share issue of 10% as provided in the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting held on April 22, 2013 As at December 31, 2013, the Company had dustrial, a non-profit organization which has 1,405,054 treasury shares that could be utilized as its objective the administration of private for the exercise of options. plans providing pensions or supplementary income benefits, similar to those of the NaNote 30 – Private Pension Plan tional Social Security. The Fundação managThe Company and its subsidiaries are part es a Defined Contribution Plan and a Defined of a group of sponsors of Fundação Itaúsa InBenefit Plan. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 204 ATTACHMENTS Defined contribution plan – (DC Plan) formed the Pension Program Fund, which, acThis plan is offered to every employee and as at cording to the plan’s regulations, is being utilized December 31, 2013 had 6,613 participants (6,159 to compensate the contributions by sponsors. as at December 31, 2012). The present value of normal future contribuIn the DC Plan PAI (Individual Retirement tions, calculated by Towers Watson, an indepenPlan) there is no actuarial risk, and the investdent actuary, according to the projected unit ment risk is borne by the participants. The regucredit method, was recognized in the December lations stipulate sponsor contributions of 50% to 31, 2013 financial statements under “Pension Plan 100% of the amounts paid in by participants. Credits” in the amount of R$ 107,927 (R$ 92,232 as at December 31, 2012). The increase of R$ 15,695 Pension Program Fund was recognized in the Statement of income unThe contributions by sponsors that remain in der “Other net operating income (expenses)”. the plan as a result of participants who opted to Presented below is the reconciliation with the be paid out or who anticipated their retirement recognized amounts in the financial statements: Assets and liabilities relating to the DB Plan 12/31/13 12/31/12 Present value of the actuarial obligations (658,130) (622,119) Fair value of assets 898,189 847,690 (Liabilities) / Assets calculated based on item 54 of CPC 33/IAS 19 240,059 225,571 Restriction on assets due to limit (item 58 of CPC 33/IAS 19) (132,132) (133,339) Assets and liabilities relating to DB Plan 107,927 92,232 Defined benefit Plan – (DB Plan) The DB Plan has the basic purpose of granting The plan includes the following benefits: a rebenefits in the form of a lifetime monthly income tirement supplement, based on the period of to complement National Social Security paycontribution, special conditions, age, disability, ments, according to the plan’s regulations. This lifetime monthly income, retirement premium, plan is being discontinued, and enrollment by and a death benefit. new participants is not permitted. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 205 ATTACHMENTS On January 28, 2013 the National Superintenments, beginning on February 2013, a total of R$ dence of Pension Funds (Previc) approved the 42,318, related to the special reserve in the stockrevision of the Defined Benefit Plan (DB Plan) holders’ equity. solving the surplus and restoring the technical balance of the plan. The Company recognized Presented below is the DB plan position as at this asset, which will be received in 36 installDecember 31, 2013: Assets and liabilities relating to the DB Plan 12/31/13 12/31/12 Present value of the actuarial obligations (65,969) (71,533) Fair value of assets 133,114 145,198 (Liabilities) / Assets calculated based on item 54 of CPC 33/IAS 19 67,145 73,665 Restriction on assets due to limit (item 58 of CPC 33/IAS 19) (35,561) (73,665) Net assets from defined benefit (Liability) 31,584 Actuarial assumptions Economic assumptions 12/31/13 12/31/12 Discount rate 12.73% 8.16% Future salary increases 9.18% 7.12% Growth of benefits 6.00% 4.00% Inflation 6.00% 4.00% Capacity factor Salaries 100% 100% Benefits 100% 100% Economic assumptions 12/31/13 12/31/12 Mortality Table AT 2000 AT 2000 Mortality table for disabled RRB 1983 RRB 1983 Table of entry into disability Modified RRB 1944 Modified RRB 1944 Turnover table Null Null Retirement age First age entitled to one of the benefits First age entitled to one of the benefits % of participation of married active participants on 95% 95% retirement date Age difference between participant and spouse Wives are 4 years younger than husbands Wives are 4 years younger than husbands Actuarial method Projected Unit Credit Projected Unit Credit ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 206 ATTACHMENTS Note 31 – Earnings Per Share (a) Basic The basic earnings per share are calculated by number of common shares outstanding during dividing the net income attributable to the Comthe period, excluding common shares purchased pany’s stockholders by the weighted average by the Company as treasury shares. 12/31/13 12/31/12 Earnings attributable to the Company's stockholders 519,920 459,256 Weighted average number of common shares issued (In thousands) 591,308 550,054 Weighted average of treasury shares (In thousands) (1,104) (1,666) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (In thousands) 590,204 548,388 Basic earnings per share 0.8809 0.8375 (b) Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adall potential diluted common shares resulting justing the weighted average number of common from the Stock Option Plan: shares outstanding, assuming the conversion of 12/31/13 12/31/12 Earnings attributable to the Company's stockholders 519,920 459,256 Weighted average number of common shares issued (In thousands) 591,308 550,054 Call options for shares/ debentures convertible into shares 17,659 16,609 Weighted average of treasury shares (In thousands) (1,104) (1,666) Weighted average number of diluted common shares outstanding (In thousands) 607,863 564,997 Diluted earnings per share 0.8553 0.8128 ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 207 ATTACHMENTS Note 32 – Information on Business Segments Management defines the Company’s operatstatements are strategic business units that proing segments as the areas which report to the vide different goods and services. There are no Board of Directors in order for the Board to make sales between the segments. strategic decisions. These operating segments have been defined The Board analyzes the business based on two based on the reports used for decision making by main segments: the Wood Division and the Deca the Supervisory Board. The accounting policies of Division. The segments presented in the financial each segment are the same as described in Note 2. 12/31/13 12/31/12 Wood Deca (*) Consolidated (*) Wood Deca (*) Consolidated (*) Net sales revenue 2,505,914 1,366,791 3,872,705 2,216,095 1,156,451 3,372,546 Domestic market 2,382,404 1,335,962 3,718,366 2,113,785 1,131,788 3,245,573 Foreign market 123,510 30,829 154,339 102,310 24,663 126,973 Variation in the fair value of the biological assets 191,519 191,519 144,574 144,574 Cost of goods sold (1,308,496) (778,655) (2,087,151) (1,209,715) (659,652) (1,869,367) Depreciation, amortization and depletion (256,781) (58,537) (315,318) (248,303) (53,215) (301,518) Depletion of adjustment in the biological assets (218,088) (218,088) (162,778) (162,778) Gross profit 914,068 529,599 1,443,667 739,873 443,584 1,183,457 Selling expenses (244,693) (201,123) (445,816) (208,701) (166,751) (375,452) Administrative and general expenses (63,273) (64,625) (127,898) (62,090) (46,814) (108,904) Management expenses (9,321) (5,112) (14,433) (8,347) (4,490) (12,837) Other operating income (expenses) (59,485) 23,201 (36,284) (5,933) 15,648 9,715 Equity in the results of investees 2,743 2,743 2,024 2,024 Operating income before Financial result 540,039 281,940 821,979 456,826 241,177 698,003 (*) net from discontinued operations ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 208 ATTACHMENTS Note 33 – Discontinued Operations a) Assets and liabilities associated with discontiAs presented in Note 2.22, the discontinued nued operations operations of the subsidiary Deca Piazza S.A., Assets associated with descontinued operations 12/31/13 from the third quarter of 2013, are under CPC 31 Cash and cash equivalents 306 – “Non-current assets held for sale and disconTrade accounts receivable 59 tinued operations”. Thus the statements of asOther receivables 1,665 sets and liabilities associated with discontinued Property, plant and equipment 40 2,070 operations as at December 31, 2013, the statement of income from discontinued operations Liabilities associated with descontinued operations 12/31/13 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Suppliers 237 and the statement of cash flow for the same pePersonnel 175 Taxes and accounts payable 773 riods are as follow: 1,185 b) Result from discontinued operations 12/31/13 12/31/12 Net sales revenue 10,104 21,853 Cost of products sold (13,225) (22,169) Gross profit (3,121) (316) Selling expenses (1,569) (2,825) General and administrative expenses (1,685) (1,631) Other operating income (expenses), net (5,479) (664) Operating profit before financial result and taxes (11,854) (5,436) Financial result (2,244) (572) Profit before income tax and social contributions (14,098) (6,008) Income tax (264) (591) Net income from discontinued operations (14,362) (6,599) ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 209 ATTACHMENTS c) Statement of cash flow for discontinued operations 12/31/13 Cash flow from operating activities (126) Cash flow from investment activities Cash flow from financing activities (1,382) Increase in cash and cash equivalents (1,508) Opening balance in cash 1,814 Final balance in cash 306 Note 34 – Subsequent Events In addition to the market notices released on Duratex S.A. thus now holds 80.62% of the eqMay 18 and November 8, 2012 and on September uity capital of Tablemac S.A. and, as disclosed 2, 2013, Duratex S.A. hereby informs its shareholdin the market notice on September 2, 2013, it is ers and the market that it has completed the exesubject to the application of CPC 15 – “Business cution of a takeover bid (OPA) to acquire an addiCombinations (Step Acquisitions)”, which defitional equity stake in Tablemac S.A., a Colombian nes that the Company should remeasure the preleading company in the industrialized wood panel viously held interest to fair value, recognizing in making business. 14,772,002,647 shares were acthe period eventual gains or losses, if there are quired at a price of COP$ 8.60 per share, repreany. In this case, Duratex S.A. incurred a writesenting an increase of participation of 43.62%, -down of goodwill, at a total of R$ 53.6 million, which amounts to an additional investment of apno cash effect. This value is being recognized in proximately US$64 million in the company. the statements of the fourth quarter of 2013. ATTACHMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 210 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER G4-1 Message from the President 112 7 a 10 G4-2 Description of principal impacts, risks and opportunities 112 7 a 10 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER G4-3 Name of the organization 15 G4-4 Principal brand names, products and/or services 15 and 16 G4-5 Location of the headquarters of the organization 15 Countries in which are located the principal operational units or those most significant in terms G4-6 15 and 16 of sustainability aspects for this report G4-7 Type and legal nature of ownership 20 G4-8 Markets in which the organization operates 15 G4-9 Size of the organization 15 G4-10 Employee profile 112 85 100% of the employees are covered by collective wage bargaining agreements. The Company administers its payroll, union, federal and assistance contributions and verifies whether they are to the predominant union or that of the particular worker category. G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective wage bargaining agreements In its Code of Ethics and Conduct (PG13) Duratex expresses its respect for the political and labor rights of employees, including the right to collective bargaining and freedom of association in political parties and unions. G4-12 Description of the supplier chain of the organization There were no alterations at the current units or Significant changes in relation to size, structure, shareholder participation acquisitions of new companies during the period, G4-13 and chain of suppliers which could generate a significant impact on the supplier chain. G4-14 Description of how the organization approaches the subject or principle of precaution 112 41 G4-15 Charters, principles or other initiatives developed externally 112 83 G4-16 Participation in national or international associations and organizations 112 45 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 211 ATTACHMENTS MATERIAL ASPECTS IDENTIFIED AND LIMITS EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements and entities not covered by the report 4 and 15 G4-18 Process of definition of the report content 5 G4-19 List of material themes 112 5 G4-20 Limit, within the organization, of each material aspect 4 and 5 G4-21 Limit, outside the organization, of each material aspect 4 and 5 For sustainability aspects, there is no significant G4-22 Reformulations of information provided in previous reports reformulation. For sustainability aspects, there is no significant G4-23 Significant alterations to the scope and limits of material aspects, in relation to previous reports reformulation. ENGAGEMENT OF STAKEHOLDERS EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER G4-24 List of groups of stakeholders engaged by the organization 112 5 G4-25 Basis used for the identification and selection of stakeholders for engagement 112 5 G4-26 Approach used to involve stakeholders 112 5 G4-27 Principal topics and concerns raised during engagement, by stakeholder group 112 5 REPORT PROFILE EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER G4-28 Period covered by the report 4 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report 4 G4-30 Publishing cycle of reports 4 G4-31 Contact for questions with respect to the report or its content 4 G4-32 Option for the application of the guidelines and location of the GRI index 4 G4-33 Current policy and practice with respect to external verification of the report 4 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 212 ATTACHMENTS GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER G4-34 Structure of the organization’s governance 112 30 Delegation process of the highest body of governance for economic, environmental and social G4-35 112 35 topics G4-36 Executive posts and functions responsible for economic, environmental and social topics 112 35 and 56 Consultation processes between stakeholders and the highest governance body of the G4-37 112 56 organization with respect to economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest body of governance and its committees 112 32 and 38 G4-39 President of the highest governance body 112 33 G4-40 Selection criteria and nomination processes for the highest governance body and its committees 112 34 and 38 G4-41 Processes for the prevention and management of conflicts of interest 112 40 and 44 Role of the highest governance body and the executives in the definition of policies and targets G4-42 112 35 or the management of impacts Measures taken to improve the knowledge of the highest governance body with respect to G4-43 112 35 economic, environmental and social topics G4-44 Processes for performance self-evaluation of the highest governance body 112 32 and 44 G4-45 Responsibilities for the implementation of economic, environmental and social policies 112 41 and 56 Role of governments in the analysis of the efficiency of the management risk processes of the G4-46 112 41 organization, for economic, environmental and social themes G4-47 Frequency with which the highest governance body analyzes impacts, risks and opportunities 112 41 The highest person responsible for formal approval of the sustainability report, guaranteeing G4-48 112 4 the coverage of all material aspects G4-49 Process adopted to communicate concerns and criticisms of the highest governance body 112 35, 44 and 46 Nature and total number of concerns and criticisms communicated to the highest governance G4-50 112 46, 90, 92 and 100 body and solutions adopted Relationship between the remuneration and the performance of the organization, including G4-51 112 96 social and environmental aspects G4-52 Participation of consultants (internal and independent), in the determination of remuneration 112 96 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 213 ATTACHMENTS Not material. The issue of compensation was identified as a low relevance in the materiality tests during public stakeholders events(http://www.duratex.com.br/RAO/2010/ port/download/Duratex_2010.pdf , p. 3 e 4). Additionally, the proposed values ​​of management compensation and directors, disclosed annually, Consultations with stakeholders with respect to remuneration and its application in the G4-53 112 leading to the knowledge organization's policies and deliberation at Shareholders’ Meetings (link toSummary Minutes of the Board of Directors meeting held on March 21, 2013 HYPERLINK “http://www.duratex.com/” \t “_blank” http://www.duratex.com ; br/ri/pt/ Download/1424_DUR_2013-03-21_RCA_(FOR).pdf).​ Proportional relationship between the highest salary and the general average salary of the G4-54 112 95 organization, by country Proportional relationship between the salary increases of the highest paid and the average salary G4-55 112 94 increase of the organization, by country ETHICS AND INTEGRITY EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior of the organization 112 17, 40, 85 and 98 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for providing guidelines on ethics and compliance 112 40 and 46 Internal and external mechanisms for the communication of concerns with regard to non-ethical G4-58 112 35 and 46 behavior SPECIFIC CONTENT ECONOMIC CATEGORY EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Form of management 48 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 112 22, 23, 48, 106 and 111 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising as a result of climate change 112 42 G4-EC3 Coverage of obligations within the company pension plan 95 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from the government 112 49 and 97 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 214 ATTACHMENTS PRESENCE IN THE MARKET G4-DMA Form of management 95 and 97 Proportion between the lowest salary of the organization and the local minimum salary, by G4-EC5 95 gender G4-EC6 Local hiring 97 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Form of management 103 G4-EC7 Impact of investments in infrastructure offered for the public benefit 103 G4-EC8 Description of significant indirect economic impacts 103 BUYING PRACTICES G4-DMA Form of management 98 and 99 G4-EC9 Policies, practices and proportion of expenditure with local suppliers 112 99 ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER MATERIALS G4-DMA Form of management 79 and 80 G4-EN1 Materials used, broken down by weight or volume 80 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that come from recycling 79 ENERGY G4-DMA Form of management 59, 77 and 78 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 77 and 78 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 78 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 78 G4-EN6 Reduction in energy consumption 77 and 78 G4-EN7 Reduction in the energy requirements of products and services 59 WATER G4-DMA Form of management 73 and 74 G4-EN8 Total water drawn off, by source 112 73 and 74 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by the drawing off of water 112 73 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 112 73 and 74 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 215 ATTACHMENTS BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Form of management 65, 67, 68 and 69 G4-EN11 Location and size of area owned 112 68 and 69 G4-EN12 Significant impact on biodiversity from activities, products and services 112 65 and 67 G4-EN13 Protected or restored habitats 112 69 G4-EN14 Total number of species included on the IUCN regulations and other conservation lists 112 68 EMISSIONS G4-DMA Form of management 71 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions 71 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the purchase of energy or electric power 71 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 71 G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions 71 G4-EN19 Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 71 G4-EN20 Emission of substances harmful to the ozone layer 71 G4-EN21 Emissions of NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions 71 EFFLUENTS AND RESIDUES G4-DMA Form of management 73, 76 e 79 G4-EN22 Total water disposed of, broken down by quality and destination 112 76 G4-EN23 Total weight of residues, broken down by type and method of disposal 112 79 At the Deca Division there is no record of significant leakages during the period. At the Wood Division, a leakage of water used for G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spillages washing wood (5m³) at the unit in Itapetininga reached the body of water, temporarily altering its coloration, but with little significant effect. G4-EN25 Weight of residues transported, considered dangerous 112 79 G4-EN26 Protection and index of biodiversity of water bodies and habitats 112 73 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Form of management 23 and 216 G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 112 23 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 216 ATTACHMENTS In the metal bathroom fittings segment, Deca receives parts that are returned from technical assistance outlets. These products are recycled in the production process. The number of parts (not necessarily complete products) which were G4-EN28 Percentage of products and packaging recovered, by product category 112 returned to Deca in 2013, through this system, amounted to 25,659. At the unit in Itapetininga of the Wood Division, reverse logistics are carried out of the partitions between the panel sheet packages. In 2013 80,739 partitions were reused. COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Form of management 217 In 2013 the Environmental Company of São Paulo (CETESB) brought four fine processes against the Company, with two of these resulting in the actual application of a fine, of a total value of R$ 21,170.00. With the other two a sanction was applied of a Value of fines and total number of sanctions and penalties resulting from non-compliance with G4-EN29 112 non-pecuniary nature, resulting in a warning in laws the case of one and an embargo of the area in the other. The fines applied were paid by the Company and Terms of Recuperation of the area were signed with CETESB, which are in the process of being implemented. TRANSPORT G4-DMA Form of management 70 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts with respect to the transport of products and employees 72 GENERAL G4-DMA Form of management 65 G4-EN31 Total investment and expenditure on environmental protection 112 65 ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS G4-DMA Form of management 98 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on environmental criteria 112 98 G4-EN33 Significant negative environmental impacts, both real and potential, in the supply chain 112 98 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 217 ATTACHMENTS MECHANISMS FOR DEALING WITH COMPLAINTS WITH RESPECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS G4-DMA Form of management 217 Since the creation of the Duratex Ombudsman Service in 2012, three complaints have been received relating to possible environmental G4-EN34 Number of complaints related to environmental impacts 112 impacts: one of these in 2012 and two in 2013. These were investigated as part of the Ombudsman Service process, and were deemed to be groundless. SOCIAL CATEGORY – LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Form of management 86 and 95 G4-LA1 Total number, rate of hiring and turnover of employees 86 G4-LA2 Comparison between the benefits of full-time and temporary employees 112 95 G4-LA3 Rates of return to work, and retention after maternity/paternity leave 95 LABOR RELATIONS G4-DMA Form of management 218 Duratex takes care to inform its employees in advance before carrying out changes to G4-LA4 Minimum advance notice period required for operational changes operational processes, although no procedure or formal advance notice period forms part of any collective employment agreement. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Form of management 88 G4-LA5 Percentage of employees represented on formal health and safety committees 100% G4-LA6 Rate of injury, occupational diseases, days lost 88 G4-LA7 Employees with a high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 112 88 G4-LA8 Themes related to health and safety covered by the formal union agreements 88 TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Form of management 87 and 95 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year 87 There is no corporate program to provide support G4-LA10 Programs for skill management and continuous learning for employees retiring or leaving the Company. More on page 90. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees that receive performance analysis 112 87 and 95 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 218 ATTACHMENTS DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Form of management 39 Composition of groups responsible for governance and discrimination of employees, by work G4-LA12 112 39 category EQUALITY OF REMUNERATION BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Form of management 39 and 94 Proportion of salary base, between men and women, by functional category and significant G4-LA13 94 operational unit EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS WITH RESPECT TO LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Form of management 18 and 98 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on criteria relating to labor practices 112 18 G4-LA15 Significant negative impact, real and potential, of labor practices in the supply chain 112 98 MECHANISMS FOR DEALING WITH COMPLAINTS RELATED TO LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA Form of management 219 The Ombudsman Service does not currently have an indicator classified in the form requested. From G4-LA16 Number of complaints related to labor practices recorded through formal mechanisms 112 2014, this indicator will be monitored by this department. SOCIAL CATEGORY HUMAN RIGHTS EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER INVESTMENTS G4-DMA Form of management 40 In 2013, R$ 2,388.6 million was taken out in loans from the BNDES, Finame, Fundiest and Fundopem, among others. Of these contracts, 40% was G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses referring to human rights allocated to significant investments in projects in Uberaba, Queimados, etc., which include clauses on human rights. Total number of training hours for employees on human rights policies and percentage of G4-HR2 40 employees trained NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Form of management 219 ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 219 ATTACHMENTS The Ombudsman Service received two complaints in 2012 relating to possible discrimination situations. The cases were evaluated internally and were not proven. A written response with the G4-HR3 Total number of cases of discrimination and corrective measures taken formal conclusion of the process was given to the complainants personally by the Ombudsman Service. No complaint was received by the Ombudsman Service in 2013 on this subject. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE WAGE BARGAINING G4-DMA Form of management 98 and 99 Degree of application of the right to freedom of association, and operations and suppliers G4-HR4 98 and 99 identified as presenting a risk CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Form of management 98 and 99 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers that carry a risk of the occurrence of child labor and measures taken 98 and 99 FORCED LABOR OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Form of management 98 and 99 Operations and suppliers identified as presenting a risk of forced or compulsory labor, and G4-HR6 98 and 99 measures taken SAFETY PRACTICES G4-DMA Form of management 220 As at December 31, 2013, Duratex had 362 employees working in the area of security. In the area of occupational hygiene, safety and medicine, the Company has 111 of its own employees, and 4 outsourced. The Company has 87 of its own employees who work as surveillance staff, and G4-HR7 Percentage of security staff trained in policies or procedures related to human rights 160 outsourced. There was no training in human rights for these employees, in the knowledge that the training courses for these professional staff cover subjects related to human rights. It is the responsibility of the outsourced company to ensure the training of outsourced personnel. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA Form of management 220 Duratex did not identify any cases of the violation G4-HR8 Total cases of violation of the rights of indigenous people and measures taken of rights of indigenous people among its own employees or in adjoining communities. ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 220 ATTACHMENTS EVALUATION G4-DMA Form of management 40 G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations subjected to human rights analysis 40 EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS WITH RESPECT TO HUMAN RIGHTS G4-DMA Form of management 98 and 221 In 2013, no new suppliers were selected based on G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on human rights criteria 112 human rights criteria. Significant negative impact, real and potential, with respect to human rights in the supplier G4-HR11 112 98 chain and measures taken MECHANISMS FOR DEALING WITH COMPLAINTS RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS G4-DMA Form of management 221 The Ombudsman Service does not possess an indicator that is classified in the manner requested. G4-HR12 Number of complaints related to human rights impacts recorded, processed and resolved From 2014, this department will start to monitor this indicator. SOCIAL CATEGORY SOCIETY EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Form of management 221 In the next year, the Company will be carrying out the work of mapping and engagement with stakeholders, based on a pilot project partly in the elaboration phase. At the moment Duratex does not have a structured program. Currently, 100% of Percentage of operations with engagement programs in the local community, evaluation of the units have environmental management systems, G4-SO1 112 impacts and local development which include the monitoring of environmental impacts, a Sustainability Committee, and communication channels available to stakeholders for complaints of various natures. In addition to this, the results of environmental initiatives are published in the Annual and Sustainability Report. The Company does not yet have a structured process to measure impact on these communities. G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative impact, real and potential, in local communities In 2014 it will be starting a pilot project which will carry out a diagnosis of the community in Uberaba to begin monitoring its initiatives. ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 221 ATTACHMENTS COMBATING CORRUPTION G4-DMA Form of management 44, 91 and 100 G4-SO3 Units submitted to evaluation for risks of corruption 112 44 G4-SO4 Percentage of employees trained in anticorruption procedures 112 91 and 100 The Ombudsman Service received four cases related to corruption in 2012, of a total of seven complaints received. All were investigated, two by the Ombudsman Service and three by the Internal Audit Department, with one of them being proven, resulting in the dismissal of an employee, and a revision of the G4-SO5 Confirmed cases of corruption and measures taken 112 processes; the other complaints were not proven. In 2013, seven complaints were received related to corruption, of a total of ten complaints received in 2013 by the Ombudsman Service. In 2012 one of the cases involving commercial partners also resulted in the rescindment of the contract. PUBLIC POLICIES G4-DMA Form of management 222 No donations were made, it not being an election G4-SO6 Policies for financial contributions to political parties, politicians or institutions year. UNFAIR COMPETITION G4-DMA Form of management 222 There were no cases involving unfair competition, anti-trust practices or monopolies and their results G4-SO7 Total number of court cases as a result of unfair competition for reporting. Nor were there significant fines or sanctions in 2013. COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Form of management 222 In the evaluation of the Company’s legal advisers, there were no significant fines or sanctions applied G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 112 to the Company for the purposes of this report, specifically related to this item. EVALUATION OF SUPPLIERS WITH RESPECT TO IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Form of management 98 and 222 In 2013, no new suppliers were selected based on G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers selected based on impacts on society 112 criteria related to impacts on society. Significant negative impact, real and potential, of the supply chain on society and measures G4-SO10 112 98 taken ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 222 ATTACHMENTS MECHANISMS FOR DEALING WITH COMPLAINTS RELATED TO IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Form of management 223 The Ombudsman Service does not have an Complaints related to impacts on society registered, processed and resolved through formal indicator classified in the form requested. Starting G4-SO11 112 mechanisms in 2014, there will be monitoring of this indicator by this department. SOCIAL CATEGORY RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRODUCTS EXTERNAL PAGE/ DESCRIPTION OMISSION VERIFICATION ANSWER CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Form of management 59 and 101 G4-PR1 Evaluation of impacts on health and safety during the life cycle of products and services 112 59 G4-PR2 Non-compliance related to impacts caused by products and services LABELING OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Form of management 100 and 101 G4-PR3 Type of information with respect to products and services required by labeling procedures 112 101 G4-PR4 Non-compliance related to product and service labeling 112 100 and 101 G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction research 112 100 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Form of management 223 The organization does not sell products that are G4-PR6 Sale of products that are either prohibited or contested 112 prohibited in given markets, or which are subject to question by stakeholders or public debate. There are no cases involving non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes with respect to G4-PR7 Cases of non-compliance related to communication with respect to products and services marketing communications, including publicity, promotion and sponsorship. CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Form of management 223 There are no cases involving violation of privacy or G4-PR8 Total number of proven complaints related to violation of privacy or loss of client data loss of customer data. COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Form of management 223 There are no cases for which significant fines have been applied as a result of non-compliance with G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance relating to the supply and use of products and services laws and regulations related to the supply and use of products and services. ATTACHMENTS GRI summary ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THIS REPORT MESSAGES DURATEX IN NUMBERS PROFILE BUSINESS MODEL PLATFORM 2016 223 ATTACHMENTS Corporate information Investor Relations Department Subsidiaries Abroad Director: Flavio Marassi Donatelli Deca North America Tel.: (11) 3179-7148 || Fax: (11) 3179-7300 || 1208 Easttchester Drive, Suite 202 High Point diretoria-ri@duratex.com.br NC 27265 3165 – EUA Manager: Alvaro Penteado de Castro Toll free: 877-802 1250 || Tel.: 001-336-885-1225 || Tel.: (11) 3179-7259 || Fax: (11) 3179-7355 || Fax: 001-336-885-1501 investidores@duratex.com.br Duratex North America Corporate Sustainability Management 1208 Easttchester Drive, Suite 202 High Point Manager: João Carlos Redondo NC 27265 3167 – EUA Tel.: (11) 3543-4072 || Fax: (11) 3543-3017 || Tel.: 001-336-885-1500 || Fax: 001-336-885-1501 sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br Duratex Europe Duratex Xavier de Cocklaan, 66, Unit 8 Latem Business Park Avenida Paulista, 1.938 – 5º andar 9831 Sint – Martens – Latem – Bélgica Bela Vista – São Paulo (SP) Tel.: 0032-15-28-60-70 || Fax: 0032-15-28-60-79 Tel.: (11) 3179-7733 CEP: 01310-942 Caixa postal: 7611 Customer Service Channels (SAC) www.duratex.com.br Deca Division: deca@deca.com.br ou 0800-011-7073 (SAC) Wood Division: rino.responde@duratex.com.br Subsidiaries in Brazil ou 0800-055-7474 (SAC) Duratex Florestal Ltda. Durafloor: sac@durafloor.com.br ou 0800-770-3872 (SAC) Avenida Paulista, 1.938 Bela Vista – São Paulo (SP) CEP: 01310-942 ATTACHMENTS Corporate information ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 About this report Messages Duratex in numbers Profile Business model Platform 2016 224 Attachments Credits General editing and coordination Investor Relations Management Sustainability Management GRI consultation, editorial coordination and design Report Sustentabilidade Team: Mayara Evangelista (project and relationship management), Fabíola Nascimento (GRI consultancy), Adriana Braz (editing), Cezar Martins (copywriting), Sergio Almeida (graphic design) e Luciana Mafra, Alan Maia e Kauan Sales (graphic design) Translation from the original Portuguese Ashley Huggins Family credits Gotham, 2001 Attachments Credits Annual and Sustainability Report 2013
