www.alcad.com UN Global Compact 06. Mars 2014 1 UN Global Compact Beyond its willingness to comply with national law and regulations of countries where Alcad operates. Alcad joined the United Nations Global Compact programme in Mars 2012. These ten principles which we have made ours are: Human rights 1: We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2: We make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: We support the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4: We uphold the principle of the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; 5: We uphold the principle of the effective abolition of child labour; and 6: We uphold the principle of the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9: We encourage the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10: We are opposed to corruption in any and all form, including extortion and bribery. The Alcad Code of Ethics, distributed to every employee, is consistent with the UN Global Compact’s principles. 2 UN Global CompactHuman rights GENERAL Alcad plays an active role in local communities by supporting or participating in a range of social, environmental and humanitarian initiatives. In 2013, donations were made to communities or organisations of public interest (fire services, schools, social centres, etc.) in most localities where Alcad operates. Alcad also took part in initiatives to support minority groups (the disabled, senior citizens, people suffering from illnesses) in most countries (USA, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Israel, France and Italy), in charity initiatives for medical research associations in the US, in the UK, Israel and Germany, not to mention support for NGOs and international organisations (Red Cross, Énergies Sans Frontières, etc.). Furthermore, Alcad regularly sponsors cultural venues and events, sports clubs and events in Europe (notably in Spain, Sweden, France and Czech Republic) and in the United States. 3 UN Global CompactHuman rights SUBCONTRACTING AND SUPPLIERS Alcad is looking to implement a responsible purchasing policy and to work with suppliers whose commercial and industrial practices respect this principle. Alcad’s Code of Ethics details the rules that must be respected by all employees in business dealings, and in particular in dealings with suppliers. The Purchasing Department is responsible in this respect for ensuring that buyers are regularly informed of the need to respect these rules. 4 UN Global CompactLabour Every ALCAD employee contributes to achieving the company´s sustainability goals by supporting economic progress, environmental stewardship and social development. One aspect involves taking appropriate initiatives that improve the quality of life in the communities and countries where ALCAD operates. Sustainability means that ALCAD treats all stakeholders in a socially responsible manner. Employees can contribute by promoting open dialogue with stakeholders on ALCAD’s economic, social and environmental contributions and performance, subject to confidentiality rules. In Sweden equal rights for all employees is well regulated through national legislation and collective agreements. The labor market respect the employees´ right to unionize, speak freely and for employee representatives to be a speaking partner to the employer. The Oskarshamn site has four unions (one blue collar and three white collar) to cooperate with. Negotiation processes and communication/information structures follow the national laws and collective agreements on the Swedish labor market. A local information flow process is installed where the Managing Director and HR Manager every third week meet all four unions to communicate the site's overall performance and situation. Agreements of employment is made my mutual agreement between the employee and the employer and is strictly regulated by national law and collective agreements. In accordance with Arbetsmiljöverket’s industrial safety regulations AFS2013:3 and due to the nature of our business ALCAD does not hire any minors (under the age of 18). 5 UN Global CompactLabour The dedication and professionalism of our employees is essential in order to achieve our objectives. Dozens of different business in countries around the world have come together over the years under the ALCAD umbrella and ALCAD’s culture welcomes them all, regardless of gender, nationality, age, physical ability, or sexual orientation, or any other aspect of diversity. Employees must conduct their business activities with co-workers, customers, stakeholders and business partners with respect for all people without regard to differences or similarities. ALCAD recruits and promotes people based on an objective evaluation of the necessary qualifications and qualities for the work to be performed. Employees should not engage in or support discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on gender, age, ethnic and national origin, caste, religion, disability, sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. The Oskarshamn site has an equity policy which is required by Swedish laws and regulations. The policy covers gender, age, nationality, race, religion etc. The policy states that all employees have the same rights and opportunities. The site strives for diversity amongst the employees to have a dynamic workforce where people's skills and experiences are highlighted and enhanced. There is an equity group in the company that meets every year with both employer and employee representatives. The group's function is to monitor the content of the policy and that work is done to improve work conditions for all employees and that no discrimination appears. The Oskarshamn site has an equity policy which is required by Swedish laws and regulations. The policy covers gender, age, nationality, race, religion etc. The policy states that all employees have the same rights and opportunities. The site strives for diversity amongst the employees to have a dynamic workforce where people's skills and experiences are highlighted and enhanced. There is an equity group in the company that meets every year with both employer and employee representatives. The group's function is to monitor the content of the policy and that work is done to improve work conditions for all employees and that no discrimination appears 6 UN Global CompactEnvironment For Alcad, the environment and sustainable development are key priorities. The batteries manufactured by Alcad supply electrical energy without producing any emissions during use. Furthermore, the impact of our products in the other phases of their lifecycles, during manufacturing and recycling in particular, are duly analysed in order to reduce it. Alcad also strives to maximise the use of secondary rather than primary raw materials, such that the companies products make a real contribution to sustainable development. Compliance with regulatory requirements and reducing the environmental impact of the company activity has been at the core of the companies values for many years. To ensure this Alcad has adopted an environmental policy which states: 7 UN Global CompactEnvironment Alcad is certified for ISO 14001. For each year, detailed environmental goals are set and followed up. Used batteries are collected from the market and recycled. The Company contributes to protecting the environment through its end-of-life programmes, where Alcad is fully compliant with national laws. An important element is the Alcad “take-back” programme. For many years, Alcad has encouraged, on a voluntary basis, that used Alcad nickel-based batteries be returned by end users to bring-back points for recycling. Now that this is an EU wide requirement, Alcad goes beyond the legal demands. The programme has been extended geographically to cover 31 countries, well beyond the EU28 area. Alcad is complying with a applicable legislation regarding chemical substances. The company is monitoring the list of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC), drawn up by the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA), and actively exchanges information with its supply chain to ensure the effective dissemination of all information regarding the presence of SVHC substances in a purchased preparation or item, thereby complying with its disclosure requirements towards the downstream chain. 8 UN Global CompactAnti-corruption Fair competition We believe in a competitive, free enterprise system because it guarantees that our hard work and innovation will be rewarded. This system, as the basis of a free market economy, is protected and promoted by competition law. Consequently, our actions must always comply with all applicable antitrust and other laws regulating competition. While these laws vary from country to country, Alcads’s minimum standard can be defined as follows: • We compete openly and independently in every market. We do not make any agreements – formal or otherwise – with competitors to fix or set prices or allocate products, markets, territories or customers. • We do not obtain or share with competitor's current or future information about price, profit margins or costs, bids, market share, distribution practices, terms of sales, specific customers or vendors. • We do not agree with or require a customer to resell our products at certain prices. • We do not act in a manner that unfairly favours or benefits one customer over another competing customer. • Be mindful of the antitrust risks presented by trade and professional association meetings. As a Saft employee • you are required to: • Attend only meetings of legitimate trade and professional associations held for proper business, scientific, or • professional purposes. • Discuss any questionable agenda items with your manager before you attend the meeting. Leave the meeting and promptly advise your manager, if you observe any activity at an association meeting that appears to be illegal or suspicious. 9 UN Global CompactAnti-corruption Improper payments Alcad’s reputation must not be put at risk by the offer of improper payments. In dealing with public official, political parties or their officials or any private sector worker, Alcad employees must never offer, promise or give any undue pecuniary or other advantage, whether directly or through intermediaries, to obtain or retain business or any improper advantage in the conduct of business. Gifts and favours Accepting gifts and entertainment from business partners or offering such favours undermines our credibility. It makes us vulnerable to accusations that business decisions are influenced by factors others than merit. Employees must therefore not offer, make, seek or accept gifts, payment, entertainment or services to actual or potential business partners which might reasonably be believed to influence business transactions, which are not within the bounds of customary business hospitality or which are prohibited by law. 10
