The World Internet Security Company Corporate Responsibility Report Communication on Progress 2013 WISeKey S.A World Trade Center II 29, route de Pré-Bois CP 853 1215 Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 594 30 00 Fax: +41 22 594 30 01 e-mail: info@wisekey.com www.wisekey.com Contents Introduction................................................................................................................................ 3 About WISeKey ........................................................................................................................... 4 Message from Carlos Moreira .................................................................................................... 5 Progress Report – Global Compact 2013 ................................................................................... 6 Annex 1 – Davos declaration on the future of digital identity .... Error! Bookmark not defined. The World Internet Security Company Introduction WISeKey shares the view that the Global Compact presents a unique strategic platform for participants to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship and to value creation in its more profound sense: making a positive difference in society. WISeKey’s Chief Executive Officer and Board are committed to making reality an ethical engagement that is embedded in the company’s business plan: expand the use of digital certification. WISeKey is driven by its commitment to bring security to the Internet and create the trust that is needed for e-commerce, e-business, e-government, etc. WISeKey’s progress report, presented in the form of a log-frame, seeks to illustrate WISeKey’s compliance with the Global Compact 10 principles. The following UN publications have been used as reference:  Guiding principles on business and human rights. Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework. UN Human Rights. Office of the High Commissioner  The Labour Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. A guide for Business. ILO  Environmental stewardship strategy. Overview and Resource for Corporate Leaders. Duke University  Corporate sustainability with integrity: organizational change to collective action. United Nations Global Compact. The report also contains one annex:  Statement after the Davos event sponsored by WISeKey: “Addressing Identity of People and Things, Privacy, Security and Trust in the Cloud” Paragraphs in blue show the activities that are of direct relevance to the Global Compact. The main version of this document is electronic, since it allows access to additional information through a series of hyperlinks. Thanking you for your kind attention and looking forward to receiving your feedback. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 3 About WISeKey WISeKey SA is a leading information security and digital identity management company. We provide solutions to respond to business, government and individual digital security needs, from Mobile Services to Digital Brand Management and Online Trusted Solutions. Our solutions are used worldwide to secure mobile, home and office data, transactions and communications, as well as being used to provide you or your brand with a personalized digital identity to secure you against fraud and counterfeiting. Through our partnership with the OISTE Foundation, under Swiss law, we can ensure geopolitical neutrality for data and communications that are secured by WISeKey. WISeKey’s digital identity management and information security is used to address a variety of day to day digital security needs, such as:  Secure electronic data exchange and storage online and locally  Secure mobile communications – voice, SMS, email  Secure mobile data  Secure financial transactions from computers and mobile phones  Distinguish authentic from counterfeit goods, anytime, anywhere (even over the internet)  Protect your customers’ data and identities when they trust your site with their information  Ensure privacy and security e-government citizen services  Securely log on to social networks  Manage all your log on details from a single, encrypted place  Leave evidence of a communication or transaction (using WISeKey’s e-notary services)  Reduce your carbon footprint with a paper-free environment and legally valid digital signatures WISeKey is a dynamic and innovative company that embraces change to stay ahead of the digital security threats and to protect its current and future clients. WISeKey’s facilitation of the mass-use of secure digital identities in everyday life allows us to promise that the millions of users around the world can trust WISeKey secured information and objects and protect their privacy. The World Internet Security Company Message from Carlos Moreira This year WISeKey has refined and redefined its spheres of influence in order to be able to best serve our current and future consumers in the everdeveloping market. The digital age means that people are carrying out more and more business and social activities online, through networks, and with mobile devices. With this shift away from face-to-face interaction, trust becomes essential for individuals and businesses alike, who need to ensure that the person they are dealing with remotely is legitimate, and that the data they are accessing or receiving is secure and trustworthy. Data protection is becoming an item that is very high on the agenda for banks, governments and corporations, as we realize that our data, identities, and digital interactions are not as safe as they should be. WISeKey’s relationship with the OISTE Foundation allows us to guarantee geo-political neutrality for our clients’ data and communications, setting us apart from other companies in the domain. WISeKey is dedicated to securing mobile data, online data and communications in order to protect people’s rights. We are also committed to using our technology to fight counterfeiting, and also to help others and ourselves work in a greener environment. This includes our work on e-Governments, replacing the traditional paper-based processes with electronic ones, giving citizens the possibility of conducting their requests and filling in their forms online, as well as following the whole process online, thus replacing lengthy paper-based processes and saving time and money. WISeKey has also signed commitments towards the Clinton Global Initiative in order to bring mobile banking to underbanked and unbanked areas of the world. WISeKey continues to work towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact through initiatives such as this. The UN Global Compact has allowed us to highlight areas of our business where improvement is recommended, as well as to hone our solutions and business practices to be better aligned with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We look forward to another year of responsible opportunity in line with the 10 principles. Carlos Moreira CEO and founder WISeKey WISeKey S.A World Trade Center II 29, route de Pré-Bois CP 853 1215 Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 594 30 00 Fax: +41 22 594 30 01 e-mail: info@wisekey.com www.wisekey.com Progress Report – Global Compact 2013 Objective: implement the 10 principles proclaimed by the UN Global Compact Goals – Human Rights Principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey is committed with the protection of WISeKey’s engagement with The company’s Corporate Governance Rules The company’s internationally proclaimed human rights the protection of human and Code of Conduct enforce the respect of business is rights is publicly recognized human rights economically Quoting from the above mentioned document. sustainable “WISeKey’s most valuable asset is its reputation for integrity and fair dealing”. The Appropriate level Corporate Governance Rules deal with the of information overall functioning of the company, its respect regarding of law, including a whistle blow provision for business’ partners internal denunciations of practices that human rights’ constitute a violation of the company’s ethical records principles. WISeKey is recognized as a role model for Publicly known innovative cyber-security technology and for cases of human its efforts to protect individuals, businesses, rights abuses and governments on the Internet. Its where potential nomination as a WEF Global Growth business’ partners Company (GGC) over 350 companies from and/or providers over 60 countries had been admitted to the are held GGC Communityis a proof of it. responsible WISeKey belongs to the companies recognized as Trailblazers, Shapers and Innovators… See…World Economic Forum, Trailblazers, Shapers and Innovators The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 The company’s upper management publically embraces the promotion and respect of human rights WISeKey endorses the APC Internet Rights Charter, established by the Association for Progressive Communications (APC) in February 2001. The APC states that the ability to share information and communicate freely using the internet is vital to the realisation of human rights as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. WISeKey supported the OISTE Foundation in obtaining ECOSOC special consultative status as a means of engaging more directly with the UN. The company deploys activities that have a positive impact on the respect of human rights. WISeKey campaigns for a system of digital identity management that will be respectful of the fundamental right to privacy. As stated in Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: “No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 7 right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks”. In association with the OISTE Foundation, WISeKey launched the campaign: “The Right to Disappear on Line” in March 2013, with the aim of teaching Internet users about privacy as a human right. WISeKey supported the engagement of OISTE on concrete actions to protect and defend the human right to privacy on the digital world, namely:  Contacts with the Electronic Frontiers Foundation, Privacy International and Human Rights Watch following the publication of the International Principles on the Application of Human Rights to Communications Surveillance  Contacts with the Swiss Foreign Ministry asking for state support for the UN General Assembly resolution on the right to privacy in the digital age (finally approved with the active engagement of Switzerland)  Contacts and discussions with the Brazilian, German and Swiss mission + Human Rights Watch, Privacy International and the Electronic Frontier Foundation promoting the inclusion of the human right to privacy in the discussions of the Human Rights Council, 25th regular session (March WISeKey is not complicit in human rights abuses WISeKey abstains from 2014). doing business with countries or companies responsible of proven human rights abuses The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 WISeKey’s active engagement with the World Economic Forum (WEF) is expressed through Carlos Moreira’s re-appointment as vicechairmanship of the Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade. The WEF Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade includes a wide range of topics of direct relevance to human rights such as Human Trafficking; Drug trafficking; Counterfeiting; Arms Trafficking. Contracts signed / MoUs signed / Deals under study / Deals concluded / Pipeline of products / Products under development – WISeKey launches the application “Should I buy it?” designed as a contribution to fight illicit trade through crowd-sourcing strategies. The application is available at the iTunes app store. More at… http://www.shouldibuyit.net/ WISeKey successfully support the OISTE Foundation application to membership of the ICANN’s not-for-profit operational concern (NPOC) constituency. WISeKey endorsed, through the OISTE Foundation, the “International Principles on the Application of Human Rights to Communications Surveillance” and lobbied the Swiss Federal government to approve a strong UN General Assembly resolution on the right to privacy in the digital world. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 9 Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey actively participates in awareness-raising about WISeKey is actively Participation in ITU and WSIS meetings: human rights issues involved with the (1) During the WSIS Forum 2013, Carlos International Moreira was invited to participate on the WISeKey is engaged in multilateral institutions Telecommunications Union panel of the round table organized by the addressing the issue of human-rights protection (ITU) and the World Summit Internet Society under the title: “to be or of the Information Society not to be identified: Hamlet’s quandary in (WSIS) the digital era” focusing on digital identity management WISeKey is actively Participation in WEF activities involved with the World (1) WISeKey joins forces with 70 companies Economic Forum (WEF) and government bodies across 15 sectors and 25 countries to create the WEF WISeKey is paramount in Partnering for Cyber Resilience Initiative. creating awareness about the More at risks to the human right to http://www.weforum.org/issues/partnering privacy in Internet -cyber-resilience-pcr Public statements / Press releases / Participation in specialized events / Products developed and marketed that improve security and privacy for individual users in Internet / Services offered to companies and countries to improve security and confidentiality in data management WISeKey campaigns for a system of digital identity management that will be respectful of the fundamental right to privacy. WISeKey’s actively supports the work of the Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade set up by the WEF, see above. The WISeAuthentic game of products continues to increase its share in the The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 company’s revenue flow. WISeAuthentic enforces the fight against illicit trade. Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions Four product lines being offered and permanently Availability of new software Applications developed by WISeKey as improved via new software development New services being offered support to human-rights enhancing initiatives:  WISecurity New contracts signed  WISeID New clients added Publicity on WISeKey’s web page +  WISefans promotional material available  WISeAuthentic Please refer to the company’s web page…  WISePhone https://www.wisekey.com/projects/ showing  WISeID Personal Cloud the linkages between the company and various public-interest endeavors: Hub Valenciano Málaga Valley HighTrusted Communities Association for International Mobility Launching events organized See under “Means of verification”, below Activities Process Indicators Means of verification Assumptions Biscay Provincial Authority Nominated as a New Press releases and news posted in WISeKey’s Biscay Tik CSP Video Champion by the World website. Economic Forum ORACLE TEAM USA Official Commemorative app developed by WISeKey to celebrate one of the Greatest Comebacks in Sporting History Nominated as a Vice Chair of DOHA GOALS 2013: WISeKey Presents the ‘Fully Connected’ Future of Sports: Fan Apps and Stadium Hub Technology the World Economic Combine for 24/7 Global Engagement Forum’s Global Agenda WISeKey Receives Swiss Patent to Authenticate and Trace Physical Objects on the Internet of Things Council 2013 OISTE Foundation part of ICANN constituencies Addressing Identity Management, Privacy, Security and Trust in Digital Communication Commitment holder at the App Launched to Help Consumers Fight Illicit Trade Global Clinton Initiative On WISeKey selected as the exclusive WISfans GPHG mobile app provider of the Geneva Watchmaking Grand Prix 2013 edition Mobile-Banking and digital The United Nations (ECOSOC) grants Special Consultative identification for poverty Status to OISTE.ORG based in Geneva promoting a “Switzerland on the Internet” to provide Net Cloud Neutrality alleviation The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 11 WISeKey presentation at FIFA Headquarters in Zurich: ON FUTURE OF TECHNOLOGY IN STADIA AND FANS INTERACTIONS WITH WISFANS WISeKey and the International Football Arena launch the official IFA WISfans Mobile App WISeKey signs with CR Vasco da Gama to enhance their global fan base ecosystem engagement with WISfans WISeKey Unveils WISePhone 3 an Encrypted Mobile Communications Suite creating the first worldwide secure, encrypted, Trusted and Social Network Telecom™ platform WISeKey and Brazilian Football Club CR Flamengo launch the official CR Flamengo WISfans Mobile App Inauguration of WISeKey LIBER in Brazil with creation of Rootkey WISeKey releases WISeID Personal© to Support its CGI Commitment to Provide One Billion Digital Identities by 2015 while reducing poverty by monetizing active eyeballs WISEKEY CLOSES ADDITIONAL FUNDRAISING AS PART OF GROWTH STRATEGY AND PRE-IPO PLAN AND LEANS TOWARDS THE US FOR FUTURE GROWTH WISeKey Liber Presents WISfans(c), A Revolutionary Social Media Ecosystem for Football Clubs, at the FT/FIFA Business of Football Summit 2013 in Rio de Janeiro WISeKey Liber Signs With CR Flamengo to Launch WISFANS© to Engage Their Global Fan Base Ecosystem Worldwide To be or not to be identified: Hamlet’s quandary in the digital era WISeKey receives strategic investment from GJC, Grupo Jaime Câmara, leading Brazilian media group and creates a new JV “ WISeKey Liber “ WISeKey and FC Barcelona Launch “FCB connect ”: One App, One Ecosystem for Millions of Followers WISeKey Unveils WISePhone 2 at Mobile World Congress 2013 Allowing Mobile Voice Encryption WISeID.com to encrypt your Facebook, Twitter and G+ Wall Postings bringing encrypted messaging to everyday communication Identité virtuelle: A chacun de décider WISeKey joining Davos as the Forum Starts to Change the Conversation around Cyber Security towards Cyber Resilience as a critical economic enabler WISeKey launches the WISeID Cyber-Resilience Special Edition app during the Davos Swiss Night at the World Economic Forum 2013 Security card provides protection against fakes Goals – Labour principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey upholds the freedom of association and the WISeKey’s reputation as Management team meetings The company effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining a fair employer is firmly The management team meets once a week or stays in business established any time that business requires it. WISeKey upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and Pressing priorities compulsory labour Respect of Swiss Civil Pension fund staff representatives elections and staff travel Code & international allow time for the WISeKey upholds the effective abolition of child labour labour law The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 A representative to the pension fund management team WISeKey upholds the elimination of discrimination in WISeKey employs multimanagement group is elected by the personnel meetings respect of employment and occupation. cultural staff. WISeKey’s in April 2013 staff is gender balanced. WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules – WISeKey’s pension fund last updated January 2011, based on the is decisions are taken by a “Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate group with employee’s Governance” offer guarantees of lawful and representation. fair labour practices. As shown on the letter from the Chief Financial Officer in WISeKey makes sure that WISeKey’s Annual Report 2012 – June 2013 business partners or …”Average headcount during the year suppliers do not employ reduced slightly from 20…to 14 at the end of child labour June 2013, mainly through natural attrition”, in doing so, the company respected all its legal engagements. Means to monitor performance – Legal and Ethics Committee appointed by the Board of Directors (seven shareholder representatives with at least 3 non-executive directors) There are no open processes against WISeKey before labour courts in Geneva. WISeKey’s personnel appreciate contractual conditions: working hours, holidays, maternity protection, occupational safety, training opportunities. Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey complies with the Global Compact criteria on Positive review by the Feed-back to corporate responsibility report labour principles Global Compact The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 13 Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey’s Board of Directors oversees the respect of WISeKey’s management Company’s productivity and personnel WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules by management. upholds the company’s motivation are high. Corporate Governance In April 2013, the personnel elected a Management team makes a positive contribution to Rules representative to be the voice of the employees WISeKey’s business. in the pension fund managed by Swiss Life. Management team made The pension fund plan chosen provides the best possible important contributions in Applications available on the App Store and advantages for employees. contracts signed with Google Play Hublot, Dior Watches, Le Guin eyewear, HYT, Debougainville and Bancorp. Management team made valuable contributions in the development of the following applications:  Should I buy it?  WISecurity  WISeID  WISefans  WISeAuthentic  WISePhone  WISeID Personal Cloud Activities Process Indicators Means of verification Board meetings: Board meetings’ minutes Board meetings: Wednesday 13 March; Tuesday 7 May; Wednesday 26 June; Wednesday 13 March; Tuesday 7 May; Tuesday 3 September; Thursday 17 October; Wednesday 4 Management team Wednesday 26 June; Tuesday 3 September; December meetings Thursday 17 October, Wednesday 4 December Staff representatives to the Elections to the company’s pension fund pension fund management team took place in April 2013 Goals – Environmental principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey supports a precautionary approach to WISeKey develops means Number of smart-cards produced and shipped WISeKey’s environmental challenges to measure the business require The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 environmental footprint of Packaging and shipping methods used. international WISeKey undertakes initiatives to promote greater its products and services WISeAuthentic has a low environmental mobility and environmental responsibility impact. WISeKey is not responsible to ship travelling WISeKey develops a smartcards to clients individually. Watch WISeKey encourages the development and diffusion of holistic and manufacturers are responsible. Smartcards are Cost efficiency is environmentally friendly technologies comprehensive strategy, purchased abroad, Both the cards and the chip balanced against recognising the linkage that goes with it are manufactures abroad. environmental among various Manufacturers seek cost efficiency impact environmental issues Impact on Green House Gas emissions (GHG. WISeKey successfuly The volume of the company’s business is not embeds environmental big enough to follow up on WISeKey’s impact stewardship in the on Green House Gas emissions (GHG). Apart company’s strategy and from international travelling, the impact seems management to be average for a small ICT company. With regard to Control of public utilities’ bills. environmental protection, WISeKey’s data center is energy intensive. WISeKey balances shortThe cooling system employs important term targets and long-term quantities of water. From the electricity goals, diffuse best consumption side it is difficult to reduce the practices and translates bill when the company operation grows; best practices into however, there is a favorable trend thanks to processes the reduction of physical servers, in exchange for virtual servers. The processing capacity increases, but energy consumption remains the same. Purchase of new equipment New equipment purchasing decisions are weighted considering its environmental The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 15 impact. Energy efficiency is a criteria when deciding on the purchase of new equipment. Obsolete equipment is disposed respecting Swiss and European safe-disposal directives: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) Company’s recycling facilities WISeKey endeavors to reduce physical mail and paper use. The company recycles paper, ink toners and PET on-site. Control on international travelling In order to reduce travelling: (1) WISeKey encourages the use of teleconferencing; (2) WISeKey implements teleworking arrangements for as many cases as possible. WISeKey engages the services of foreign software developers in Southeast Asia. WISeKey’s meeting rooms are fitted to offer state of the art technological facilities for tele + video conferencing. All personnel often use Skype for video conferencing. Nature of the company’s products and services The dematerialization of processes plays an important role in the company’s business strategy. Dematerialization means less paper consumption. WISeKey’s clients have a positive environmental impact thanks to reduced transport and the simplifications of energy consumption processes. The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 WISeKey has a positive impact because its business model implies an increase in the consumption of virtual rather than tangible products. Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey’s successful strategy is translated into an increase Sales increases Statistics showing sales’ increases quoted in of online businesses and services using dematerialized the company’s activity report. “During the processes, thus having a positive impact on the environment period, revenues increased by 24%... This increase was due to increased volumes of our WISeAuthentic product line to the luxury watch industry and license revenues from our ne product line WISeID”. Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions Energy bills are carefully monitored in WISeKey’s offices Measures taken to reduce Discussions with the owner / manager of Control of the energy consumption in WISeKey’s premises public utilities WISeKey’s offices The cooling system for the data centre is a bit systems is on the out-dated. There are more energy-efficient hands of the Contract with Bancorp cooling machines in the market; however, the premises’ owner / WISeKey’s operations fall under the category of Bancorp/WISeCorp.CO – decision to change the equipment is not manager information & communications technology services that offers trusted identities to directly on the hands of the company but on simplify people’s mobility customers, enable them to the hands of the building’s owner / managing complete online company. The matter has been discussed with transactions with them, however there is a financial issue to confidence, trust the resolve, since changing the cooling system identities of others and the implies a significant investment. As mentioned identities of the before, the company has opted for increasing infrastructure on which the data processing capacity via new the transactions run processing technologies which do not represent an increase in energy consumption. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 17 Marketing of WISeAuthentic creates an electronic WISeAuthentic products certificate containing the product’s unique and services identity code. A non-duplicable digital certificate, containing the product’s identity is stored on a cryptographic smart chip embedded into a branded SmartCard or into the product itself. At any time the customer can verify the item authenticity over the Internet with the highest level of security. Marketing of WISeFans WISeID FCB enables fans to stay in touch products and services with their favourite players, providing them with real time updates on their social posts, , commentaries and the latest pictures and videos of the team. Sport clubs with strong team brands recognize that fans are their main asset. FCB WISeID creates a collective identity shared by both supporters and players that allows a wide range of on-line interactions with our without commercial goals. Goals – Implement anti-corruption Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions practices WISeKey works against corruption in all its forms, Digital certification Applications developed. including extortion and bribery. contributes to reduce illicit “Should I buy it”, an application being trade and fight corruption developed by WISeKey, uses lawenforcement mechanisms developed by Interpol, i.e. the Global Register. “The INTERPOL Global Register is a project under development to counteract illicit trade by enabling people to scan and verify the legitimacy of a product from their mobile device. Users – consumers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, law enforcement and government officials – will be able to use an Internet-based application on a mobile phone or other Internet-connected device to scan and receive information on a product to verify The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 whether the product is being legitimately sold, access product information and see what safety features are in place.” Meetings and conference-calls in 2013 related to curbing illicit trade. Within WISeKey’s engagement with the WEF Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade, the following meetings and conference calls took place: Meetings: 7 February, Thursday 21 March, 2013. Virtual Meetings: May 8th , October 17th, November 7th, December 9th WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules include a “Whistle blow act”… reporting on violations of the law, rules, regulations and the company’s Code of Conduct are contemplated and protected… These rules explicitly state: “it is forbidden to demand or accept payments or other advantages for themselves or others from third parties, nor may they grant third parties unlawful advantages…” WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules also include clauses contemplating the disclosure of conflict of interest Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions An extended use of digital certification reduces illicit trade WISeKey’s More companies and governments use and contributes to fighting corruption worldwide. WISeAuthentic products WISeKey’s digital certification services as a have a positive impact in means to curb illicit trade and fight corruption. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 19 brand protection and reduce counterfeiting Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeAuthentic products marketed to the luxury industry Clients’ satisfaction. Contracts signed: in the period 2012 2013 Jean-Claude Biver, As reported by the company’s “WISeKey Hublot’s CEO : Annual Report 2012 – June 2013”: “During “The technology consists the period, revenues increased by 24%... This of creating an electronic increase was due to increased volumes of our guarantee certificate with WISeAuthentic product line to the luxury an algorithm...Hublot sales watch industry and license revenues from our outlets and clients are able ne product line WISeID”…There was also to use the SmartCard to continued revenue generation from new check instantly online if produc offerings such as the WISePhone suite the watch is genuine. This of products which provides encrypted VOIP combination provides a for mobile phones and encrypted SMS fail-safe solution, messaging”. impossible to replicate, at a fraction of the amount lost in sales due to counterfeits. …” Activities Process indicators Means of verification Assumptions ORACLE TEAM USA Official Commemorative app developed by WISeKey to New security solutions Press releases / board meetings celebrate one of the Greatest Comebacks in Sporting History DOHA GOALS 2013: WISeKey Presents the ‘Fully Connected’ Future of Sports: developed Within WISeKey’s engagement with the WEF Fan Apps and Stadium Hub Technology Combine for 24/7 Global Engagement Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade, the WISeKey Receives Swiss Patent to Authenticate and Trace Physical Objects on the Internet of Things following meetings and conference calls took OISTE Foundation part of ICANN constituencies place: Meetings: 7 February, Thursday 21 Addressing Identity Management, Privacy, Security and Trust in Digital Communication March, 2013. Virtual Meetings: May 8th , App Launched to Help Consumers Fight Illicit Trade October 17th, November 7th, December 9th WISeKey selected as the exclusive WISfans GPHG mobile app provider of the Geneva Watchmaking Grand Prix 2013 edition The United Nations (ECOSOC) grants Special Consultative Status to OISTE.ORG based in Geneva promoting a “Switzerland on the Internet” to provide Net Cloud Neutrality WISeKey presentation at FIFA Headquarters in Zurich: ON FUTURE OF TECHNOLOGY IN STADIA AND FANS INTERACTIONS WITH WISFANS WISeKey and the International Football Arena launch the official IFA WISfans Mobile App WISeKey signs with CR Vasco da Gama to enhance their global fan base ecosystem engagement with WISfans WISeKey Unveils WISePhone 3 an Encrypted Mobile Communications Suite creating the first worldwide secure, encrypted, Trusted and Social Network Telecom™ platform WISeKey and Brazilian Football Club CR Flamengo launch the official CR Flamengo WISfans Mobile App The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Inauguration of WISeKey LIBER in Brazil with creation of Rootkey WISeKey releases WISeID Personal© to Support its CGI Commitment to Provide One Billion Digital Identities by 2015 while reducing poverty by monetizing active eyeballs WISEKEY CLOSES ADDITIONAL FUNDRAISING AS PART OF GROWTH STRATEGY AND PRE-IPO PLAN AND LEANS TOWARDS THE US FOR FUTURE GROWTH WISeKey Liber Presents WISfans(c), A Revolutionary Social Media Ecosystem for Football Clubs, at the FT/FIFA Business of Football Summit 2013 in Rio de Janeiro WISeKey Liber Signs With CR Flamengo to Launch WISFANS© to Engage Their Global Fan Base Ecosystem Worldwide To be or not to be identified: Hamlet’s quandary in the digital era WISeKey receives strategic investment from GJC, Grupo Jaime Câmara, leading Brazilian media group and creates a new JV “ WISeKey Liber “ WISeKey and FC Barcelona Launch “FCB connect ”: One App, One Ecosystem for Millions of Followers WISeKey Unveils WISePhone 2 at Mobile World Congress 2013 Allowing Mobile Voice Encryption WISeID.com to encrypt your Facebook, Twitter and G+ Wall Postings bringing encrypted messaging to everyday communication Identité virtuelle: A chacun de décider WISeKey joining Davos as the Forum Starts to Change the Conversation around Cyber Security towards Cyber Resilience as a critical economic enabler WISeKey launches the WISeID Cyber-Resilience Special Edition app during the Davos Swiss Night at the World Economic Forum 2013 Security card provides protection against fakes The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2014 21 Annex 1 – Davos statement, January 2014 Addressing Identity of People and Things, Privacy, Security and Trust in the Cloud WISeKey, sponsor of the round table held at the Steigenberger Belvédere Hotel on the 22nd of January 2014, and the event organizers: International Secure Electronic Transactions Organization (OISTE) and the Organization of Knowledge Economy and Enterprise Development (IKED) 1 Recognizing  the rapid evolution of problems related to privacy, security and data governance in digital communications;  that the present trends in digital communication carry serious risks for undercutting trust and damaging fundamental individual rights;  that the United Nations General Assembly recently reaffirmed the human right to privacy in the digital age;  that market forces reward mapping and the abuse of personal data, without providing countervailing forces in support of the individual user;  that governments are increasingly held accountable for the protection of their citizens’ rights in the digital world;  that these developments along with big data, cyberphysical-systems and cloud computing announce a paradigmatic shift in digital identity management. Aware  that all societies, irrespective of national borders and cultural variation, are confronted with a deficit with regard to governance of personal data, privacy, security and trust. And against the background of  billions of new users most of them members of a young generation set to join the Internet over the next few years, The session agreed on the importance of:  Balancing the opportunity for effective use of data and information in the digital world with uncompromised user-centric digital identity management, respect for privacy, and effective control of personal data; 1 The round table was moderated by Carlos Moreira, CEO and Chairman, WISeKey and counted with the presence of Mrs Neelie Kroes, Vice President of the European Commission, responsible for the Digital Agenda in Europe; Thomas Andersson, Chairman of the GINI consortium; Marina Gregorian, head of strategic communications, Fraunhofer Institute for Open Communication Systems (FOKUS), Humberto Luiz Ribeiro, Secretary of Commerce and Services (SCS), Ministry of Development, Industry and Foreign Trade of Brazil, and Alex “Sandy” Pentland, Director of MIT’s Human Dynamics Laboratory and the MIT Media Lab Entrepreneurship. International Secure Electronic Transactions Organization Organización Internacional para la Seguridad de las Transacciones Electrónicas  The need for market forces to produce user-friendly solutions to managing one’s own personal digital identity;  Supporting the emergence of a new generation of digital services – efficient and interoperable – that will equip users with better tools and incentives to tackle the grand challenges of our time, i.e. universal education, health, food, environmental protection, water security and so forth. All concerned actors are thus invited to join forces in developing and piloting:  a new framework and business model for an Individual Digital Identity system comprised of user-driven operator services matched by a new generation of service delivery and public data provision on terms that support trust;  the technical means to enable users to exercise control with respect to who is able to verify user identities and through which processes, and to control essential phases of their digital identities’ life cycle (creation, change, management, revocation) through the Individual Digital Identity model, and;  The application of the new business model and technologies to areas that are pivotal for human and social development and the positive contribution of ICT to billions of new Internet users in years to come. The project will devise architecture for operator functions within a multi-corner model enabling users, relying parties, and data bases to interoperate while ensuring the full control of personal data by the individual user. ***** Background The model work will draw upon the findings of the GINI-SA project, which presented the background and prime building blocks of the INDI approach to identity management (2). It will further benefit from the provision of OISTE ‘s rootkey (3) and its innovative neutral Trust Framework. The project will engage high-tech companies, a range of service providers, and civil society in researching and launching pilots in key sectors, spanning national borders, to advance, test and further examine a new generation of innovations and viable business models based on the new approach. As an end result of this work, it is envisaged that individual users should retain control of their identities and personal data when accessing digital services. On this basis, the human right to privacy will be protected in the digital world while a new ecosystem of digital services based on this principle will generate value and sustainable growth. 2 Consisting of eight European partners, coordinated by the International Organization for Knowledge Economy and Enterprise Development (IKED), GINI-SA has devoted the last three years to setting out the directions for long-term solutions to identity management in digital communication. 3 The Geneva-based International Secure Electronic Transactions Organization / Organization Internationale pour la Sécurité des Transactions Electroniques. Fondation OISTE World Trade Center II – 29 Rte de Pré-Bois, CH – 1215 Geneva 15 Tel: 022 594 30 00; Fax: 022 594 30 01; e-mail: info@oiste.org www.oiste.org; www.facebook.com/iosetransactions Organization in special consultative status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) Member of the Not-for-profit Operational Concern (NPOC) constituency of ICANN
