Pax World Management LLC 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDEX 1. A message from Joe Keefe, President and Chief Executive Officer 3 2. About us 4 a. Our Mission Statement 4 b. Our Values Statement 5 c. Corporate Governance 5 d. Our Customers 6 3. People 6 a. Executive Biographies 6 b. Diversity at Pax World 9 c. Human Resources 11 i. Work/Life Benefits 11 ii. Occupational Safety 11 4. Pax World’s Environmental Impact 11 a. 2013 Focus Area – Information Technology (IT) 13 5. Sustainable Investing at Pax World 13 a. Environment 14 b. Workplace 14 c. Governance 14 d. Product Integrity 14 e. Community 14 f. Investments we avoid 14 6. Funds offered and benchmarks 15 7. Carbon Benchmarking 16 a. Product Carbon Footprint 17 8. Impact Investing 18 a. Community Investing 18 b. Company Engagement 19 i. 2013 Focus Area – Gender Advocacy 20 c. Proxy Voting 21 d. Global Citizen Program 21 9. Memberships and affiliations 22 10. Pax World’s Philanthropy & Community Involvement 23 11. About this report 26 12. KPI Chart 27 13. 2013 UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) 28 2 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT A message from Joe Keefe, President and Chief Executive Officer I invite you to read our 2013 Pax World Management LLC Corporate Social Responsibility KEY TAKEAWAYS report. The report reviews our progress as an asset manager committed to sustainable investing • Pax World Management principles and as a business that seeks to operate in a manner consistent with the environmental, LLC is a leader in social and governance (ESG) standards we integrate into our portfolios. sustainable investing that is committed to At Pax World, our work is focused on moving the needle toward sustainability in two ways: continuous improvement of its own business policies by affecting what other companies do, and by managing our own operations as sustainably as and practices that effectively possible. address environmental, social and corporate For example, our advocacy initiatives in 2013 included direct engagement with garment governance issues. manufacturers and retailers in the wake of the collapse of the Rana Plaza garment factory • Pax World is committed to in Bangladesh that killed more than 1,100 workers, most of them women. We urged these providing excellent service companies to adopt the UN’s Women’s Empowerment Principles as a means of advancing and to its shareholders, clients and customers. empowering women in the workplace. We also engage with companies urging them to increase the number of women on their boards, to disclose and reduce their greenhouse gas emissions • At Pax World, diversity is a and to report on political and lobbying expenditures. guiding principle as well as an investment concept. In our own operations, you will read about our use of post-consumer recycled paper, systematic • Pax World recognizes its controls to conserve paper and electricity, and an ongoing program to offset our own greenhouse own operations affect gas emissions, including those resulting from our own business travel, through the purchase of the environment and strives to hold itself to the same carbon offsets that support renewable energy initiatives. standards it expects of the companies in its investment Sometimes our work on sustainability originates in the overlap between our own operations portfolios. and the operations of our funds. In 2013, we conducted carbon benchmarking of our five largest • Pax World benchmarks the equity funds and made our already fossil fuel-free Global Environmental Markets Fund carbon carbon intensity of its neutral as well. investment portfolios. In these pages you will find our combined UN Global Compact Communication on Progress • Pax World works to achieve and our Corporate Sustainability Report. Thank you for taking the time to review the report. As measurable impacts through its investments we report on these issues in the future, we will do everything we can to continuously improve including community our performance and to live up to the vision and values that we have long held at Pax World. investing, advocacy and engagement, and Sincerely, high-impact equity investing. Joseph F. Keefe President and CEO Pax World Management LLC CONTINUED 3 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ABOUT US: Pax World Management LLC is a leader in the field of sustainable investing. Sustainable investing is the full integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria into investment analysis, security selection and portfolio construction. By combining rigorous fundamental financial analysis with equally rigorous ESG analysis, Pax World seeks to identify forward-thinking companies that are leaders in their industries, meet positive standards of corporate responsibility, and focus on the long term. Economic and Fundamental Market Analysis Financial Analysis • Top-Down • Bottom-Up • Qualitative • In-Depth • Quantitative • Multi-Dimensional ESG Analysis Portfolio Construction • Environmental • Risk Management • Social • Diversification • Governance • Volatility Management Pax World launched the first socially responsible mutual fund in America. Founders Luther Tyson and Jack Corbett, longtime colleagues working on peace, housing and employment issues for the United Methodist Church, launched the Pax World Fund in 1971 with $101,000 in assets. The fund provided investors a vehicle that allowed them to align their investments with their values and empowered them to advocate that corporations establish and meet high standards of social and environmental responsibility. Their pioneering work guided development of the sustainable investing industry. Today, Pax World Management LLC is the investment adviser to a growing family of mutual funds, separate accounts and multimanager asset allocation strategies. As of December 31, 2013, Pax World Management LLC advises funds with roughly $3.2 billion in assets under management for individuals, financial advisors, and institutional investors. Headquartered in Portsmouth, NH, we work with individuals, financial advisors and institutions to make our funds and investment strategies available to investors. Our Mission Statement: Pax World offers investors a selection of professionally managed investment products that seek to invest in forward-thinking CONTINUED 4 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT companies with sustainable business models. Our primary goal is to produce competitive returns for our investors. By integrating environmental, social, and governance criteria into our investment approach, Pax World also seeks to promote peace, protect the environment, advance equality, and foster sustainable development. Pax World also aims to conduct our business responsibly, minimizing our impact on the environment and working harmoniously with stakeholder groups, including employees, suppliers, clients and other communities of place and interest who are affected by our work. Our Values Statement: Pax World strives to be a prudent fiduciary and a careful steward of its shareholders’ and clients’ assets. In doing so, we embrace the core values of responsibility, respect, honesty, compassion and fairness throughout our interactions with shareholders, employees, business partners and our community. Responsibility: to our shareholders by meeting the highest fiduciary and ethical standards; to our employees by providing a workplace where they can develop their careers and realize their potential; and to our business partners and stakeholder communities by operating our business according to high standards of corporate citizenship. Respect: for our shareholders by devoting ourselves to meeting their investment goals and objectives while always giving due consideration to their questions and concerns; for our employees by providing a healthy, collegial work environment where individuality, diversity and teamwork are welcomed and encouraged; for our community by considering our environmental and other impacts on both a local and global scale; and for our business partners by considering our economic impact on their operations. Honesty: to be forthright and transparent in our communications with our shareholders, our relationships with our employees, our interactions with our communities, and our dealings with business partners. Compassion: to be considerate of the individual concerns of shareholders; to accommodate our employees’ need for work/life balance; to support the needs of our community through charitable contributions and volunteerism; to treat our vendors as valued business partners. Fairness: to always give due weight to shareholders and put their interests first; to utilize fair hiring practices and offer equal opportunities for advancement to our employees; to support justice in our community; and to maintain integrity in our interactions with our business partners. Corporate Governance: Pax World is committed to the highest standards of ethics, business integrity and corporate governance. As the adviser to the Pax World family of mutual funds, we have a fiduciary responsibility to the funds’ shareholders. To that end, Pax World’s corporate governance practices are designed to establish and preserve accountability and transparency, while avoiding conflicts of interest (or even the appearance of conflict). Although our funds’ shareholders’ interests always come first, we also believe that we have a moral and ethical obligation to our employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. Pax World Management LLC is a privately-held company incorporated in the State of Delaware and overseen by a five member board of directors, which includes our CEO and Chief Investment Strategist. The mutual funds we manage are held in two business trusts established in Massachusetts (Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Trust II). The trusts are overseen by an eight-member board of trustees. Six of the eight trustees on the board are independent, including the chairman of the board, Carl Doerge, who is a non-executive, independent member of the board. CONTINUED 5 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Two of the board members are women, and the board’s nominating committee charter provides: “In considering and evaluating candidates, (a) the Committee shall strive to achieve and maintain diversity of membership on the Board, including (but not limited to) diversity of race, gender, culture, thought and geography, which the Board believes are key attributes of a well functioning board.” Pax World is equally committed to managing our own operations in a sustainable manner. Currently, Pax World’s sustainability efforts are overseen by our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee, which is chaired by our CEO. Members represent various departments throughout the company. The CSR Committee is responsible for Pax World’s CSR initiatives, reporting and conducting periodic employee training on the company’s environmental policies & procedures and developing ways to reduce Pax World’s environmental footprint. OUR CUSTOMERS: Pax World is committed to providing excellent service to its shareholders, clients and customers. To accomplish that, Pax World strives to provide shareholders, clients and customers with tools to access information about their accounts, report complaints or problems, and protect their privacy, and to report on our performance with respect to those principles. Pax World has established the following policies: • Assure that all client interactions are monitored for satisfaction on a regular basis, and that problems receive appropriate attention. • Assure that reports on customer satisfaction are compiled at least quarterly and any significant or ongoing issues are brought to the attention of senior management. • Assure that all customer inquiries receive an appropriate response within a reasonable period. • Protect customer privacy as described in our Privacy Policy. We also will monitor any problems related to privacy and respond accordingly. PEOPLE AT PAX WORLD: Joe Keefe is President and Chief Executive Officer of Pax World Management LLC and of Pax World Funds. Under his leadership, Pax World has become one of the leading innovators and asset managers in the rapidly growing field of Sustainable Investing – the full integration of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors into investment analysis and decision making. Prior to joining Pax World, Joe was President of NewCircle Communications, a strategic consulting and communications firm specializing in corporate social responsibility and public policy-oriented communications. He served as Senior Adviser for Strategic Social Policy at Calvert Group from 2003-2005 and as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Citizens Advisers from 1997-2000. He is a former member of the Board of Directors (2000-2006) of US SIF-The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment, which represents asset managers and investors throughout the United States. He is Chair of the Board of Directors of Women Thrive Worldwide, a leading non-profit organization shaping U.S. international assistance and trade policy to help women in developing countries lift themselves out of poverty. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of Americans for Campaign Reform, a member of the Leadership Group for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, a joint program of the United Nations Global Compact and UN Women, and a member of the Steering Committee of the Global Initiative CONTINUED 6 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT for Sustainability Ratings (GISR). Mr. Keefe was named by Ethisphere Magazine as one of the “100 Most Influential People in Business Ethics” in 2007, 2008 and 2011. In 2012, was recognized by Women’s eNews as one of “21 Leaders for the 21st Century,” where he was the sole male honoree. Joe is a former Democratic Nominee for United States Congress in New Hampshire’s First Congressional District and a former Chair of the New Hampshire Democratic Party and member of the Democratic National Committee. He has extensive experience in national and local political affairs and in television and radio commentary, including many years of New Hampshire-based television and radio work, as well as surrogate appearances on behalf of Kerry for President on The Tim Russert Show (CNBC), Crossfire (CNN), Hannity and Colmes (Fox), C-Span, New England Cable News (NECN) and other media outlets, as well as previous surrogate experience on behalf of Al Gore in 2000 and Clinton-Gore in 1996. Before entering the investment field, Joe was in private law practice for 16 years. He received a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy from the College of the Holy Cross, and a Juris Doctor degree from the University of Virginia School of Law. Chris Brown is Chief Investment Strategist for Pax World Funds as well as Portfolio Manager for the Pax World Balanced Fund. He has been with Pax World Management LLC since 1998, when he joined the company as Co-Portfolio Manager of the Pax World Balanced Fund. He has served as its sole manager since October 2001 and served as Co-Portfolio Manager for the Pax World Growth Fund from 2006 – May 2011. Prior to joining Pax World, Mr. Brown was a Senior Manager at Fahnestock and Co., Inc., a New York Stock Exchange brokerage firm, from 1987 to 1998, and First Vice President from 1994 and 1998. Mr. Brown also was a Senior Vice President of H.G. Wellington and Co., Inc., from April 1998 to July 2006, where he served as an adviser on separately managed accounts. He is a graduate of the Boston University School of Management with a concentration in finance. Julie Fox Gorte, Ph.D. is the Senior Vice President for Sustainable Investing at Pax World Management LLC. She oversees Environmental, Social and Governance-related research on prospective and current investments as well as Pax’s shareholder advocacy and work on public policy advocacy. Dr. Gorte serves on the boards of Ceres, the Sustainable Investments Institute, the Endangered Species Coalition and the American Sustainable Business Council. She serves as the co-chair of the Asset Management Working Group of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiatives and is on the steering committee for UNEP’s workstream on biodiversity. Prior to joining Pax, Dr. Gorte served as Vice President and Chief Social Investment Strategist at Calvert. Her experience before she joined the investment world in 1999 includes nearly 14 years as Senior Associate and Project Director at the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment, Vice President for Economic and Environmental Research at The Wilderness Society, Program Manager for Technology Programs in the Environmental Protection Agency’s policy office and Senior Associate at the NortheastMidwest Institute. Dr. Gorte received her Bachelor of Science in Forest Management at Northern Arizona University and a Master of Science and Ph.D from Michigan State in resource economics. John Boese is Chief Compliance Officer of Pax World Management LLC, Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Trust II. John oversees and manages all compliance and legal aspects of the Pax World Funds and Pax World Management LLC, the adviser to the Pax World mutual fund family. John is an active member of senior management, contributing to implementation of strategic initiatives and ongoing operations. Prior to joining Pax World as CCO in January, 2006, John was Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer of the Boston CONTINUED 7 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Stock Exchange, Boston, Massachusetts. John joined the Boston Stock Exchange in 2000, and served originally as Vice President of Legal and Compliance before being promoted to Chief Regulatory Officer in 2003. Before joining the Boston Stock Exchange, John held various legal and compliance positions, including serving as an Assistant Prosecutor for Monmouth County, New Jersey, from 1988 – 1990. John is a graduate, cum laude, of Rutgers University and Vermont Law School and is a member of the New Jersey Bar. Alicia DuBois is Chief Financial Officer of Pax World Management LLC as well as Treasurer of the Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Trust II. Alicia has been in the mutual fund industry since 1995. Prior to joining Pax, she was Assistant Vice President of Mutual Fund Accounting and Administration for Lincoln National (formerly Jefferson Pilot Financial) and served as Assistant Treasurer for the Jefferson Pilot variable fund series. Before Jefferson Pilot, she spent 14 years in public accounting. Alicia is a Certified Public Accountant and a member of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. She is an active member of the ICI Small Funds Committee and also serves as a member of the ICI Accounting/Treasurers Committee. She earned a B.S. degree in Accounting from C.W. Post Center of Long Island University. Maureen Conley is Senior Vice President of Shareholder Services/Operations for Pax World Management LLC. She serves as a member of senior management for strategic planning and is responsible for the development and implementation of policies and procedures for shareholder servicing and operations. She is also responsible for establishing and supervising relationships with key vendors. Maureen joined Pax in 2000 as Manager of Shareholder Services. She began her mutual fund career at Citizens Funds in 1996. Maureen is a graduate of the University of Southern Maine and received her MBA from the University of New Hampshire’s Whittemore School of Business and Economics. She is a member of the East Coast Regional Committee of the National Investment Company Service Association (NICSA) and is on the Board of Directors of On Belay, a non-profit organization that provides unique adventure based programs that build community among youth who have or have had a family member with cancer. Maureen holds the FINRA Series 6, 7, 24, 26 and 63 registrations. Maureen Conley is a registered representative of ALPS Distributors, Inc. Judy Snow May is Senior Vice President and Head of Marketing for Pax World Management LLC. Judy is responsible for Pax World’s marketing efforts and cultivating new opportunities for growth, and she is a member of senior management, contributing to implementation of strategic initiatives. Judy has almost two decades of experience in marketing and communications. Prior to joining Pax World in 2012 she served as a Director of Marketing for Eaton Vance, where she was responsible for strategy and project management for retail marketing initiatives. She previously held marketing positions with other investment firms, including Tucker Anthony and Freedom Capital Management. Judy earned an A.B. from Bowdoin College and an M.B.A. from Babson College. Judy holds the FINRA Series 7, 66 and 24 registrations. Ed Lynch is the Senior Vice President, National Sales. He has more than 25 years of experience in the asset management business, including positions in product management, sales, marketing and strategic planning for companies such as Fidelity Investments, Citigroup, Van Kampen Funds, J&W Seligman and XShares Advisors. Ed has broad experience in both intermediary and institutional markets working with a wide range of financial products. He is a graduate of Union College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Business. Ed Lynch is a registered representative of ALPS Distributors, Inc. CONTINUED 8 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Katheen McQuiggan is Senior Vice President of Global Women’s Strategies for Pax World Management LLC. In this senior management role, Kathleen is responsible for the firm’s initiatives related to gender diversity and women’s empowerment including its efforts to advance gender equality as an investment concept. In addition, she leads Pax World’s Women and Wealth Practice Management initiative focused on helping financial advisors build their practices and enhance the services they provide to women investors. Kathleen has more than 20 years of experience in the financial services industry with much of that time focused on increasing the industry’s understanding of and responsiveness to the financial planning needs of women. Prior to her current role, Kathleen was Senior Adviser to Pax World for Gender Diversity Initiatives while serving as President of Catalina Leadership, a strategic advisory organization she launched that focused on investing in women. Prior to working with Pax World, she was a Vice President at Goldman Sachs for 13 years, where she served as an Institutional Equity Franchise salesperson in Chicago and Boston. Kathleen earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in business administration with a concentration in finance from Towson University. An advocate for women’s issues in business and the community, she currently serves on the YWCA Boston Board of Directors, is Co-President of the 85 Broads Boston Chapter and is a member of the advisory board of Wealthrive. Kathleen McQuiggan is a registered representative of ALPS Distributors, Inc. DIVERSITY AT PAX WORLD: Pax World is an equal opportunity employer and follows a policy of administering all employment decisions and personnel actions without regard to age, sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, race, color, marital status, pregnancy, physical or mental disability, genetics or genetic information, family health history, religion, national origin, or veteran status, or any other category protected under applicable federal, state or local law. At Pax World, diversity is a guiding principle as well as an investment concept. We embrace gender diversity in our business for the same reason that we promote gender diversity among the companies we invest in: when women are at the table, we believe the discussion is richer, the decision-making process is better, and the organization is stronger. In 2010, Pax World CEO & President Joe Keefe was among the first CEOs in the world to endorse the Women’s Empowerment Principles (Pax World and ALPS Distributors, Inc. are not responsible for the content on this website). Three of the six funds we manage in-house are managed by women; five of the nine senior executives who sit on our management committee are women as well, as are half of our Sustainable Research team and more than half of our marketing team. Overall, in 2013, 43% of our total workforce was comprised of women. Pax World conducts an annual gender pay equity survey. The results of that survey are in the tables below. In any company as small as Pax World, a disparity may arise in pay equity due to the compensation of one or two individuals, and those differences may arise due to variations in qualifications and responsibilities. Overall Salary Ratio (Women to Men) 2010 72% 2011 76% 2012 72% 2013 90% CONTINUED As of 2/28/2014 91% 9 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Job Function Salary Ratio (Women to Men) As of February 28, 2014 Directors (2) 0% Senior Managers (7) 83% Portfolio Managers & Senior Analysts (7) 123% Managers (7) 74% Professional Staff (26) 97% *Parentheses denote the number of employees in the job category. Job Function Salary Ratio (Women to Men) As of December 31, 2013 Directors (2) 0% Senior Managers (6) 83% Portfolio Managers & Senior Analysts (7) 131% Managers (7) 78% Professional Staff (25) 100% *Parentheses denote the number of employees in the job category. In 2013, Pax World changed our data collection method for our pay equity report. The following table includes all data collected before 2013. Pay Equity Report (Female/Male)* 2010 2011 2012 Directors 0% 0% 0% Portfolio Managers 133% 132% 127% Senior Vice Presidents 73% 72% 75% Senior Managers 130% 127% 119% Senior Analysts 119% 113% 109% Analysts 136% 100% 96% Professional Staff 97% 96% 106% General Staff 138% 138% 141% *Initial data collected in 2010 CONTINUED 10 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RESOURCES: Work/Life Benefits: Pax World strives to provide its employees a friendly, collegial, professional work environment. In addition to a competitive benefits package, Pax World offers employees the following: • Pax World employees are provided with paid time off for volunteer work during regular business hours. Each employee is provided one paid volunteer day per quarter to work at an established non-profit organization. • $250 annual Matching Gift Program wherein the company matches certain employee donations to eligible non-profits. • Full time Pax World employees are eligible to receive $2,000 ($1,000) lump sum cash payment for the purchase or lease of a new (used) hybrid gas-electric vehicle. • Pax World reimburses eligible employees for tuition expenses up to $5,000 per year/$15,000 per lifetime. • In 2013, Pax World implemented an Adoption Reimbursement program, where the employer will reimburse eligible employees up to $5,000 in adoption expenses, per adopted child. • Pax World offers a free Employee Assistance program to all employees and their household members. This program offers 24/7 confidential help on work and life issues. Occupational Safety: Pax World is committed to maintaining a healthy and safe work environment and to eliminating recognized safety and health hazards in the workplace. While employee safety and health hazards are limited and exposure to dangerous mechanical equipment and hazardous materials is minimal, Pax World has a Safety & Health Committee. The committee meets quarterly and coordinates such activities as annual employee safety training, emergency evacuation drills and on-site flu shots. Pax World is cognizant of the risks posed to its employees by working in an office environment. To mitigate these risks, Pax World provides annual ergonomics training and endeavors to provide preventative workplace solutions for employees on an individual basis. PAX WORLD’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: Pax World believes that environmental stewardship is important for every business. Recognizing that our own operations affect the environment, Pax World strives to hold ourselves to the same standards that we expect of the companies in our portfolios. As part of this commitment, Pax World seeks to conduct business in a way that minimizes our environmental footprint while enhancing stakeholder value for our customers, employees, suppliers and communities. In support of this effort, Pax World has committed to measure, analyze and reduce our contributions to global climate change and consumption of resources, including energy, water and materials. Pax World has partnered with Native Energy to offset our carbon footprint, which includes our corporate offices (utilities) and employee travel. CONTINUED 11 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Total GHG Emissions from Business Operations (M/T) 280 270 260 250 240 230 220 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In 2013, we partnered with the Bonneville Environmental Foundation (BEF) to offset our 2012 water consumption at our office in Portsmouth, New Hampshire through the purchase of Water Restoration Certificates (WRC). Every WRC purchased by Pax World represents 1,000 gallons of water restored to streams, through projects certified by the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation. Pax World purchased 172 WRCs to offset our water use for calendar year 2013. Pax World is proud to support water flow restoration in partnership with BEF. Environmental Impact of the Management Company 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total GHG Emissions from Business Operations (M/T)* 237.68 272.16 250.00 257.00 252.35 Total Electricity Consumption from Business Operations 83.48 95.68 96.51 81.50 90.98 (‘000 kWh) Total Natural Gas Consumption from Business Operations N/A N/A 2855.00 2879.00 3303.00 (Therms)** Total Water Consumption from Business Operations N/A N/A N/A 157.80 171.59 (‘000 gallons)*** *Data from years 2009 and 2010 were converted from short tones into metric tones per EIA guidelines <http://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.cfm?id=7&t=2> ** Initial data collected in 2011 *** Initial data collected in 2012 CONTINUED 12 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Additionally, Pax World’s existing environmental policies and programs include measures to minimize the use of office supplies, including paper, glass, metal, plastic and batteries, and recycle what we do use. Employees operating at remote locations are also expected to recycle their office waste. Pax World prefers the use of digital marketing and advertising as a way to reduce paper consumption and other related environmental impacts. When choosing which marketing materials to print, we favor those that have longer shelf lives. Additionally, we seek to print only what we need using sustainably-sourced paper and less toxic alternatives to conventional petroleum-based ink products. Pax World has undertaken composting at its Portsmouth, NH office. Using the services of a local company, Mr. Fox Composting, we are composting items such as food scraps, sugar packets, coffee grounds & filters, paper towels, teabags & tea, flowers and floral trimmings and wax paper liners. 2013 FOCUS AREA: – Information Technology (IT) There are three areas within IT where we actively manage our impact: purchase, use and disposal. When purchasing new equipment from our primary PC provider, Dell, Pax World opts to participate in their plant a tree program. For a nominal fee at the time of purchase, Dell will plant a tree to offset the approximate carbon emissions associated with the useful life of the product. More information on this program can be found here: Dell’s Plant a Tree Program (Pax World and ALPS Distributors, Inc. are not responsible for the content on this website). Additionally, Pax World does a number of things to reduce the impact of our information technology systems while in service. In order to reduce electricity consumption, we instituted a policy through an “Active Directory” that puts our computer monitors to sleep when not active. More recently, we have begun transitioning to Virtual Servers where multiple server Operating Systems are running on a single physical server. This has also cut power consumption by electronic equipment that is usually operating 24/7. Further, our securities trading environment that was built in 2007 required four physical servers, each with its own function and Operating System and drawing on its own power. Upon the completion of a major software upgrade, we will have just two servers operating, which will cut the power consumption of our securities trading environment by half. Over the longer term, the number of individual pieces of equipment in our server room (currently >12) will be reduced to approximately 25% of today’s total, as we increasingly move to virtualization both inside and outside the organization (utilization of the cloud). Further reading can be found here: Energy Star: Server Virtualization (Pax World and ALPS Distributors, Inc. are not responsible for the content on this website). Finally, we rely on Newport Computer Services (Pax World and ALPS Distributors, Inc. are not responsible for the content on this website), a local third-party e-waste recycling service provider, for the disposal of old electronic equipment. Newport’s goal is zero landfill waste through the harvest of computer components for recycling, which we believe is in line with Pax World’s sustainability efforts. SUSTAINABLE INVESTING AT PAX WORLD: Pax World’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria: Pax World specializes in sustainable investing, the full integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors into investment analysis and decision making. We believe this process helps us identify better-managed companies that are leaders in their industries, meet positive corporate responsibility standards, and have a clear vision for managing risk and delivering longterm value to shareholders. Pax World applies these criteria to all companies, but the emphasis on any specific issue varies depending on the key impacts for that sector, industry and sub-industry. We also examine companies’ past performance, current policies and goals in order to make the best estimate of the companies’ sustainability profiles in the future, which is the most useful information for portfolio construction. CONTINUED 13 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Environment Our environmental criteria are focused on attaining and promoting environmental sustainability and include such issues as air and water emissions, recycling and waste reduction, energy efficiency or use of renewable energy, climate change initiatives, and other policies and practices relating to environmental impact. Generally, we favor companies with comprehensive environmental policies, practices and performance, those with good environmental performance compared with industry peers, and those that are working to improve environmental sustainability. In certain sectors, such as energy, utilities, materials and industrials, we also focus heavily on greenhouse gas emissions management, and we avoid investing in any company for which a majority of the business comes from coal production or operation in the oil sands region, and any utility whose reliance on coal to power the electricity generation fleet is above the annual percentage of coal used nationally to produce electricity. Workplace Our workplace criteria are focused on companies’ ability to create value through a productive workforce. We examine diversity, occupational health and safety, employee relations and human rights. We favor companies that implement programs, policies and procedures intended to encourage and foster safe, diverse and productive workplaces and supply chains. We seek companies that establish specific goals, measure their progress toward their goals in these issue areas and publicly report on their performance. Governance Our governance criteria focus on companies’ alignment of the interests of managers with those of shareholders over the long term and are based on the fiduciary duties of care and loyalty to shareholders, transparency and accountability as demonstrated in such areas as board structure and procedures, executive compensation, shareholder rights and misconduct including corruption, bribery and fraud. Product Integrity Our product integrity criteria focus on companies’ ability to create loyalty and franchise value by offering safe, high-quality products. We examine such issues as product safety and quality, consumer rights and protections, emerging technology issues (such as privacy), and marketing and advertising practices. We look for companies with programs and procedures in place to address public health issues associated with product abuse and addiction. As technology advances, we seek companies that implement procedures and practices that safeguard data security and protect consumers’ privacy. Community Our community criteria focus on companies’ ability to create and maintain a social license to operate through attention to their impacts on communities of place and interest. We examine such issues as a company’s commitment to and relationship with the communities in which it operates, including the pursuit of sustainable development abroad. We favor companies that work to enhance the quality of life in the communities in which they do business. We seek companies that foster strong stakeholder relations in their communities through responsible business practices, such as fair lending practices among financial institutions. Investments we avoid We seek to avoid investing in companies: • significantly involved in the manufacture of weapons; • that manufacture tobacco products; • whose primary business is coal mining and production; • whose sole or majority operations are in oil sands; CONTINUED 14 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • whose business operations have contributed to human rights abuses in Sudan • whose reliance on coal is above the national average, unless that utility has demonstrated a significant commitment to renewables and is reducing its dependence on coal; or that engage in unethical business practices. FUNDS OFFERED AND BENCHMARKS (2013) Pax World Funds (Actively Managed Mutual Funds) Benchmark 60% Standard & Poor’s 500 (S&P 500) Index/ Pax World Balanced Fund 40% Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index Pax World Growth Fund Russell 1000 Growth Index Pax World Small Cap Fund Russell 2000 Index Pax World International Fund* MSCI Europe Australasia Far East (EAFE) (Net) Index BofA/ML U.S. High Yield Cash Pay BB-B Pax World High Yield Bond Fund (Constrained 2%) Index Pax World Global Environmental Markets Fund MSCI World (Net) Index Pax World Global Women’s Equality Fund MSCI World (Net) Index ESG Managers® Portfolios (Actively managed, multi-manager, asset allocation strategies) Benchmark ESG Managers® Portfolios Growth Portfolio 66% S&P 500/34% MSCI EAFE (Net) 55% S&P 500/25% MSCI EAFE (Net)/ ESG Managers® Portfolios Growth and Income Portfolio 20% Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index 42% S&P 500/18% MSCI EAFE (Net)/ ESG Managers® Portfolios Balanced Portfolio 40% Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index 24% S&P 500/11% MSCI EAFE (Net)/ ESG Managers® Portfolios Income Portfolio 65% Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index ESG Shares (Passively managed exchange traded fund) Benchmark Pax MSCI EAFE ESG Index ETF (EAPS)* MSCI EAFE ESG Index *On 3/31/14 Pax World International Fund and Pax MSCI EAFE ESG Index ETF merged into the Pax MSCI International ESG Index Fund, a passively managed index fund which seeks investment returns that closely correspond to the price and yield performance, before fees and expenses, of the MSCI EAFE ESG Index. CONTINUED 15 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Pax World also offers a money market account. Pax World Money Market Account assets are deposited in Urban Partnership Bank, a community bank based in Chicago, Illinois.1 Urban Partnership Bank was capitalized by financial institutions, philanthropic organizations and socially responsible individuals from Chicago and nationally, and provides access to financial services and support to distressed neighborhoods to help transform them to strong, stable communities. Pax World offers separately managed accounts to institutional investors. CARBON BENCHMARKING: Pax World has seen climate change as a material risk and opportunity factor in our investments for many years, but we have recently redoubled our efforts to manage the carbon risk of our funds. To do that, we began by benchmarking our funds’ carbon intensity. In 2013, Trucost compared the carbon intensity of our five largest funds2 to the carbon intensity of those funds’ passive benchmarks. The carbon intensity of a fund is calculated by multiplying the greenhouse gas emissions of each company in the fund by the proportion of the company’s outstanding shares owned by Pax World. Four of Pax World’s five largest actively managed funds were less carbon-intensive than their benchmarks, while one, the Growth Fund, was more carbon-intensive than its benchmark. (See Table 1 and Table 2) Finally, Pax World offset all the greenhouse gas emissions of our Global Environmental Markets Fund (GEMF), a fund which is already fossil fuel-free. GEMF’s total portfolio emissions of greenhouse gases were 13,102 tonnes, CO2 equivalent, as determined by Trucost3. Pax World arranged to offset these emissions by investing in projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the levels they would have reached without the project; all these emission reductions (or offsets) are third-party verified. Bonneville Environmental Foundation managed the process of identifying and purchasing offsets, and the specific offset projects in which we invested were: • Landfill Gas:  Hernando County Landfill Gas Project, Florida (makes up estimated 75% of supply portfolio) Located near Brooksville, this 1.6 MW gas-to-energy project produces enough energy to power about 1,000 homes and prevents methane (a potent global warming pollutant) from escaping into the atmosphere.  Finney County Landfill, Kansas The Finney County Landfill Gas Destruction project captures and flares landfill gas at the Western Plains Regional Landfill, near Garden City, Kansas.  Butler County Landfill Gas Project, Nebraska Located near David City, this project collects and sells compressed landfill gas to a nearby food processing plant. The project prevents landfill methane (a potent global warming pollutant) from escaping into the atmosphere, and also reduces the food plant’s use of fossil-based natural gas. • HFC refrigerant:  Giant Eagle HFC Reduction, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Maryland and West Virginia This innovative offset project reduces emissions of chlorofluorocarbons at grocery store refrigeration systems. CONTINUED See page 17 for top and bottom five holdings. Holdings are subject to change. 16 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Table 1 Pax World Funds’ Carbon Footprints Fund Total GHG Benchmark Benchmark Total Fund Carbon Emissions/$mn* Emissions/$mn Intensity/Benchmark Carbon Intensity Pax World Balanced Fund 279.57 S&P 500 328.90 0.85 Pax World Growth Fund 217.42 Russell 3000 170.64 1.27 Growth Pax World International Fund 267.99 MSCI EAFE 298.45 0.82 Pax World Global 231.64 MSCI World 310.58 0.75 Environmental Markets Fund Pax World Global Women’s 246.68 MSCI World 310.58 0.79 Equality Fund *Greenhouse gas emissions are expressed in carbon-equivalent tonnes. Table 2 – Top Five and Bottom Five Contributors to Fund Carbon Intensity as of May 31, 2013 Fund Top Five Bottom Five Pax World Balanced Fund Nucor Corp. Citrix Systems Inc. Xcel Energy Inc. F5 Networks Inc. Timken Co. Digital Realty Trust Inc. Sasol Ltd. Nuance Communications Inc. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. U.S. Bancorp. Pax World Global Pennon Group PLC China Everbright Environmental Markets Fund Yingde Gases Group Co. Ltd. Roper Industries Inc. Kemira Oyj Manila Water Co. Shanks Group plc Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. Linde AG Delta Electronics Inc. Pax World International Fund Sasol Ltd. ARM Holdings Fortum Oyj DBX Group Holdings Ltd. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. Bank Takyat Indonesia Tenaris SA Powszechny Zaklad Linde AG Ubexpieczen S.A. SAP AG Pax World Global Women’s Sasol Ltd. Trend Micro Inc. Equality Fund Timken Co. Mastercard Inc. Praxair Inc. Westpac Banking Inc. Talisman Energy Inc. Turkiye Halk Bankasi A.S. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. National Australia Bank CONTINUED 17 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Table 2 – Top Five and Bottom Five Contributors to Fund Carbon Intensity as of May 31, 2013, continued from page 17 Pax World Growth Fund Nucor Corp. Facebook Inc. Expeditors International of Visa Inc. Washington Inc. Salesforce.com Inc. Talisman Energy Inc. Gilead Sciences Inc. Praxair Inc. MasterCard Inc. Devon Energy Corp. Holdings are subject to change. IMPACT INVESTING: There are several ways in which Pax World works to achieve measureable impacts through its investments: community investing, advocacy/engagement and high-impact equity investing. COMMUNITY INVESTING: Pax World invests in communities and promotes sustainable development, most commonly through ongoing investment in debt instruments issued by non-corporate entities and certificates of deposit. Each of the Pax World Funds may invest up to 5% of fund assets in community development financial institutions that target underserved localities in the areas of affordable housing, small businesses, community development and revitalization, health care, education, and the environment. Examples include investments in micro-credit or micro-finance institutions that advance women’s equality and sustainable development. We believe these investments may have positive direct impact on local communities which is an important principle of our investing and business philosophy. As of December 31, 2013, Pax World had roughly $20.4 million invested in development-related securities and in community investment-related securities. Community Investments Value as of December 31, 2013 Calvert Social Investment Foundation (details below) $ 3,150,000.00 CEI Investment Notes $ 248,570.14 Enterprise Community Loan Fund $ 500,000.00 Hope Community Credit Union $ 100,000.00 One PacificCoast Bank $ 600,000.00 Urban Partnership Bank $ 448,564.00 Self Help Credit Union $ 516,309.09 Total $ 5,563,443.23 CONTINUED 18 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Development Investments Value as of December 31, 2013 Bank of America Green Bond $ 3,000,876.00 World Bank Green Bond $ 6,014,544.00 North American Development Bank Bond $ 1,778,398.00 Portland Oregon Urban Renewal & Redevelopment Bonds $ 4,110,460.00 Total $ 14,904,278.00 Holdings are subject to change. Pax World’s investments in Calvert Social Investment Foundation Notes are targeted to the NH Community Loan Fund ($1.5 million), Women Investing in Women Initiative or WIN-WIN ($750,000), International Microfinance & Fair Trade ($750,000) and the Calvert Foundation’s Global Portfolio ($150,000). COMPANY ENGAGEMENT: Pax World engages with its portfolio companies to improve their ESG performance. Our company engagement efforts are aimed largely at greater corporate sustainability, transparency and accountability. It is for these reasons that we: • Vote shareholder proxies in accordance with our ESG criteria • Engage management in dialogue on issues of concern • Initiate or support shareholder resolutions at annual shareholder meetings aimed at persuading companies to adopt higher standards of corporate responsibility • Support public policy initiatives that promote greater corporate sustainability, transparency and accountability In proxy year 2013, Pax World filed or co-filed six shareholder resolutions. Three of these resolutions were withdrawn after successful dialogues resulted in agreements with each company, while resolutions at Google, Inc. and Nucor Corp. were voted on by all shareholders at their annual meetings. The following is a list of shareholder resolutions Pax World has filed or co-filed with other investors in the past five years: Proxy Issue/Ask Company Name Lead File/ Outcome Year Co-file 2013 Data Privacy & Security Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) Lead File Successfully Withdrawn 2013 Lead Battery Recycling Google, Inc. (GOOG) Lead File 7% 2013 Board Diversity Policies Stericycle, Inc. (SRCL) Lead File Successfully Withdrawn 2013 Board Diversity Policies Hospitalities Properties Trust (HPT) Lead File Successfully Withdrawn 2013 Political Influence Nucor Corp. (NUE) Co-File 27% 2013 Political Influence Pfizer, Inc. (PFE) Co-File Omitted by SEC 2012 Climate Change & Energy Use Amazon.com, Inc. (AMZN) Co-File 18% 2012 Political Influence Amgen, Inc. (AMGN) Lead File 19% 2012 Political Influence Target Corp. (TGT) Lead File Successfully Withdrawn CONTINUED 19 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Proxy Issue/Ask Company Name Lead File/ Outcome Year Co-file 2012 Political Influence PepsiCo, Inc. (PEP) Co-File 7% 2012 Board Diversity Policies Riverbed Technologies (RVBD) Lead File Withdrawn for Technical Reasons 2012 Board Diversity Policies Roper Industries, Inc. (ROP) Lead File Successfully Withdrawn 2011 U.S. Chamber of Commerce Membership 3M Co. (MMM) Co-File Floor Vote 2011 U.S. Chamber of Commerce Membership ConocoPhillips (COP) Co-File Floor Vote 2011 U.S. Chamber of Commerce Membership Pfizer, Inc. (PFE) Co-File Floor Vote 2011 Political Influence Pfizer, Inc. (PFE) Co-File Successfully Withdrawn 2011 Hydraulic Fracturing Risk Report Southwestern Energy (SWN) Co-File Successfully Withdrawn 2011 Sustainability Reporting St. Jude Medical, Inc. (STJ) Co-File Successfully Withdrawn 2010 Oil Sands Involvement ConocoPhillips (COP) Co-File 22% 2010 Political Influence CVS Caremark (CVS) Lead File 34% 2010 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation EMC Corp. (EMC) Co-File 52% 2010 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation PepsiCo, Inc. (PEP) Co-File Successfully Withdrawn 2010 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation Target Corp. (TGT) Lead File 49% 2010 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation Terex Corp. (TEX) Lead File Successfully Withdrawn 2010 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation The Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) Co-File Successfully Withdrawn 2010 Independent Chairman of the Board Union Pacific Corp. (UP) Lead File 18% 2010 Independent Chairman of the Board XTO Energy, Inc. (XTO) Lead File Company acquired before AGM 2009 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) Co-File Successfully Withdrawn 2009 Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation The Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) Co-File 44% 2009 Sustainability Reporting Ameriprise Financial, Inc. (AMP) Lead File Successfully Withdrawn Holdings are subject to change. Additionally, Pax World is a member of Ceres—a national coalition of investors, environmental organizations and other public interest groups working with companies to address sustainability— through which we have participated in multi-stakeholder working groups on sustainability issues with American Electric Power, Disney, Timberland (a VF Corp. subsidiary), Sodexo, Green Mountain Coffee, Deckers Outdoor, The North Face (a VF Corp. subsidiary) and Best Buy. 2013 FOCUS AREA: – Gender Advocacy Proxy Voting Pax World has an innovative proxy voting policy aimed at promoting greater gender diversity on corporate boards: we not only oppose corporate board slates that do not include any women, but in most cases we require that at least two women be on the board before we consider supporting the slate for the simple reason that the benefits women bring to boards are best realized when female representation reaches critical mass. Where we oppose the slate, we write directly to each company to explain the reason for our opposition, urge them to take concrete steps to diversify their boards and provide them with model charter language for their nominating committee establishing a board diversity policy and process for implementation. During the 2012-2013 proxy season, Pax World withheld support from 193 slates of board nominees due to insufficient gender diversity. CONTINUED 20 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Shareholder Resolutions In 2013, Pax World filed and successfully withdrew board diversity proposals at Stericycle, Inc. and Hospitality Properties Trust after receiving positive responses from both companies in which they agreed to amend their corporate governance documents to include gender and ethnicity as criteria for selection of any new director, and to periodically review board composition. Women’s Empowerment Principles Promulgated by UN Women (UN Entity for Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment) and the United Nations Global Compact in 2010, the Women’s Empowerment Principles (the Principles) are a set of practical guidelines to business and the private sector on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. Since 2010, Pax World has written to 160 companies held in the Pax World Funds urging them to sign the Women’s Empowerment Principles’ CEO Statement of Support. Eight companies currently held in our Funds have endorsed the Principles to date. In the wake of the tragic collapse of a manufacturing facility in Bangladesh that killed more than 1,100 garment workers in 2013, Pax World urged apparel manufacturers and retailers to endorse the Principles as an effective way to address workplace safety concerns globally for garment workers, the majority of whom are women. In letters to the chief executive officers and women members of the boards of directors at more than 30 leading apparel manufacturers and retailers, Pax World urged recipients to endorse, take steps to implement, and publicly report on their progress in adopting the Principles in their own operations and those of their suppliers. Thirty Percent Coalition Pax World also joins with other advocates of gender diversity, and is a founding member of the Thirty Percent Coalition. The formulation of the Coalition in 2011 marks the first time institutional investors, national women’s groups, business leaders and corporate governance experts have come together to press companies on board diversity. The Coalition seeks to assure that women hold 30% of board seats across public companies in the US by the end of 2015. Representing over $1.2 trillion in assets under management, the Coalition has written to more than 160 companies in the S&P 500 and Russell 1000 indices that do not have any women board members. The effort has resulted in dialogues with nearly 40 companies, and some have amended their corporate documents to better articulate board diversity policies in response to the concerns raised by the Coalition. Since the Coalition began this campaign in the summer of 2012, we have learned from 15 companies that women were recently added to their boards. PROXY VOTING: Pax World invests in companies in a variety of countries and markets, and as shareowners, we are entitled to vote on items on their annual proxy at each year’s annual shareholder meeting. Each year, Pax World votes on hundreds of ballot items put forth by company management and shareholders ranging from board of director elections, executive compensation and capital structure to environmental and social issues. We seek to vote each proxy in a way that is consistent with our ESG criteria. Pax World exercises our proxy voting responsibility seriously, as it provides another avenue through which to promote improved financial performance and improved ESG policies and practices at companies. Our proxy voting guidelines are available here and we publicly disclose our votes for both upcoming and past meetings. In 2013, we voted 533 meetings with over 6,000 proposals. You can also view our 2013 Form N-PX (Annual Report of Proxy Voting Record) for Pax World Funds Series Trust I and Pax World Funds Series Trust II. GLOBAL CITIZEN PROGRAM: Pax World’s Global Citizen Program enables Pax World shareholders to earmark portions of their dividends and/or capital gains as a contribution to one of two non-profit organizations that are working to alleviate poverty, empower women and promote sustainable development around the globe, Mercy Corps and Women Thrive Worldwide. CONTINUED 21 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Global Citizen Program Shareholder Donations 2012 2013 Mercy Corps $ 44,428.33 $ 196,040.93 Women Thrive Worldwide $ 165.62 $ 1,888.37 In October 2008, total shareholder donations to Mercy Corps through the Global Citizen Program exceeded $1 million for the first time in the program’s 10 year history. MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS: Pax World partners with numerous organizations to advance the field of sustainable investing. For example, Pax World currently is a member of, or affiliated with, or sponsors the following organizations: • Ceres (Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies) • Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility • The Investor Network on Climate Risk • The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment (USSIF) • New Hampshire Businesses for Social Responsibility • The Sustainable Investment Research Analysts Network • United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiatives (UNEPFI) 1. UNEPFI North American Task Force 2. UNEPFI Asset Management Working Group 3. UNEPFI Climate Change Working Group 4. UNEPFI Natural Capital Declaration • United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment There is a wide variety of initiatives in which Pax World is involved that are designed to address specific sustainability issues or advance sustainability in a particular sector. Pax World is proud to be a part of: • CDP (Formerly The Carbon Disclosure Project) • CDP Water Disclosure Project • CDP Forests Program • CDP Carbon Action • Thirty Percent Coalition CONTINUED 22 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT • Women’s Empowerment Principles • UN Global Compact • Women Thrive Worldwide • UN Principles for Investors on Inclusive Finance Additionally, as a member of the financial services industry, Pax World is a member of the Investment Company Institute (ICI), which is the national association of US investment companies, including mutual funds, closed-end funds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and unit investment trusts (UITs) and NIS CA, a nonprofit trade association that provides the global investment management industry with discussion and education forums to better serve its customers by developing operational best practices. PAX WORLD’S PHILANTHROPY & COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT: In keeping with Pax World’s social mission, all full-time Pax World employees receive four days paid time off per year to do volunteer work during regular business hours for an established non-profit, or community service organization of their choice. In support of this program, Pax World regularly participates in the United Way’s group volunteer opportunities in the seacoast community of New Hampshire. Additionally, many Pax World employees also participate in group beach clean-ups organized by the Blue Ocean Society for Marine Conservation, a group focused on marine education and environmental conservation. In 2013, Pax World employees volunteered 204 hours of their time to the following organizations: Beneficiaries of Volunteer Work, 2013 American Sustainable Business Council Board Meeting Blue Ocean Society Beach Clean Up Concord Hospital Payson Center for Cancer Care Rock ‘n Race Endangered Species Coalition Board Meeting New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Board Meeting; Strategic Planning Committee Nurture & Nature Children’s Center United Way Day of Caring Rochester Child Care Center United Way Day of Caring Tahoe Adaptive Competition Center (training for adaptive snowboarding leading up to the paralympics) Planning Meeting Taste of the Nation (help people dispose of their compost, recycling and waste properly) Wallace Global Environmental Fund Investment Committee Meeting CONTINUED 23 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Pax World supports its employees in their desire to improve the communities where they live and work by offering a matching gift program wherein the company matches certain employee donations to eligible non-profits. In 2013, Pax World matched $2,868 in employee contributions to the following organizations: Beneficiaries of Matching Donations, 2013 American Cancer Society Making Strides Against Breast Cancer (research and patient support) Andover Coalition for Education Archbishop Carroll High School Committee for Missing Children Concord Hospital Payson Center for Cancer Care Rock ‘n Race Cross Roads House, Inc. (homeless shelter for individuals and families) Curtis Lake Christian Church Global Outreach Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Living Journeys (cancer support program) Make-a-Wish New Hampshire National Multiple Sclerosis Society Muck Fest Boston Event New Hampshire Food Bank New Hampshire Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Paw’s Walk On Belay Inc. (building community among youth who have or have had a family member with cancer using adventure based programs) Seacoast Family Promise (homeless shelter for families with children under age 18) Special Olympics New Hampshire Tahoe Adaptive Competition Center (training for adaptive snowboarding leading up to the paralympics) Wildlife Heritage Foundation of New Hampshire Women Thrive Worldwide (advocating change so women+men can share equally in enjoyment of opportunities, economic prosperity, voice and freedom from fear and violence) Zawadisha (empowering women through micro-lending, savings, preventative healthcare and education) In 2013, Pax World sponsored a family in need during the holidays through the Community Child Care Center of Portsmouth, NH. Employees donated gifts from the family wish list, as well as $762 cash, which the company matched on top of the regular matching donations of $2,868. Due to the generosity of our employees and the company, we were able to purchase everything on the family’s wish list and more. Pax World hosts a year-round donation drive to Cross Roads House, a homeless shelter and support for individuals and families in Portsmouth, NH. In 2013, Pax World made corporate donations to the following organizations: CONTINUED 24 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Beneficiaries of Corporate Donations, 2013 Big Brothers Big Sisters of Greater Seacoast Cross Roads House, Inc. (homeless shelter for individuals and families) Education for All Children (EFAC) Families First Health and Support Center Friends Forever, Inc. Mercy Corps New Generation, Inc. NH Campaign for Legal Services NH Community Loan Fund On Belay Save the Indoor Portsmouth Pool, Inc. Second Chance Employment Services Spaulding Youth Center Foundation The Clipper Foundation The Way Home Warren B. Rudman Center Women Thrive Worldwide In the past five years, Pax World has donated to the following organizations: American Cancer Society, Arts in Reach, The Children’s Heart Foundation, Heritage House Program at Strawbery Banke, NH Community Development Finance Authority (CDFA), Portsmouth Public Library, Project CoolAir, Seacoast Family Promise, Seacoast Repertory Theatre, Shared Interest, Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition and Women’s Voices for the Earth. In 2013, Pax World sponsored various events/programs for the following organizations: Beneficiaries of Corporate Sponsorships, 2013 Center for Urban Education about Sustainable Agriculture (CUESA) New Hampshire Businesses for Social Responsibility (NHBSR) Rain for the Sahel and Sahara Responsible Endowments Coalition RiverRun Bookstore (Portsmouth, NH) Seacoast Family Promise Share Our Strength Shared Interest Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition Southeast Land Trust of NH On Belay The Music Hall (Portsmouth, NH) World Affairs Council of NH CONTINUED 25 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT In the past five years, Pax World has sponsored events/programs for the following organizations: American Cancer Society, As You Sow, NH Campaign for Legal Services, City Year NH, Clean Air-Cool Planet, the Community Child Care Center of Portsmouth, NH, Education for All Children (EFAC), Fill the Gap, Inc., Friends Forever, Inc., Friends of the Bridges House, Global Citizens Circle, the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR), the Jimmy Fund Big Red Golf Tournament, the National Council for Research on Women, the NH Humanities Council, NH Food Bank, NH Public Radio, Palace Theatre (Manchester, NH), Responsible Endowments Coalition, Seacoast Family Promise, Seacoast Repertory Theatre, Spaulding Youth Center Foundation, The Housing Partnership, Women’s eNews, Women’s Fund of NH and the Women’s Funding Network. Charitable Giving 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cash Value of Corporate Donations $5,000 $18,000 $18,805 $37,500 $41,330 Cash Value of Corporate Sponsorships $3,000 $9,500 $44,554 $17,200 $11,125 ABOUT THIS REPORT: Pax World has publicly published sustainability data since we became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2010. Our 2013 Sustainability Report builds on our previous efforts and includes information about new product initiatives and details how we demonstrate our commitment to serving the needs and advancing the goals of our employees, shareholders, and clients, and being a responsible corporate citizen in the communities where we do business. CONTINUED 26 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Key Performance Metricsronme 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environmental Impact of the Management Company Total GHG Emissions from Business Operations (M/T)* 237.68 272.16 250.00 257.00 252.35 Total Electricity Consumption from Business Operations (‘000 kWh) 83.48 95.68 96.51 81.50 90.98 Total Natural Gas Consumption from Business Operations (Therms)** N/A N/A 2855.00 2879.00 3303.00 Total Water Consumption from Business Operations (‘000 gallons)*** N/A N/A N/A 157.80 171.59 Environmental Impact of Products Emissions Intensity by Fund (tCO2e/$mn) Balanced Fund 279.57 Global Environmental Markets Fund 231.64 Global Women’s Equality Fund 246.68 International Fund 267.99 Growth Fund 217.42 Total Portfolio GHG Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/$mn) 1243.30 Emissions Offset by Global Environmental Markets Fund (M/T) 13,102 Employees # of employees 45 46 47 46 47 Employee Volunteer Hours 149 183 202 116 204 Cash Value of Employer Matching Donations**** $ 1,410 $ 2,705 $ 3,684 $ 2,418 $ 2,868 Hybrid Vehicle Incentive Participation (# of employees) 1 1 0 0 2 Hybrid Vehicle Incentive Program Cash Value $ 2,000 $ 1,000 $ — $ — $ 3,000 Tuition Reimbursement Participation (# of employees) 2 0 1 2 2 Tuition Reimbursement Cash Value $ 6,770 $— $ 1,827 $ 10,000 $ 10,000 2013 Pay Equity/Gender Diversity Report***** Gender Diversity (% female) 49% 50% 49% 48% 43% Ratio (Female/Male)****** Directors (2) 0% Senior Managers (6) See Below 83% Portfolio Managers & Senior Analysts (7) 131% Managers (7) 78% Professional Staff (25) 100% 2010 2012 Pay Equity Pay Equity Ratio (Female/Male) Directors N/A 0% 0% 0% Portfolio Managers N/A 133% 132% 127% Senior Vice Presidents N/A 73% 72% 75% See Above Senior Managers N/A 130% 127% 119% Senior Analysts N/A 119% 113% 109% Analysts N/A 136% 100% 96% Professional Staff N/A 97% 96% 106% General Staff N/A 138% 138% 141% Shareholder Engagement # of shareholder proposals filed/co-filed (Proxy Year) 3 9 6 6 6 Management Company AUM (billions) $ 2.506 $ 2.646 $ 2.500 $ 2.666 $ 3.199 Cash Value of Corporate Donations $ 5,000 $ 18,000 $ 18,805 $ 37,500 $ 41,330 Cash Value of Corporate Sponsorships $ 3,000 $ 9,500 $ 44,554 $ 17,200 $ 11,125 Cash Value of Community Investments (millions) N/A N/A $ 5.00 $ 4.70 $ 5.50 *Data from years 2009 and 2010 were converted from short tones into metric tones per EIA guidelines < http://www.eia .gov/tools /fa qs /fa q.cfm?id=7&t=2 > **Initial data collected in 2011 ***Initial data collected in 2012 ****Pax World temporarily suspended this program from June 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009, due to market conditions. *****Pax World changed our data collection method for this report in 2013 ******Parentheses denote the number of employees in the job category. 27 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT United Nations Global Compact 2013 Communication on Progress Pax World Management LLC (“Pax World”) Submitted April 1, 2014 Statement of Continued Support Pax World was one of the first investment managers to integrate Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors into our investment analysis and decision making through a process known as sustainable investing. As part of our core mission, we analyze each potential investment not only for its financial characteristics, but its impact on the environment, its workers and supply chain, communities and customers. We also examine the governance of the enterprise issuing securities, as governance affects every other aspect of the management of any enterprise. Pax World believes that this approach is deeply compatible with the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and every one of those Principles is reflected in our ESG analysis, shareowner and public policy advocacy, as well as in our own approach to managing our own company. Pax World’s activities support the letter and principles of the Global Compact in several ways. First, we strive to invest in companies or other enterprises issuing securities that are leaders in advancing sustainability, which we define in much the same way that the Global Compact does: environmental impact, workplace practices, respect for human rights, and avoiding bribery. We also engage with companies to help them improve their own sustainability. Many times we engage with companies through investor coalitions. At other times, we engage with individual companies on a range of ESG issues and we vote our proxies in accord with our belief in corporate sustainability. Pax World is also attentive to its own sustainability. We have assessed our own policies, programs and performance with regard to sustainability, and as a result of that work we are taking additional steps to assure that we have appropriate policies, monitoring programs, accountability and goals in place for all the places where our business affects sustainability. In short, Pax World continues to be deeply committed to the Ten Principles. This Communication on Progress reaffirms Pax World’s continuing commitment to the UN Global Compact. Sincerely, Joseph F. Keefe President and CEO Pax World Management LLC April 1, 2014 28 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS (PRINCIPLES 1-2) Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax considers human rights issues in our Principles for Investors on Inclusive Principles for Investors on Inclusive Environmental, Social and Governance Finance: As previously reported, Finance: The Pax World Funds invest (ESG) analysis of every security issuer Pax was a signatory to the Principles in several community investment notes considered for an investment in any of for Investors in Inclusive Finance, through various organizations. As of Pax World’s actively managed funds. sponsored by the United Nations-backed December 31, 2013, the Funds held Pax believes that human rights problems Principles for Responsible Investment approximately $5.5 million in these types can impose legal and reputational (PRI). Inclusive finance carries with of investments with several institutions, risks, and are also an indicator of the it the responsibility for all actors in including Calvert Social Investment quality of corporate management. Pax the value chain investors, retail Foundation, CEI Investment Notes, World believes it is the responsibility of financial service providers and other Enterprise Community Loan Fund, businesses to protect and uphold human relevant stakeholders to understand, Hope Community Credit Union, One rights. acknowledge and act in accordance PacificCoast Bank, Urban Partnership with the interests of the ultimate client. Bank and Self Help Credit Union. When considering a company’s human Clients are typically low-income and rights record, Pax generally avoids Additionally, the Pax World Funds constrained by asymmetries in financial investing in companies with a history had roughly $14.9 million invested knowledge, power and influence. Access of human rights abuses and no policy in development-related securities, to finance must be provided in such a or disclosure regarding human rights. including Bank of America Green way that the interests of the clients are Pax may also avoid companies with Bonds, World Bank Green Bonds, North protected. policy/programs if the record indicates American Development Bank Bonds the policy or programs are ineffective. and Portland, OR Urban Renewal & Moreover, by incorporating these Redevelopment Bonds. criteria into our investment process, Global Citizen Program: Pax World’s Global Citizen Program: In October we believe that our funds will be less Global Citizen Program enables Pax 2008, total shareholder donations to vulnerable to regulatory, legal and World shareholders to earmark portions Mercy Corps through the Global Citizen reputational risks. of their dividends and/or capital gains Program exceeded $1 million since the as a contribution to one of two nonprogram was initiated 10 years earlier. profit organizations that are working In 2013 our shareholders contributed to alleviate poverty, empower women $196,040.93 to Mercy Corps and and promote sustainable development $1,888.37 to Women Thrive Worldwide. around the globe, Mercy Corps and Women Thrive Worldwide. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 29 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS (PRINCIPLES 1-2) Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World also participates in public Pax participated in the following human These initiatives do not always have policy initiatives related to various rights initiatives during 2013: measurable outcomes, or are ongoing human rights concerns. work that may have effects over several years. Where we have information, we have provided it below: Letters to federal agencies supporting funding to combat human trafficking Pax continued to work with various groups, such as the Alliance to End Slavery and Trafficking (ATEST), to help end human trafficking. In March 2013, Pax joined ATEST to call on several federal agencies to support adequate funding and additional resources to combat human trafficking through a letter writing campaign. In July 2013, Pax joined ATEST to express our support for draft legislation concerning the prevention of and remedies for human trafficking on the state level. The letter was sent to the Uniform Law Commission. In August 2013, Pax joined ATEST to urge the Office of Management and Budget (Executive Office of the President) to request funds be appropriated in the 2015 budget to combat human trafficking and modern day slavery in accordance with the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2013 (TVPRA, P.L.113-4). See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 30 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS (PRINCIPLES 1-2) Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letter to U.S. SoS supporting efforts to In June 2013, we sent a letter to end forced labor in Uzbekistan Secretary Kerry’s office expressing our Pax joined the Cotton Campaign in support for the State Department’s a letter to U.S. Secretary of State John decision to place Uzbekistan in Tier 3 in Kerry urging him to support efforts the 2013 Global Trafficking in Persons to end forced labor in Uzbekistan. Report. Specifically, the letter calls on the U.S. State Department to place Uzbekistan in Tier 3* in the 2013 Global Trafficking in Persons Report unless the government of Uzbekistan invites a high-level, tripartite International Labour Organization (ILO) observer mission prior to the report’s release. Statement Supporting Oxfam’s ‘Behind the Brands’ campaign Pax World joined several investors in a statement supporting the ‘Behind the Brands’ campaign, which is a project of Oxfam. The current campaign is seeking to evaluate the supply chain policies of the 10 largest food and beverage companies in comparison with their peers, and pushes for increased transparency and accountability within the sector. The campaign will run for at least three years. *Tier 3: Countries whose governments do not fully comply with the minimum standards and are not making significant efforts to do so. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 31 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS (PRINCIPLES 1-2) Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Bangladesh WEPs initiative We received responses from five In the wake of the tragic collapse of a companies. Though no companies manufacturing facility in Bangladesh indicated they would endorse the that killed more than 1,100 garment Principles at this time, they did outline workers in 2013, Pax World urged various supply chain policies and apparel manufacturers and retailers to management systems. endorse the Women’s Empowerment Principles as an effective way to address workplace safety concerns globally for garment workers, the majority of whom are women. In letters to the chief executive officers and women members of the boards of directors at more than 30 leading apparel manufacturers and retailers, Pax World urged recipients to endorse, take steps to implement, and publicly report on their progress in adopting the Principles in their own operations and those of their suppliers. Statement on Events at Bangladesh Apparel Manufacturing Factories Pax World joined several investors in a statement condemning the loss of life at multiple apparel factories in Bangladesh. The letter calls on industry leaders to implement systemic reforms that will ensure worker safety and welfare, and to adopt zero tolerance policies on global supply chain abuses. The statement provides specific remedies and actions for apparel companies to implement immediately. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 32 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HUMAN RIGHTS (PRINCIPLES 1-2) Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letter to Congressman Faleomavaega supporting HR 1278 Pax signed a letter supporting the NonDisparagement of Native American Persons and Peoples in Trademark Registration Act of 2013 (HR 1278). The letter was addressed to the bill’s sponsor—Congressman Faleomavaega of American Samoa. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 33 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LABOR (PRINCIPLES 3, 4, 5 & 6): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World incorporates an assessment Global Women’s Equality Fund See our website for specific information of the workplace practices of all (PXWEX): The Global Women’s about the fund: Global Women’s companies and other security-issuing Equality fund, seeks to invest primarily Equality Fund (PXWEX) enterprises in our investment process, in large companies around the globe and each security or company must that are leaders in promoting gender meet or exceed our minimum standards equality and women’s advancement. for sustainable workplace practices Gender analysis is performed on each before it is approved for investment in potential investment to assess women’s our actively managed portfolios. We representation on the board and in believe that the application of these senior management, as well as other criteria to our investment process helps indicators of gender leadership. to distinguish companies that manage 30% Coalition: In 2012 and continuing The effort has stimulated dialogues with their operations carefully with respect into part of 2013, Pax World CEO Joe nearly 40 companies about their board to labor, and that that investment Keefe led the Institutional Investor diversity policies, and members of the discipline, when it is practiced by many Committee for the Thirty Percent Thirty Percent Coalition continue to investors, may help companies that Coalition. Under Pax World’s leadership, actively communicate with a number are attentive to labor-related risks to institutional investors, representing $1.2 of these companies. Fifteen companies outperform their less enlightened peers trillion in assets as of 2/4/2013, wrote the Coalition engaged with have over time. Moreover, by incorporating to over 160 companies in the S&P 500 added women to their boards (eight these criteria into our investment and Russell 1000 Indices that had no that responded directly to the letter, process, we believe that our funds women on their boards, encouraging and seven that received shareholder will be less vulnerable to regulatory, them to consider gender diversity in the resolutions from Coalition members). litigation, and reputational risks. boardroom as a priority. Overall, 26 companies the Coalition Our workplace practices criteria cover wrote to have added a woman to their diversity and inclusion, workplace safety, board. and labor-management relations. During the 2013 proxy season, investors filed shareholder resolutions on board diversity with 24 companies. Of the 24 shareholder resolutions filed, 20 have been withdrawn based upon mutual agreements, an important mark of progress in the work on board diversity. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 34 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LABOR (PRINCIPLES 3, 4, 5 & 6): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Board Diversity Shareholder Board Diversity Shareholder Resolutions: In 2013, Pax World Resolutions: As a result of our company was the lead filer of a shareholder engagement efforts, Pax withdrew its resolution filed at two companies shareholder proposal from Stericycle, asking for increased disclosure on Inc. and Hospitality Properties Trust board diversity policies. The companies after the companies agreed to change included Stericycle, Inc. and Hospitality their corporate governance guidelines to Properties Trust. more clearly outline their commitment to board diversity. UN Women’s Empowerment Principles: UN Women’s Empowerment Principles: Pax sent 17 letters asking companies to Pax received two responses to our become a signatory to the UN Women’s letters. While no companies agreed Empowerment Principles, which are to directly endorse the Principles, the guidelines on how to empower women companies that responded noted that in the workplace. they were working to empower women in their respective workplaces. Pax Internal Pay Equity Review: As Pax Internal Pay Equity Review: Our we did last year, Pax World conducted pay equity review determined that a gender pay equity survey. In any there is no significant disparity of the company as small as Pax, a disparity pay of men and women at Pax, and we may arise in pay equity due to the determined that no further action is compensation of one or two individuals, necessary to assure gender pay equity, and those differences may arise due beyond continued monitoring. to variations in qualifications and responsibilities. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 35 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT LABOR (PRINCIPLES 3, 4, 5 & 6): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Proxy Voting Guidelines: As previously Proxy Voting Results: During the 2012reported, in 2012, Pax World revised 2013 proxy season, Pax World withheld our proxy voting criteria to strengthen support from 193 slates of board our message on board diversity. Pax nominees due to insufficient gender World, like many other investors, was diversity. concerned that far too many boards Our proxy voting guidelines and have no women on them; of nearly 3,400 voting record are posted at www. companies covered by the governance paxworld.com/investment-approach/ rating service Governance Metrics shareowner-activism/proxy-voting International, nearly 37% (42% of more than 4,200 in 2011) had no women. Moreover, 35% of those boards included only one woman. Only about onefourth of boards of large companies around the globe included two or more women. While several countries have taken steps to improve the gender diversity of boards, progress remains far too slow, and it appears that many companies are content to call their own boards “diverse” if they include just one woman. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 36 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World recognizes the importance Environmental Programs: Pax World’s Environmental Programs: As noted of environmental stewardship for every existing environmental policy and throughout this report, Pax has business. Recognizing that our own programs include measures to minimize assessed our own policies, programs operations affect the environment, the use of office supplies, including and performance with regard to our Pax World strives to hold ourselves to paper, glass, metal, plastic and batteries; internal environmental sustainability, the same standards that we expect of increase energy efficiency and minimize and as a result of that work we are taking the companies in our portfolios. As emissions associated with energy use, additional steps to assure that we have part of this commitment, Pax World including travel-related emissions; and appropriate policies in place, monitoring seeks to conduct business in a way that the use of environmentally-preferred programs, accountability and goals or minimizes our environmental footprint office supplies. We also have a hybrid targets for all key issues of sustainability. while enhancing stakeholder value for vehicle incentive program that provides For example, in 2013, Pax World began our customers, employees, suppliers and regular full-time employees with a lump composting at its Portsmouth, NH communities. sum cash payment for the purchase or office. Using the services of a local lease of a hybrid gas-electric vehicle. company, Mr. Fox Composting, we are composting items such as food scraps, sugar packets, coffee grounds & filters, paper towels, teabags & tea, flowers and floral trimmings and wax paper liners. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 37 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Greenhouse Gas Emissions Offset: As Greenhouse Gas Emissions Offset: Pax we have done for several years, Pax offset 252.35 metric tons CO2 through also continued in 2013 to purchase its carbon offset for the year ended 2013. renewable energy offsets in order to The majority of our carbon footprint offset our emissions, including those is related to air travel (43.7%) and from travel. In 2013, Pax’s carbon employee commuting (34.1%), while offsets were purchased from Native building and energy use (17.8%) and Energy, which were used to support the accommodations (4.4%) accounted for Green Dream Farm Methane Reduction the remainder of our carbon footprint. Project in Enosburg Falls, VT. Water Offset: In 2013, we partnered Water Offset: Pax World purchased with the Bonneville Environmental 172 WRCs to offset our water use for Foundation (BEF) to offset our calendar year 2013. water consumption at our office in Portsmouth, New Hampshire through the purchase of Water Restoration Certificates (WRC). Every WRC purchased by Pax World represents 1,000 gallons of water restored to streams, through projects certified by the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 38 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World has seen climate change as a Carbon Benchmarking: In 2013, Trucost Carbon Benchmarking: Four of Pax material risk and opportunity factor in compared the carbon intensity of our World’s five largest actively managed our investments for many years. In 2013, five largest funds to the carbon intensity funds were less carbon-intensive we benchmarked our funds’ carbon of those funds’ passive benchmarks. than their benchmarks, while one, intensity. the Growth Fund, was more carbonintensive than its benchmark. (See Table 1 and Table 2 on page 17 of this report for more detailed information.) Pax World Global Environmental The Global Environmental Markets Markets Fund (PGRNX): Pax offers one Fund total portfolio emissions of environmental fund, the Pax World greenhouse gases were 13,102 tonnes, Global Environmental Markets Fund CO2 equivalent. Pax World arranged (PGRNX), whose investment objective to offset these emissions by investing is to seek long-term growth of capital in projects that reduce greenhouse gas by investing in innovative companies emissions from the levels they would around the world whose businesses and have reached without the project; all technologies focus on environmental these emission reductions (or offsets) markets, including renewable energy are third-party verified. Bonneville and energy efficiency, water pollution Environmental Foundation managed the control and environmental services, and process of identifying and purchasing waste management. Pax World chose to offsets. offset all the greenhouse gas emissions of our Global Environmental Markets Fund, a fund which is already fossil fuel-free. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 39 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Fossil Fuel Investments: In 2013, As a result of this policy, the Pax World Pax World implemented a new Funds divested from Suncor Energy Inc. policy regarding climate change for (SU) in 2013. our managed portfolios: Pax World avoids investing in companies with primary businesses in coal mining and production of oil from tar sands, two of the most environmentally destructive and carbon-intensive fossil fuels. In addition, Pax World seeks to avoid investments in any electric utility that relies on coal for power generation at levels above the national coal usage, as reported by the US Energy Information Administration, unless the utility demonstrates a significant commitment to renewable energy and is reducing its coal dependence. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 40 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World incorporates an assessment Generally, we favor companies with of the environmental impacts of all comprehensive environmental policies, companies and other security-issuing practices, and performance, those with enterprises in our investment process, good environmental performance and each security or company must compared with their peers, and those meet or exceed our minimum standards that are working to manage and reduce for environmental management before it their environmental impacts. We seek is approved for investment. to avoid companies with inadequate environmental policies, management Our criteria for the environment include systems, performance and reporting. such issues as air and water emissions, recycling and waste reduction, use of Shareholder Engagement: Pax World clean and renewable energy, climate participated in several investor change initiatives, and other policies environmental initiatives in 2013. As we and practices focused on attaining and have in the past, Pax World continues to promoting environmental sustainability. be a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), including the CDP, CDP Water Disclosure, and Carbon Action; the Forest Footprint Disclosure Project; and the Investor Network on Climate Disclosure. Pax World continued its participation in a structured engagement through the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) for the CDP Water Disclosure initiative and another engagement for CDP on the CDP Leadership Initiative (CDPLI). Pax is also a member of the Ceres coalition, and through that coalition, we have participated in multi-stakeholder working groups on sustainability. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 41 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes In addition, Pax was also a participant in In terms of our shareholder engagement, several environmental initiatives during some of the work does not have 2013: measurable outcomes, or is ongoing work that may have effects over several Letter to the U.S. SEC on inadequate years. Where we have information, we climate disclosure by Tesoro have provided it below: Pax World signed on to a letter, sponsored by the Investor Network on Climate Risk (INCR), to the SEC discussing inadequate disclosure by Tesoro. The letter is focused on regulatory risks related to California’s AB 32 cap and trade program and low carbon fuel standard. Solar Scorecard Pax World signed on to a letter, sponsored by the Silicon Valley Toxics Coalition (SVTC), to solar PV companies regarding the 2013 SVTC solar company environmental survey. This was the second year that Pax was a signatory to this initiative. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 42 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Endorsement of Ceres’ Climate Declaration Pax joined a campaign sponsored by Ceres to demonstrate the business community’s support for tackling climate change. The campaign will highlight the steps businesses have already taken in reducing energy emissions, increasing energy efficiency and switching to renewable energy. Additionally, the campaign will also call on political leaders in Washington to lead in this effort by establishing a national climate strategy. Letter to U.S. EPA supporting Tier 3 Motor Vehicle Emission and Fuel Standards Pax joined several investors in a letter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in support of the proposed Tier 3 Motor Vehicle Emission and Fuel Standards. The letter contends that the standards are the most cost effective way to reduce harmful emissions of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide, and volatile organic compounds, which contribute to smog and soot, cause respiratory and heart disease, and drive up healthcare costs. Furthermore, Tier 3 will result in net economic gains and job growth, and help ensure the United States’ leadership position in vehicle and emission control technology. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 43 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letter to the EPA regarding the agency’s proposed Carbon Pollution Standards Pax World provided comments to the EPA regarding the agency’s proposed Carbon Pollution Standards for New Power Plants (Docket ID EPA-HQOAR-2013-0495), which Pax World supports. The rule will help to provide more predictability for investors considering allocations of capital toward utilities or power projects but who are uncertain of the impacts of the future regulatory environment with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. Investor Comment to EPA review of Pebble Mine Pax World signed a comment letter to the EPA written by Trillium and Calvert in response to the revised draft environmental assessment and report on the Bristol Bay region. The letter does not call for any particular outcome, but rather is supportive of the EPA Clean Water Act 404(c) review process. It is also for all intents and purposes the same letter that this group submitted last year, but with updated information based on the findings of the most recent revised draft assessment and other developments since the last letter in July 2012. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 44 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letters Supporting Ban on Polystyrene Food Packaging in NY City Pax World signed on to a letter coordinated by As You Sow supporting New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s current effort to ban polystyrene-based (foam) food packaging in the city. Foam packaging has already been banned in more than 100 U.S. cities including Portland, San Francisco and Seattle. If New York bans foam packaging, it will send an even stronger message to corporations about the importance of using safe, readily recyclable food service packaging that poses no harm to the environment. Carbon Asset Risk Letter Pax World signed on to a letter coordinated by Ceres and INCR to fossil fuel companies regarding the carbon bubble. In letters to 30 of the largest fossil fuels companies, investors asked these companies to assess and report to shareholders the viability of their capital expenditure plans and the risks associated with development and use of their reserves under both 2 degree and business-as-usual scenarios in light of the above issues. The letters also asked the companies to assess and report on the likely effects of climate change and resulting extreme weather impacts on the companies’ assets and workforce. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 45 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letter to EPA regarding the withdrawal Since the time of our letter, Anglo of Anglo American from the Pebble American withdrew from the Pebble Mine Mine project, a major development. This Previously, Pax World signed a letter reiterates our support for the EPA comment letter to the EPA written by assessment process and urges the agency Trillium and Calvert in response to the to initiate a Section 404(c) review revised draft environmental assessment process for the Bristol Bay region. and report on the Bristol Bay region. Letter to President Obama supporting Carbon Pollution Standards Pax World signed a letter to President Obama urging him to support the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed Carbon Pollution Standard for new power plants. As noted in the letter, electric power plants are the largest individual source of carbon pollution in the US, and there are currently no federal limits on the amount of carbon pollution these plants can emit. Performance standards for new and existing plants are essential steps toward spurring innovation and investment in low and no-carbon technologies as well as new energy infrastructure and energy efficiency. The letter was coordinated by the Investor Network on Climate Risk (INCR). See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 46 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World signed a letter asking Statoil ASA (STL NO) to curtail operations in the tar sands: Statoil is known for its leading environmental practices for its oil and gas operations in the North Sea that provide Statoil over 60 percent of its revenues. Statoil has made carbon efficiency one of its strategic objectives. However, Statoil’s involvement in Canada’s tar sands, representing less than 3% of total reserves, has been very controversial in Norway for many reasons since Statoil started its oil sands investments in 2007. We believe Statoil has greater managerial and technical expertise in developing oil and gas resources elsewhere than it does in developing oil sands, and that the firm’s capital would be more fruitfully deployed elsewhere or returned to shareholders. Together with the Shareholder Association for Research and Education (SHARE) and others, Pax World participated in an outreach campaign to Talisman Energy (TLM) over disclosure of environmental data in its shale operations. The campaign urged Talisman to promptly start reporting on a number of key quantitative data to fulfill its commitments under its Shale Operating Principles, and thereby establish itself as a leader in its industry. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 47 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World wrote to Apple regarding In September, we received a the policies and procedures the comprehensive response from Apple company has adopted to protect itself which largely addressed our concerns. from potential reputational and legal We suggested to the company that it risks associated with the purchasing make the information it provided to us and recycling of lead batteries used in publicly available to all shareholders. company business. This was Pax World’s third attempt to engage in a dialogue with the company on this issue. Pax World sent a letter to Mardin Pax did not receive a response by Cimento (MRDIN:TI), which is December 31, 2013. involved in cement production, seeking further information regarding the company’s efforts to mitigate the risks associated with climate change and how they relate to its operations. Cement production is an energy intensive process and is a major contributor to climate change through the release of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The letter specifically asked for information about the management of the company’s GHG emissions. Pax World filed a shareholder The proposal was voted on by all resolution at Google (GOOG) asking shareholders at the company’s 2013 for greater disclosure regarding the Annual General Meeting and received company’s policies governing the support of 7%. sourcing and disposal of lead batteries. The resolution was filed following a lack of response to letter Pax World sent to Google in October 2012. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 48 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL (PRINCIPLES 7, 8 & 9): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Unburnable Carbon Risk Letter We received responses from nine Pax World sent letters to 42 fossil fuel companies. The responses to our letter companies in May 2013 asking them to varied, with some companies affirming conduct risk assessments on unburnable our view that business models based carbon, or the risks that fossil fuel solely on fossil fuels needed to be reserves might become significantly less reevaluated and describing programs valuable as a result of climate change to diversify into energy efficiency or concerns or regulation, or, if they did renewable energy, while others thanked not believe that their assets would be us for our letter but dismissed the risks impaired, the risks of operating in a as not material. world that is four degrees warmer than now. Update from 2012: In March 2012, Pax During the publication of this report, we signed on to a letter* addressed to the learned that an oil industry trade group CEOs of companies with major shale pledged to capture most of the natural oil holdings. The production of shale oil gas that is currently being flared in the carries with it all of the environmental Bakken shale oil field by the end of the risks that accompany shale gas decade. The announcement was made in production. In addition, companies January 2014. producing shale oil frequently burn off large amounts of associated natural gas, claiming that high oil prices and low natural gas prices make it uneconomic to capture and get to market. The letter sought information about the amount of flaring, as well as details about plans to reduce flaring at existing wells and prevent it at future wells at the companies. (Our participation in the effort was reported in our 2012 UN COP.) *Pax World and ALPS Distributors, Inc. are not responsible for the content on this website. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 49 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World incorporates an assessment When evaluating a company for of corporate governance impacts of all investing, we specifically review each companies and other security-issuing company’s policies and performance enterprises in our investment process, related to bribery, corruption, and and each security or company must money-laundering as a key governance meet or exceed our minimum standards issue. This includes an examination before it is approved for investment. Pax of settlements and compliance with World believes that strong, transparent the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act corporate governance policies are (FCPA) and other trade import/export the foundation for a company’s longcontrols for U.S. business and those term sustainability. As with our other with significant business operations in sustainability criteria, we believe that the US. In industries that are subject to examining corporate governance extensive oversight, Pax may evaluate practices provides us with crucial compliance programs and procedures insight into the quality of a company’s related to political contributions, which management. can also raise concerns related to bribery and corruption. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 50 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes In addition to using governance criteria Pax World has established policies Gift and Entertainment Policy: Pax has in the construction of Pax World’s regarding issues such as antia detailed gift and entertainment policy actively managed funds, we also work money laundering, insider trading, that clearly outlines the company’s to improve and strengthen our own communications (social media and policy to avoid conflicts of interest. corporate governance and transparency public correspondence), whistleblowing Specifically, the policy requires that through implementing effective and the so-called “pay-to-play” rule, supervised persons should avoid, or compliance programs and policies, which refers to various arrangements not accept or provide any gifts or favors including anti-corruption principles. by which investment advisers may that might influence business decisions seeks to influence the award of advisory within the company. Our premise for Pax World is committed to the highest business by making or soliciting political this policy is that giving, receiving standards of ethics, business integrity contributions to the government or soliciting gifts may give rise to an and corporate governance. As the officials charged with awarding such appearance of impropriety. This policy adviser to the Pax World family of business, among others. While some of also includes reporting requirements for mutual funds, we have a fiduciary these are required by law, our policies supervised persons for the purpose of responsibility to the funds’ shareholders. on social media and communication helping Pax monitor the activities of its To that end, Pax World’s corporate and whistleblowing go beyond what employees. governance practices are designed to is required to establish standards of establish and preserve accountability Insider Trading Policy: Pax has a behavior that aim for a higher standard and transparency, while avoiding detailed insider trading policy that seeks than compliance alone. conflicts of interest (or even the to comply with anti-fraud provisions of appearance of conflict). federal securities laws, which generally make it unlawful for any person to trade securities for themselves or for their clients while in possession of material non-public information. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 51 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes “Pay-to-Play” Policy: Pax has a policy that seeks to avoid various arrangements by which investment advisers may seek to influence the award of advisory business by making or soliciting political contributions to the government officials charged with awarding such business. As part of this policy, Pax shall not make any political contributions to individuals or state political parties. Although Pax may make contributions to PACs and certain non-profit organizations, we will not do so with the intention of influencing any official of a government entity to which we are seeking to provide services. Pax World also participates in public Pax participated in the following Our work in this area does not always policy initiatives related to various initiatives during 2013: have measurable outcomes, or is anti-corruption/corporate governance ongoing work that may have effects concerns. over several years. Where we have information, we have provided it below: Sustainable stock exchanges Pax World signed on to a letter, sponsored by the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) initiative, sent on behalf of all members of the Sustainable Stock Exchanges Initiative, to the World Federation of Exchanges and the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) asking for a public commitment to principles of sustainable stock exchanges. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 52 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letter to the U.S. State Department on Myanmar (Burma) Pax joined several investors in a letter to the U.S. State Department about business reporting requirements in Myanmar (Burma). The letter is a follow-up to previously filed investor comments and a letter sent through the Conflict Risk Network (dated October 4, 2012 and February 12, 2013, respectively). The letter seeks comprehensive and timely information on the impact of new investments and business activity in Myanmar (Burma) on behalf of U.S. companies. Letter to the U.S. SEC supporting conflict minerals disclosure Pax joined several investor groups in a letter to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to express our opposition to the lawsuit filed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers, and the Business Roundtable against the Commission, which was seeking to derail conflict mineral disclosure requirements for public companies. Signatories to the letter believe companies must disclose their use of conflict minerals in their supply chain. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 53 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letter to Japanese companies regarding corporate governance issues Pax signed a letter organized by Glass Lewis encouraging Japanese companies to improve their disclosure practices and proxy voting deadlines either independently or through participation in ICJ’s (Investor Communications Japan) proxy information and voting platform. Letter to the NFMN about water and sewer transactions Pax signed a letter to the Chairman of the National Federation of Municipal Analysts (NFMN) urging the association to update its Recommended Best Practices in Disclosure for Water and Sewer Transactions to incorporate trends of material relevance to issuers and investors. Specifically, the letter encourage the NFMA to consider incorporating the factors captured in Ceres’ Disclosure Framework for Water and Sewer Enterprises into the recommended content of financial filings for water and sewer transactions. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 54 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes US/UK Political Contribution Disclosure Initiative Pax World signed on to letter written by Boston Common and Sarasin & Partners LLC to raise awareness and engage UK companies on the potential business and reputational risks associated with political and lobbying expenditures. The letter asked companies to annually disclose their policies and procedures governing the lobbying of legislators and regulators, the criteria used to evaluate memberships in or contributions to third party organizations and the details of all memberships in and payments to third-party organizations. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 55 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Letter to Congress supporting the Incorporation Transparency and Law Enforcement Assistance Act Pax World joined several investors supporting the Incorporation Transparency and Law Enforcement Assistance Act, which requires companies to disclose information about the real people who own or control them (often called the “beneficial owners”) at the time they are created. Currently, across the US, companies can be created anonymously, effectively removing personal responsibility or accountability from the corporate equation. As a result, such companies have been implicated in money laundering associated with drug traffickers, terrorist organizations, tax evaders, corrupt politicians, and others. This legislation would provide law enforcement with information crucial for combating these types of criminal activities. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 56 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World filed a shareholder resolution Pax World held a conversation with the at Amazon.com (AMZN) asking the company’s legal team and successfully company to publish a report explaining negotiated changes to Amazon’s audit how the board is overseeing privacy and committee charter to include references data security risks. to privacy and data security. Amazon indicated that it would be open to discussions about the company’s broader sustainability profile in the coming months. In May 2013, Amazon confirmed that its board had approved changes to its Audit Committee charter to include “data privacy and security.” This information is available on the company’s investor relations website: http://phx.corporateir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=97664&p=irolgovCommittee&Committee=5310 Pax World and ALPS Distributors, Inc. are not responsible for the content on the website above. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 57 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes As part of a Ceres campaign, Pax World Xcel (XEL), Pfizer (PFE) and American sent letters to eight companies that are Express (AXP) responded to our letter. members of the American Legislative Both Xcel (XEL) and American Express Exchange Council (ALEC), urging (AXP) informed us that they are no them to publicly express their support longer involved with ALEC. Pfizer for renewable energy mandates, which noted that although ALEC’s position ALEC has been trying to roll back. on renewable portfolio standards (RPS) Pax World wrote to eight companies is contrary to the company’s position, held in its funds, including American it would continue its membership with Express (AXP), CenturyLink (CTL), ALEC. Time Warner Cable (TWC), Emerson Electric (EMR), Pfizer (PFE), Xcel (XEL), Allergan (AGN), and Occidental Petroleum (OXY). Pax World is a signatory to a letter In June 2013, Pax World sent a followencouraging the top 10 retail firms in up letter to Best Buy’s CEO and the US to respond favorably to a new corporate secretary. As of December 31, consumer initiative to minimize the 2013, we have not received a response presence of toxic chemicals in products from Best Buy. sold on company store shelves. This investor letter is a joint initiative between Green Century and the Investor Environmental Health Network (IEHN), and will be sent to Wal-Mart, Target, Costco, Kroger, Walgreens, Home Depot, CVS, Lowe’s, Best Buy, and Safeway. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 58 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ANTI-CORRUPTION (PRINCIPLES 10): Assessment, Policy & Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Pax World joined Green Century Capital Management, Trillium Asset Management, Domini Social Investments, Harrington Investments, Zevin Asset Management and Clean Yield Asset Management in a letter urging Google (GOOG) to withdraw from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Pax World signed on to a letter to Amazon.com, coordinated by Domini, regarding the sale of military-style assault rifle accessories through Amazon. The letter requested a dialogue on these topics, and a senior-level review of Amazon’s policies regarding the sale of firearms accessories. Pax World participated in a call with Both Pax World and Autoliv indicated Autoliv (ALV) regarding the company’s that they would be interested in sustainability reporting. The call was the continuing the engagement into the result of Autoliv’s CEO directly reaching future. No further information is out to Pax World for input regarding the available. company’s overall sustainability profile. See page 61 for top ten holdings as of 12/31/13. Holdings are subject to change. 59 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FOOTNOTES 1 The FDIC insurance coverage limit of $250,000 applies per depositor, per insured depository institution for each account ownership category. The amount that you have on deposit in the Pax World Money Market Account will be added to any other money you may have on deposit at Urban Partnership Bank for determining your insurance limit. An investment in the Pax World Funds is not a deposit in a bank account and is not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. The Pax World Funds are not affiliated with any bank and are not insured by the FDIC. ALPS Distributors, Inc., Pax World Management LLC and Urban Partnership Bank are not affiliated. The PWMMA is not distributed by ALPS Distributors, Inc. 2 The funds that were benchmarked include the Pax World Balanced Fund, the Pax World Growth Fund, the Pax World International Fund, the Pax World Global Women’s Equality Fund, and the Pax World Global Environmental Markets Fund. Pax World’s other two actively managed funds, the Pax World Small Cap Fund and the Pax World High Yield Bond Fund, could not be benchmarked because no service provider covered enough of these funds’ passive benchmarks or holdings to make the analysis reliable. 3 Carbon benchmarking measures a fund’s carbon intensity, which is the total metric tons of carbon emissions per million dollars of revenue of the companies in its portfolio, as compared to the emission levels of companies included in a fund’s benchmark index. The fund’s share of the emissions is based on its proportional ownership of the stock of each company in its portfolio. BENCHMARK DISCLOSURES The Blended Index is comprised of 60% S&P 500 Index and 40% Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index. The S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged index of large capitalization common stocks. The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index represents securities that are U.S. domestic, taxable and dollar denominated. The index covers the U.S. investment grade fixed rate bond market, with index components for government and corporate securities and asset-backed securities. The Russell 1000 Growth Index (“Benchmark”) measures the performance of the large-cap growth segment of the U.S. equity universe. It includes those companies in the Russell 1000 Index with higher price-to-book ratios and higher forecasted growth values. The Russell 1000 Index measures the performance of the 1,000 largest companies, as measured by market capitalization. Effective December 12, 2013, the Russell 1000 Growth Index replaced the Russell 3000 Growth Index as the primary benchmark for Pax World Growth Fund (the “Fund”) because Pax World Management believes the Russell 1000 Growth Index is a more appropriate representation of the universe of securities in which the Fund may invest. The Russell 2000 Index measures the performance of the small-cap segment of the U.S. equity universe. The Russell 2000 Index is a subset of the Russell 3000 Index representing approximately 10% of the total market capitalization of that index. It includes approximately 2000 of the smallest securities based on a combination of their market cap and current index membership. The MSCI EAFE (Europe, Australasia, Far East) Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed markets, excluding the U.S. and Canada. The MSCI EAFE Index consists of the following 21 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Performance for the MSCI EAFE Index is shown “net”, which includes dividend reinvestments after deduction of foreign withholding tax. The BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield BB-B (Constrained 2%) Index tracks the performance of BBand B-rated fixed income securities publicly issued in the major domestic or eurobond markets, with total index allocation to an individual issuer limited to 2%. The benchmark of High Yield Bond Fund was changed to the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield BB-B (Constrained 2%) Index effective June 30, 2010. Pax World believes the BofA Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield BB-B (Constrained 2%) Index more closely corresponds to the investments of the Fund. The MSCI World Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed markets. The MSCI World (Net) Index consists of the following 23 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Performance for the MSCI World Index is shown “net”, which includes dividend reinvestments after deduction of foreign withholding tax. ESG Managers Growth Portfolio: The Blended Index is comprised of 66% S&P 500 Index and 34% MSCI EAFE (Net) Index. The S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged index of large capitalization common stocks. The MSCI EAFE (Europe, Australasia, Far East) Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed markets, excluding the U.S. and Canada. The MSCI EAFE Index consists of the following 21 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Performance for the MSCI EAFE Index is shown “net”, which includes dividend reinvestments after deduction of foreign withholding tax. ESG Managers Growth and Income Portfolio: The Blended Index is comprised of 55% S&P 500 Index, 25% MSCI EAFE (Net) Index and 20% Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index. The S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged index of large capitalization common stocks. The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index represents securities that are U.S. domestic, taxable and dollar denominated. The index covers the U.S. investment grade fixed rate bond market, with index components for government and corporate securities and asset-backed securities. ESG Managers Balanced Portfolio: The Blended Index is comprised of 42% S&P 500 Index, 18% MSCI EAFE (Net) Index and 40% Barclays Aggregate U.S. Bond Index. The S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged index of large capitalization common stocks. The MSCI EAFE (Europe, Australasia, Far East) Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed markets, excluding the U.S. and Canada. The MSCI EAFE Index consists of the following 21 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Performance for the MSCI EAFE Index is shown “net”, which includes dividend reinvestments after deduction of foreign withholding tax. 60 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ESG Managers Income Portfolio: The Blended Index is comprised of 24% S&P 500 Index, 11% MSCI EAFE (Net) Index and 65% Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index. The S&P 500 Index is an unmanaged index of large capitalization common stocks. The MSCI EAFE (Europe, Australasia, Far East) Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed markets, excluding the U.S. and Canada. The MSCI EAFE Index consists of the following 21 developed market country indices: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Performance for the MSCI EAFE Index is shown “net”, which includes dividend reinvestments after deduction of foreign withholding tax. The Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index represents securities that are U.S. domestic, taxable and dollar denominated. The index covers the U.S. investment grade fixed rate bond market, with index components for government and corporate securities and asset-backed securities. One cannot invest directly in an index. TOP TEN HOLDINGS Pax World Balanced Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/13: Becton Dickinson & Co. 2.4%; Apple, Inc. 2.0%; Morgan Stanley 1.8%; BlackRock, Inc. 1.8%; Occidental Petroleum Corp. 1.7%; DIRECTV 1.6%; EI du Pont de Nemours & Co. 1.5%; American Express Co. 1.5%; UnitedHealth Group, Inc. 1.5%; and Zoetis, Inc. 1.3%. Pax World Growth Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/13: Apple, Inc. 4.0%; Google, Inc., Class A 3.2%; PepsiCo, Inc. 2.3%; IBM 2.0%; QUALCOMM, Inc. 2.0%; 3M Co. 1.8%; Microsoft Corp. 1.8%; VF Corp. 1.8%; Cummins, Inc. 1.6%; and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. 1.6%. Pax World Small Cap Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/13: Compuware Corp. 3.9%; Cinemark Holdings, Inc. 3.8%; Gannett Co, Inc. 3.6%; Capitol Federal Financial, Inc. 3.4%; Westell Technologies, Inc., Class A 3.4%; Amdocs, Ltd. 3.1%; Oritani Financial Corp. 3.1%; Chicopee Bancorp, Inc. 3.1%; TheStreet, Inc. 3.0%; and Bob Evans Farms, Inc. 2.8%. Pax World International Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/13: Nestle SA 3.0%; BG Group PLC 2.8%; Anheuser-Busch InBev NV 2.8%; Hennes & Mauritz AB, B Shares 2.8%; AstraZeneca PLC, ADR 2.6%; Toronto-Dominion Bank, The 2.5%; Honda Motor Co, Ltd., ADR 2.5%; Australia & New Zealand Banking 2.3%; Cie de St-Gobain 2.3%; and SAP AG, ADR 2.3%. Pax World High Yield Bond Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/13: Phi, Inc., 8.625%, 10/15/18 2.1%; Emerald Expositions Holdings, Inc., 9.000%, 06/15/21 1.7%; Valassis Communications, Inc., 6.625%, 02/01/21 1.6%; Syncreon Group BV/Global Finance US, Inc., 144A, 8.625%, 11/01/21 1.6%; Penn Virginia Corp., 8.500%, 05/01/20 1.6%; Charlotte Russe, Inc., Term Loan 1.5%; Perry Ellis International Corp., 7.875%, 04/01/19 1.5%; Chaparral Energy, Inc., 7.625%, 11/15/22 1.5%; Univeg Holding BV, 7.875%,11/15/20 1.5%; and Belden, Inc., 144A, 5.500%, 09/01/22 1.5%. Pax World Global Women’s Equality Fund top ten Holdings as of 12/31/13: Royal Bank of Canada 2.4%; 3M Co. 2.3%; Statoil ASA, ADR 2.2%; BG Group PLC 2.1%; Bank of New York Mellon Corp., The 2.0%; American Express Co. 2.0%; Woodside Petroleum, Ltd. 2.0%; Johnson Controls, Inc. 1.8%; Google, Inc., Class A 1.8%; and Deutsche Telekom AG 1.8%. Pax World Global Environmental Markets Fund top ten holdings as of 12/31/13: GEA Group AG 3.5%; Pall Corp. 3.5%; Agilent Technologies, Inc. 3.2%; Pentair, Ltd. 3.2%; ENN Energy Holdings, Ltd. 3.1%; ABB, Ltd., ADR 3.0%; Pennon Group PLC 3.0%; Kemira Oyj 2.9%; Linde AG 2.8%; and Emerson Electric Co. 2.8%. Holdings are subject to change. 61 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT RISKS: Equity investments are subject to market fluctuations, the fund’s share price can fall because of weakness in the broad market, a particular industry, or specific holdings. Emerging market and international investments involve risk of capital loss from unfavorable fluctuations in currency values, differences in generally accepted accounting principles, economic or political instability in other nations or increased volatility and lower trading volume. Investments in high yield bonds generally are subjected to greater price volatility based on fluctuations in issuer and credit quality. When investing in bonds, you are subject, but not limited to, the same interest rate, inflation and credit risks associated with the underlying bonds owned by the Fund. Mortgage related securities tend to become more sensitive to interest rate changes as interest rates rise, increasing their volatility. Funds that emphasize investments in smaller companies generally will experience greater price volatility. Derivatives involve special risks and may result in losses. You should consider a fund’s investment objectives, risks, and charges and expenses carefully before investing. For this and other important information, please obtain a fund prospectus by calling 800.767.1729 or visiting www.paxworld.com. Please read it carefully before investing. An investment in the Pax World Funds involves risk, including loss of principal. Pax World Management LLC 30 Penhallow Street, Suite 400 Portsmouth, NH 03801 Separately managed accounts and related advisory services are provided by Pax World 800.372.7827 Management LLC, a federally registered investment adviser. ALPS Distributors, Inc. is not the info@paxworld.com distributor for Pax World’s separately managed accounts. www.paxworld.com Copyright © 2014 Pax World Management LLC. All rights reserved. Distributor: ALPS Distributors Inc.: Member FINRA. 62 | 2013 PAX WORLD CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PAX004084 4/15
