Company name Bowden Printing Pty Ltd Trading as The Bowden Group Member since May 2009 Location 26 Hindmarsh Avenue Welland South Australia 5007 Australia Contact T 61 8 8340 3588 F 61 8 8340 3533 W bowdengroup.com.au E bowden@bowdengroup.com.au ANZIC Code Printing, Publishing and Recorded Media Contact Name Damien Burchell Position Chief Executive Officer Date COP Submitted 1st March 2014 Letter of Intent The Bowden Group supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. The Bowden Group makes a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within two years of joining the Global Compact, and every year thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Yours faithfully, Damien Burchell Chief Executive Officer Company Overview 2014 Proudly Australian… With origins dating back to 1935, Bowden Group is one of South Australia’s leading print and marketing solution providers. Bowden Group is incredibly proud of its rich history and our ability to remain at the forefront of our industry by having a relevant, contemporary vision. With the same enthusiastic vision for the future as its founder, Fredrick Bowden, Bowden Group is a modern operation that embraces the latest technologies and innovations, but at the same time, never losing sight of the family values that formed the foundation of the company. The company remains fully family owned, and in October 2012 the Board of Directors appointed Damien Burchell, a long time employee as CEO to lead the business. “Team Bowden” all share an unshakeable belief in continuous improvement and evolving the business to meet and exceed its clients needs. Every one of our 30+ staff play an integral part in the success of our client relationships, working together to ensure the best possible client experience… friendly, efficient, reliable, professional. Our philosophy is simple… …to partner with our clients to produce effective, compelling, targeted and accountable communication solutions, from concept to distribution, that meet their objectives and exceed expectation. Our clients and our people notice the difference, and it is this reason that we are passionate about what we do and about our future. We value the relationships we have with our clients, our desire to truly understand and know what is important to them, to make their lives easier, and our ability to play a meaningful role in growing their business is at the very core of our success. Many of our clients are ‘best of breed’ world-class, industry leaders. They are organisations that are led by community and business leaders that make Australia such a great place. And of course, we count amongst our loyal clients the family businesses, that like ours, had small beginnings that grew, and we continue to grow with them. Statement of support Bowden Printing Pty Ltd as a company have shown that we have the character to back our commitments in all the areas of endeavour that we have been committed to; included are • Marketplace • Environment • Workplace and • Our communities. We have by way of acknowledgement and support displayed our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact and we believe that as we move forward, implement and progress, our drive will be in the direction of reaching out to the entities and people we do business with. We foresee and expect they will in turn appreciate our efforts they will also abide by the principles of the Global Compact. Our belief is that we cannot be an island all by ourselves and the special meaning we attach to the word “global”, as in Global Compact, is what will strengthen our resolve. Activity Statement The Bowden Group understands that the 10 principles of the Global Compact that define clearly a global culture that should be upheld by companies worldwide. Implementing measures should not be seen by companies as an inhibitor to business but as an opportunity to better themselves to the peers; locally, nationally and globally. We submit to the United Nations Global Compact a commitment over the next twelve months to maintain standards implemented and recording processes across all 10 principles. This evaluation of measurements will ensure that we maintain and implement continual improvement methodologies. We have identified processes in line with Global Compact recommendations that we have adopted. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our understanding and support for the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights underline an important part of acknowledging commitment to social responsibility since 2009. We understand that our commitment entails that we work continuously to support and improve the worlds social performance by setting our own high objectives and integrating human rights considerations where necessary into our daily business. We ensure that nobody whose work is contributing to our success is deprived of his or her human rights, or suffers mental or bodily harm. We consider this as an unwritten Code of Conduct which is a non-negotiable requirement from within and entails that all our suppliers and their subcontractors, without exception, should adopt and follow this code. Our Policy and Procedure Manual provides an objective guide to handle, solve, capture, analyse, and investigate compliance failures identified by employees. We see it as our responsibility to help ensure that our suppliers act in accordance with our minimum requirements. The need for such a set of guidelines is due to the overall compliance we wish to attain within the industry. An unfortunate fact is that suppliers fail to ensure compliance with governing labour standards. The requirements in the Bowden Group Code of Conduct are therefore stricter in many areas than the general standard in comparison to similar businesses in our country. Clearly there may be structural conditions or cultural traditions that may give rise to non immediate compliance with the Bowden Group Code of Conduct. We consider the most important point is that suppliers are prepared to actively work to ensure they eventually comply with the requirements. Our Code of Conduct expresses our support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and we also encourage our suppliers to sign up to the UN Global Compact. Human Rights (continued) Bowden Group provides access to basic health and education for the workers. Social assessments are considered in certain circumstances if the employee can not afford the medical treatment. If an employee is found to be not able to pay, the employee may be either granted or subsidised by way of a loan to attain the needed health care. A programme designed for the consideration of human rights will be developed for our employees to better understand the involvement of Amnesty International in this area. 2013 Actions Completed: Changes to current government legislation in relation to the Work Health & Safety Act (SA) 2012 saw a review of our OH&S Policies which resulted in a review of our OH&S systems and procedures and the renaming and introduction of a new WH&S Policy. 2014 Actions to be implemented: Healthy Options: Implement ‘Health and Well Being’ programmes for all staff to increase the health of the staff and business.. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. All personnel – whatever the level/qualification – are entitled to join trade unions for the protection of individual and collective interests. Bowden Group acknowledge the role of union representatives, who are not subject to any discrimination, and ensure, for union activities, the appropriate retribution of absence and the means to communicate with personnel in the workplace. Bowden Group stands committed not to resort to any form of forced and compulsory labour. The Bowden Group is against the illegal use of child labour, exploitation of the work of children and all other unacceptable forms in the treatment of workers. Our policy is to identify where possible and not to work with suppliers and contractors whose labour practices are reproachable, such as the use of child labour, physical punishment, female abuse, and forced labour and other forms of abuse. Bowden Group has the permanent concern to respect and promote the principle of non discrimination on all the levels of our Human Resources, with special emphasis on: recruitment, career development and training. With this intention, Bowden Group commits not to practice any form of discrimination, that it is founded on the age, the sex, the religion, origins (social and ethnic), political affiliation or trade-union membership. The communication link between the Union and the worker’s is never negated. Bowden Group continually monitors as part of our management systems strategies to improve working conditions within the printing industry. Our systems provide us with firsthand insight into factory conditions and serves as an important tool to measure factory progress against our standards. Monitoring not only helps us leverage our influence over competitors through face-to-face interaction, but also provides us with regular data about factory conditions and a mechanism to assess the impact of our efforts over time. Labour (continued) We will aim to ensure our suppliers comply with a Code of Conduct based on ILO (International Labour Organization) standards. At our request suppliers will be able to sign a code of conduct covering many areas related to the Global Compact. One such notable area is child labour. Suppliers are prohibited from using workers under the legal age of employment in any country or local jurisdiction where the supplier performs work for the Bowden Group. If the minimum age of employment is not defined, the minimum age of employment shall be governed by local, state and federal acts. Bowden Group is Composed of managers from all facets of business: Senior Management, Sales and Marketing, Production, Financial and Human Resources. We have committees to look and understand Ethical Conduct which looks to ensure compliance with the company’s Code of Conduct and human rights principles . All of the current workplace agreements signed in the Bowden Group address occupational equality between men and women. Each employee has a contract of employment stating the terms and conditions of service. Each employee has a current job description. The company funds by means of assessment any financing of programmes requested. Annual research is conducted to establish benchmarking of wage rates for similar functions within the same industry. Bowden Group continually researches programmes that can be applied to staff within the company. Promoting knowledge, awareness, leadership skills, attitudinal changes, and the ability to balance work and personal life is a key culture of the company. Labour (continued) 2013 Actions Completed: ISO 9001 Certification—External Auditors NCSI undertook and audit for all our QMS systems and certified us under international certification. Undertook recognised Training in Lean Manufacturing. Key personal within the business have completed this training. Employee Survey: Internal survey of all employees was conducted to better understand the needs and wants of the business from the employees. This will be conducted on a yearly basis. 2014 Actions to be implemented: Implement lean processes from skills learnt by management and staff from attaining Certificate IV in Lean manufacturing. Review staff job descriptions. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Bowden Group recognises that all its activities have a potentially harmful impact on the environment. Bowden Group accepts social and moral responsibility for a continual improvement of our impact on the environment beyond the requirement of current legislation and other requirements we subscribe to. In 2011 the Bowden Group achieved ISO 14007 Environmental Management System Certification. This was our major focus over the past 12 months to attain. We will make conscious decisions to ensure the environment is a key consideration in all activities undertaken by Bowden Group. We will: • Favour prevention of waste over reuse, before recycling and disposal to land fill. • Strive to reduce pollution and minimise the environmental impacts and costs of our operations. • Train and motivate our employees to understand their environmental responsibilities and participate actively in our environmental programmes. • Regularly communicate our environmental performance to our shareholders, employees, customers and other interested parties and maintain an open dialogue with them. To apply a common environmental management methodology throughout the company, Bowden Group have employed the use of external consultants to assess and approve “Minimum Environmental Requirements”. The requirements enable standardised practices throughout the company, regardless of their activity, the geographical area where they operate, and the applicable legal requirements. Optimal product recycling begins in understanding the overall impact that arises from recycling issues. We evaluate the ecological effects of all processes over the whole life cycle of the product by means of a ‘cradle to the grave’ methodology and ECO Mapping. These results help the company employees choose and develop alternatives early on that offer the greatest ecological improvement over the whole life cycle of the product. Environment (continued) The ACE Committee, which consists of internal and external experts with environmental knowledge (executives in charge of environmental matters, and members from within the company) considers Bowden Group’s environment-related operations, such as recycling and emissions trading, as well as the company’s continual improvement in its manufacturing processes help to promote to show the greatest possible responsibility and concern for the environment. We are doing our part for the environment by implementing “green” practices that help minimize the overall ecological footprint and contribute to more sustainable livelihoods by decreasing energy needs and increasing water conservation. We are constantly challenged to improve the sustainability of the technologies, processes and materials employed in our operations and we can show examples of environmental impacts reduced by such initiatives. The recent review of all processes will identify improvements in the use of power and fuels and a packaging review will aim to define the environmental implications of materials and practices in packaging. 2013 Actions Completed: ISO 14007 Certification—External Auditors NCSI undertook and audit for all our EMS systems and certified us under international certification. 2014 Actions to be implemented: No identifiable actions are noted. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Bowden Group will not condone any violation of the law, dishonesty or unethical business dealing by any employee, including any payment for, or other participation in, any illegal act such as bribery, fraud, theft, money-laundering or illicit dealing in goods or stolen property. Employees or contractors who are concerned that laws, regulations, standards or the Code of conduct may be being breached, including safety-related issues, can raise concerns through our weekly staff meetings that are aimed at bringing issues to the forefront in an informal surrounding. All reports are initially handled by a review process before being forwarded to the appropriate person within the Bowden Group. Concerns are passed to a regional chapter of an industry based body who advises as required. The Bowden Group will not tolerate retaliation against anyone who raises issues or is named. Any allegation of retaliation is investigated and, if substantiated, disciplinary action will be taken against those responsible Bowden Group has introduced measures and processes that address this issue and these have been successfully developed and implemented. Action Plan Update Action Plan Action Plan Completion Date Not Started In Progress Completed Human Rights Programme 30/6/2014 Management Review Management continues to meet on a 31/12/2013 monthly schedule. Programme Code of Conduct based on ILO (International Labour 30/6/2014 Organisation) standards. Corporate Sustainability Implement procedures and plans that 30/6/2014 Leadership create sustainability in the workplace. Undertake recognised Training in Lean Certificate IV in Lean Manufacturing. Key personal within the 30/6/2013 Manufacturing business met monthly to learn modules in the skills of Lean Manufacturing To complete and aspire to the guidelines ISO 26000 (CSR Guidance) 30/6/2014 noted in the ISO 26000 standard. Review and implement How can the Bowden Group engage at a Corporate Social Responsible 30/06/2014 more socially responsible level. practices
