Creed 1. We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. 2. We base our activities on honesty, harmony, and a clear distinction between public and private life. 3. We shall strive for innovative management and technological development from an international perspective. Reason for Instituting the Creed (Issued June 1, 1970) In Japan there are many enterprises with their own “creeds” company, the mental attitude of employees, and the future which simply represent their management concept. directions of the company. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. has a creed of this The reason for instituting the present creed is so that all type, also. It was instituted in 1970 on the basis of the policy of us can call to mind our one hundred years of tradition and advocated by Koyata Iwasaki, president of Mitsubishi Goshi strive for further development in the future. Kaisha in the 1920s, to indicate the essential attitude of the Editorial Policy MHI uses its website for the comprehensive disclosure of Scope of this Report information related to the MHI Group’s CSR initiatives. MHI Target organization: also produces a CSR Report digest version (brochure) to The information contained in this report pertains to Mitsubishi succinctly convey the activities that are the target of great Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies (110 in Japan interest from society and are also highly important to MHI. and 126 overseas). Some articles, however, only include deIn 2013, with a greater awareness of dialogues with our scriptions of MHI’s activities. stakeholders, we have included an interview of our president conducted by an outside expert, and dialogues with outside Target period: experts on human rights issues. The brochure is kept concise From April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 for ease of reading, while the website includes more detailed (includes information on some activities after March 31, 2013) information to offer a greater understanding of matters introduced. In addition, MHI reports on its representative efforts Guidelines and Other Reference Material with the aim of resolving issues on a global scale through a • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) wide range of business fields such as Energy & Environment, “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 version)” Transportation, and Aerospace. • Japanese Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Reporting Our website contains detailed information — focusing Guidelines (2012 edition)” on “Management,” the “Environmental Report,” and the • ISO 26000 “Social Contributions Report” — that is not included in the NOTE: A “Guideline Comparison List” will be posted on our website. brochure. In the future we will continue to improve these reports in response to your feedback. Date of Issuance June 2013 (previous issue: June 2012) Structure of CSR information disclosure Recent efforts are included under “CSR” on the MHI website. High MHI CSR activity reports Stakeholder interest Detailed version (website) Disclaimer In addition to objective information on the past and present status of Digest version (brochure) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies, this report also URL contains plans, perspectives and forecasts based on business plans and http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/csr/ other materials. These forecasts are made using information available at the time of publication and therefore the actual outcome of future business activities may differ from these forecasts. Importance for MHI High 1 Detailed Version MHI Social and Environmental Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report C O N T E N T S Commitment by Management — Interview with the President 3 Leveraging our comprehensive strengths in manufacturing to help realize a sustainable society CSR of the MHI Group 12 Feature 15 Senior Management’s Commitment in Interview Format Towards an Assured Future for Mankind and Earth 1 Large-Scale Offshore Wind Power Generation: One Solution to Energy Issues 17 2 MEGANINJA: A Solution to Energy Demands for Distributed Power Generation Systems 19 3 Delivering New Urban Transportation Systems that Are Large-Scale Offshore Wind Turbines Installed Safer, More Comfortable, and Friendlier to the Environment 21 in the U.K. (conceptual image) 4 Contributing to International Space Activities by Enhancing Launch Capability and Reliability 23 Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities 25 Stakeholder Dialogue 33 MHI will strive to identify adverse human rights impacts of our business activities and take appropriate steps to respect human rights MEGANINJA Container-type Gas Engine Generator Highlights of CSR Activities in FY2012 35 CSR Medium-Term Action Plan and Results of Promotion 37 Company Profile 43 Third-Party Opinions /Acting on Valuable Opinions 53 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management 54 Corporate Governance 55 Promotion of CSR 60 Compliance Green Mover Max Next Generation Automated 68 People Mover Environmental Report 77 Environmental Management 78 Targets and Progress 91 Material Balance 98 Environmental Accounting 99 Countermeasures against Global Warming 101 Resource Conservation, Waste Management and Water Resources 112 Management of Chemical Substances 118 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact 122 H-IIB Rocket Launch to Carry Large Cargo Social Contributions Report 126 into Space Commitment to Our Customers 127 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors 135 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) 138 Commitment to Our Employees 143 Social Contribution Activities 155 Recognition from Society 168 Progress toward a Sustainable Society 174 Main Third-party Opinions on Past CSR Reports and Our Responses 178 GRI Guideline Comparison List 181 Stakeholder Dialogue on Human Rights CSR-Related Data 189 2 Commitment by Management Interview with the President Profile Shunichi Miyanaga Mayumi Matsumoto President and CEO, Visiting Assistant Professor, Special Division Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. for Energy and Environmental Sciences, Komaba Organization for Educational Born in Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan, on April Excellence (KOMEX), 27, 1948. College of Arts and Sciences, The University Graduated from the University of Tokyo of Tokyo Faculty of Law and joined MHI in 1972. Appointed President of MHI-HITACHI Metals Born in Kumamoto Prefecture, Japan, Mayumi Machinery, Inc. in 2000 (renamed MitsubishiMatsumoto graduated from the Faculty of Hitachi Metals Machinery, Inc. in 2002). Foreign Studies at Sophia University. After Appointed as Member of the Board and graduating, she worked as a newscaster for TV Executive Vice President of MHI, as well as Asahi and contributed numerous features as a Head of Machinery & Steel Structures reporter. From there, she joined the Japan Headquarters in 2008. Served as Member of Broadcasting Corporation's NHK BS 1 channel the Board, Senior Executive Vice President as a newscaster and was in charge of its World and Head of the Presidential Administration News programs for six years. Office from 2011. Appointed President and Matsumoto is active in environmentand energyCEO on April 1, 2013. related NPOs and joined the University of Tokyo's Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology as a specially appointed researcher in May 2009. Her current position commenced in April 2013. 3 Promote CSR aligned to management strategy Our commitment reflected in the statement, Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow Matsumoto The world today is characterized by rapid market globalization and increased international competition due to the growing economies of emerging nations. Amidst these changes in the business environment, even greater importance is placed on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Could you tell us about MHI's basic approach to CSR? Miyanaga Our business is integrally linked with various social and industrial infrastructures, such as energy and environmental products, environmentally friendly aircraft and rail transit. I believe MHI's greatest social responsibility is to help solve global social issues and create a sustainable society through the diverse range of products and services we offer. At MHI, we uphold our corporate identity statement, Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow. This statement expresses our commitment to become a trusted global business that values the global environment and contributes to the realization of a sustainable society. I think MHI's approach to CSR is also summarized in this statement. Matsumoto Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow -this is a great phrase that captures profound meaning in just four words. Miyanaga In considering a sustainable society, it's important that we protect and maintain the valued aspects of our society in an ever-changing environment. Our corporate identity statement is our declaration to tackle this task through technology. But this is becoming increasingly more challenging over time. In today's world, economies and societies are advancing impressively, not only in developed countries but also in newly developing countries as well, and technologies have continued to evolve. Meanwhile, the world population has rapidly increased, which will very likely lead to all manners of discord and strife, including environmental issues and ethnic conflicts. Under such circumstances, we must balance economic development and environmental conservation, and it will be crucial that we respect the varying thoughts and opinions around the world in order to realize a sustainable society. Matsumoto Indeed, in addition to food and water shortages, poverty, and hygiene, today we also face a wide array of problems like energy and resource depletion, environmental degradation and global warming. Our times require us to take into consideration all of these issues as a whole. I see that MHI's corporate identity statement is a show of your commitment to boldly confront these difficult issues. Miyanaga I am happy you put it that way. In order for people around the world to lead an enriched life, it is an absolute precondition to provide a multitude of lifeline utilities, such as electricity and gas, in addition to ensuring sufficient food and water as well as safe and secure places to live. Over the course of thousands of years, humankind has inherited an array of technology and cultures from the past. From this point of view, it makes sense for CSR that is, how a business contributes to society to also keep evolving with the times. In today's globalized world, that social responsibility involves providing an assured future for the entire planet. 4 Maximizing incomes and optimizing allocations also essential aspects of CSR Matsumoto In terms of confronting these complex and diverse global issues, MHI possesses a wide array of technologies and develops business in a broad range of areas and regions. Miyanaga We are proud to have technologies that support society in the broad domains of land, sea, air and space. Our company places great emphasis on technological capabilities. We encourage novel ideas, and we attempt difficult tasks that have yet to be challenged. However, this is premised on the belief that technological advancements are not purely for our own satisfaction, but serve as a means in fulfilling our responsibilities as a company. In that sense, we believe that optimum allocation of profits is also an essential CSR activity as it allows us to continue existing as a company and to raise business revenue. This ensures our own growth, while also benefitting our diverse stakeholders, such as our customers, shareholders, suppliers, and employees, in addition to local communities and global society. Matsumoto So you mean that income through your business operations will also contribute to your social responsibilities? Miyanaga Yes. As a company involved in a wide range of businesses, we offer a lot of products. But in working towards the creation of a sustainable society, we will need to contribute through comprehensive strengths, which not only include competitiveness in technology but also an improved ability to compete in the international business arena. Based on this belief, we established the 2012 Business Plan from the perspectives of our products' business characteristics, such as customers and markets, and the similarity of the technologies and quality control applied to them. We reorganized our businesses into four business domains: Energy & Environment, Commercial Aviation & Transportation Systems, Integrated Defense & Space Systems, Machinery, Equipment & Infrastructure Moving forward, we will heighten our competitiveness in the global market and expand our business, and above all provide better products and technologies by progressively developing these business domains to meet the needs of the times. We believe that these efforts will also help lead to the resolution of social issues. Matsumoto I see. So, for MHI, business strategy is intricately linked to CSR. 5 Commitment essential to promoting CSR in communities around the world Promoting comprehensive measures based on the United Nations Global Compact Matsumoto Could you give some examples of MHI's guiding principles in advancing CSR in connection with business activities? Miyanaga MHI has been a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, and we abide by its principles when considering overall CSR activities. Based on the 10 principles across the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, MHI promotes activities with a clear corporate vision. Matsumoto Could you explain MHI's approach in each of these areas? Miyanaga For example, in the area of human rights, we follow the concept enacted by the United Nations on fundamental human rights in the 21st century, which serves as a guideline for the world. That's why, above all, I think human rights are something that must be defended at all times. For labor, as stated in MHI's mission statement, we are a business that values harmony and human relationships. We have built a work environment based upon human connections and a safe and supportive organization. That is why labor environments that ignore basic human rights, such as use of child labor, are completely unacceptable, and we strive towards eliminating them entirely. In regard to the environment, I believe that we should always do what we can now, based on a mediumto long-term vision. Of course, while a preventive approach that appeals to a greater number of people is desirable, issues that cannot be solved in this manner will require a different approach. In any case, we must never engage in anything that results in a deadly effect on the environment. There are also differences between countries in terms of environmental standards, but I believe that we should always have the capability to comply with the strictest of standards. On anti-corruption, I recognize that each country has a different concept, but as a leading global business we must continue to do what is right. We research laws and regulations of each country and thoroughly train our employees to comply with them. In line with globalization, we also implement education and training of our overseas offices and subsidiaries. I believe the Global Compact will become even more important in the coming years amidst growing world integration. As it stands today, human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption are all considered differently in each country and region. In light of this diversity, it will be crucial that we establish standards and guidelines for action and explain to local employees the reasons why they should be followed. Foregoing this step would have a negative impact on human relationships and our work. Matsumoto These days, we often hear the term global human resources, but it is quite hard to define. The method of dealing with situations in each country, based on an understanding of diversity, will become increasingly important. Miyanaga In addition to the Global Compact, we also apply ISO 26000 as an international guide for our CSR activities. MHI began incorporating the seven core subjects of ISO 26000 in its CSR business plans from fiscal 2012. 6 Aiming to create new values with safety as the top priority Matsumoto As you continue to expand and develop your business globally, what aspects are especially important in your view? Miyanaga As a monozukuri business that provides a variety of social infrastructures, our most important responsibility is to ensure the safety and quality of our products. I think this is the cornerstone of our business. At every stage of the production process, from design and construction to quality assurance and research, I call on my employees to return to the starting point our technology and ask themselves what they can do to further develop our technology: what types of technical validations should be done now, and what technology should be pursued next. I have worked with many overseas clients, but our top priority when delivering our products is safety. Of course ease of use, reliability and efficiency of the product are also important. We communicate closely with our clients on these aspects to confirm their intentions and requirements in order to create an even better product. I believe that MHI, as a manufacturer of machinery and plants, is able to create new value together with clients and, in turn, we are able to make new contributions to society. We aim to develop a business that satisfies clients over the entirety of the product life cycle, in which we efficiently manufacture and deliver products that fit the needs of our customers, including maintenance and after service. To achieve this, we must correctly recognize the needs of each country and region and build a production system and service network that can efficiently provide corresponding products for each location. Keeping past mistakes in mind while challenging new innovations Matsumoto I've often heard that monozukuri is about learning from your mistakes. Is this also true at MHI? Miyanaga The Accident Exhibit and Materials Room located in our Applied Knowledge Business Training Center in Nagoya is intended to thoroughly educate our employees on the importance of safety and quality through videos and exhibitions of artifacts that vividly convey the tragedy and gravity of accidents. As our past presidents have said, accidents should not be covered up but recorded so that future employees can learn from them. It is important for the lessons learned from a serious incident to be handed down to the next generation of workers. Of course we still continue to take on the challenge of developing new technologies and products. In doing so, we evaluate accident risks that come with new technological achievements during the development phase so they can be eliminated during design. More importantly, we keep all records when problems or accidents occur, so that we can share the lessons learned. This is done carefully throughout our company. Matsumoto I think it is wonderful that you are continuing to meet the challenges of innovation while learning from past mistakes. Miyanaga In order for everyone to live on this planet peacefully amidst a growing global population, we will need new innovations and technological breakthroughs. Risk of accidents or failure comes hand in hand with new challenges. It is absolutely necessary to implement preventive efforts, but we must also continue our challenges without fear of failure. If by chance an accident does occur, we must not run away but share the experience with everyone so we can create an even better product. I think the accumulation of such efforts has enriched the civilization of mankind. This may sound exaggerated, but I believe that a company like MHI, because of the nature of our business, has a significant responsibility in the progress of civilization. 7 Promoting CSR in overseas procurement Matsumoto As your company's global developments accelerate, I would assume that this results in new challenges for CSR. Miyanaga That is exactly right. Recently we are encountering challenges with global procurement activities. As we noted in the 2012 Business Plan, we are currently expanding our supply chain overseas, especially in several emerging nations. In light of this, we believe CSR procurement is necessary for business partners and raw materials suppliers, and thus have expanded the scope of the Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines established in 2010 to include these partners both in Japan and overseas, and requested that they adhere to our regulations concerning compliance, human rights and labor practices. We plan to carry out initiatives covering CSR procurement in the future, including strict measures to ensure that there is no exploitation of child labor or forced and compulsory labor. Establishing guidelines for prevention of bribery Miyanaga We introduced our Guidelines for the Prevention of Bribery Involving Foreign Civil Servants in 2005, recognizing the need to ensure that no bribes or any other irregular transactions occur in social infrastructure-related operations, as many of our customers are overseas governmental bodies. Likewise, we have stepped up efforts to fight corruption, creating Anti-Bribery Rules and Procedural Guidelines in 2012. Ideally, I would like to foster the understanding of these rules and guidelines using a guidebook that defines acceptable and unacceptable practices in order to contribute to everyone's happiness and a sustainable business. It will also be crucial to have more supervisors well-versed in the reasoning behind these rules and guidelines and to emphasize that compliance ultimately leads to a happier society. Matsumoto So, whether it is in business or CSR activities, the most important factor in carrying out initiatives together with partners is to foster understanding. Miyanaga Equality, fairness and safety are the rules, and following these rules contributes to quality of life. Rules are always necessary in achieving such ends as comfort and happiness, and I believe that following these rules will ultimately lead to CSR. 8 MHI's aspirations for energy and environment endeavors Becoming a world-leading company through integration of thermal power generation systems with Hitachi, Ltd. Matsumoto I have always been interested in MHI's business activities in the energy and environment field, which is my area of research. I would like to ask you first about your objective for integrating MHI's thermal power generation systems with Hitachi, Ltd. I believe many people in Japan were surprised at this integration of the industry's two leading companies. Miyanaga With the rapidly growing demand for energy across the globe, the reduction of environmental impact has become an urgent global issue. Due to its social importance, the thermal power generation system business is seeing intensifying competition among major manufacturers around the world. This presents not only an excellent opportunity for MHI business expansion, but also an outstanding opportunity to contribute to the development of a greater number of societies and nations. The aim of the integration is to sharpen our competitive edge in order to compete more effectively in the global market. MHI and Hitachi have different product types and market strengths when it comes to the thermal power generation system business. We want to contribute to the resolution of social issues as a world-leading company by demonstrating the complementary synergy of our strengths, technology, products and business. By helping each other, we anticipate that the collaboration of our two companies will amount to something more than just the sum of our capabilities. Matsumoto That is something I personally am very interested in seeing. Although fossil fuels are viewed as the villain in terms of global warming, I believe many people fully realized their importance after the earthquake two years ago. In fact, 90% of the power generation business today is thermal power. However, fossil fuels are limited resources, so it is important that we use them efficiently, and MHI's gas turbines encapsulate this technology. Miyanaga Yes, large-sized gas turbines are one of MHI's strengths. Smalland medium-sized turbines are Hitachi's strengths. Offering only large-sized gas turbines is not enough to meet global demands, and depending on individual customer requirements, smalland medium-sized ones are sometimes better. By combining our technologies in this way, I believe we can further develop our businesses. 9 Striving to improve nuclear power safety and develop advanced technologies Matsumoto I would also like to ask about nuclear power. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, public opinion surrounding the issue of nuclear power has been severe. Personally, I think nuclear power is an important technology to ensure a stable supply of electricity. What is MHI's standpoint on the nuclear power business? Miyanaga As you said, nuclear power that can be stably generated is a necessary source of electricity over the long term. Nuclear power is proven to achieve overall economic efficiency, considering the environmental impact of CO2, energy security, efficiency and long-term use. In a country with an advanced industrial base, an efficient and stable supply of electricity is essential, and from that perspective, nuclear power capabilities are indispensable. A variety of conditions must be taken into consideration when installing nuclear power plants, such as ready access to large amounts of cooling water. As such, selecting appropriate locations for construction will allow for future global growth of nuclear power. The Japanese government, following its enactment of new regulatory requirements in July 2013, has expressed its policy to restart existing plants, continue and promote nuclear fuel cycles at Rokkasho, achieve stable convergence at TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, and decommission outdated plants. MHI will participate in these efforts as a comprehensive nuclear power plant manufacturer. There have been a multitude of reasons behind the disasters that occurred in nuclear power plants in the past. However, the industry has responded by developing safer nuclear power stations based on lessons learned from those accidents. Overseas, there is growing expectation for Japan's nuclear power technology, which will utilize lessons learned from the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. At MHI, we hope to respond to these expectations especially through our projects in emerging countries, where the challenge is not merely limited to supplying nuclear power plants. We will also have to tackle multiple issues, such as improving legislation, securing finances, as well as operation and maintenance, through a joint effort with governments and the private sector. We aspire to contribute to these nations, while working together with their governments. In regards to nuclear fusion, which is the dream energy source, we are conducting research by participating in the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) project. AT MHI, we are committed to improving the safety of nuclear power and developing better technologies in order to contribute in supplying a stable source of power and developing society in a sustainable manner. Matsumoto I am also very interested in the field of nuclear fusion. I went on a tour of the Large Helical Device at the National Institute for Fusion Science, but I heard that the ITER is much larger. It seems that MHI is steadily advancing technological developments 30 to 50 years ahead. Miyanaga We see this as one of our very ultra-long-term CSR activities. By consecutively carrying out these challenging activities, our company can attract talented young engineers and students, which will then enable MHI to undertake more challenging initiatives and develop new technologies. I believe that in the long run, pursuing this will become a large part of our contribution to society. 10 Contributing to the solution of global social issues by pursuing thermal power generation and smart communities Matsumoto Finally, what are your visions for MHI's energy and environment business endeavors in the future? Miyanaga First, by establishing the joint venture with Hitachi covering thermal power generation systems, we will aggressively expand global businesses related to gas turbines, coal-fired thermal power, gas turbine combined cycle and natural gases. We both possess innovative technologies in coal-fired thermal power generation and will further advance these technologies with the aim of achieving Integrated coal Gasification higher efficiency and lower environmental Combined Cycle (IGCC) plants impact. make significant contributions to Renewable energy management is also an securing stable supply of energy area that we will continue to pursue. For example, with wind-power generation, we will of course work on the development of wind turbine generator systems and batteries that support power generation. But in addition, we will also promote management business on the combination of existing conventional generators, wind turbine generators and batteries. The best mix of these energy sources is an important theme for us. We will also conceive further developments to these ideas. Specifically, I want to make the most of the technologies, products and expertise in our energy and environment businesses for the efficient use of electricity, gas, water, and transportation necessary for daily life and industries. The goal is to help create smart communities that comprehensively manage the energy and environmental operations of entire cities, including the management of CO2 emissions and waste. Feasibility studies (F/S) and demonstration projects are already underway in Japan, India, Abu Dhabi, Iceland and Spain. In this way, we want to provide solutions to global social issues by pursuing the two areas of thermal power generation and smart communities. This will also contribute to the realization of goals formulated last year in the MHI Environmental Vision 2030, which targets the achievement of the 3E's energy security, environmental protection and economic growth through total solutions incorporating company products and technologies. Matsumoto Smart communities that actualize low-carbon emissions and energy savings, and where people can live comfortably, is precisely the type of concept we expect from MHI, which has a wide range of products and technologies to achieve a total solution. Miyanaga Thank you very much. MHI will continue to contribute to the solution of global energy and environmental social issues through business, products and technology. 11 CSR of the MHI Group CSR Concepts and Actions MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines (formulated July 2007) Promoting CSR through manufacturing as an innovative contributor to society In accordance with the three principles that define the spirit of our creed, the MHI Group serves as a manufacturing corporation that contributes to societal progress through its business endeavors of delivering products and technologies in support of social and industrial infrastructure worldwide. In this way MHI is contributing to the resolution of global issues. Furthermore, MHI believes the basis of corporate social responsibility (CSR) is to engage in business activities that take its diverse range of stakeholders into consideration and return profits to all stakeholders in optimum fashion, while at the same time providing excellent products and technologies to realize a sustainable society and a secure future for people and the planet. Based on our creed and CI statement, Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow, the MHI Group has also instituted CSR Action Guidelines to serve as collective standards for all Group employees when conducting business activities centered on the principles of CSR. 12 Undertaking ISO 26000-Focused Initiatives The MHI Group has broadened its CSR program from the domestic front to the global stage. From fiscal 2011, we began according priority to ISO 26000, which provides international guidelines on the social responsibilities of organizations. In fiscal 2011, we engaged in dialogue with experts who could be helpful with certain important initiatives while contributing to communities, providing ongoing assistance to disaster-hit areas, and otherwise involving ourselves with communities. We will continue to draw on ISO 26000 in soliciting stakeholder participation as we identify important initiatives for the entire value chain and pursue CSR management based on global standards. The seven core subjects of ISO 26000, and MHI's main efforts 1. Organizational governance Organizational governance 2. Human rights Due diligence / Human rights risk situations / Avoidance of complicity / Resolving grievances / Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Civil and political rights / Economic, social and cultural rights / Fundamental principles and rights at work 3. Labour practices Employment and employment relationships / Conditions of work and social protection / Social dialogue / Health and safety at work / Human development and training in the workplace 13 4. The environment Prevention of pollution / Sustainable resource use / Climate change mitigation and adaptation / Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats 5. Fair operating practices Anti-corruption / Responsible political involvement / Fair competition / Promoting social responsibility in the value chain / Respect for property rights 6. Consumer issues (responsibility towards customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices / Protecting consumers' health and safety / Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution / Consumer data protection and privacy / Access to essential services / Education and awareness 7. Community involvement and development Community involvement / Education and culture / Employment creation and skills development / Technology development and access / Wealth and income creation / Health / Social investment MHI Environmental Vision 2030 Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow The future of our planet rests in the sustained evolution of humankind while caring, with love and responsibility, for all life forms that inhabit it. MHI will continue to be a company indispensable to ensuring that future. The MHI Group will pursue energy security while carrying forward environmental protection -not only of the earth but of space also through its ability to develop new technologies and products, to achieve a secure future that is kind to the earth. 14 Feature Towards an Assured Future for Mankind and Earth Large-Scale Power Generation through Efficient Conversion Immediate Power Generation in Response to of Sea Winds Regional Power Demands Large-Scale Container-Configured Offshore Wind Power Generation Power Generation System MEGANINJA Global expectations for offshore wind power This mobile power plant provides generation are rising. MHI responds to the a distributed energy supply to challenges and demands of increased meet the diversified expectations output with technologies that efficiently of people waiting for stable convert sea wind into energy. A vast power power supplies. generation project is unfolding offshore. Geothermal Power Plants Seismic Vessels Patrol Vessels Steel Bridges Environmental & Chemical Plants Machine Tools Gas Engine Plants Forklift Trucks Electronic Road Pricing Systems EV Charging Stations & Lithium-ion Batteries Radiation Therapy Equipment Residential Use Air-conditioners 15 Through manufacturing, MHI addresses social issues and responds to expectations across a wide range of social and everyday situations. Among the many problems facing today’s world are environmental pollution, global warming and the energy crisis. Moreover, as societies mature and technologies advance, people around the globe have come to expect lives that are comfortable, safer and more secure. MHI is a manufacturing company that provides social and industrial infrastructure for land, sea, air and even space environments. Through its lines of business, products and technologies, the company responds to expectations and helps to resolve diversifying social issues, contributing to an assured future. Launching the World’s Dreams into Space Comfortable Travel for All H-IIB Launch Vehicle New Urban Transportation Systems with Greater Launch Capabilities ©JAXA The first domestically produced, With its enhanced launch capabilipeople-friendly, “barrier-free” cars, ties, the H-IIB contributes to delivering a method of urban space development, mankind’s transportation that can be used gateway to the future. comfortably by more people. Aircraft LNG Carriers Nuclear Energy Power Plants Passenger Ships Thermal Power Generation Plants Printing Machinery Centrifugal Chillers Centrifugal Heat Pumps Turbochargers Vibration & Isolation Systems Automated People Movers Mechanical Parking Systems 16 Feature Towards an Assured Future for Mankind and Earth 1 In Hunterston, United Kingdom Large-Scale Offshore Wind Power Hunterston Generation: One Solution to Energy Issues United Kingdom Kingdom MHI is developing the world’s first large-scale offshore wind turbine generator to utilize a Digital Displacement ® hydraulic drive train. Its success will support an ambitious plan to generate around one-third of the electricity consumed in the United Kingdom from renewable sources and will also contribute to the UK’s legally binding carbon reduction target. This project is a great example of MHI’s contribution to the wider challenge of helping society move to a more sustainable low carbon footing. Fixed foundation large-scale offshore wind turbines for the UK and continental Europe (conceptual image) Development of new 7MW *1 offshore wind turbine generator by 2015 Wind turbines are attracting attention generator. In January 2013, test operations a ro u n d t h e w o r l d a s a s o u rc e o f of the world’s first multi-megawatt wind renewable energy. With an abundance of turbine with hydraulic drive train began at strong constant winds, offshore turbines Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works. are expected to generate more electricity In late 2013, MHI will erect an than onshore turbines, an opportunity onshore demonstration unit with a rotor that industry is responding to. diameter of 167m and a rated output of Wind power generation in the EU is 7MW at Hunterston in Scotland, UK. The highly developed: new wind power Hunterston project will form part of a facilities account for over a third of the Nacelle (housing for generator and other wider program of demonstration and capacity of all power plants. The UK is equipment) of large-scale wind power validation scheduled to run until 2015. generation facility that began test operations A production version of the wind turbine moving forward with plans to take in January 2013 advantage of its strong offshore winds by will then be released to the market. installing several thousand offshore wind turbine generators by 2020. In the future, turbine market. * 1 electrical MW: Megawatt, or 1,000,000W. Amount of power consumed by approximately the country intends to use wind turbines Offshore construction and main640 average households in the UK. to generate over 40GW*2, a third of the tenance costs are higher than those * 2 generating GW: Gigawatt, or 1,000,000,000W. The capacity of an average nuclear electricity it consumes domestically. for onshore turbines, therefore higher power plant is 1GW. In February 2010, MHI signed a reliability during operation and greater memorandum of understanding with turbine yield and rated output will drive *3 Development NEDO: New Energy and Industrial Technology Organization. the UK Government to cooperate on future value for customers. MHI and An Incorporated Administrative Agency under jurisdiction of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, offshore wind turbine development. subsidiary company Artemis Intelligent Trade and Industry. MHI’s approximately 4,000 previous Power, with support from NEDO * 3 onshore wind turbine deliveries and its and the UK’s BIS and TSB *4, brought *4 &UKSkills. BIS: Department for Business, Innovation A UK government department. achievements with thermal power forward a game-changing engineering TSB: Technology Strategy Board, the UK’s innovation agency. generation plants earned it the honor solution, developing a substitute for the ® of being the first Japanese corporation conventional turbine design: a hydraulic * Digital Displacement Transmission is a registered trademark of Artemis Intelligent to enter the European offshore wind drive train that powers the synchronous Power, Ltd., a group company of MHI. 17 Larger models sought as Hydraulic drive train resolves issues of larger-sized units turbines move offshore In lieu of a step-up gear, the new digitally the pump and motor, allowing a standard From onshore to off: Although expectations for controlled hydraulic drive train (hydraulic pump synchronous generator. This new design was offshore wind power may be focused in Europe, and motor) used for wind power generation developed with the superior digitally controlled interest is spreading around the world. At the same facilitates larger-sized models and delivers high hydraulic technologies of Artemis Intelligent time, there is a demand for developing larger reliability. In addition, the need for an inverter is Power, Ltd., an MHI-affiliated company in the UK. offshore wind turbines with a rated output of 6 to eliminated through separate digital control of 8+MW, as opposed to current turbines of 3 to 5MW. Total offshore wind power generating Conventional gear drive train Hydraulic drive train capacity (projected) North America Asia Pacific Europe Blades (MW) Three-stage step-up gear (fixed-speed increasing ratio) 100,000 Doubly fed induction generator Oil Accumulator 80,000 Step-up transformer 60,000 40,000 Inverter Converter 20,000 Hydraulic Hydraulic Shaft Shaft pump Oil motor 0 2012 2013 2016 2019 2022 2025 Source: IHS Emerging Energy Research Market study 2012 Offshore wind power generation incorporates multiple MHI technologies Demonstration testing of floating offshore wind power generation In addition to the technology and expertise gained Providing both fixed foundation through production of onshore wind turbines, MHI and floating types begins in Japan will apply its comprehensive technologies and Japan’s topography limits the size of onshore experience in thermal power generation, steel Onshore wind Offshore wind wind turbine equipment that can be transported, structures, aerospace, and shipbuilding and turbine turbine and its marine coastal areas are generally not o c e a n d e v e l o p m e n t i n i t s p ro d u c t i o n o f shallow enough to accommodate fixed foundation large-scale offshore wind turbines. offshore wind turbines. For these reasons, floating offshore wind power is being viewed as the next Large-scale offshore wind turbine Land Ocean stage in Japanese wind power generation. MHI with 167m rotor diameter is participating in the Ministry of Economy, Trade Fixed foundation and Industry’ s floating offshore wind farm demonstration research project, one purpose of Floating foundation which is the implementation of this technology. MHI will provide the project with large-scale 7MW-class wind turbines and floating structures, with test Rotor diameter Aerospace technology operations for the MHI machines scheduled to begin 167m off the coast of Fukushima Prefecture in late 2014. Hub height Blades for the 7MW hydraulic drive train wind turbine, currently under development, utilize Approx. 110m technologies applied in aerospace, including Jumbo passenger jet carbon materials and lightning protection. length Lightning protection Wind tunnel Approx. 70m test test width Approx. 80m Floating offshore wind farm research project in Fukushima Prefecture (conceptual image) Voice Expectations of MHI Expectations of MHI Toward low carbon society with our ideal partner MHI “In 2009, SSE was in the early stages of thinking about potential partnerships for offshore wind and Mitsubishi Power Systems Europe (MPSE) (MHI’s power systems business for EMEA) was a good strategic fit for us not only in offshore wind but across the low carbon generation space. SSE, MPSE & MHI then signed a Low Carbon Partnership agreement in 2010.” “Successful project delivery is critically important, success breeds success. Together we have completed HVAC and Lithium-ion battery projects and we are now delivering a GTCC project, and the SeaAngel 7 MW prototype at SSE’s Hunterston test site.” “There has always been a close cultural and historical alignment between the Scots and the Japanese, right back to Thomas Glover. This, in parallel with Mitsubishi’s reputation for technology and Jim McPhillimy (Second from right) quality, makes us feel there’s something special and unique that will help sustain a long and prosperous Managing Director, Scottish and Southern Energy (SSE) future for SSE and Mitsubishi.” 18 Feature Towards an Assured Future for Mankind and Earth 2 In Guangzhou, China MEGANINJA: A Solution to Energy Demands for Distributed Power Generation Systems China Sales of MEGANINJA, MHI’s container-configured gas engine power generation system, began in June 2012. MEGANINJA can begin generating power within 24 hours of delivery, Guangzhou and — as a distributed power generation system — is attracting attention for its ability to rapidly meet power supply demands in regions with insufficient power generation infrastructures and emergency power supply demands in developed countries. “Quick mobility, quick installation, quick commissioning!” for regions with insufficient power generation infrastructures Many emerging countries still have accommodate cogeneration systems regions where power grids and other through simultaneous use of a 20-foot infrastructure are unable to keep pace container for waste heat recovery, and with growing demands for power. In with its quick transport, quick China, the government has announced installation and quick commissioning, plans to introduce distributed power is able to promptly respond to power systems with a total output of 50GW* by and heat demands in any area. 2020. Meanwhile, developed nations are In July 2012, the first two MEGANINJA working to popularize distributed power units were delivered to a Chinese gas systems, which are energy efficient and company, Dongguan Xinao Gas, where disaster resistant, and are working A mobile power plant: all the equipment they are being used as backup power towards the construction of smart necessary for power generation packaged sources during interruptions in the power in an ISO 40-foot container. communities in which such systems supply. There is also growing interest are a prerequisite. from regions in other countries with Looking to raw materials and fuels, developed the MEGANINJA, a distributed insufficient infrastructures, and from the soaring price of crude oil, vast natural power system run on natural gas, and corporations in developed countries gas reserves identified in Africa, and the began marketing it in June 2012. The examining countermeasures for power extraction of shale gas in the U.S., all seem MEGANINJA, a package product peaks as part of their BCPs (business to forecast the further popularization of consisting of a 1.5MW gas engine, continuity plans). natural gas. In addition, natural gas is generator, oil tank and control console well-suited for cogeneration systems – loaded into an ISO 40-foot (approx. 12m) the high-efficiency energy systems that container, is capable of generating power use heat and steam as well as electricity. soon after being transported to its * GW: Gigawatt, or 1,000,000,000W. The generating capacity of an average nuclear In response to these factors, MHI installation site by trailer. It can also power plant is 1GW. 19 Power generation within 24 hours, maintenance within 24 hours High power generation efficiency (42.6%), Installation of conventional gas engine power Conventional gas engine power generation systems takes approximately 30 days generation facility low NOx concentration before the system is operable. With the MEGANINJA, (200ppm and less than 200ppm) all necessary equipment has been packed into the container in advance, and simple coupling units A Miller cycle gas engine, in which the expansion are used for wirings and pipings. Even if several ratio is larger than the compression ratio, enables containers are being installed, this configuration the achievement of a 42.6% power generation makes it possible to “just set them down” and efficiency rating. In addition, electronic control results begin power generation within 24 hours of delivery. in optimal mixing of fuel and air, maintaining NOx In addition, when a unit requires major repairs, density within 200ppm without after treatment. it may be exchanged with another unit, and this process takes merely 24 hours. Heart of the MEGANINJA: a high-efficiency Miller cycle Quick setup method –“just set it down” MEGANINJA’s all-in-one configuration gas engine structure Gas piping connections Oil tank Radiator Gas piping connection simplified with camlock fittings Generator Generator control panel Miller cycle gas engine 20-foot container waste heat recovery unit 40-foot container power generation system Responding to diverse global needs for distributed gas Cable connections Wiring connections simplified power generation systems with quick connector Stable power supplies are in demand around the world, including China and Southeast Asia. MHI responds to these diverse global needs with its distributed gas engine power generation systems. June 2012 : MOU signed with China Huadian Corporation on development of advanced technology for distributed power generation systems and their commercialization. July 2012 : First and second MEGANINJA units Cogeneration raises total energy efficiency to 74.6% delivered to China’s Dongguan Xinao Gas. Power loss July 2012 : Delivered a sample GS16R2-PTK Total energy generator set to Russia. Power generation system efficiency Power 42.6% October 2012 : Gas Engine Distributed Power Fuel: (40-foot container) Generation Engineering Center established Natural 74.6% in Shanghai, China. gas Waste heat recovery unit Cooling water waste heat 14.6% April 2013 : Stationary gas engine generator set 100% delivered to Dongguan Xinao Gas. (20-foot container) Exhaust gas waste heat 17.4% July 2013 : MEGANINJA installation at MHI’s Machine Tool Headquarters (Ritto) for electricity peak-cut during summer. Intercooler cooling water heat loss Heat loss Exhaust gas heat loss Voice Expectations of MHI Expectations for MHI’s continued contributions to natural gas power generation in Dongguan City, China We supply natural gas to China’s Dongguan City, a city famous for its manufacturing industry. In China, environmental problems caused by coal use are worsening, and clean natural gas power generation, which is gentle on the environment, is seen as promising. Power demands in Dongguan City are on the rise due to economic development, while planned power cuts are being implemented because of chronic power supply Left: Director Ying of China Huadian insufficiencies. As a result, I found the MEGANINJA appealing; it runs on Electric Research Institute natural gas and can be promptly installed in areas where power is Right: (Then) MHI Executive Vice President insufficient. I feel that MHI is putting its total strength into the natural gas Dai Wen De Tsukuda Former CEO, power generation business in Dongguan City, and I look forward to Guangdong Dongguan Signing of MOU with China Huadian Corporation on continuing our partnership with them in the future. XinaoGas distributed power generation systems in June 2012 20 Feature Towards an Assured Future for Mankind and Earth 3 In Hiroshima, Japan Delivering New Urban Transportation Systems that Are Safer, More Comfortable, Japan and Friendlier to the Environment Hiroshima Urban transportation systems are being reviewed in countries around the world against a backdrop of chronic traffic congestion, exhaust air pollution and a rapidly aging society. To help resolve these issues, MHI has developed advanced transportation systems like the Automated People Mover (APM) Systems, and 100% low floor Light Rail Vehicle (LRV), and so on. Hiroshima’s highly advanced tram system — the most widely used in Japan — features the first domestically produced barrier-free 100% low floor LRV called “JTRAM” It’s an easy means for people to get “User-friendly” and “Urban.” The around. It produces no exhaust gas conventional step down from the tram and is extremely energy efficient. The to the platform was eliminated, resulting LRT (Light Rail Transit) is currently in a more accessible transportation drawing attention worldwide for raising means for senior citizens, parents with convenience to new heights, while baby strollers, and individuals in leveraging the unique characteristics wheelchairs. of trams. In February 2013, the U3 Project One important player in the delivered the “JTRAM R” (called transition to LRT is the people-friendly 1000-series vehicles in Hiroshima) that LRV (Light Rail Vehicle). Barrier-free, maintains the barrier-free design of the First domestically produced 100% low floor step-less LRV cars are designed to LRV, Green Mover max (5100-Series) Green Mover max while adopting a more allow passengers to board or alight compact design and shorter car length. directly from or to station platforms, Shortening the overall length made it but were not manufactured in Japan MHI together with Kinki Sharyo Co., possible for the 100% low floor LRVs to until recently. L t d . a n d To y o D e n k i S e i z o K . K . , run on all lines in the city, including those Japan had long hoped for an LRV delivered the Green Mover max, the where station platform lengths had suited to its climate, topography and first domestically developed 100% low previously made introduction difficult. unique urban structure, and in 2005, MHI floor LRV to Japan’s largest domestic In the future, MHI will continue to developed a bogie with an independent tramway operator, Hiroshima Electric provide transportation systems that are wheel system, an essential component Railway Co., Ltd. easy to use and reflect the needs of of the LRV and the first of its kind in The development concepts of the U3 the times. Japan. In the consortium U3 Project, Project were defined as “Ultimate,” 21 Safe and pleasant boarding with a floor height of 33cm Comparison of ease of access and bogie structure Newly developed axle-less cars 100% low floor LRV In conventional cars, the left and right wheels are Conventional car “JTRAM” series connected by an axle, which determines the floor (3950-Series) (5100-Series and new 1000-Series) height. The newly developed, independent wheel bogie makes it possible to considerably lower Boarding Boarding floor height of the car by eliminating the axle and bringing the door threshold to within 33cm of the ground. Automated people movers and 78cm 33cm rail transit systems at work Bogie structure Bogie structure around the world Floor Motorized bogie Motor-less bogie MHI also provides rail transit systems that contribute to the safe operation of railways, and 88cm Motor 112cm Axle APM (Automated People Mover) systems with Floor Floor fully automated cars running on rubber tires that Bogie frame Bogie frame are used in airports and urban areas. By taking regional issues and characteristics into account and comprehensively providing everything from car manufacture to administration systems, Improving comfort, safety and environmental performance MHI is contributing to the resolution of urban transportation issues around the world. Conserving greater energy Safety demonstrated on dedicated with car control test line A s a m e a n s o f t r a n s p o r t a t i o n , t r a m s a re MHI has a large-scale test rail track at its Wadaoki environmentally friendly. Using advanced control Plant (Hiroshima Prefecture, Mihara City) that technology to run the motorized bogies on the U3 was used to thoroughly verify the safety and 100% low floor LRV “JTRAM” makes travel more comfort quality of the cars. In addition, with an eye comfortable while keeping power consumption on global development, MHI plans to establish low and energy savings high. Japan’s first comprehensive railway transportation system verification facility in the same area Singapore Changi Airport (APM) CO2 emissions per passenger-kilometer (in 2014), with the aim of making the facility by modes available to other corporations and public and (g-CO2/pkm) private groups. Private car 188 Existing Railway System Test Track Existing APM Test Track Public bus 94 Maglev Test Track (Schematic) River Station LRT, Trams 36 Operation Control Center Above-ground and Tokyo, Yurikamome (APM) Overhead Installation Training Line Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, 2002 white paper Maintenance Facility Station Wadaoki Plant CCTV Reduced noise and vibration (Surveillance Cameras) Railway Test Track – Elevated Section In comparison to conventional cars, the new bogie, Improvements in safety and comfort to be low center of gravity, light car body and other undertaken at the MIHARA Test Center, Japan’ s features of the U3 100% low floor LRV “JTRAM” first comprehensive railway transportation system contribute to a reduction in noise and vibration. verification facility Dubai Metro (Rail Transit System) Voice Expectations of MHI Admiration for development of domestically produced LRV and high hopes for expansion abroad Vehicle comfort as a living space stands alongside vehicle performance as one of the desirable elements in the development of LRVs in Japan. Other differentiating elements from those of overseas include pleasant climate control, adequate number of seats, aisle width that allows for unimpeded movement inside the train, and the necessary facilities for correcting fares. MHI has developed an LRV that specifically meets Japan’s uniqueness. In the future, I hope the company will further refine safety and comfort by expanding the test tracks. In addition, I would like to see the expansion Hideki Fujimoto New compact 18m 1000-series LRV began of this LRV, in which Japan’s meticulous consideration is given full play, Group President, commercial operations in February 2013. and would like MHI to expand its system coordination and operation Tram Company, Hiroshima Electric services to areas overseas as well. Railway Co., Ltd. 22 Feature Towards an Assured Future for Mankind and Earth 4 In Tanegashima, Japan Contributing to International Space Activities by Enhancing Launch Capability JAPAN and Reliability Tanegashima A reliable launch vehicle is essential for space development. MHI has developed the H-IIB Launch Vehicle to meet the growing demand of heavier satellites from global users. MHI is also contributing to international space activities by transporting supplies to the International Space Station using the H-II Transfer Vehicle, “KOUNOTORI,” launched by the H-IIB Launch Vehicle. Lift off of H-IIB HB Launch Vehicle ©JAXA Providing assured access to space by our reliable launch vehicle One of MHI’s business activities is Over nearly 40 years of rocket launch services. In this “space shipping” development and manufacturing role, the company is entrusted with experience, MHI has amassed a wealth satellites (freight) by customers (satellite of knowledge and improved its launch manufacturers and operators) and success rate. A string of successful delivers the cargo by a launch vehicle to on-schedule launches is testament to a designated place at a predetermined the world-class reliability of MHI’s d a t e a n d t i m e . M H I e n t e re d t h i s launch services. business in 2007 with the launch of the ©JAXA / NASA MHI, as a launch services provider, JAXA * 1 lunar orbiter “KAGUYA” on will continue to leverage its technologies H-II A Launch Vehicle No. 13. All Earth as seen from KOUNOTORI3 launched and expertise to secure a reliable by the H-IIB launch vehicle in July 2012 subsequent launches up to and access to space that can meet a including H-IIA No. 22 in January 2013 v a r i e t y o f n e e d s f ro m o u r g l o b a l have been successful. H-IIB launch services beginning with customers. MHI will continue to fulfill With H-IIA Launch Vehicle No. 21, No. 4, scheduled to launch the expectations for space development, MHI was commissioned by KARI *2 to “KOUNOTORI4” on its way to the paving the way for mankind’s future. launch its first non-Japanese satellite by International Space Station. *1 An JAXA: Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency. MHI’s launch services. Moreover, Although several European and independent administrative agency in charge of Japan’s space science research, following the successful launch of the American companies are involved in aerospace technology research, and space H-IIB Launch Vehicle No. 3 – built to the satellite launch business, there are development research. transport larger satellites as well as the few that can match MHI’s ability to *2 government KARI: Korea Aerospace Research Institute. A agency that handles the Republic H II Tr a n s f e r Ve h i c l e k n o w n a s implement the entire process from of Korea’s aerospace and space development “KOUNOTORI” – MHI will also handle all vehicle manufacture to launch. research. 23 Utilizing advanced and comprehensive space technologies Transporting roughly 6 tons MHI coordinates the entire process of launch services from launch vehicle manufacture to of cargo into space interface coordination between the spacecraft and launch vehicle, program management, The administration of the International Space and execution of the launch campaign. Station (ISS) is shared by 15 nations. MHI is in c h a rg e o f t h e s y s t e m c o o r d i n a t i o n a n d MHI implements the entire process of the launch services from vehicle manufacture of the large H-II Transfer Vehicle manufacture to launch “KOUNOTORI,” which delivers food, clothing, and experimental equipment of all types to the ISS. Customer Launch Services H-II Transfer Vehicle “KOUNOTORI,” Contract Interface Coordination a supply vehicle to the International MHI’s Space Station Japan Aerospace Launch Services Exploration Agency (JAXA) • Program Management • Mission Integration • Range Safety Operations • Launch Vehicle Manufacturing • Ground Station Operations • Mission Modification, Technical Support • Launch Facility Maintenance • Launch Campaign, etc. ©JAXA Launch-Related Manufacturing of Official Insurance Subsystems and Procedures Components Space-Related Government and Insurance Company Manufacturers Related Authorities Doubling the launch capability: From 4 tons of H-II A to approximately 8 tons of H-II B ©JAXA / NASA Meeting diverse launch needs “KOUNOTORI” delivers supplies in space Development of a new launch vehicle The H-IIB Launch Vehicle was jointly developed by JAXA and MHI utilizing the technology and experience cultivated during the development of the H-IIA. The three H-IIB launches to date all served to successfully launch the H-II Transfer The new logo of MHI’s launch services, Vehicle “KOUNOTORI,” which can transport established when H-IIB was added to approximately six tons of supplies to the ISS. our lineup in 2013 H-IIA Launch H-IIB Launch Parameters H2A202 H2B Standard Heavy Lift Height (m) 53 56.6 Gross Mass (excluding satellite mass) (t) 289 531 Maximum Launch GTO 4.0 about 8 ©JAXA Capacity (t) Orbit for HTV – 16.5 Manufacture of core fuselage for H-IIB Launch Illustration by JAXA Vehicle No. 3 Voice Expectations of MHI Becoming an asset to Japan’s space development by facing the world’s needs directly As joint developer of the H-IIB Launch Vehicle, MHI’s contributions have been tremendous. In space development, even a small error can drastically affect the entire project, but MHI firmly supported JAXA activities, and it did so from a project management standpoint as well as from a technical viewpoint. Takumi Ujino Last year, we transferred the H-IIB launch services to MHI as we did Chief Engineer, ©JAXA Senior Chief Officer of before with the H-IIA. In the future, I hope that MHI promotes its launch Technology Strategy of Space Control room at JAXA Tanegashima Space Center services to meet not only national demands but also global customer Transportation Program, where launches and ground facilities are controlled. needs because I believe that MHI’s launch services activities will Space Transportation Mission Directorate, benefit Japan’s space development as well. Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) 24 Employee activities The MHI Group values the passion of individuals and supports employee participation in CSR activities. With the shared desire to contribute to regional communities and society through our work, all of our employees are involved in a wide range of CSR activities. World’s First Radioactive Waste Storage Tank Facility Completed Motofumi Kumagawa Deputy Manager Construction Team 1 Construction Engineering & Service Planning Section Nuclear Power Plant Construction Department Nuclear Plant Production Division Nuclear Energy Systems I was responsible for process management in a construction project installing equipment for the stable storage of radioactive waste (sludge generated in the processing of radiation-tainted water) at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, operated by Tokyo Electric Power Company, Inc. (TEPCO). We commenced construction planning in May 2011 in the immediate aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake, and from October of that year in cooperation with Engineering Headquarters began grappling with onsite construction work. Since the eyes of the world were fixed on Fukushima, we were determined to deliver the project as soon as possible and without problems. There was also a need to proceed with utmost caution in order to minimize exposure to radiation. Amidst these difficulties, all of us connected by the project were united in a shared sense of working for the sake of Japan. We successfully completed transfer of the facility to TEPCO in June 2012. Moving forward, I would like to continue contributing to the earthquake recovery efforts through my work at MHI. G2 Area sludge storage tank equipment at Sludge storage tank installation TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station 25 Unified in Striving to Create a Safer Workplace Tatsunori Sakata Nagasaki Industrial Safety and Health Team Safety & Environment Management Section Nagasaki & Shimonoseki General Affairs Department Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works I am in charge of general safety and health management within the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works. Those of us responsible for safety issues are committed to the safe return of our hardworking colleagues to their families each day, and therefore consider it our responsibility and mission to provide optimal on-site support and guidance. A key step in that regard is to establish strong bonds of trust with employees at their places of work. Whenever I have the opportunity, I visit our workplaces to answer questions and address issues directly in order to develop rapid and appropriate responses. We experienced a major workplace accident at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works in recent years, and I was personally involved in dealing with the outcome. I will never forget the sadness and self-reproach I felt at that time. I am therefore committed to creating safer workplaces so we never again suffer such a terrible disaster. To that end and going forward, I join all workplace colleagues in carrying out intensive health and safety activities. 26 Commercial ship well received for achieving reduction in environmental footprint and improving work environment Eiichiro Uchino (photo: far left) Deputy Director, Nagasaki Ship & Ocean Engineering Department, Ship & Ocean Engineering Division, Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Our company completed construction of the world's largest roll-on/roll-off (RO/RO) ship, the TØNSBERG in March 2011. Its high transport efficiency and outstanding environmental compatibility were recognized by it being awarded Ship of the Year 2011 from the Japan Society of Naval Architects and Ocean Engineers. The TØNSBERG is the first in a series of four vessels ordered by a shipping group based in Norway and Sweden. I was in charge of project management, as well as external negotiations and internal coordination. Going forward, I hope to continue providing high value-added ships like the TØNSBERG, which improve the work environment of the cargo room and reduce environmental impact during loading, unloading and sailing. I also hope to support the streamlining of global logistics. World's largest RO/RO ship TØNSBERG Wheeled vehicles are directly driven on and off as on a ferry 27 Remote-controlled robot developed to aid work in high radiation environments Tatsuya Hashimoto Equipment Designing Section, Nuclear Plant Component Designing Department, Nuclear Plant Production Division, Nuclear Energy Systems I developed the platform module for a remote-controlled robot capable of working up to significant heights in areas where people cannot enter, such as the high radiation environment at TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. With a limited budget and a time frame of just nine months, many employees fully dedicated themselves to developing the new robot, starting from nothing, to meet demand specifications. As a result, we received high praise from our customers at an achievement presentation they hosted. In the future, I plan to look beyond my main area of machine development, working on my skills as a robotics technician, in order to contribute to the restoration of the Fukushima Power Station. MHI employees and colleagues involved in the Valve opening and closing operated by remoteproject controlled robot 28 Continuing the rescue of photos swept away in the tsunami and their return to the disaster region Makiko Takenaka Group A, International Sales & Marketing Department, Power Systems After volunteering to work in the affected areas of the Great East Japan Earthquake, what I felt most strongly about was that relief efforts should not end after just a few days of volunteer activities. Commencing in August 2011, the Power Systems business headquarters organized the MM (Minato Mirai) Memory Restoration Brigade, a group of volunteers who clean and return to the disaster region photographs that were swept away in the tsunami and whose owners are unknown. Over 1,500 people from inside and outside the company have participated in this project at MHI's Yokohama Building, Shinagawa Building and Kanazawa Factory, cleaning over 100,000 photographs. Each and every photograph represents a precious memory of our time on earth and acts as evidence of the lives we and our families have led. I began this activity to save as many photos as possible, but ultimately gained so much in my life through this relationship between the people of Tohoku and Yokohama. Venue for returning memorable items Cleaning photographs one by one according to (Rikuzentakata-shi, Iwate) their condition 29 Developing talented resources to develop Vietnam's aircraft industry Takatsugu Nagahama MRB Team, 787 Design Section, Commercial Airplanes Engineering Department, Commercial Airplanes Division, Aerospace Systems MHI Aerospace Vietnam Co. (MHIVA) was established as a subsidiary of MHI in Hanoi, the capital of Vietnam. In conjunction with its establishment, MHI has been working with the Hanoi University of Science and Technology to provide courses and scholarships with the aim of developing talented individuals who can serve in active roles as aircraft production engineers in the future. MHI has conducted three yearly lectures and an annual workshop, in addition to providing scholarships to 12 people every year since 2009. I gave a presentation at the workshop held in October 2012 on the use of 3D CAD (CATIA) technology in the manufacturing process. The students there have great enthusiasm for learning, and if the opportunity arises, I would also love to offer them field experience in flying gliders, which is one of my hobbies. Awarding scholarships to 12 students Presentation at workshop 30 All visitors excited by sheer force of live rocket launch images Asami Usuki Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum is a facility where you can closely examine and learn about state-of-the-art science, technology and MHI manufacturing. This includes MHI's participation in the development, manufacture and launch of the H-IIA and H-IIB Launch Vehicles and KOUNOTORI3, a cargo transfer vehicle to the International Space Station. In July 2012, we held a public viewing of a live feed from a JAXA's rocket launch, which was projected onto a large-screen display at the entrance of the museum. The dynamic live images excited all visitors, and it also served as a great learning experience for me. We will continue to host events that spread dreams and hopes and generate public interest in science. Large-screen display captivated visitors Live feed of rocket launch 31 Working on support projects aimed at educating India's next generation of technicians Tomoe Nagasawa Corporate Social Responsibility Group, Corporate Communication Department, Presidential Administration Office India Scientific Laboratory Support Project was launched in collaboration with Plan Japan, an international NGO. As part of its philanthropic activities in India, the project will take place from March 2013 until February 2014. I am responsible for conducting field surveys and coordinating with NGOs. In November 2012, I visited a local junior high school that has already set up science laboratories. I listened to a presentation on the effects these laboratories have had on children's learning and examined the potential for teaching materials we plan on donating. Careers in the scientific fields are popular in India, but the reality is that there is a low completion rate of compulsory education, narrowing students' choices in their careers. Through this project, we hope to contribute to the improvement of education quality and train the next generation of technicians in India. Interacting with elementary school children in Performing scientific experiments with children India 32 Stakeholder Dialogue MHI will strive to identify adverse human rights impacts of our business activities and take appropriate steps to respect human rights MHI has worked to identify human rights impacts of business activities at the Nippon CSR Consortium with other members including representatives of companies and NGOs/ NPOs, academics and experts. MHI has joined the Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop at the Nippon CSR Consortium, in which MHI worked to identify, prevent, and mitigate adverse human Participants in the Nippon CSR Consortium rights impacts of business activities with other members including representatives of companies and NGOs/ NPOs, academics and experts. The Nippon CSR Consortium NGO / NPOs is a platform to which different actors bring knowledge and expertise, and where they • ACE (Action against Child Exploitation) can work together to improve CSR activities in Japan. It is organised by the Caux • Change Fusion • CSO Network Japan Round Table Japan*1, and aims to increase the contribution of Japanese companies • Amnesty International Japan to global society by facilitating communications with the global society as well as with • Ek Sathe different stakeholders. • Oxfam Japan • Polaris Project Japan Through the workshop, we have learned differences in awareness level between Total 11 Japan and overseas, as well as how other companies address human rights issues. We have also deepened our understandings of human rights and business Companies (Sectors) Heavy Industry, Electric Equipment, through lively discussion on sector-specific human rights issues. On the basis of the Information Equipment, Chemistry, sector-specific human rights issues identified as “Human Rights Issues by Sector,” Automobile, Food, Information MHI will strive to take appropriate steps to identify adverse human rights impacts of Communication, Logistics, Textiles and Apparel, Retail, Finance, Trading, our business activities, while assessing existing activities and examining how the Think-tank, etc. issues can be addressed. Total 39 5 steps to identify human rights impacts of corporate activities STEP Dialogue between Through dialogue with different stakeholders, including human rights organizations, participants have deepened A companies and stakeholders at the Human Rights Due understanding of human rights issues in business, and clarifying what can actually be an “issue.” • Hearing of what NGOs and experts think about human rights (Sep 21, 2012). Diligence Workshop • Discussion between corporate members about business and human rights (Sep 26, 2012). • Exchanging opinions and clarifying human rights issues between NGOs. Experts and corporate members (Oct 11, 2012). STEP Identification and Sector-specific human rights issues are identified through discussion, examination and assessment carried B intra-sector sharing of main human rights issues by sector at out by sectorial groups, based on the UNEP FI*2 Human Rights Issues by Sector issued 2011. • Learning about human rights due diligence (Nov 2, 2012) the Human Rights • Discussing on what could be potential human rights issues in sector groups (Nov 15, 2012) Due Diligence • Identifying human rights issues by sector (Dec 14, 2012) Workshop On March 2013, we conducted STEP Mapping of existing Mapping existing activities concerning human rights issues, a stakeholder dialogue C activities at the individual company assessing the company’s (current) management strategy and examining how the issues can be addressed. to move to the next step, step C to D. STEP Company and experts exchange ideas regarding the human rights issues and measures Stakeholder dialogue in order to prioritize the issues. D at the individual company STEP Determination of Determining policy and plan by reflecting comments from stakeholders, implementing that plan, and E policy and plan, and implementation at the individual company monitoring the progress. *1 Caux Round Table Japan: Caux Round Table was founded in 1986 by business leaders from Europe, the U.S. and Japan, and has been working to promote corporate responsibility in reducing social and economic threats to world peace and stability. Since its establishment in 2000, CRT Japan has been providing support to Japanese companies for integrating social responsibility into corporate strategies and activities. *2 UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative): UNEP FI is a global partnership between UNEP and the financial sector. Over 200 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and social considerations on financial performance. 33 MHI held a stakeholder dialogue to discuss the main human rights issues in the manufacturing sector. MHI held a stakeholder dialogue on March 13, 2013 to learn from stakeholders in order to identify and prioritize addressing adverse human rights impacts of our business activities. Inviting two experts, Mr. Makoto Teranaka and Mr. Hiroshi Ishida, we exchanged ideas on the main human rights issues in the manufacturing sector. • It is expected that MHI will set forth clear policies regarding human resource management, to which appropriate human rights consideration is given. Working hours • It is necessary to consider differences in culture and business practices. In order to ensure full Possible Human compliance with anti-corruption laws Health and Rights Issues in Bribery and and regulations of each country. safety the Manufacturing corruption • It is essential to explain the reason Sector why the company deals with Issue A • It is crucial to take preventive measures against and not Issue B both inside and health and disaster risks. Potential human rights issues outside of the company. that would have significant impacts in the • Identifying mental health problems is the first step manufacturing sector. These issues will be prioritized to addressing these issues. Continuous by assessing their impacts. improvement of existing programs is expected. • It is difficult for a company to monitor thousands of suppliers in Non-state • Basic policies to prevent payments to armed the upstream of the supply chain by itself. Collaboration with groups and other institutions, such as governments and NGOs, should be forces should be established. Child labor security explored as an effective method for future activities. • Disclosure on policies and agreements related • Sharing policies both inside and outside of the company is essential. payments to arms export is expected. Comments and suggestions from experts Identification of human rights issues and I look forward to MHI’s participation in global the establishment of clear policies will be an effective rule-making on human rights measure for addressing human rights risks. Makoto Teranaka Hiroshi Ishida Visiting Professor, Faculty of Caux Round Table Japan Contemporary Law, Tokyo Keizai University Executive Director of Caux Round Table Japan, Visiting Professor at Tokyo Keizai University, and Global CRT Senior Advisor, Professor at Institute of former Executive Director of Amnesty International Business and Accounting, Kwansei Gakuin Japan (2001-2011). Area of specialization: Human University, Part-time Lecturer Kyushu University rights, Criminology and International Criminal Law. Business School. Publications (co-author): “Heiwa Jinken NGO” and “Kaishain no tameno CSR Nyumon.” Human rights issues naturally involve the entire supply chain, To address human rights issues, it is essential to know the real including suppliers and clients. Since it would be almost imposconditions. Taking child labor as an example, by conducting sible to manage the entire supply chain, it is crucial to begin with in-house audits to the best of your abilities, MHI should deliver the identification of human rights issues related to the MHI a strong message to their business partners that “we are not Groups, and to establish clear policies in relation to them. Discloinvolved with child labor, and we do not permit you to be involved sure of such policies would also help the company to prevent with child labor either.” I look forward to MHI’s participation in human rights risks. I hope that MHI will set clear policies on CSR the global discussion on human rights and its positive contribuand take initiatives in this field as a leading and influential tion to global rule-making as a member of UN Global Compact. Japanese company. Endorsement Statement of Human Rights Due Diligence Status Check Caux Round Table Japan herewith confirms that Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) has participated in a series of Human Rights Due Diligence Workshops at the Nippon CSR Consortium. At the workshop, MHI has contributed to identifying human rights issues related to the manufacturing sector, while joining in discussion, and shared expertise with other members from different sectors. In addition, MHI has mapped existing activities concerning human rights, and conducted a dialogue with stakeholders. I look forward to seeing further progress being made by MHI, including prioritization of the Hiroshi Ishida identified issues by placing them in the value chain, and determining policy, in order to integrate human rights into the Executive Director, company’s strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. Caux Round Table Japan 34 Highlights of CSR Activities in FY2012 Herein we will mainly describe new initiatives related to the environment and social contributions from among the CSR activities undertaken by MHI Group in fiscal 2012, or initiatives which saw marked progress. We will continue to fulfill our responsibility as a manufacturer providing social and industrial infrastructure in Japan and overseas. The Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems business headquarters donated prefabricated MHI storage refrigeration units to the Shichigahama branch office of the Japan Fisheries Cooperative in Miyagi Prefecture. The region had a vigorous seaweed cultivation and fishing industry, however the cultivation and processing equipment, as well as fishing vessels, suffered severe damaged from the tsunami Donating storage refrigeration caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake. The donated storage refrigeration units are units to local fisheries cooperative indispensable for the pollination of seaweed in the summer, and are expected to be of assisfor reconstruction support tance in the restoration efforts. Promoting conservation of regional biodiversity through forest cultivation and elimination of invasive fish species The Machine Tool business headquarters together with the Konze Production Forestry Cooperative and Ritto City Commercial and Industrial Association, undertakes a volunteer project for forest cultivation known as “Megumi no Mori.” The initiative took advantage of MHI’s “Funds for Community Engagement,” and was attended by 60 employees. We also took part in a competition to eliminate invasive fish such as the black bass and bluegill from Lake Biwa, as part of our efforts to protect the biodiversity of the region. 35 Holding Business Partner Conferences for the first time for suppliers in India and China MHI held its first overseas Business Partner Conferences in Bangalore, India in February 2013, and in Shanghai, China in March 2013. The conference in India was attended by 13 business partners. Winning an Environmental Business Award in 2012 with environmentally friendly CO2 Recovery Plant MHI received an Environmental Business Award for its carbon dioxide (CO 2) Recovery Plant in the “eco japan cup 2012,” an environmental business contest sponsored primarily by Environmental Business Women and the Ministry of the Environment. Declaring Basic Policy Opening the Safety Concerning Conflict Minerals In April 2013, MHI published its Basic Transmission Center, Policy Concerning Conflict Minerals on its website, declaring that the company has a safety education facility, no intention of abetting human rights abuses or environmental destruction by at Nagasaki Shipyard & procuring raw materials, parts or products which contain the conflict minerals. Machinery Works This is a facility opened in October 2012 at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works to encourage sensiContinually implementing tivity to, and a culture of, safety. The facility enables users to learn important points and countermeasures measures to improve safety for the prevention of accidents through videos of reenactments and information panels. The facility also of nuclear power plants offers study on the causes of human error and training Nuclear Energy Systems business headquarters is deploying in anticipating danger. safety improvement measures for the pressurized water reactor (PWR) plants in Japan in the wake of the station blackout accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co., Inc. Furthermore, since July 2012, we have provided comprehensive support for the restart of Ohi Nuclear Power Station Units 3 and 4 operated by Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc., contributing to the first restart of a nuclear power station in Japan since the Great East Japan Earthquake. Selection by Eco-funds and SRI indicators In fiscal 2012, MHI was again included in the eco-funds, formed based upon surveys of companies conducted by corporate rating agencies in Japan and overseas, and MS-SRI, a socially responsible investment index coordinated by Morningstar Japan K.K. 36 CSR Medium-Term Action Plan and Results of Promotion To advance the global promotion of CSR activities, activity areas were reorganized in fiscal 2012 according to the seven core subjects of ISO 26000. Area Priority item Medium-term targets (FY2011-2013) CSR Action Plans for FY2012 1 (1) Continue to hold briefings for overseas Group companies (2) Consider and implement global measures for penetration • Penetration of global awareness towards CSR including Broadened CSR overseas locations and Group companies of corporate culture reforms and CSR awareness 2 (1) Publish CSR report in Japanese and English • Global information dissemination of status of CSR activities (2) Consider creating a CSR website in Chinese, and updating it alongside publication of the CSR report 1 Proactive response through auditing for “Processes to • Commonizing a consciousness for important risks among all strengthen business” Risk management departments and sections and establishing a risk management 2 Implement auditing including at corporate regulatory Organizational PDCA cycle through efficient and effective audits departments for “Compliance consolidation” governance • Improve timely and accurate information dissemination capabilities as per the needs of investors and strengthening 1 Hold more investor events at sites both in Japan and Promotion of IR activities in-house feedback on information to be used as reference overseas material by management • Embedding understanding and consciousness about human rights issues company-wide 1 Hold meetings of the Committee for Raising Awareness of • Development of sexual harassment and “power harassment” Human Rights (workplace bullying & harassment) prevention efforts 2 Introducing human rights issues in each training program • Establish a workplace and corporate culture where human and continuing implementation Raising awareness of rights issues do not arise Human rights human rights • Company-wide penetration of understanding and 3 Strengthening awareness of sexual harassment and “power harassment” (workplace bullying & harassment) prevention consciousness regarding the expansion of employment of 4 Continuously implementing positive employment actions so the differently-abled people as to achieve the target of a hiring rate of 2.1% for 1. Achieve company-wide employment rate of 2.2% by the end differently-abled people. of FY2013 2. Plan to increase employment in all divisions 1 Fully implement global education in accordance with G-MAP 2 Strengthening mental health promotion systems and Creating a better initiatives in the whole company to reduce absence due to workplace • Strengthening global human resource development based on mental health disorders 1 Enriched education the road map for cultivation of global human resources (1) Promoting increased awareness of mental health Labor 2 Strengthening (G-MAP) initiatives among employees, and promoting effective • Conduct effective measures to combat mental health problems mental health care practices mental health from prevention to return to work (2) Providing a mental health advice system that is easy for 3 Nurturing the next • Continue to maintain the next-generation accreditation mark employees to use 3 Accelerate penetration of knowledge and understanding generation among employees about next-generation development and work-life balance support Number of recipients of CSR sessions/ Breakdown of employees by age CSR sessions for new employees* (FY2012) Number of new graduates hired 60 and over 1,312 People 527 (19) 1.7% Under 30 8,410(753) 452 People (44 females) (People) CSR Sessions (People) University 3,000 CSR Sessions for New Employees 1,200 Vocational school and junior college, high school, other 50~59 2,571 5,093 16.4% 2,260 27.0% 900 2,000 2,117 (450) Total 1,726 1,726 31,111 634(60) 600 1,463 1,490 1,312 (people) 452(44) 1,000 940 (females in 286 655 23.1% 167 brackets) 300 797 845 627 786 657 348 285 0 40~49 31.8% 30~39 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 7,202 9,879 2012 2013 (Year) (FY) (805) (808) * Including some Group companies (females in brackets) 37 • Results of other activities related to the priority item Results from CSR activities in FY2012 CSR Action Plans for FY2013 1 Continued to hold CSR sessions at all 12 MHI works and selected Group companies, and session 1 Continue to hold CSR sessions at all locations, including the Head Office, and participants were again asked to complete a survey consider expanding these sessions to overseas Group companies 2 Continued to publish a CSR Report (brochure and website) in Japanese and English, and posted 2 Continue to publish a CSR Report in Japanese and English and expand Chinese CSR-related content in Chinese to the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (China) Co., Ltd. website content 1 Established a risk management policy and organization. Identified major risks through discussions between general managers of each department and the general manager of the Management Audit Department 2 Conducted audits of business segments, administration departments and Group companies, and supported 1 Manage and implement measures for major risks in accordance with the risk development and improvement of risk management processes management policy 2 Conduct effective, efficient audits of risks and challenges in business segments, administration departments and Group companies, and provide flexible support • Identified and reorganized risks to MHI, and assigned risk control managers of each risk • Identified major risks to each department and organized processes for managing those risks 1 Hosted plant tours in Japan and the U.S. for institutional investors and financial analysts. Continued to hold company briefings at MHI facilities across Japan for individual investors, and also plant tours for shareholders 1 Continue to hold IR events at sites in Japan and overseas 2 Promote in-house feedback through two-way communication with stock market • Developed a smartphone app that allows users to read the MHI Annual Report (Japanese only) affiliates • Provided an online version of the Annual Report • Continued to host business briefings and presentations to announce financial results and business plans 1 Continued to hold Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights meetings (integrated the Committee 1 Hold meetings of the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights for the Promotion of Employment of Differently-Abled People into this committee) 2 Introducing human rights issues in each training program and continuing 2 Continued to hold human rights training session and other awareness-raising activities using printed implementation materials throughout the Group 3 Conduct more effective sexual harassment and power harassment education and 3 Conducted awareness education on “power harassment” (workplace bullying & harassment) prevention for awareness activities based on analysis of factors that contribute to harassment senior managers at all MHI works, and continued e-learning curriculum for power harassment prevention 4 Continuously implementing positive employment actions so as to achieve the target 4 Reached hiring rate of 2.1% for differently-abled people by using recruiting websites, actively participating of a hiring rate of 2.2% for differently-abled people. in recruitment events and making other recruiting efforts, and following-up on employees in each division 1 In FY2012, roughly 1,750 employees attended group training and 48 young employees undertook MHI Global Training (MGT) in accordance with G-MAP 2 Held an industrial medicine conference for the entire company and sectional meetings to explore and implement an organization and actions to promote mental health 3 Hosted MHI’s first lecture by a non-Japanese, female external director, and periodically held round-table meetings for employees who are on or have taken childcare leave 1 Follow the PDCA cycle in advancing global education in accordance with G-MAP 2 Continue FY2012 activities • Actively worked to find overseas training opportunities for young employees (since beginning the program in 3 Strengthen other methods for accelerating penetration of knowledge and 2012, around 100 young employees were sent abroad in accordance with G-MAP by April 2013) understanding among employees • Produced curriculum (Starter Kit) presenting the company’s history, management philosophy, and business overview to impart essential knowledge to employees and cultivate in each individual a sense of connection with the MHI Group. The Starter Kit was distributed to 187 Group companies (84 overseas companies, 103 Japanese companies) • Around 560 Group company employees in Japan attended stratified education (such as training for division managers) , skill-oriented training, English skill enhancement, and other types of training Number of female managers* Number of rehired employees* Industrial accident frequency rate* 293 People 4,794 People 0.11 (People) (People) 320 6,000 0.40 288 293 266 0.31 240 248 4,500 4,488 4,794 0.30 0.29 0.27 219 4,065 0.23 160 3,000 3,311 0.20 2,492 0.11 80 1,500 0.10 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) (Year) (FY) * section manager and above; excluding medical staff * excluding those from Group companies * Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated 38 Area Priority item Medium-term targets (FY2011-2013) CSR Action Plans for FY2012 1 Promoting CO2 reduction measures (introduction of or • Average CO2 emission between FY2008 and FY2012 to be upgrade to energy-saving equipment), implement upgrades reduced by 6% compared to 1990 level based on In-house Air-Conditioner Upgrade Plan Reduced CO2 emissions • Establish CO2 emission reduction target until FY2020 2 Expand the monitoring system to the whole company (including Group companies) and promote reduction activities 3 Implement regular follow-ups for reduction plans of individual works and their actual reduction performances Environment 1 Promote acquisition of environmental ISO standards, etc. for • Increase the Group’s environmental performance data domestic and overseas Group companies collection rate both in Japan and overseas 2 Promote the setting of environmental targets for overseas Group environmental • Encourage the acquisition of certifications of environmental Group companies management ISO standards and others to Group companies in Japan and 3 Hold the domestic Group company environmental meetings, overseas that are consolidated and hold the Environment Liaison Conferences at each overseas regional supervising office Results of Promotional Efforts of Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets In fiscal 2002, MHI established its Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets, earlier than other heavy industry companies, and has made efforts to carry out environmental preservation activities. Moreover, in fiscal 2010 we extended the target for our activities to the end of fiscal 2012 with the aim of establishing environmental targets for the following period, based on the MHI Environmental Vision 2030 (which was established in June 2012). As a result we have been able to achieve our targets for many items, including the realization of a low-carbon society and formation of a recycling-based society. We were unable to achieve our targets related to total generated waste, landfill disposal amount, chemical substance emissions, and energy conservation and reduced CO2 emissions from product transportation. However, we will continue working to achieve these targets through initiatives such as incorporating them into environmental targets for the next period. Results of Promotional Efforts of Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets (as of the End of Fiscal 2012) =target achieved =target partially achieved =requires further efforts Item Goals Progress (as of the end of FY2012) Evaluation CO2 emissions: 452,000 tons (average) 6% reduction of the average CO2 emission amount for the five years from FY2008 to 2012 (from 4.1% reduction from FY1990 level FY1990 level): to be achieved through reduction efforts at all production plants The amount that has not been achieved will be allocated Realization of Reduced CO2 as emission credits. a low-carbon emissions from society business activities CO2 emissions: 13,500 tons (average of Head Office More than 13% reduction of the average CO2 emission amount for the five years from FY2008 to [Shinagawa and Yokohama combined] from FY2008 to 2012 (from FY2005 level): to be achieved through reduction efforts at offices and operations Energy savings FY2011) divisions (Head Office, domestic offices and research & development centers) (global warming 16.1% reduction on FY2005 level measure) Reduced energy usage More than 5% reduction of unit energy consumption in transportation in FY2012 (from FY2008 and CO2 emissions from level) by promoting efforts to reduce transportation energy (unit energy consumption of FY2008: FY2012 unit energy consumption: 51.0 product transportation 45.7 to 43.4 by FY2012) 11.6% increase on FY2008 level Reduced waste By FY2012, reduce total generated waste by 40% of FY1992 level : to be achieved by conserving Total emissions:132,000 tons generation and resources and reducing the purchase of materials 39.0% reduction from FY1992 level Form a recyclingemissions based society Reducing reliance By FY2012, cut landfill waste disposal volume by 98% relative to FY2000 landfill waste disposal volume cut by 97.5% (waste and water on landfill The landfill waste disposal ratio in FY2012 will be below 1% landfill waste disposal ratio 0.5% resource countermeasures) More efficient Water consumption in FY2012 will be cut to 9.35 million tons, a reduction of 2% relative to Water consumption reduced to 7.02 million tons water usage average consumption of 9.54 million tons in the period FY2005 to FY2007 26.3% reduction Ongoing consignment of processing of high concentrations Elimination of Detoxification of high concentration PCB waste in storage (transformers, condensers, oils) to be — PCB waste to JESCO (Japan Environmental Safety equipment using PCBs completed by FY2015 (including ballasts and smaller equipment) Corporation) (To be Management of and detoxification evaluated chemical treatment Analysis and confirmation of low PCB devices (low concentration) to be finished by FY2012, Testing and analysis of machines and devices containing in FY2015) substances complete detoxification by FY2015 low or trace concentrations of PCBs is underway at all works More than 30% reduction of atmospheric emission of VOCs with focus on xylene, toluene and Total VOCs emissions 1,782 tons (control of chemical ethylbenzene (reduced by 704 tons from 2,268 tons in FY2000 to 1,564 tons in FY2012) 21.4% reduction from FY2000 level Reduced VOCs substances) emissions Aim for zero atmospheric emissions by FY2012 of VOC organochlorinated hazardous air pollutants: Total combined emissions of dichloromethane, dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene = 8.8 tons Consolidated Continued ISO 14001 certification renewal at domestic Ongoing ISO 14001 renewal by domestic works, Head Office, branch offices and research & environmental production bases along with research & development development centers management system centers, Head Office, and domestic branch offices. Collecting and disclosing of Collecting environmental information (environmental data and environmental accounting) from Collected environmental information (environmental data environmental environmental management information systems and disclosing information through CSR Reports and environmental accounting) through the database Group management and other releases system and disclosing information through this CSR Report. environmental information management Promotion of Promoting the purchase of environmentally friendly products based on the company’s own green 95.0% by quantity green purchasing purchasing guidelines: (Purchasing ratios 90% by volume and 95% by value) 97.2% by value Development and Development and provision of new products and technology based on our Basic Guideline on provision of Production of Environmentally Friendly Products (formulated in 2005) to help reduce society’s MHI supplied environmental products designed to combat environmentally environmental burden global warming, such as high-efficiency generators (wind friendly technologies In particular, we will work to develop technology and provide products that are revolutionary and power generators, etc.) and CO2 recovery systems and products contribute to solving global warming and building a low-carbon society Form a society that Revegetation activities coordinated with various local We will continue revegetation, alien fish removal, building biotopes and breeding Japanese municipal authorities across Japan, as well as biotope and coexists with nature Promote activities for honeybees, among other activities relating to biodiversity and examine the possibilities for Japanese honeybee breeding programs were continued the protection of evaluating the effect of our business activities on the preservation of biodiversity as necessary in (Preserving biodiversity and nature Performed evaluations of MHI’s degree of initiatives in biodiversity) light of global trends consideration of biodiversity in its current corporate activities. (Note) In principle, all the data represents data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. 39 • Results of other activities related to the priority item Results from CSR activities in FY2012 CSR Action Plans for FY2013 1 Upgraded a total of 1,893 air conditioning units based on the plan 2 Introduced monitoring systems at five works, including small-scale introductions 3 Achieved 9.8% reduction of CO2 emissions (FY2012 results) compared with FY1990 level 1 Upgrading of air conditioning units based on the In-house Air-Conditioner Upgrade Plan • Promoted CO2 emissions reduction at production plants 2 Expanding introduction of monitoring systems • Acquired approximately 130,000 tons of CO2 emission credits from a CDM project 3 Establishing a project with the goal of energy conservation, and implementing • Reduced greenhouse gas emissions excluding CO2 emissions from energy use energy-conservation activities • Utilizing one million kWh of green power annually thanks to wind power generation • Promotion of energy conservation in transport through modal shift and load ratio improvement 1 Acquired certifications of environmental ISO standards and others to 83 domestic and 28 overseas Group companies 2 Established the MHI Group 2nd Environmental Targets, including targets for overseas Group companies 3 Held Environmental Meetings at six domestic Group companies 1 Support the acquisition of certifications of environmental ISO standards and others to domestic and overseas Group companies • Promoted the preservation of biodiversity in accordance with the Environmental Policy and CSR Action 2 Comprehend environmental data for domestic and overseas Group companies Guidelines 3 Holding Environmental Meetings, for domestic Group companies • Promoted the reduction of waste landfill disposal volumes • Reduced water usage during production • Promoted the reduction of chemical substance usage (VOCs, etc.) CO2 emissions Gross energy input Electricity purchases 425,000 t 9,745 TJ* 712,456 MWh (10,000tons) (TJ) (MWh) 60.0 12,000 900,000 Standard value 11,145 857,030 47.2 10,065 10,022 9,950 9,745 757,335 766,802 731,045 712,456 44.9 43.5 43.7 42.5 40.0 8,000 600,000 20.0 4,000 300,000 0 0 0 1990 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (FY) (FY) * 1TJ (terajoule) = 1 trillion joules (1,000,000,000,000 J) Landfill disposal volume/ratio Total generated waste Waste generation by material Landfill disposal Landfill disposal Waste paper Sludge 4.3% volume 602 t ratio 0.5 % 132,000 t 4.4% Other 1.3% (t) (%) (1,000t) Waste oil 25,000 14 300 4.6% Waste 3,000 12.6 12 225 216 plastic 97.5% reduction 5.4% 2,000 from FY2000 level 8 150 131 133 129 132 Slag Standard 6.1% 1,000 value 1,030 4 75 Waste Scrap 714 602 23,884 0.8 0.6 wood 7.0% metal 0 0.5 0 0 59.6% Acid and 2000 2010 2011 2012 1992 2009 2010 2011 2012 alkali wastes (FY) (FY) 7.3% Paper usage* Water usage* and reduction ratio Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides 2,563 t 7,020,000 t 8.8 t (t) (10,000 tons) (t) 4,000 1,200 Standard 260 19.6% 24.2% 26.3% 153.0 3,536 value 54.2 952 reduction reduction reduction 3,000 2,950 2,718 2,719 900 Standard 2,563 40 value 766 262.2 35.8 2,000 600 722 702 30 1,000 300 27.3 11.5 55.0 6.6 20 0.6 0 0 2.1 18.7 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2005-2007 2010 2011 2012 9.1 11.4 * including Head Office usage amount (FY) average (FY) 10 23.7 8.8 18.6 0.7 * The above is the total of water supply, industrial water, 9.9 8.4 and groundwater usage 8.9 0.9 0.0 0 0.6 0.4 1996 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Dichloromethane Trichloroethylene Tetrachloroethylene (Note) In principle, all graphs have shown the production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. 40 Area Priority item Medium-term targets (FY2011-2013) CSR Action Plans for FY2012 • Decrease matters in need of improvement even at Group companies 1 Strengthen support for overseas Group companies Thorough compliance • Early comprehension and improvement of matters in need of 2 Strengthen collaboration for crisis and risk management improvement 1 Confirm the implementation status of rules of conduct and • Continuation of zero policy for violations to the Anti-Monopoly Act • Penetration of order compliance activities compliance checks Order compliance • Establishment of order compliance consciousness through 2 Implement efficient and effective special monitoring 3 Promote instructional/educational activities for order awareness and educational activities compliance Fair • Establishment of a self-compliance system (compliance 1 Implement drafting of measures for detecting problems in operating Compliance with maintenance of Installation Organizational Chart Registers activities incorporated in daily tasks) the Construction • Enhancing compliance at Group companies 2 Monitor current status of Group company compliance practices Business Act • Enhancing contract compliance with business partners 3 Formulate measures to deal with compliance issues in contracts with business partners Compliance with • Strengthening the export control management systems and 1 Continuously implement internal training at all levels fostering experts in export control management export-related laws and • Further continuous supports for Group companies to 2 Promote further acquisition of export control expert qualifications 3 Continuously audit Group companies implement regular training regulations strengthen their export control management systems • Sharing values regarding the promotion of CSR activities with 1 Reexamine scope and implementation method of surveys business partners and avoiding procurement risks with key conducted at business partners partners CSR procurement • Effect extensive compliance and adherence to laws and 2 Monitoring of procurement-related laws and regulations and effecting improvement follow-ups regulations with regard to procurement tasks 3 Reducing transportation energy • Continuous compliance to environmental regulations 1 Integrate product safety activities and development work into • Developing product safety activities within quality management quality management Product safety • Steady development of product safety activities 2 Continually develop foundation for product safety activities • Maintaining the infrastructure for product safety activities (developing human resources, maintenance of standards) 1 Continually strive for better safety and quality through • Refine and continually improve QMS (Quality Management initiatives taken by the “Managing Board for Innovation in the System) with an eye on global business development Nuclear Business” Consumer Ensuring quality and • Exhibit our comprehensive technological strengths and 2 Reflect lessons learned from Fukushima and effective safety of nuclear business enhance customer satisfaction issues • Enhance the attitude of compliance with laws and rules and countermeasures for accident prevention to the PWR design in order further improve nuclear safety cultivate a strong nuclear safety culture 3 Continually strive to cultivate a strong nuclear safety culture Enhancement of • Acquiring broad recognition as a global company and 1 Promoting a global advertisement strategy by building brand value increasing the number of MHI fans an integrated corporate image 1 Evaluate activities with affiliated NGO/NPOs and formulate • Proactive development of social contribution activities with plans for the next fiscal year. Begin collaboration with Community Socially beneficial the cooperation of various stakeholders an NGO/NPO for the management of the fund for social activities • Examining possibilities for the globalization of social contributions involvement contribution activities and development of social business 2 Improve/expand the system for the following year, based on the performance of the fund and development Improvement of • Establish its role as a facility that provides opportunities for 1 Responding systematically to both the intangible (staff the Mitsubishi Minatomirai children to develop an interest in science by showing them training) and tangible (exhibit refurbishment) aspects the pleasure of manufacturing Industrial Museum Participation rates for compliance promotion training Change in expenditures on social contribution activities (million yen) FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 95.1% Academic research 339 247 164 177 (%) Education 537 633 596 503 100 Community activities 158 141 180 153 Sports 114 149 133 173 96.8 96.4 96.5 96.8 Other 507 440 1,023 474 90 95.1 Total 1,655 1,610 2,096 1,480 Percentage of ordinary profit 6.89% 2.36% 2.39% 1.00% (Note 1) Figures include cash donations, payments in kind, activities by employees, free use of 80 company facilities, etc., converted into monetary equivalents; activities privately performed by employees are not included. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (Note 2) Includes group companies under consolidated accounting. (Note 3) Social contribution expenditures in FY2010 do not include those related to the Great East Japan Earthquake (donations, fund-raising, etc. during March 11-31, 2011). These expenditures were included in FY2011. (Note 4) Social contribution expenditures in FY2012 are currently being calculated. 41 • Results of other activities related to the priority item Results from CSR activities in FY2012 CSR Action Plans for FY2013 1 Visited each Group company in the U.S., Europe and India, to confirm current situations in detail and to exchange opinions with local management 2 Centralized the management of internal audits, risk management, crisis management and compliance, 1 Strengthen support for overseas Group companies comprehended and analyzed each issue. Confirmed the effectiveness of measures to hedge and/or moderate 2 Tighten linkage with crisis and risk management risk, and built a system to organically promote measures, including those to prevent reoccurring risk • Reorganized the Compliance Committee into the Risk Compliance Committee 1 Expanded target to include government, public and private demand both in Japan and overseas. Revised the rules of conduct with the expansion of targets 2 Continued to implement special monitoring for order compliance 1 Confirm the implementation status of rules of conduct and compliance checks 3 Held seminars at MHI and Group companies in Japan, Europe, the U.S., and China on compliance with 2 Implement efficient and effective special monitoring competition laws 3 Promote instructional/educational activities for order compliance • Clearly defined function of the secretariat for the Order Compliance Committee 1 Revised a standardized company-wide form to record the social insurance enrollment of specified constructors and subcontractors into the Installation Organizational Chart Register, in line with revisions to 1 Implement drafting of measures for detecting problems in maintenance of ministerial ordinances Installation Organizational Chart Registers 2 Implemented regime monitoring at 19 Group companies and construction site monitoring for 16 companies 2 Monitor current status of Group company compliance 3 Continued to conduct seminars on Construction Business Act for business partners 3 Formulate measures to deal with compliance issues in contracts with • Implemented regime and construction site monitoring for 9 business segments business partners • Continued to conduct seminars on Construction Business Act at all our bases of operation 1 Continued to implement e-learning for all employees engaging in export operations and also training sessions for managers of each division 1 Continuously implement internal training at all levels 2 Continued to promote acquisition of the expert qualification 2 Promote further acquisition of export control expert qualifications 3 Created an English version of e-learning materials to provide support for export control activities at its 3 Continuously audit Group companies implement regular training overseas bases 1 Implemented surveys for all five points (quality, price, delivery, technology, and management) at around 2,300 companies and had these companies evaluate themselves on the extent to which they are engaging in CSR 1 Reexamine scope and implementation method of surveys conducted at 2 Applied results and examples of improvement from monitoring of procurement-related laws and business partners regulations at each office to similar processes 2 Monitoring of procurement-related laws and regulations and effecting 3 Transportation energy (FY2008 unit energy consumption: 100 attained out of 111.6) improvement follow-ups 3 Reducing transportation energy • Continued to hold business partner conferences in Japan and also hold similar conferences in India and China 1 Deploy product safety activities into quality management companywide 1 Incorporated product safety activities into quality management using model products 2 Continually develop foundation for product safety activities (developing human 2 Developing basic product safety activities (developing human resources, maintenance of standards) resources, maintenance of standards) 1 Implemented activities under a new organization by replacing the “Managing Board for Innovation in the 1 Make further advancements and continuous improvement in QMS from a global Nuclear Business” with the “Managing Board for Safety Promotion in the Nuclear Business” as the main perspective body for promoting related activities under the direction of a steering committee 2 Grasp social trends and customer needs to provide products and services with a 2 Proactively responded to anticipated changes in nuclear regulations from Fukushima; implemented caliber of safety and reliability, while leveraging the MHI Group’s comprehensive countermeasures for accident prevention and nuclear safety 3 Promoted “Safety First” culture to further improve nuclear safety by sharing issues throughout the company capabilities 3 Further cultivate a strong nuclear safety culture and enhance attitude for and determining actions for resolution, continuing efforts to improve quality management system, and accountability fostering a strong nuclear safety culture 1 In Japan, undertook activities that utilize TV commercials, advertisements in newspapers and public transportation, websites, and radio commercials to introduce manufacturing technologies. As a part of 1 Promoting a global advertisement strategy by building an integrated corporate image an overseas campaign, in the U.K., launched a series of product advertisements in newspapers 1 Planned and implemented social contribution activities at each MHI office. As a result, provided support to 16 organizations with the earmarked budget 2 Examined the results of CSR activities carried out in FY2012 and compiled a budget and an outline of 1 Continue to promote those activities implemented in FY2012 (rename the fund for activities for FY2013. Also taking into account our reorganization, decided upon the allocation of budget to social contributions as Funds for Community Engagement, as this more accurately those business segments that are mainly in charge of the particular activity describes the system) • Continued support for reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake • Carried out science classes at each MHI office 1 Held a commemorative ceremony to celebrate the 2 millionth visitor. Engineers from MHI Nagoya Guidance 1 Responding systematically to both the intangible (staff training) and tangible & Propulsion Systems Works conducted science classes. Revamped the Environment / Energy Zone (exhibit refurbishment) aspects 42 Overview of the MHI Group Company Profile Trade Name: Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Head Office: 2-16-5 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo President and CEO: Shunichi Miyanaga Foundation: July 7, 1884 Establishment: January 11, 1950 Capital: 265.6 billion yen (as of March 31, 2013) Employees: 68,213 consolidated, 31,111 non-consolidated (as of March 31, 2013) CI Statement This CI statement represents our intention to continuously provide an assured future where people can live safe, secure and enriched lives through technologies that can excite people and passion as a manufacturer for the sustainability of the earth and humankind. CI (Note1) statement logo (Note1) CI: Corporate Identity Orders Received (Consolidated) FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Orders Received 3,268.7 2,476.2 2,995.4 3,188.8 3,032.2 (Consolidated) billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen 43 Net Sales (Consolidated) FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net Sales 3,375.6 2,940.8 2,903.7 2,820.9 2,817.8 (Consolidated) billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen Operating Income (Consolidated) FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Operating Income 105.8 billions 65.6 billions 101.2 billions 111.9 billions 163.5 billions (Consolidated) of yen of yen of yen of yen of yen Net Income (Consolidated) FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net Income 24.2 billions 14.1 billions 30.1 billions 24.5 billions 97.3 billions (Consolidated) of yen of yen of yen of yen of yen 44 Research and Development Expenditures (Consolidated) FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Research and Development 101.3 129.2 123.2 121.4 120.0 Expenditures (Consolidated) billions of billions of billions of billions of billions of yen yen yen yen yen Net Sales by Industry Segment (Consolidated) Shipbuilding & Ocean Development 225.8 billion yen Power Systems 988.7 billion yen Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems 482.5 billion yen Aerospace Systems 485.8 billion yen General Machinery & Special Vehicles 389.1 billion yen Others 245.7 billion yen 45 Net Sales by Region (Consolidated) Japan 1,555.9 billion yen Asia 457.6 billion yen North America 379.0 billion yen Europe 217.5 billion yen Central and South America 105.1 billion yen Africa 23.4 billion yen The Middle East 47.5 billion yen Oceania 31.5 billion yen 46 Operating Bases and Employees by Region (as of March 31, 2013) Europe Representative Offices 2 Group Companies 28 Employees 2,428 Middle East Representative Offices 3 Group Companies 6 Employees 53 Africa Representative Offices 1 Group Companies 4 Employees 60 Asia Overseas Offices and 4 Representative offices Group Companies 48 Employees 6,982 Oceania and others Group Companies 2 Employees 50 47 North America Group Companies 30 Employees 3,668 Central and South America Group Companies 8 Employees 888 Japan Head Office Domestic Office 8 Research & Development Centers 6 Business Segments 9 Works 11 Domestic Group Companies 110 Employees of Domestic Group Companies 54,084 48 Businesses and Products Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Shipbuilding Engineering business Cruise ships Shipbuilding engineering Ferries Marine solution provider LNG carriers LPG carriers Tankers Container carriers RO/RO ships Car carriers Destroyer Patrol vessels Marine development Overseas Shipbuilding Business Deep submergence research vehicle Oceanographic research ships Power Systems Thermal power generation plants and other Renewable energy generation, etc. facilities Wind turbine plants Combined cycle power plants Geothermal power plants Steam turbines Water turbine plants Gas turbines Solar thermal generation systems Boilers Lithium-ion secondary batteries Pump Nuclear power plants and other facilities Marine and others PWR nuclear power plants Water jet propulsion units Advanced reactor plants Pumps for industrial plants Nuclear fuel cycle plants 49 Machinery & Steel Structures Environmental and chemical plants Environment preservation Flue gas desulfurization systems Wastes treatment plants Flue gas CO2 recovery plants Electrostatic precipitators Fertilizer plants Biomass utilization systems Methanol plants Water treatment systems Petrochemical plants Oil & gas production plants Transportation systems and ITS Advanced mechanical systems Automated people mover Particle accelerator Rail transit Laser welding equipment Air brake equipment Radiation therapy equipment Toll collection systems (ETC, etc.) OLED manufacturing equipment Intelligent transport systems (ITS) OLED panels for lighting application Passenger boarding bridge Platform screen door system Machineries Basic facilities & steel structures for Iron & steel manufacturing machinery infrastructure Compressors & mechanical turbines Steel bridges & chimneys Rubber & tire machinery Gate facilities Crane & material handling equipment Mechanical parking systems Tunnel boring machine Vibration and isolation systems Printing and packaging machinery Industrial machinery & mechatronics systems Sheet-fed offset presses Injection molding machine Commercial web offset presses Food & packaging machinery Newspaper offset presses Packaging machinery Paper converting machinery Mechatronics system equipment 50 Aerospace Systems Aviation Space systems Commercial airplane H-IIA launch vehicle Aeroengines H-IIB launch vehicle Jet fighters Space transporter Helicopters Rocket engines General Machinery & Special Vehicles Engine generation equipment Engines & equipment Gas engine generator sets For agricultural use (Agricultural machinery Diesel engine generator sets and small-sized industrial machinery): Co-generation systems Air-cooled gasoline engines/water-cooled Portable gas engine generator/Portable diesel engines gasoline engine generator For industrial use (Construction machinery, generators and power units): Water cooled diesel engines/water cooled gas engines For marine use (Main propulsion and auxiliary generating set): Water cooled diesel engines Physical distribution equipment Turbochargers Forklift trucks For passenger & commercial vehicles Heavy cargo carriers For trucks & buses For Industry use and marine use Construction machinery Defense Earthmoving and grading machinery Special vehicles 51 Others Air-conditioners Industrial machinery Commercial use air-conditioners Machine tools Residential use air-conditioners Automotive thermal systems Applied refrigeration use machinery Transport refrigeration units Centrifugal chillers Air/Water to water heat pumps 52 Third-Party Opinions Mariko Kawaguchi Toshihiko Fujii Senior Analyst, Visiting Professor, ESG Research Department, Graduate School of Economic Science, Daiwa Institute of Research Saitama University Scanning the breadth of the MHI Group’s business I realize that MHI 1. Effective communication on social contribution is not only deeply involved in the infrastructure that supports the cities This report, particularly the Special Feature articles explaining and industries upon which our lives and livelihoods are based but was President Miyanaga’s commitment to social sustainability and also a key player in the modernization and development of Japan specific projects, comprehensibly communicates MHI’s social since the Meiji Restoration. Yet in a time like today, when the role in society across a wide spectrum of fields including energy distortions brought about by 20th century-style growth—global and transportation. environmental problems such as climate change and biodiversity loss, 2. Product and service initiatives that go beyond CSR and social challenges such as aging populations and the widening Addressing social issues not only through products and technologap between the rich and the poor, to name a few—threaten the gies but also by changing one’s business practices is a core part of sustainability of human civilization, the business models that drove CSR. Supply chain problems are particularly important given their growth in the 20th century must be caught up to the 21st century. global nature. While MHI has already begun this effort by, for From this perspective, that MHI has delegated CSR management example, expanding the Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines responsibilities to the Presidential Administration Office, which reports to overseas business partners, I hope to see an acceleration of directly to the President, established a CSR Liaison Conference made such efforts, particularly with regard to conflict minerals. up of groups of managing members for more comprehensive 3. Improve diversity CSR promotion, and drew up an environmental vision for the year Building a workplace where women as well as people from 2030—these actions can be seen as a crucial step in this “catching diverse nationalities and cultural backgrounds can live up to their up.” The energy and transportation systems initiatives highlighted in full potential is an issue that all Japanese companies share. MHI the Special Feature articles are good examples of this work. And, as should make a stronger effort to diversify its workforce based the President articulated, promoting socially responsible procurement on the perspective that doing so contributes to sustainable across the supply chain based on the UN Global Compact and ISO social growth. 26000 and with a special focus on human rights is evidence of MHI’s 4. Clearer targets responsibility and commitment as a global corporation representing I applaud MHI for reorganizing its CSR Medium-Term Action Plan Japan. I hope these reforms will be put to maximum use in carrying according to the seven core subjects of ISO 26000. However, the out activities from the boardroom to the factory floor. actions described in certain subjects such as human rights and I also think it is a responsible attitude that MHI clearly stated its labor are somewhat vague. Setting more concrete targets for policy for nuclear power and how this clarifies senior management’s actions in each subject should give readers a clearer idea of what position on the issue. However, with the accident at TEPCO’s MHI envisions with regard to fulfilling its social responsibility. Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station still unresolved (as recent reports of radioactive water leaks attest) and top management The above primarily conveys my expectations with regard to future foreign nuclear related competitors are now becoming negative on CSR efforts at MHI. In closing, I would like to emphasize that CSR nuclear power, a great deal of discussion and scientific testing is starts with understanding social issues from a global perspective. still needed to determine the safety and future viability of nuclear For example, poverty is just as important an issue as the environpower. Please take extra care and risk management to ensure ment. What can MHI do to help solve or reduce poverty? I believe transparency and accountability. In the environmental field, where that the way companies think in terms of prioritizing the various energy conservation and efficiency efforts predominate, I would like challenges facing different regions and deciding how to contribute to see increased efforts to conserve water resources, which are to their solution is in itself an important tool for enhancing competiespecially valuable for building smart cities, and biodiversity. tiveness over the long term. Lastly, anecdotes of employee activities are an effective communication tool for making MHI more accessible to consumers who only know air conditioners among the many MHI products that support daily living. Acting on Valuable Opinions Based on feedback from past years, in this year’s expectations. As for Mr. Fujii’s thoughtful explanation of report we tried more than ever to present information CSR starting with an understanding of social issues visually in order to communicate our pride and responfrom a global perspective, we will work to deepen our sibility in manufacturing more clearly to our diverse understanding through dialogue with the various stakestakeholders. holders of our global operations and in accordance with We are pleased to hear Ms. Kawaguchi’s and Mr. Fujii’s our corporate creed. comments that this year’s report is a more accessible and Encouraged by your valuable feedback, we will effective communication tool, as such improvements are continue to ramp up CSR efforts across our business and no doubt a result of the efforts we made. by providing various products and technologies that Masahiko At the same time, we see the transparency and support social and industrial infrastructure, pursuing all the Arihara accountability that Ms. Kawaguchi mentioned as while a more sustainable society and sure future for Executive Vice President necessary not only in our nuclear power business but humankind and the earth. Executive Officer also for ensuring safety and peace of mind in manufacin Charge of CSR turing in general, and will do our best to meet your 53 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management In the course of providing products that support social and economic infrastructures on a global scale, MHI makes every effort to fulfill its social responsibility as a corporation by strengthening and enhancing its corporate governance, internal controls and CSR efforts while acting in full compliance with prevailing laws, rules and social norms in addition to promoting fair and sound management. Corporate Governance ........................................................................ 55 In its quest to continuously develop its business operations and fulfill its social responsibilities, MHI is reforming its management structure while promoting fair and sound management rooted in complete legal compliance. • Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls • Risk Management Promotion of CSR ..................................................................................... 60 MHI has established the CSR Committee and various other committees in an effort to continuously improve management that is anchored by CSR through the comprehension, assessment, and tracking of initiatives being taken throughout the corporation. • Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities • Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2012 Compliance ..................................................................................................... 68 The MHI Group is building a system to promote compliance that will encompass the entire Group, consistent with our mission to always conduct fair and honest business activities. In addition, the Group is also working to provide education and information to all employees so that each and every employee will act with an awareness of his or her compliance obligations. • Organizing a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group • Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines • Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness • Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information 54 Management / Corporate Governance Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Strengthening the oversight functions of the Board of Directors through such measures as appointing outside directors The Board of Directors makes important key management decisions and oversees the execution of business operations, while statutory auditors audit the execution of duties of directors and other matters. Currently, 3 of the company's 19 directors and 3 of its 5 statutory auditors are from outside MHI. These outside directors and statutory auditors provide advice and oversight to the management of MHI based on their broad range of experience and considerable insight as managers, administrators and specialists. They operate from an unbiased position which is independent from the company's executive management. The company has also streamlined the Board of Directors, shortened the term of office, and introduced an Executive Officer System. MHI has sought through these measures to reinforce the oversight functions of the Board of Directors and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the directors who make decisions on key management issues and oversee the overall management of the company as well as the roles and responsibilities of senior vice presidents who execute business. MHI has also established an Executive Committee to serve as a forum for discussing important matters related to business execution. This allows for a more cohesive approach in terms of discussions as part of the operational execution framework centered on the President, and consequently leads to more effective management decisions and business execution. In accordance with the auditing policy and auditing plan determined by the Board of Statutory Auditors, statutory auditors attend key meetings, such those held by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, and Business Plan Meetings, to study and monitor the management operation status. They also examine legal and regulatory compliance, and monitor the development and operation of internal control systems, including those related to financial reporting. These auditing operations enable them to ascertain whether the directors are executing their duties in compliance with laws and Articles of Incorporation, and whether company affairs are being appropriately executed. Statutory auditors also periodically exchange information and opinions with the Management Audit Department and accounting auditors, and collaborate closely with them in other ways, including receiving audit results and attending accounting audits. The Statutory Auditors' Office has been set up with its own dedicated staff to support the implementation of auditing tasks and facilitate the work carried out by statutory auditors. 55 Management / Corporate Governance Outside Directors and Outside Statutory Auditors and Reasons for their Appointment Officers Name Field / Affiliation Reason for appointment Outside Yorihiko Chairman of the Mr. Yorihiko Kojima was appointed to the position Director Kojima Board of Mitsubishi of Outside Director since he has provided Corporation beneficial views and candid assessments on the management of MHI as an Outside Director based on his considerable experience as a business manager, and it is desired that he continues his contribution to improving the soundness and transparency of the decision-making process. Christina Professor of Ms. Christina Ahmadjian was appointed to the Ahmadjian Hitotsubashi position of Outside Director since she has provided University beneficial views and candid assessments on the Graduate School of management of MHI as an Outside Director from Commerce and her global perspective based on her extensive Management knowledge regarding such fields as corporate governance and management. acquired through her experience as a researcher, even though she has not been directly involved in corporate management except for acting as an Outside Director. Based on this, it is desired that she continues her contribution to improving the soundness and transparency of the decisionmaking process. Hiroki Tsuda Professor of Mr. Hiroki Tsuda was appointed to the position of Waseda University Outside Director since he has extensive views Graduate School of regarding fiscal and monetary policies acquired Public through his experience as a government Management administrative officer and a researcher, even though he has not been directly involved in corporate management, and it is desired that he makes a contribution to improving the soundness and transparency of the decision-making process by providing his beneficial views and candid assessment on the management of MHI, based on his experience. 56 Management / Corporate Governance Officers Name Field / Affiliation Reason for appointment Outside Nobuo Senior Advisor of Mr. Nobuo Kuroyanagi was appointed to the Statutory Kuroyanagi The Bank of Tokyoposition of Outside Statutory Auditor since he has Auditor Mitsubishi UFJ, provided beneficial views and candid assessments Ltd. on the management of MHI as an Outside Statutory Auditor based on his considerable experience as a business manager, and it is desired that he continues his contribution to ensuring sound and appropriate management. Haruya Senior Advisor of Mr. Haruya Uehara was appointed to the position Uehara Mitsubishi UFJ of Outside Statutory Auditor since it is desired that Trust and Banking he makes a contribution to ensuring sound and Corporation appropriate management by providing his beneficial views and candid assessments on the management of MHI, based on his considerable experience as a business manager. Shinichiro Ito President & Chief Mr. Shinichiro Ito was appointed to the position of Executive Officer, Outside Statutory Auditor since it is desired that he ANA Holdings Inc. makes a contribution to ensuring sound and Chairman of the appropriate management by providing his Board, All Nippon beneficial views and candid assessments on the Airways Co.,Ltd. management of MHI, based on his considerable experience as a business manager. Corporate Governance Structure (including internal control systems) (as of April 1, 2013) 57 Management / Corporate Governance Strengthening the internal control systems In compliance with legal requirements, the MHI Board of Directors has determined a basic policy for internal control systems. The company is promoting the strengthening of areas including the oversight function of the Board of Directors, management systems in response to risk types, increasing the effectiveness of compliance including a whistleblower system, management systems between MHI and Group companies and a system which permits effective auditing by statutory auditors. MHI is striving to strengthen these initiatives through internal audits and the PDCA management cycle. The designs and operations of internal controls are monitored annually through internal audits, in line with the internal audit policy which was formulated by the Management Audit Department. Under the internal control reporting system regarding financial reporting, which is stipulated by the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (also known as J-SOX), the Management Audit Department and the internal audit divisions of our manufacturing works carried out assessments of the design and operation of the internal controls and concluded that as of the end of March 2013, the MHI Group's internal controls over financial reporting were functioning effectively. The accounting auditors concurred with this assessment. Every year at the Board of Directors meeting, the current status of initiatives concerning the establishment of internal control systems is reported in order to confirm the effectiveness of our internal control systems. 58 Management / Corporate Governance Risk Management Precisely comprehend risks throughout the Group and steadily implement risk reduction measures MHI precisely comprehends risks throughout the Group and is carrying out measures to steadily reduce these risks. In fiscal 2012, MHI reorganized and specified risks for the company assigned directors responsible for each risk to carry out more efficient and effective risk control activities. In February 2013, the General Manager of the Management Audit Department held discussions with the heads of 19 business segments and administration departments. Together, they identified the important risks to each segment and department, categorized them according to importance and other characteristics, and laid out risk management processes for each risk. Within this process, they first identified serious management risks, risks that, having a major impact on operation of the company or requiring an emergency response, need to be managed at a seniormanagement level, and assigned a corporate director to oversee their control. Next, they divided other important risks into risks to be reduced through auditing and monitoring and risks that require a risk management structure and sought to manage them through these two approaches. In fiscal 2013, MHI will strive further to run an effective PDCA cycle and develop and enhance its risk management system throughout the Group by strengthening risk management activities for the above-mentioned important risks and by operating a risk management system that combines controls centered on voluntary management and assessments by process owners (Note) and monitoring by the Management Audit Department. (Note) Organizations and/or persons responsible for establishing and executing risk management mechanisms for individual business functions. 59 Management / Promotion of CSR Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities Promoting more business-integrated CSR In October 2006, the company set up the CSR Committee, chaired by the President, and the CSR Department, which reports directly to the President, in order to strengthen CSR-oriented management. Following further organizational reforms in April 2011, in October 2012 these functions were moved to the Corporate Communication Department of the Presidential Administration Office in order to consolidate CSR, public relations, advertising, IR, and other stakeholder communication functions and thus promote more business-integrated CSR activities. Business-integrated CSR activities are those that not only use products and technologies to contribute to the resolution of environmental and other social issues but also prevent or reduce negative impact and increase positive impact on society via efforts to address social issues in all business processes. The CSR Committee, which holds sessions twice yearly, sets policies for tackling social issues and also sets and focuses on six themes regarding important activity initiatives in areas such as the globalization of CSR activities and Funds for Community Engagement. Going forward, we will work to build a more effective organizational framework and further promote CSR activities through their integration with business management. CSR Promotion System (as of April 1, 2013) 60 Management / Promotion of CSR Sustained promotion of PDCA based on the CSR Action Plan The CSR Committee set the CSR Action Plan for fiscal 2008 to 2010 and strove to embed CSR efforts in company by following a PDCA (plan-do-check-action) cycle. In fiscal 2011, the committee formulated a new CSR Action Plan (for fiscal 2011 to 2013) and supported activities in six priority areas: CSR promotion, compliance, the environment, human rights/labor, product responsibility, and risk management. However, in fiscal 2012 the CSR Action Plan framework was revised and these areas reorganized to match the seven core subjects of ISO 26000: organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. This global standard was adopted with the intention of introducing the perspective of the international community. Going forward, through stakeholder dialogue and the collection of feedback, we hope to identify the types and relative seriousness of social issues the MHI Group should tackle and revise our activities to reflect those findings. Cultivating CSR awareness through CSR Sessions CSR sessions aimed at deepening employees' awareness of CSR were held successfully at 12 sites and at a number of Group companies in fiscal 2012 and 657 people participated. CSR sessions for new employees were held at all works, including the Head Office, and 655 people participated in fiscal 2012. CSR sessions and CSR sessions for new employees have been taking place for six years since fiscal 2007 and a total of 10,812 people have now received the sessions. CSR sessions consist primarily of lectures and group discussions. Lectures are designed to provide a basic introduction to CSR, present the latest trends in CSR on a global level, and explain initiatives taking place in the MHI Group. Group discussions encourage employees to approach their day-to-day work from a social responsibility perspective. To clarify the issues of CSR activities and ascertain employees' understanding of CSR, a survey was conducted based on the CSR Action Guidelines of employees who have participated in CSR sessions since they were commenced. Each year, employees' understanding of CSR is improving as a result of improvements in areas of poor performance and efforts made in the continuation and development of activities. 61 Management / Promotion of CSR Number of current and new employees who attended CSR sessions (note) Note: Includes employees from certain Group companies CSR sessions at Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Town Hall Meeting With the aim of creating an open environment for communication and improving employee motivation, the president or vice president spoke directly with employees at the Town Hall Meeting, which was held at six sites in fiscal 2012. Three events were held: meetings with general managers, round-table discussions with young employees in their mid-thirties who will play leading roles in the future and worksite visits where management visits worksites where employees are working. These events are designed to reinvigorate worksites through frank communication between top management and employees. Round-table Discussions with Young Employees at Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 62 Management / Promotion of CSR Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2012 CSR Committee: Development of Basic Policy for Promoting CSR activities At the 12th Session of the CSR Committee held in July 2012, the committee resolved to reorganize activities in the CSR Action Plan for fiscal 2011 to 2013 from six priority areas (CSR promotion, compliance, the environment, human rights/labor, product responsibility, and risk management) to the seven core subjects of ISO 26000 (organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development), identify social issues the MHI Group should tackle, and revise activities as needed to reflect the Group's identified goals. At the 13th Session held in December 2012, prior to beginning the task of identifying social issues, the committee decided that the MHI Group should work on human rights issues and extending CSR programs to the value chain as priorities. It also decided a basic policy for tackling conflict minerals, an urgent problem connected to both human rights and the value chain that needs to be addressed first and foremost. The 13th Session of the CSR Committee, December 2012 Risk Management & Compliance Committee: Discussing corporate-wide compliance promotion plans The Compliance Committee was established in 2001 as an organization that discusses issues such as the state of compliance promotion throughout the Group. It handles the creation of corporate-wide compliance promotion plans and confirms the status of progress. The committee also endeavors to educate employees on compliance awareness, and since fiscal year 2003 has been continuously holding compliance promotion training. 63 Management / Promotion of CSR Environment Committee: Discussing the Group's promotion of yearly environmental measures The Environment Committee was established as an inter-departmental organization for the entire corporation in 1996. During its twice-yearly meetings, it plans and composes corporate-wide environmental measures for the year and sets the tone for initiatives, as well as promotes and follows up on the yearly environmental preservation plans of individual works and Business Segments. The 2012 Environmental Management Promotion Plan outlined the strengthening of measures to eliminate accidents which pollute the environment and reducing CO2 emissions resulting from business operations, and each works and Business Segments implemented measures to meet these targets. Discussions were also held on the implementation of environmental meetings, and the committee has held initiatives for Group-wide promotion of consolidated environmental management. Furthermore, it deliberated on implementing plans for environmental audits of works and Business Segments for the purpose of continually reducing environmental risks and thoroughly complying with environmental laws and regulations. The committee aims to improve the management level at each works and Business Segments by following up on the outcomes of those actions. 64 Management / Promotion of CSR Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights: Promoting a workplace where human rights are respected and differently-abled people are actively employed MHI set up the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992 to promote the establishment of a sound workplace in which every employee correctly understands the issue and respects the human rights of others. Chaired by the director in charge of personnel and with the membership of general managers in charge of personnel of each works, the committee endeavors to raise awareness of human rights, share information and promote human rights training. Until fiscal 2011, the Committee for Promoting the Employment of the Handicapped, operated separately to discuss employment for differently-abled people, however this was integrated with the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights based on the perspective that, with human rights issues becoming more diverse, the Committee for Raising Awarenesss of Human Rights should handle a broader range of issues, marking a new start for the committee this year. In fiscal 2012, the committee continued to implement a training program for raising awareness among new recruits, newly appointed managers and supervisors. In an effort to strengthen the company's response as a whole to sexual harassment and power harassment (workplace bullying & harassment), the committee implemented such activities as educational efforts aimed at executives and the production and distribution of educational material aimed at preventing power harassment. In fiscal 2012, the committee continued their efforts to expand employment through proactively advancing recruitment by using its website mano a mano in Spanish or hand to hand, which was created to support the employment of differently-abled people while coordinating with local job-placement offices and skill-building schools for differently-abled people, holding meetings with employment officers, and making requests for cooperation to business segments after setting employment rate targets within the company. As a result, as of April 1, 2012, the employment rate for the differently-abled people at MHI is 2.10 percent, which exceeds the statutory employment rate of 2.0 percent. The mano a mano webpage for differently-abled people 65 Management / Promotion of CSR International Trade Control Committee: Promoting education on legal compliance and updating various rules and manuals MHI is aware that export controls complying with export-related laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Exchange & Foreign Trade Control Act, are taking on greater importance. Since its inception, the International Trade Control Committee has been meeting regularly on a monthly basis to stringently screen exports of controlled items. Up untill November 2012, the Committee has met 300 times. Through the Committee's activities, MHI carries out transfers of controlled technologies as well as exports of commodities to nations and regions that are subject to international sanctions, in order to prevent our technologies and commodities from being used for nefarious purposes, such as for weapons of mass destruction. The Committee also draws up and revises effective rules, promotes internal audits and conducts consultations and education activities. In fiscal 2012, MHI continuously promoted e-learning programs for all employees in our export business, and saw around 2,500 staff participating. Further training sessions were regularly held for employees responsible for each division and, in addition to sharing information about past examples of both successful and mistakable export control management, they discussed examples of mistakes that can easily be made in order to deepen their understanding of the issues. English versions of the e-learning materials have also been created to provide support for export control management at overseas subsidiaries. Construction Business Act Compliance Committee: Monitoring compliance at MHI and Group companies Since MHI is involved in new construction and repair of sites such as power plants, it is well aware of the great importance of complying with the Construction Business Act, and in 2003 established the Construction Business Act Compliance Committee. In order to abide by the Construction Business Act, the committee is continuing to work to promote revision of various in-house systems and policies, to educate employees, to manage the qualifications and support the training of engineers, and to conduct appropriate management of building construction and subcontracting. In fiscal 2012, MHI conducted on-site monitoring of the nine business segments (including the district business segments) via discussions between the secretariat and business segment to designate certain construction work based on the value of the contract and the scale of the construction work. Moreover, in order to maintain and further improve the adherence level at all Group companies, certain target companies were selected from the 50 that have continued to hold construction licenses since fiscal 2011, based on whether they were new companies established as a result of business separation or integration or whether they were determined to be important due to their size or number of projects. Nineteen companies were subjected to systems monitoring, and 16 were targeted for onsite construction monitoring. Following from 2011, workshops for business partners to explain the Construction Business Act were held at four main works (locations) to promote optimization of subcontracts. In fiscal 2012, there were 242 participants from a total of 174 partner companies. Workshops on the Construction Business Act were also held on 10 occasions at various works, drawing 869 participants, including Group employees. The committee is working to improve the adherence level at Group companies through these activities. 66 Management / Promotion of CSR Order Compliance Committee: Implementing various measures to ensure legal compliance in sales activities MHI established the Order Compliance Committee in August 2005 to ensure legal compliance in sales activities with the intent of preventing a recurrence of past violations of the Anti-Monopoly Act. The committee has set up rules of conduct for the Public Sector Sales Department and has constructed systems that include implementing compliance checks for competitive construction bids to ensure transparency in sales actions. In fiscal 2012, the committee revised the rules of conduct as a consequence of a widening of their applicability to cover public-sector and private-sector demand in Japan and overseas. The committee also stepped up initiatives for ensuring legal compliance in sales activities, by transferring the secretariat of the committee in October from the Management Audit Department to the Administration Department of the Global Strategic Planning & Operations Headquarters and by clarifying the control function of the secretariat. Nuclear Safety Steering Committee continues efforts to prioritize nuclear safety The Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business was established in December 2004 in response to a secondary piping damage incident at Unit 3 of the Mihama Power Station (supplied by MHI and operated by Kansai Electric) in August 2004. In January 2013, the board's name was changed to the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee in order to share issues and decide courses of action relating to MHI's nuclear business, as well as to internally reform and expand the nuclear quality assurance management system. The committee conducts these activities under the guidance of a steering committee whose mission is to manage activities that help ensure nuclear safety. Fiscal 2012 Initiatives In fiscal 2012, the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee discussed and deliberated on MHI strategy to comply and modify existing plants in accordance with the July 2013 revisions to nuclear regulations, which were made in response to the accident at TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. In addition, the committee discussed various efforts to foster a nuclear safety culture within the company, thereby confirming that Mitsubishi will continue to prioritize efforts to improve safety at nuclear facilities. 67 Management / Compliance Organizing a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Strengthening crisis-prevention and response capabilities related to compliance To further focus our attention on preventing compliance violations and responding promptly to whistle-blowing, in October 2012 MHI transferred compliance-related tasks from the General Affairs Department to the Management Audit Department, thus better positioning the company to centrally manage activities aimed at identifying, averting, and reducing risks before a crisis occurs. Placing persons responsible for compliance in all departments and Group companies MHI's Compliance Committee was established in May 2001 to strictly observe applicable laws and social norms and to promote fair and honest business practices (altered to the Risk Management & Compliance Committee in December 2012). This committee is chaired by the Executive Vice President in charge of compliance, and its members consist of senior general managers from relevant departments at the Head Office, general managers of domestic offices, heads of all works, and general managers from all Planning & Administration Departments of business segments. The committee meets twice annually to draw up company-wide compliance promotion plans, confirm progress, and engage in other activities. In April 2006, Departmental Compliance Committees were established in all departments of the company in order to strengthen compliance measures for each respective department. These committees are chaired by the member of the Risk Management & Compliance Committee in each department. At the same time, Compliance Liaison Conferences were set up for regularly exchanging compliance information with Group companies. Through these two types of organizations, each department works to consistently implement its own compliance and to act independently and responsibly in carrying out compliance activities. Compliance Promotion System (as of April 1, 2012) 68 Management / Compliance Implementing internal and external whistleblower hotlines for all employees and clients A hotline has been established specifically for business clients and employees (including contract employees) of MHI and all Group companies, who wish to report or discuss potential unlawful or dishonest acts they have come upon. Contact can be made through email, phone, or fax. The Risk Management & Compliance Committee will promptly investigate the reported information and communicate with the Executive Vice President in charge. Information on what should be reported is contained in the Compliance Guidelines distributed to all employees and in bulletins published in-house. Furthermore, in order to increase choices for informants on compliance, the External Hotline was established in December 2011 in addition to the internal hotline. This was followed by the sequential establishment of Harassment Contact Hotlines inside and outside of the company starting in January 2012 as a measure to respond to power harassment (workplace bullying & harassment), which is becoming an increasingly serious social issue. Setting clear protection of the rights afforded to in-house informants With the operation of the hotline, protection of the rights afforded to informants were set out in the 2007 company regulations, entitled Compliance Promotion Regulations. These regulations state that the informant's name will not be released without his/her consent, and that the informant will not be placed at any disadvantage because of the information s/he has reported. Employees have been advised of protection of the rights given to in-house informants and have been told of the existence of the hotline. Twice yearly an investigation is conducted to determine whether such individuals' rights have been violated. Establishing an external whistleblower hotline MHI has created the MHI External Whistleblower Hotline since December 2011. Contact can be made through email, fax, or telephone. If the informant wishes, their name and other information will not be disclosed to the company. The Risk Management & Compliance Committee will promptly investigate the reported information. Answers based on the investigation results can be also received via the lawyers that have been entrusted with the operation of the External Whistleblower Hotline. The establishment of this External Whistleblower Hotline is based on a proposal from the Public Works Business Process Validation and Advisory Committee, which was created in July 2010. It is an effort to receive a broader range of information and strengthen internal checks and balances functions by increasing choices for in-house reports. 69 Management / Compliance Ensuring transparency and legality in order-receiving activities From 2005 to 2006, MHI was the subject of an investigation by the Japan Fair Trade Commission when it fell under suspicion of violating the Anti-Monopoly Act in construction orders involving steel bridge construction projects and sewage treatment plants. MHI took the investigation very seriously, and established the Order Compliance Committee in an effort to prevent potentially suspect activities from occurring again. MHI has worked diligently to build a stringent system to uphold the Anti-Monopoly Act that ensures the transparency and legality of order-receiving activities. This system includes drawing up rules of conduct for the Public Sector Sales Department, carrying out compliance checks on each instance of competitive bidding for construction contracts, and conducting special monitoring for public-sector order compliance. In fiscal 2012, we sought to strengthen compliance in order-receiving activities by expanding applicability for the public and private sectors in Japan and overseas and revising our rules of conduct. We strived to build compliance awareness among Group employees by holding workshops on the Anti-Monopoly Act at MHI and at Group companies in Japan, Europe, the U.S., and China. We also continued order compliance audits, this time expanding the scope from not just the public sector in Japan, but also to the overseas public sector and the private sector as well, thus confirming that order compliance activities begun in previous years were continuing and that awareness of the Anti-Monopoly Act was spreading within the Group. MHI will continue to take actions to promote a law-abiding mentality in order-receiving activities. In fiscal 2012, no warnings were issued against MHI by government offices such as the Fair Trade Commission. 70 Management / Compliance Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines The Compliance Principles Clarify Behavior Standards The MHI Compliance Principles established in September 2001 explicitly set forth required behavior standards so that compliance with applicable laws and social norms can be comprehensively achieved in business activities, societal relationships, and employee relationships. This policy has been printed on cards so that it can be easily carried and has been distributed to all employees, including contract workers. In addition, all employees have been provided with MHI's Compliance Guidelines in the form of a booklet, which contains straightforward explanations on specific areas requiring caution during the execution of daily duties. Moreover, articles on compliance have regularly been included in company bulletins. From fiscal 2010, illustrated articles have been included to further deepen employee understanding. Compliance Guidelines MHI Compliance Principles I. Business activities We will conduct company activities in a sensible and appropriate manner and in compliance with applicable laws and social norms, and will contribute to society by providing safe, high-quality products and services. II. Relationship between the company and society We will try to preserve the environment and live in harmony with society as a good corporate citizen. III. Relationship between the company and employees The company will provide a safe, healthy work environment, and company members will make clear distinctions between official and private activities and obligations, comply with applicable laws and internal rules, and execute their duties faithfully. 71 Management / Compliance Establishing regulations and standards for the more thorough prevention of bribery MHI strives for fairness in its global commercial transactions by strictly observing the anti-bribery laws of all countries, including Japan's Unfair Competition Prevention Act, which prohibits the giving of illicit benefits by Japanese citizens to overseas government officials. MHI established the Guidelines for the Prevention of Bribery Involving Foreign Civil Servants in 2005 to define rules of conduct based on the Unfair Competition Prevention Act. In addition, the Anti-Bribery Rules and Anti-Bribery Procedural Guidelines based on these guidelines were created in February 2012 in order to respond to the enactment of British Bribery Act 2010 (Note) of July 2011 and strengthened regulations in various countries. In fiscal 2012, MHI made efforts to strengthen bribery prevention even further by building compliance mechanisms based on MHI rules and standards and also based on consideration of the form of business operated by each Group company in Japan and overseas as well as circumstances surrounding local laws and regulations and business practices for overseas Group companies. (Note) Generally said to be the most stringent anti-bribery law in the world, having provisions that make it illegal even to neglect to take actions to prevent bribery. The law applies also to foreign companies operating in the U.K. Firm responses to antisocial forces MHI's Compliance Principles clearly set forth firm measures to deal with antisocial forces. All MHI facilities have established departments to take measures if unjust demands are made by antisocial forces. The departments will work together to comprehensively deal with the incident as an organization. In addition, MHI has taken actions, including compliance promotion training, to promote the ideal mindset and essential concepts for responding to undue claims. Moreover, MHI pro-actively strives to build close cooperative relationships with police, lawyers, and special institutions, to gain advice and support for dealing with unjust demands. Furthermore, while ordinances for the elimination of organized crime groups have been enacted since October 2011 by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, Okinawa Prefecture and now all prefectures in Japan, the MHI Group has added clauses to its contracts with clients and business partners based on these ordinances in order to exclude antisocial forces Adding clauses to contracts with clients and business partners that exclude organized crime groups With the enactment of ordinances for the elimination of organized crime groups by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and Okinawa Prefecture from October 2011, all prefectures in Japan have now enacted such ordinances. The MHI Group regards compliance as the core of its management, and has consistently responded in a firm way to organized crime groups and other antisocial forces. Based on the enactment of these ordinances, MHI adds clauses to its contracts with clients and business partners in order to exclude antisocial forces. 72 Management / Compliance Eliminating Camouflage Contracts Based on the Policies of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare In 2007, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare created the Guidelines for Measures that Should be Adopted by Outsourcers Striving to Improve and Optimize Employment Management of Contract Work for Manufacturing Businesses. Based on these guidelines, MHI is working towards making suitable applications such as by creating an independent inspection chart and using it in workplaces. In addition, MHI is voluntarily and actively working to prevent incidences of the so-called camouflage contract problem by implementing compliance training, thoroughly auditing worksite conditions, and holding consultations with the labor department. 73 Management / Compliance Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness Implementing discussion-based training adapted to daily duties Discussion-based compliance promotion training sessions for all employees have been carried out in all MHI worksites since fiscal 2003. The training is held with the goal of increasing awareness so that employees can properly judge and act in accordance with compliance, no matter what the situation. In the discussions, employees consider what they would do or what the proper action would be if, for example, they were to feel anxiety over compliance because they are faced with strict costor delivery-related demands, or if they are pressured by a supervisor. In fiscal 2012, discussions centered on the following themes: managing company secrets and gift-giving and business entertainment; skipping manufacturing and inspection processes; and building a compliance violation-free workplace. Around 35,000 employees (more than 95 percent of all employees) participated. In fiscal 2013, the compliance training program will include e-learning sessions as well as group discussions. In addition to the above, new recruits, newly appointed general managers, section managers and deputy managers, and technical employees in leadership positions receive education according to their respective ranks. Rate of attendance & Number of participants at compliance promotion training FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Rate of attendance 96.8% 96.4% 96.5% 96.8% 95.1% Number of participants 32,771 33,309 32,211 32,333 34,972 Yearly compliance awareness survey Since fiscal 2004, every year the Risk Management & Compliance Committee conducts a compliance awareness survey. In fiscal 2012, MHI considered expanding the survey scope to all MHI employees from the current 30% of employees (based on random sampling), and decided to conduct an expanded survey in fiscal 2013 as part of e-learning compliance sessions. The results of the fiscal 2011 survey showed that 98 percent of employees are aware of compliance, while the indicators level of compliance awareness, recognition of the MHI Compliance Principles, and workplace environment regarding compliance set new highs for the fourth year in a row, suggesting that compliance actions are yielding positive results and that compliance awareness among employees is steadily growing. 74 Management / Compliance Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information The Legal & General Affairs Department together with the IT Planning and IT Strategic Development Departments head the protection of confidential information MHI has built a corporate-wide system for confidential information management, information security management, and personal privacy through the Legal & General Affairs Department together with the IT Planning and IT Strategic Development Departments in order to thoroughly safeguard confidential information, such as company management information technological information, and information related to customers and business partners. MHI is working to carry out appropriate information management (including paper documents and electronic data) and improve information security. Using the manual and database to thoroughly protect personal information In conjunction with the enforcement of the Act on the Protection of Personal Information in April 2005, MHI announced its own Privacy Policy and formulated Personal Information Protection Rules and the Personal Information Management Manual. In addition, the company compiled key points related to our business into a digest and distributed it to all employees in an effort to ensure thorough protection of personal information. A personal information database registration system has been developed and used as a means for consolidating the handling of personal data by registering all data owned by respective divisions. Constantly reinforcing measures to protect confidential information In an effort to more appropriately manage confidential information, MHI has established rules such as the Regulations for Managing Confidential Information, the Regulations for Managing Documentation and the Information Security Management Standards, which have been successively revised to respond to new information technologies, threats and legal reforms. MHI created the Confidential Information Management Manual and the Manual on the Rules for Protection of Confidential Information from Leakage and distributed them to improve employee awareness of confidential information management. In the past, computers from employees at MHI and partner companies have been infected with computer viruses and product information has been leaked, causing trouble for clients. Therefore, MHI strictly enforces measures to prevent a recurrence of such incidents by forbidding the use of private personal computers for work and the introduction of software not required for work. Also, as measures against information leaks as a result of theft or loss of computers and external storage media, MHI has provided employees with comprehensive instructions on encrypting data on PCs, external storage media, and e-mail, and has clarified procedures for taking these devices outside the company. MHI instructs both domestic and overseas Group companies on improving information security management rules, information management education, and internal audits in an effort to carry out exhaustive information management throughout the Group. MHI also enters into nondisclosure agreements with subcontractors to ensure comprehensive management of confidential information. 75 Management / Compliance Preventing computer virus infection MHI has always taken various measures to maintain a high level of information security, however, we became aware of a case of computer virus infection in August 2011. Because of this incident, MHI is taking efforts to reinforce the checks for viruses attempting to enter the system including strengthening the observation system for unauthorized access and enhancing education on information security. Currently, the various countermeasures implemented in-house in response to the incident are being rolled-out to group companies. Implementing employee training to enhance awareness of confidential information management MHI has incorporated education on protection of personal information into compliance promotion training given to all employees and training by employee level, and also provides e-learning on the overall topic of confidential information and information security to thoroughly educate employees on specific procedures and rules. Since fiscal 2011, simulation tests have been conducted by sending targeted spoofed e-mails. Continuously assessing the status of security measures through internal audits To safeguard information, it is important to continuously evaluate and reassess the state of security measures being implemented. MHI has prepared a checklist to be used in all departments and holds an annual internal audit to determine the status of measures being implemented. As a result, when issues are discovered they are revised and the following year during the audit, that revision is assessed, leading to steady improvements. Operating PDCA cycles for information security management throughout the Group MHI has always been aware of the importance of its own products and technologies, and has worked to maintain a high level of information security. Because MHI views the August 2011 virus infection as a serious issue, it is working to further reinforce security by taking measures such as running PDCA cycles for information security management throughout the Group, and by improving information management regulations and conducting internal audits of information management throughout MHI and domestic and overseas Group companies. 76 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Environmental Report MHI is working to alleviate the increasing environmental burdens across the globe by providing environmentally friendly products and technologies in diverse fields as well as by deploying environmental preservation activities throughout the product lifecycle, from development and design to procurement of raw materials, production, on-site installation and final disposal. Environmental Management ........................................................... 78 MHI has in place an environmental management system that covers the entire Group and promotes Group-wide, consolidated environmental management efforts. • Environmental Management Promotion System • Establishing and Operating the Environmental Management System • Preserving Biodiversity • Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks • Status of Incidents and Legal Violations Relating to the Environment • Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its Subsidiaries Targets and Progress ............................................................................ 91 Material Balance ........................................................................................ 98 Environmental Accounting ................................................................ 99 Countermeasures against Global Warming ....................................................... 101 The MHI is working to reduce CO2 emissions based on medium-term environmental targets set for the entire company. We are aiming for further emission cuts through the introduction of energy-saving devices use of and renewable energy. • Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures • Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transport • Energy-saving Activities in Offices • CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012) Resource Conservation, Waste Management and Water Resources ...................... 112 In addition to further reducing waste and managing it appropriately, in order to protect water resources MHI established a target to decrease water consumption during production and is working for reduction from fiscal 2011. • Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal • Using Electronic Manifests (e-manifests) • Protecting Water Resources Management of Chemical Substances ................................. 118 MHI works to consistently manage the chemical substances required for production, and makes efforts for their safe usage and storage. We are also switching to alternative substances and making efforts to curb the use and emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) such as xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene. • Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact .......................................... 122 • Main Products and Technologies in 2012 77 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Environmental Management Promotion System Promotion of environmental management by a company-wide committee and promotion entities for each works and business segments The Environmental Committee, chaired by the director in charge of the environment, sets out the company-wide annual environmental program. Decisions are conveyed to the entire company and all Group companies. Environmental Committees established at each works and business segments promote policies and conduct environmental management corresponding to the specific features of each works and business segments. In addition, Environmental Liaison Conferences for individuals in charge of the environment at the Head Office, each works and business segments along with Energy Conservation Liaison Conferences, where energy and CO2 reduction measures are discussed, are held. Furthermore, an Energy Conservation Sectional Meeting and Waste Management Information Exchange Meeting, comprising section heads and subordinates from each works and business segments, are convened. Basic Policy on Environmental Matters (Established 1996) As clearly laid out in provision 1 of its creedWe strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. -MHI believes its primary purpose is to contribute to society through its R&D, manufacturing and other business activities. Accordingly, in the performance of its business activities the company shall embrace the awareness that it is an integral member of society and, in all aspects of its business activities, it will strive to reduce burden on the environment and shall devote its comprehensive technological capabilities to the development of technologies and products that will protect the environment, as its way of contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Action Guidelines (Established 1996) 1. Accord high priority to environmental protection within company operations, and take steps company-wide to protect and enhance the environment. 2. Clarify roles and responsibilities regarding environmental protection by developing an organized structure to deal with environmental protection matters, defining environment-related procedures, etc. 3. Strive to alleviate burden on the environment in all aspects of company business activities-from product R&D and design to procurement of raw materials, manufacture, transport, usage, servicing and disposal-through pollution prevention, conservation of resources, energy saving, waste reduction, reuse and recycling. 4. Strive to develop and provide advanced, highly reliable, wholly proprietary technologies and products that will contribute to solving environmental and energy problems. 5. Strive continuously to improve and enhance environmental protection activities not only by fully complying with environmental laws and regulations but also, when necessary, by establishing, implementing and evaluating independent standards and setting environmental goals and targets. 6. In the performance of business activities overseas and exportation of products, pay full attention to impact on the local natural and social environments and strive to protect those environments; also, become actively involved in technological cooperation overseas in matters of environmental protection. 7. Take steps to raise environmental awareness among all employees through environmental education, etc., undertake activities to provide environment-related information to the public, and proactively make environment-enhancing contributions to society. 78 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Environmental Management Structure (as of April 1, 2013) Adopting mediumand long-term environmental targets for the entire Group and promoting various activities to reduce environmental burden The MHI Group formulated the MHI Group midand long-term environmental targets, which set common targets for all Group companies in April 2008. Under this plan, special focus is on reducing CO2 emission by an average of 3 percent between 2008 and 2012 compared to fiscal 2007; promoting zero emissions; and acquiring, maintaining and renewing certifications such as ISO environmental management. The Environmental Meetings with group companies held in fiscal 2012 reaffirmed the commitment of the companies to incorporating and promoting the mediumand long-term targets of the environmental management program. The Group will continue to work together towards attaining the targets. Environmental audits at all works in Japan MHI conducts environmental audits at works in Japan to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and to conduct physical, on-site verification of operational conditions. Audits are performed by teams of auditors from works other than the works being audited. Results on environmental performance and improvements are reported to the Environmental Committee, through which they are shared with the rest of the company. In fiscal 2012, audits were conducted at Takasago Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, and Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works. The audits confirmed that issues identified by previous audits were being addressed and steps were being taken to improve the level of management. 79 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Initiating Environmental Meetings with Group companies Environmental Meetings have been held to unify environmental management across the entire MHI Group. The meetings identify problems and support the study of improvements and the exchange of information related to the environment, with the primary goal of ensuring the compliance of Group companies and preventing environmental pollution. In fiscal 2012, an Environmental Meeting was held convening six companies that have acquired certification in Eco Action 21, environmental management guidelines issued by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. At the meeting, the companies reviewed concrete actions that were being taken to reduce CO2 emissions (conserve energy), reduce industrial waste (promote recycling), and reduce wastewater volume (conserve water), and shared the best practices among Group companies. The MHI Group will continue to hold Environmental Meetings to promote environmental activities across the Group and meet Group environmental targets. Collection of periodic environmental data from Group companies begun in pursuit of 2nd Environmental Targets Faced with global warming and other global environmental problems, it is becoming increasingly important that companies expand the scope of environmental data collection from their own operations to include the operations of companies with which they are affiliated. Consequently, in fiscal 2011 MHI expanded periodic data collection from an unconsolidated to consolidated scope in Japan and overseas. In the second MHI Group Environmental Targets issued in April 2013, the MHI Group also set targets for greenhouse gas emissions, waste, and chemicals, etc., at Group companies worldwide. The MHI Group as a whole will continue efforts to achieve the new group environmental targets. 80 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Establishing and Operating an Environmental Management System Promoting the establishment of an Environmental Management System at Group companies MHI is promoting the introduction of an Environmental Management System for both domestic and overseas Group companies. In addition to introduction of ISO 14001, EcoAction 21 and local government environmental management systems, MHI is in the process of introducing two of its own standards, M-EMS and M-EMS EcoAction. In fiscal 2012 (as of April 2013), 83 out of 111 Group companies in Japan and 28 out of 113 Group companies overseas had introduced environmental management systems, including ISO14001. Fostering environmental awareness for every employee through stratified environmental training At MHI, each works formulates its own environmental education curriculum based on e-learning and other methods to provide environmental education to employees. In addition to the internal environmental auditor training program organized by our Head Office, specialized training that deals with daily management procedures and handling emergencies also takes place for employees doing painting tasks and handling dangerous materials. Registered ISO 14001 Internal Auditors (as of April 1, 2013; Note) FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number 687 815 847 980 995 989 (Note) In principle, all the data represents data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. 81 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Initiatives to Preserve Biodiversity Promoting the preservation of biodiversity in accordance with the Environmental Policy and CSR Action Guidelines The Basic Policy on Environmental Matters and Action Guidelines, the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines and MHI Environmental Vision 2030 includes the concepts of the Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity released by the Ministry of the Environment and the Biodiversity Declaration from the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations. Each works pursues various biological diversity activities in accordance with these principles and guidelines. Breeding program for Japanese honeybees in danger of extinction An endangered Japanese honeybee breeding program was launched in fiscal 2010 at the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. Inspired by the honeycomb structure of airplanes, the breeding program provides beehives for honeybees at the Works. Breeding Japanese honeybees Promoting forest conservation and non-native species removal activities In recent years, MHI has been an active supporter of corporate forestry programs together with local governments and other organizations. Head Office and five works are involved in ongoing local government forest care programs. Led by employees and their families, there is a continuous effort involving planting, tree thinning and other forest care activities designed to preserve important forest habitats for many different creatures. Working with NPOs and other organizations, MHI also actively participates in programs to remove non-native species that are impacting Japan's ecosystem. Forest cultivation volunteers (Machine Tool) at Megumi no Mori forest 82 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Main programs undertaken in fiscal 2012 Work/business site Date(s) Description conducted Head Office May 26 Non-native species removal project Held with support from NPO Mt. Fuji Club. Forty-five employees and others worked to remove Lance-leaved coreopsis (Coreopsis lanceolata), a non-native plant, from the Mt. Fuji foothills. Kobe Shipyard & May 26 Onaza forest (Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works) Machinery Works Eighty-seven employees and others planted saplings and tended the forest. Takasago March 9, 2013 MHI Takamikura Forest Machinery Works Conducted tree-planting activities on Mt. Takamikura, where a forest fire took place in 2011. Around 50 employees planted 200 trees of 4 varieties: Japanese cherry (Cerasus jamasakura), bayberry (Myrica rubra), Japanese maple (Acer palmatum subsp. matsumurae), and Japanese chestnut (Castanea crenata). Mihara Machinery December 2 Hiroshima Forest Development Forum Works Eighteen employees, including those from Group companies, participated in a forest conservation activity. General Machinery August 26, Tree thinning at Yadoriki Forest & Special Vehicles September 14, Sixty-four employees and others participated. October 15 Air-Conditioning & Participated in Beaver Forest, Kihoku Refrigeration Systems Machine Tool April 27, Forest management volunteering at Megumi no Mori forest September 28 Held jointly with the Konze Production Forest Union and Ritto-city Society of Commerce and Industry. Sixty employees and others participated. Held with support from MHI's Funds for Community Engagement. Machine Tool May 27 Participation in Lake Biwa non-native fish removal event Around 150 people, including MHI employees, participated in an event to remove black bass, bluegill, and other non-native fish. 83 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Results of evaluation of corporate biodiversity activities MHI has carried out support of forest conservation programs and a wide range of other activities to promote biodiversity and nature protection, as one of our midand long-term environmental targets. To obtain a measure of the impact our business activities have had on biodiversity preservation, we asked BirdLife International Asia Division (Note) to conduct an evaluation of our corporate biodiversity activities so we can determine the current state of these activities in fiscal 2012. The results are shown below. We take these results seriously and will work to make our business activities more considerate of biodiversity. (Note) BirdLife International Asia Division: the Asia Division of BirdLife International (headquartered in Cambridge, UK), an international environmental group working in habitat protection using bird species as an indicator of ecosystem health. Established in England in 1922, BirdLife International is the world's oldest international environmental NGO. Results of evaluation 84 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Description of evaluation categories Category Description Raw materials Evaluates efforts made through raw materials procurement. In all procurement manufacturing sectors, this category is considered to have the largest impact on biodiversity. Land use Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on the environmental and biodiversity in worksite land use management. Worksite operation Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on the environment and biodiversity at a plant or other worksite. Research, development, Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on and product design contribute to biodiversity and environmental conservation through products. Marketing and sales Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on and contribute to biodiversity and environmental conservation through sales, customer management, and other activities. Transportation and Evaluates the state of efforts to reduce environmental impact in the distribution transportation and distribution of goods and people. Purchasing (other than Evaluates whether special considerations for the environment and raw materials biodiversity are made in purchasing and procurement. procurement) Energy conservation, Evaluates the state of efforts to conserve energy, recycle, and recycling, waste manage waste in the administrative departments. management Social contribution Evaluates whether efforts have been made to limit impacts on and activities contribute to biodiversity conservation in social contribution activities. 85 Environmental Report / Environmental Management 86 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks Clarifying the risks at each works and addressing them through daily management MHI has prepared and uses an ISO-based manual for each works, encompassing such issues as risk identification methods, daily management procedures and contingency plans. At each works, emergency response drills are carried out to confirm the effectiveness of response procedures for emergencies such as oil spills and earthquakes. In the event of any crisis in any plant, the company's in-house crisis management information system is prepared to quickly convey information to the President. Achieving green purchasing targets MHI formulated its internal green purchasing policy in March 2002 to systematically promote the purchasing of raw materials, components and products that contribute to the reduction of the environmental burden with the aim of building a circular-flow economy and society. Based on this, we urge the purchasing of office goods, etc. that place the lowest burden possible on the environment. The annual green purchasing targets of 90% by volume and 95% by value were achieved for the first time in fiscal 2012, at 95 percent by volume and 97.2 percent by value. MHI will keep making efforts through ongoing green purchasing strategies. Status of Incidents and Legal Violations Relating to the Environment Promoting activities to strengthen measures designed to eliminate environmental incidents As part of ongoing efforts to strengthen measures designed to eliminate environmental incidents, MHI established in fiscal 2011 Guidelines for Promoting Measures to Prevent Environmental Incidents, which includes rules for setting up an Incident Investigation Committee to thoroughly investigate the causes of environmental incidents when they occur. Since fiscal 2012, we have formulated an action plan to eliminate accidents that pollute the environment for each work and business segment and have been implementing these plans as part of our company-wide Environmental Management Promotion Plan. 87 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its Subsidiaries as of April 4, 2013 ISO 14001 certification at MHI works, plants and research & development centers Location or companyname Date of issue (or registration) MHI sites and plants Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Oct. 31, 1997 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works May 22, 1998 Takasago Machinery Works Jun. 26, 1998 Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Nov. 20, 1998 General Machinery & Special Vehicles May 21, 1999 Mihara Machinery Works Sep. 3, 1999 Hiroshima Machinery Works Sep. 30, 1999 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nov. 24, 1999 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Dec. 18, 1999 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Feb. 18, 2000 Iwatsuka Plant Mar. 17, 2000 Machine Tool Dec. 28, 2000 Yokohama Engineering Center, Engineering Headquarters (Environmental & Chemical Jun. 29, 2001 Plant Project Management Division) Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works (unification of certification acquired independently by Oct. 1, 2003 plants) Head Office Apr. 6, 2006 MHI research & development centers Nagasaki Research & Development Center Aug. 21, 2006 Advanced Technology Research Center Nov. 9, 2006 Yokohama Research & Development Center Nov. 9, 2006 Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Mihara) Dec. 5, 2006 Nagoya Research & Development Center Dec. 26, 2006 Takasago Research & Development Center Mar. 9, 2007 Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Hiroshima) Aug. 2, 2007 Group companies that acquired ISO 14001 certifications independently Location or companyname Date of issue (or registration) Domestic MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Aug. 28, 1998 Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 24, 2001 Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2002 Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2002 Chubu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Jan. 13, 2004 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Head Office Apr. 12, 2004 and Branch Office) Ryoin Co., Ltd., Printing Division, Tokyo Plant (including Head Office and Chubu Plant) Apr. 23, 2004 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 17, 2005 (Engineering Division) Shimonoseki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2005 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Food & Packaging Machinery Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Seibu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd. , Head Office Mar. 22, 2005 Kusakabe Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Mar. 25, 2005 Hiroshima Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Apr. 9, 2005 Ryoju Cold Chain Co., Ltd. Apr. 22, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Precision Casting Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 Tokiwa Machinery Works Ltd. May 18, 2005 Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Aug. 1, 2005 MHI Aerospace Logitem Co., Ltd. Jan. 5, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Thermal Systems Corporation, System Sep. 14, 2007 Production Department Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd., Chiba Plant Mar. 25, 2010 Kaminoshima Factory and Branch Offices, MHI Oceanics Co., Ltd. Oct. 28, 2011 Overseas Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Haier (Qingdao) Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 14, 1998 MHI Equipment Europe B.V. Nov. 9, 2001 Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. Jul. 25, 2002 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Climate Control Inc. Jun. 12, 2003 Thai Compressor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Jun. 27, 2003 Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas, Inc. Orlando Service Center Feb. 18, 2004 MHI Automotive Climate Control (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 11, 2005 CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. Dec. 1, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Korea Ltd. Dec. 17, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Mahajak Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 21, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Jinling Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Jan. 24, 2006 MHI Machine Tool (Hong Kong) Ltd. Mar. 30, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Hong Kong) Ltd. Apr. 5, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 5, 2006 MHI-Pornchai Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 17, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. Dec. 7, 2006 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Singapore Private Ltd. Jan. 21, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. (Headquarters,Tire Machinery Division) Oct. 15, 2007 Tire Machinery Division, Headquarters, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. Dec. 6, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Dec. 31, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Dongfang Gas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. May 14, 2008 MHI Equipment Alsace S.A.S Mar. 17, 2009 Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery South Asia Private Ltd. Jul. 14, 2010 Mitsubishi Power System Europe Ltd. Oct. 1, 2010 Mitsubishi Turbocharger Asia Co., Ltd. Dec. 22, 2010 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Precision Tools, Ltd. Mar. 27, 2012 88 Environmental Report / Environmental Management EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Location or companyname Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Daiya Building Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 21, 2005 Nuclear Development Co., Ltd. May 30, 2005 Yokohama Division, MHI Plant Engineering Co., Ltd. Oct. 31, 2005 Kyushu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd. Head office Jun. 11, 2008 Higashi Chugoku Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Oct. 15, 2009 Hiroji Center Co., Ltd. Jan. 29, 2010 K-EMS certification at MHI Group companies Location or companyname Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Seiryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Dec. 24, 2004 Kinki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 MHI Nuclear Engineering Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Nuclear Power Training Center, Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 MHI General Services Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Kobe Branch Mar. 24, 2005 Techno Data Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 27, 2006 Energis Co., Ltd. Mar. 23, 2006 Kamakura EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Location or companyname Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Shonan Monorail Co., Ltd. Apr. 4, 2007 MHI Group companies adopting M-EMS (based on ISO 14001) Location or companyname Date of issue (or registration) Domestic MHI Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., Yokohama Division Apr. 25, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Branch and Information & Communication Systems Business Apr. 26, 2005 Department Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Corporation May 13, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2005 Overseas Mitsubishi Engine North America, Inc. Jan. 19, 2007 MHI Group companies M-EMS EcoAction (based on EcoAction 21) Location or companyname Date of issue (or registration) Domestic Tokyo Office and Kobe Branch Office,Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Transportation Apr. 20, 2005 Equipment Engineering & Service Co., Ltd. Ryoin Co., Ltd., Sagamihara Branch Apr. 25, 2005 Shunjusha Ltd. Apr. 26, 2005 MHI Sagami High-tech Ltd. May 9, 2005 Hiroshima Dia System Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 MHI Marine Engineering, Ltd. May 16, 2005 Churyo Engineering Co., Ltd. May 16, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch, Minatomirai area May 16, 2005 MHI Aerospace Systems Corp. Jul. 12, 2005 Yokohama Division, MHI Control Systems Co., Ltd. Jul. 22, 2005 Ryosei Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 10, 2009 89 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Group companies within the scope of ISO 14001 accreditation of MHI works and plants Location or companyname Date of issue Names of works and plants which acquired ISO14001 (or registration) Domestic Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plastic Apr. 1, 2000 Iwatsuka Plant Technology Co., Ltd. Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Branch Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work MHI Aerospace Production Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Technologies, Ltd. Diamond Air Service Inc. Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shimonoseki Branch Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Kanmon Dock Service, Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Shimonoseki Ryoju Engineering Co., Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ltd. Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Nishi Branch Jan. 6, 2005 Iwatsuka Plant MHI Machine Tool Engineering Co., Feb. 25, 2005 Machine Tool Ltd. Ryoin Co., Ltd., Ritto Branch Feb. 25, 2005 Machine Tool MHI Aero Engine Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works MHI Logitec Co., Ltd. Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works MHI Diesel Service Engineering Co., May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Ltd. Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Ltd. Sanshin-Tec. Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Co., Ltd. Ryoin Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch, May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Yokosei area Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Branch MHI Energy & Service Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works MHI Power Systems Inspection May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Technologies, Ltd., Takasago Division Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Construction Co., Ltd., Power Systems Service Headquarters Takasago Division, MHI Plant May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Engineering Co., Ltd. Takasago Division, MHI Control May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Systems Co., Ltd. Ryoin Co., Ltd., Takasago Branch May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Ltd., Takasago Division Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machinery Jun 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Technology Corp. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Jun 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Construction Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery, Jun 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Inc. Ryoin Co., Ltd., Hiroshima Branch Jun 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Sagami Logistics & Service Co., Ltd. Sep. 13, 2005 General Machinery & Special Vehicles Choryo Senpaku Kouji Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagasaki Branch Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Power Systems Inspection Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Technologies, Ltd., Nagasaki Division Kowa Kogyo Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Division, MHI Control Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Systems Co., Ltd. Nagasaki Division, MHI Plant Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Engineering Co., Ltd. MHI Maritech, Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Choryo Software Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machine Jan. 13, 2006 Machine Tool Tool Sales Co., Ltd. Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Department of Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Facilities Management Service Tamachi Bldg. Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Building Management Center MHI Personnel, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office MHI Accounting Service, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office MHI Finance Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Daiya PR Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Diamond Air Service Inc., Tokyo Office Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office E-Techno, Ltd. May 12, 2006 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Choryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Aug. 21, 2006 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Aug. 2, 2007 Hiroshima Machinery Works Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Apr. 9, 2008 Takasago Machinery Works Takasago Branch Shinryo System Corp. May 1, 2008 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Diamond Staff Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Ryoko Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ryoin Co., Ltd., Mihara Branch Oct. 15, 2009 Mihara Machinery Works Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Oct. 19, 2009 Head Office Building Service Department Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Oct. 14, 2010 Hiroshima Machinery Works Compressor Corporation Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Printing & Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Packaging Machinery, Ltd. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Transportation Equipment Engineering & Service Co., Ltd. Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Oct. 14, 2011 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Tokyo Office, Mitsubishi Aircraft Oct. 14, 2011 Head Office Corporation Overseas MHI Industrial Engineering & Services Dec. 29, 2011 Yokohama Engineering Center, Engineering Private Ltd. Headquarters (Environmental & Chemical Plant Project Management Division) 90 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Targets and Progress Results of Promotional Efforts of Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets In fiscal 2002, MHI established its Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets, earlier than other heavy industry companies, and has made efforts to carry out environmental preservation activities. Moreover, in fiscal 2010 we extended the target for our activities to the end of fiscal 2012 with the aim of establishing environmental targets for the following period, based on the MHI Environmental Vision 2030 (which was established in June 2012). As a result we have been able to achieve our targets for many items, including the realization of a low-carbon society and formation of a recycling-based society. We were unable to achieve our targets related to total generated waste, landfill disposal amount, chemical substance emissions, and energy conservation and reduced CO2 emissions from product transportation. However, we will continue working to achieve these targets through initiatives such as incorporating them into environmental targets for the next period. Results of Promotional Efforts of Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets (as of the end of Fiscal 2012) (Note) =target achieved =target partially achieved =requires further efforts Item Goals Progress Evaluation (as of the end of FY2012) Realization Reduced 6% reduction of the average CO2 CO2 emissions: of a CO2 emission amount for the five years 452,000 tons low-carbon emissions from FY2008 to 2012 (from FY1990 (average) society from level): to be achieved through 4.1% reduction from business reduction efforts at all production FY1990 level Energy activities plants The amount that has savings not been achieved (global will be allocated as warming emission credits. measure) More than 13% reduction of the CO2 emissions: average CO2 emission amount for 13,500 tons (average the five years from FY2008 to 2012 of head office (from FY2005 level): to be [Shinagawa and achieved through reduction efforts Yokohama combined] at offices and operations divisions from FY2008 to (Head Office, domestic offices and FY2011) research & development centers) 16.1% reduction from FY2005 level Reduced More than 5% reduction of unit FY2012 unit energy energy usage energy consumption in consumption of 51.0 and CO2 transportation in FY2012 (from 11.6% increase on emissions FY2008 level) by promoting efforts from FY2008 level from product to reduce transportation energy transportation (unit energy consumption of FY2008: 45.7 to 43.4 by FY2012) 91 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Item Goals Progress Evaluation (as of the end of FY2012) Form a Reduced By FY2012, reduce total Total emissions: recycling-based waste generated waste by 40% of 132,000 tons society generation FY1992 level : to be achieved 39.0% reduction and by conserving resources and from FY1992 level (waste and water emissions reducing the purchase of resource materials countermeasures) Reducing By FY2012, cut landfill waste landfill waste reliance on disposal volume by 98% disposal volume cut landfill relative to FY2000 by 97.5% The landfill waste disposal landfill waste ratio in FY2012 will be below disposal ratio 0.5% 1% More Water consumption in Water consumption efficient FY2012 will be cut to 9.35 reduced to 7.02 water usage million tons, a reduction of 2% million tons relative to average 26.3% reduction consumption of 9.54 million tons in the period FY2005 to FY2007 Management of Elimination Detoxification of high Ongoing chemical of equipment concentration PCB waste in consignment of (To be substances using PCBs storage (transformers, processing of high evaluated and condensers, oils) to be concentrations PCB in (control of detoxification completed by FY2015 waste to JESCO FY2015) chemical treatment (including ballasts and (Japan substances) smaller equipment) Environmental Safety Corporation) Analysis and confirmation of Testing and analysis low PCB devices (low of machines and concentration) to be finished devices containing by FY2012, complete low or trace detoxification by FY2015 concentrations of PCBs is underway at all works Reduced More than 30% reduction of Total VOCs VOCs atmospheric emission of emissions 1,782 emissions VOCs with focus on xylene, tons (definitive value toluene and ethylbenzene in FY2011) (reduced by 704 tons from 21.4% reduction 2,268 tons in FY2000 to from FY2000 level 1,564 tons in FY2012) Aim for zero atmospheric Total combined emissions by FY2012 of VOC emissions of organochlorinated hazardous dichloromethane, air pollutants: trichloroethylene dichloromethane, and trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene tetrachloroethylene = 8.8 tons 92 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Item Goals Progress Evaluation (as of the end of FY2012) Group Consolidated Ongoing ISO 14001 renewal by Continued ISO environmental environmental domestic works, Head Office, 14001 certification management management branch offices and research & renewal at system development centers domestic production bases along with research & development centers, Head Office, and domestic branch offices. Collecting and Collecting environmental Collected disclosing of information (environmental data environmental environmental and environmental accounting) information management from environmental (environmental information management information data and systems and disclosing environmental information through CSR accounting) Reports and other releases through the database system and disclosing information through this CSR Report Promotion of Promoting the purchase of 95.0% by quantity green environmentally friendly 97.2% by value purchasing products based on the company's own green purchasing guidelines (Purchasing ratios: 90% by volume and 95% by value) Development Development and provision of MHI supplied and provision new products and technology environmental of based on our Basic Guideline on products designed environmentally Production of Environmentally to combat global friendly Friendly Products (formulated in warming, such as technologies 2005) to help reduce society's high-efficiency and products environmental burden generators (wind In particular, we will work to power generators, develop technology and provide etc.) and CO2 products that are revolutionary recovery systems and contribute to solving global warming and building a low-carbon society 93 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Item Goals Progress Evaluation (as of the end of FY2012) Form a Promote We will continue revegetation, alien Revegetation society that activities fish removal, building biotopes and activities coexists for the breeding Japanese honeybees, coordinated with with nature protection among other activities relating to various local (Preserving of biodiversity and examine the municipal authorities biodiversity) biodiversity possibilities for evaluating the effect across Japan, as and nature of our business activities on the well as biotope and preservation of biodiversity as Japanese honeybee necessary in light of global trends. breeding programs were continued. Performed evaluations of MHI's degree of initiatives in consideration of biodiversity in its current corporate activities. (Note) In principle, all the data represents data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. Establishment of Second MHI Group Environmental Targets In line with the MHI Environmental Vision 2030, which was established in June 2012, the Environment Committee established the Second MHI Group Environmental Targets to be achieved by the end of fiscal 2014. The Environmental Vision lists four categories of environmentally conscious production activities to be addressed : (1) Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, (2) Reduction in waste generation, (3) Reduction in emissions of chemical substances, and (4) More efficient water usage. For the purpose of promoting these activities throughout the MHI Group, the committee has set separate detailed targets for MHI and the MHI Group, individually attuned to the actual circumstances of each activity. The entire MHI Group will make efforts to achieve these targets. A common request from society is for CO2 reductions and biodiversity considerations in the supply chain. In response to this, MHI decided to launch the MHI Supplementary Action Plan for the Second Environmental Targets (to be promoted in conjunction with the Second Environmental Targets). 94 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Second MHI Group Environmental Targets (FY2013-FY2014) Category Item Scope of target New target (FY2013-FY2014) Reduction in Reduction in CO2 Production bases [Production bases in Japan] greenhouse gas emissions in Japan Reduce unit energy consumption emissions by 3.5% every year. (Item contained in Offices in Japan [Offices in Japan] Reduce unit Environmental Vision) (Head Office, energy consumption by 1% every branch offices, year. etc.) Group companies [Group companies in Japan] in Japan Reduce the unit energy consumption of main manufacturing companies to below FY2012 levels. Group companies [Group companies in countries in countries other other than Japan] Reduce the than Japan unit energy consumption of main manufacturing companies to below FY2012 levels. Reduction in Production bases [Production bases in Japan] greenhouse gases in Japan Reduce unit greenhouse gas (except CO2) (Note 1) emissions to below FY2012 levels. (Note 1) Excluding CO2 emissions from energy use. CO2 Reductions All companies Promote the manufacture of with MHI Product (promoted by environmentally friendly Usage Head Office) products, and report every year on the contribution to CO2 reductions through the use of products sold. Reduction in waste Reduction in total Production bases [Production bases in Japan] generation waste generation in Japan Reduce total waste generated (Item contained in in FY2014 by 40% compared Environmental Vision) to FY1992. Reduction in Production bases [Production bases in Japan] volume of landfill in Japan Reduce volume of landfill waste waste in FY2014 by 98% compared to FY2000. Group companies [Group companies in Japan] in Japan Reduce volume of landfill waste by main manufacturing companies in FY2014 to below FY2012 levels. Reduction in Production bases [Production bases in Japan] landfill disposal in Japan Ensure that landfill disposal ratio ratio in FY2014 at all works and business segments is less than 0.5%. 95 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Category Item Scope of target New target (FY2013-FY2014) Reduction in emissions Reduction in VOC Production bases [Production bases in Japan] of chemical substances emissions in Japan Reduce the atmospheric (Item contained in emissions of VOC (xylene, Environmental Vision) toluene and ethylbenzene) in FY2014 by more than 30% compared to FY2000. Zero atmospheric Production bases [Production bases in Japan] emissions of in Japan Eliminate all atmospheric organochlorinated emissions (Note 2) of hazardous air dichloromethane, pollutants trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene by FY2014. (Note 2) Except for use in research and testing purposes. Group companies [Group companies in Japan] in Japan Reduce atmospheric emissions (Note 2) of dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene by main manufacturing companies in FY2014 to below FY2012 levels. (Note 2) Except for use in research and testing purposes. More efficient water Reduction in Production bases [Production bases in Japan] usage water usage in Japan Reduce unit water consumption (Item contained in by 1% every year. Environmental Vision) (water: industrial water, tap water, groundwater, rivers, lakes; excluding seawater). Group companies [Group companies in Japan] in Japan Reduce unit water consumption of main manufacturing companies in FY2014 to below FY2012 levels. (water: industrial water, tap water, groundwater, rivers, lakes; excluding seawater). Group companies [Group companies in countries in countries other other than Japan] Reduce unit than Japan water consumption of main manufacturing companies in FY2014 to below FY2012 levels. (water: industrial water, tap water, groundwater, rivers, lakes; excluding seawater). 96 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress MHI Supplementary Action Plan for the Second Environmental Targets (to be promoted in conjunction with the Second Environmental Targets) Category Item Scope of target Action plan (FY2013-FY2014) Reduction in Reduction in CO2 Head Office Commence study on the amount greenhouse gas emissions in the (performed by of CO2 emitted along the supply emissions supply chain Head Office) chain. Biodiversity Biodiversity Entire company Incorporate biodiversity principles considerations education (excluding Group into environmental education. (Item not contained in companies) Environmental Vision) Biodiversity Head Office Commence study on initiatives considerations in (performed by for biodiversity in the supply the supply chain Head Office) chain. 97 Environmental Report / Material Balance Material Balance To carry out its business operations, MHI uses various types of energy and resources. We consistently strive to reduce environmental load throughout the lifecycle of a product, from development, design, procurement and manufacture to distribution, on-site installation, usage, servicing and disposal. Input/Output Status (FY2012) (In principle, all the data represents data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated.) 98 Environmental Report / Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Adoption of Environmental Accounting Guidelines MHI quantitatively monitors investments and costs for environment preservation as part of the performance reviews of the company's business activities and also calculates the relative benefits of these efforts. The company refers to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines published by the Ministry of the Environment. 10.5 billion yen in investments and 12.9 billion yen in costs Total investments amounted to 10.5 billion yen while total costs were 12.9 billion yen for fiscal 2012. The investment increased in comparison with fiscal 2011. The main cause was the increased development costs of environment-related products. Economic advantages valued at 1.7 billion yen were gained during the fiscal year, consisting mainly of revenues from recycling and reduced costs for purchasing electricity due to energy savings. Environmental preservation: costs and economic benefit (In principle, all the data represents data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated.) (million yen) Cost Category Activities in Investment Cost Economic benefit Environmental FY2012 preservation: 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Description benefit 1. Production 5,292 4,217 6,002 6,079 1,694 1,744 activities (1) Pollution Maintenance 3,750 1,936 3,168 3,304 4 Reduced control and operation emissions of of wastewater air and water and flue gas pollutants treatment facility (2) Global Energy 1,495 2,051 336 291 149 165 Cost Reduced environmental savings reduction energy input preservation from energy savings (3) Recycling Reduced 47 140 2,498 2,484 1,545 1,574 Income waste derived generation, from recycling recycling, cost reduction from reduced waste generation 2. Upstream Recycling of 9 8 and household downstream electrical costs appliances and container packaging 99 Environmental Report / Environmental Accounting Cost Category Activities in Investment Cost Economic benefit Environmental FY2012 preservation: 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Description benefit 3. Development of 8 67 1,093 1,008 Management environmental activities management systems, ISO Office, publication of MHI Social & Environmental Report 4. R & D Development of 417 5,842 6,890 5,423 Development of environmentally Diverse friendly environmentally products friendly products 5. Public and Support of 0 1 326 272 social environmental activities preservation: initiatives, greening activities 6. Soil 447 416 131 89 Prevention of Environmental remediation oil and remediation measures chemicals spills Total 6,164 10,452 14,451 12,879 1,694 1,744 1 Total capital investments in fiscal 2012: 79.7 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 10.5 billion yen (13.1 percent). 2 Total R&D outlays in fiscal 2012: 104.3 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 11.3 billion yen (10.8 percent). 100 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures Promoting CO2 Emissions Reduction at Production Plants In fiscal 2012, MHI's CO2 emissions resulting from energy use were 425,000 tons. Factors, in addition to the CO2 reduction measures used up till that time, included energy-conservation measures undertaken by the entire company after the Great East Japan Earthquake. Compared to our benchmark year of fiscal 1990 (472,000 tons), this represents a 9.8 percent reduction, thus achieving our single-year target decrease of 6 percent for the third year in a row. Meanwhile, with respect to the company-wide target of an average 6 percent reduction against the benchmark year of fiscal 1990 over the five-year period from fiscal 2008 to 2012, MHI's five-year average CO2 emissions were 452,000 tons. This represents only about a 4.1 percent reduction compared to fiscal 1990, and thus the target was not attained. MHI plans to appropriate UN-approved emission credits for the unattained portion (a shortfall in reduction of approximately 45,000 tons). MHI will continue to strive for further reductions, such as by steadily expanding the introduction of energy monitoring systems and energy-saving lighting, and updating to energy-saving air conditioners as outlined in its plan for updating in-house air-conditioners formulated in November 2010. CO2 emissions (Note) Note: In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Average from 2008 to2012 (target) 472,000t 513,000t 449,000t 435,000t 437,000t 425,000t 443,000t 101 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Gross energy input (Note 1) (Note 1) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 11,145TJ 10,065TJ 10,022TJ 9,950TJ 9,745TJ (Note 2) 1 TJ (terajoule) = 1 trillion joules (1,000,000,000,000 J) Electricity purchases (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 857,030MWh 757,335MWh 766,802MWh 731,045MWh 712,456MWh 102 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Switching to alternative types of fuel at works and Group companies MHI is making efforts to switch to LNG or city gas, which when burned produce small amounts of CO2 emissions compared to heavy oil or kerosene, as fuel for its boilers and other equipment. For example, at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works the switch to alternative types of fuel was carried out systematically from fiscal 2007 to 2010. At the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works and Hiroshima Machinery Works, fuel switching was implemented in order to reduce CO2 emissions. FY Works Achievements 2005 Takasago Machinery The fuel for the forging heating furnace was switched from propane Works to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 55 percent, including waste heat recovery. 2007 Nagasaki Shipyard & The boiler plant's three heat treatment furnaces were switched from Machinery Works Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 40 percent. 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & The boiler plant's annealing furnace was switched from kerosene to Machinery Works LPG. CO2 emissions were reduced by nine percent. 2010 Nagasaki Shipyard & ⋅Together with facility renewal for the foundry plant's air Machinery Works compressor, a switch was made from the engine-driven type that used Heavy Fuel Oil A to the electric motor type. CO2 emissions were reduced by 54 percent. ⋅The private generation facilities were switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 31 percent. 2011 Nagoya Aerospace Together with the renewal of the boiler for air conditioning, the fuel Systems Works was switched from kerosene to city gas. CO2 emissions were (Tobishima Plant) reduced by approximately 45 percent. Hiroshima Machinery ⋅The tempering furnace was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city Works (Foundry & gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 26 percent. Forging Shop) ⋅The heating furnace was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 30 percent. ⋅The gas tempering furnace was switched from butane to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 17 percent. 2012 Hiroshima Machinery The ladle preheater was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. Works (Foundry & CO2 emissions were reduced by 10 percent. Forging Shop) 103 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Takasago Machinery Works receives ECCJ Chairman Prize In fiscal 2012, the Takasago Machinery Works won the ECCJ Chairman Prize as part of the Energy Conservation Grand Prize,(Note) a competition organized by the Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) with support from the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. The theme of its entry was Drastic reductions in fixed energy consumption begin with plant assessment (energy efficiency improvements for air-conditioning and ventilation systems used in office buildings). This splendid achievement of receiving the prize in the Energy Conservation Examples category was a first for MHI. In 2004, a plant assessment was carried out on the Takasago Machinery Works by the Kinki Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry. The assessment revealed that fixed energy consumption, such as for air conditioning and lighting, accounted for about 40 percent of its total energy consumption. Taking this opportunity, the Environment & Facilities Management Section at the works led the way in measures for the office buildings within the works. In addition to having equipment installed for monitoring energy usage and the operating conditions of air-conditioning equipment, it also had ventilation facilities renovated, and introduced adaptive control for related equipment, including controlling the number of heat source units. As a result of building a system for total optimization, a considerable energy-saving effect was achieved, and this was recognized by this prize. (Note) Energy Conservation Grand Prize：Designed to help spread awareness for energy conservation and popularize energy-saving products, by awarding examples of excellent energy conservation activities and advanced energy-saving products achieved by technological development. The program is currently divided into two categories: Products and Business Models, and Energy Conservation Examples. Awards received for air-conditioners, televisions and other household appliances in the Products category are generally well known. Award ceremony for the ECCJ Chairman Prize Left: Kuniyuki Sakata (employee at Takasago Machinery Works), Right: Yasuo Nagashima (Deputy Head of Takasago Machinery Works) 104 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming One million kWh of green power used annually thanks to wind power generation MHI has contracted with Japan Natural Energy Co., Ltd. (JNE) to purchase 1 M kWh of wind-generated power from JNE each year for a period of 15 years starting April 2002. Of the power purchased in fiscal 2012, 481,000 kWh were used at the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, and 484,000 kWh were used at the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum. The Certificate of Green Power Greenhouse gas emissions, excluding CO2 emissions from energy use MHI has been compiling data on greenhouse gas emissions (excluding CO2 emissions from energy use) since fiscal 2006 under the system enforced in fiscal 2006 for calculating, reporting and publishing greenhouse gas emission amounts. The actual emission amount for fiscal 2012 was 1,000 tons. (In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated.) Greenhouse gas emissions (excluding CO2 emissions from energy use) (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. Hydrofluorocarbon (HFC) 34.5% 491t Dinitrogen monoxide (N2O) 28.6% 406t Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) 25.6% 364t Methane (CH4) 7.0% 100t CO2 emissions not resulting from energy use 4.3% 61t 105 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Acquisition of approx. 130,000 tons of CO2 emission credits from a CDM project MHI plans to utilize emission rights to ensure that its CO2 emission reduction targets are reliably met. MHI has concluded emission rights purchasing agreements with four projects undertaken by Kyoto Mechanisms JI (Joint Implementation) (Note 1) and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) (Note 2). Among these four projects, in April 2012 MHI acquired approximately 130,000 tons of emission credits through a CDM hydroelectric power generation project at the Xiadongxia in Fujian Province, China, the agreement for which was signed in 2007. Although these emission credits are currently being administered in an MHI holding account, since they will be applied to the shortfall in MHI's target reduction in CO2 emissions, they will be transferred to a government retirement account without compensation. The transferred emission credits will be added to Japan's greenhouse gas reduction volume. (Note 1) JI: System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in advanced countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. (Note 2) CDM: System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in developing countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. 106 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transportation Promotion of energy-conservation in transportation through modal shift and load ratio improvement MHI, which handles cargo transportation of over 30 million ton-km per year, is a specified consigner according to the revised Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. For that reason, MHI is implementing an action plan towards energy conservation during transportation, such as by promoting modal shifts at works and improving load ratios. MHI is also working to streamline this plan, energy consumption, and consumption measured in basic units for energy. Energy consumption (measured in basic units for energy) in fiscal 2012 was 51 units, a 11.6 percent increase from the amount of 45.7 units in the benchmark year of fiscal 2008. Total Volume of Transportation Total Volume of Transportation FY 2010 2011 2012 109,327,000tk 120,899,000tk 144,781,000tk 107 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Energy consumption and CO2 emissions (Note) 1 GJ (gigajoule) = 1,000 MJ (megajoules) Energy consumption and CO2 emissions FY 2010 2011 2012 Total energy consumption 193,641GJ 211,102GJ 256,277GJ Total CO2 emissions 12,845t-CO2 14,562t-CO2 17,510t-CO2 108 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Energy-saving Activities in Offices Promoting Cool Biz and Warm Biz MHI promotes an energy-saving dress code known as Cool Biz during the summer (office air-conditioning systems are set to 28°C and employees do not need to wear neckties) and Warm Biz during the winter (office air-conditioning systems are set to 20°C and employees are encouraged to bring an extra layer of clothing). Implementing summer and winter power-saving measures Again in fiscal 2012, in response to the power shortages following the Great East Japan Earthquake, MHI implemented power-saving measures in summer (July 2 – September 7) at 14 sites served by the Kyushu, Chugoku, Kansai, Chubu and Tokyo electric power companies. Reduction targets for maximum power consumption were set in each region, and various measures were taken, such as running in-house power generation facilities and adjusting operating times for facilities that consume a lot of electricity. As a result of these efforts, all of the relevant sites achieved their energy-saving targets, and the total purchased electricity was reduced by 10.1 percent compared to the same period as the previous year. Following the summer, MHI also conducted energy-saving activities during winter (December 3, 2012 March 29, 2013). By continuing its efforts to cut down on electricity consumption, MHI will cooperate in resolving the power shortage. Energy-saving targets and key measures in fiscal 2012 Sites Summer energyWinter energyKey measures saving target saving target (rate of reduction) (rate of reduction) (Note 1) (Note 2) 1 site served by the 10 percent 4.5 percent Run in-house power Kyushu Electric Power generation facilities Company Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works: 5,630kW 3 sites served by the 5 percent 1.5 percent Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Chugoku Electric Works: 3,600kW Power Company Yokohama Dockyard & 3 sites served by the 15 percent 5.6 percent Machinery Works: 5,500kW Kansai Electric Power Sagamihara Machinery Company Works: 10,745kW 4 sites served by the 5 percent 2.8 percent Adjust operating times for Chubu Electric Power facilities Company Operate at night and on holidays 4 sites served by the 10 percent 5.0 percent Tokyo Electric Power Company (Note 1) Outside the region served by the Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), MHI set targets based on requests from the government and the relevant electric power company. Inside the region served by TEPCO, MHI set its own targets. In each case, the standard value is the maximum power consumption for July to September in 2010. (Note 2) MHI set targets based on the expected government values for reasonable power savings. The standard value is the maximum power consumption for December 2010 to March 2011. 109 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012) CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012) Sector CO2 Basis of calculation Remarks reduction (thousand tons) Power plant 25,506 Estimates based on MHI's Thermal plants (combined, actual delivery record in conventional), nuclear plants, FY2012, compared with photovoltaic, wind turbine and FY1990. geothermal power generation, The estimate for nuclear etc. power is based on actual output generated in FY2012 by plants provided by MHI. Transportation 2,228 Estimates based on MHI's Ships, transportation systems, actual delivery record in etc. FY2012, compared with FY1990. Mass and 1,458 Estimates based on MHI's Air-conditioners, centrifugal medium-lot actual delivery record in chillers, gas engines, forklift manufactured FY2012, compared with trucks, etc. products FY1990. Data for fiscal 1990 is calculated based on the IEA's (International Energy Agency's) World Energy Outlook 2012 MHI is working to create a low-carbon society across a broad spectrum of fields, including large-scale power generation technologies such as highly efficient thermal power generation plants and nuclear power plants; power generation systems that utilize wind, geothermal, and other renewable energies; ships and transportation systems for improving the efficiency of the transportation sector; and high energy-saving hybrid forklift trucks and air-conditioning systems that use heat pump technology. CO2 reductions from the fiscal 1990 level through the use of MHI's products in fiscal 2012 came to about 30 million tons. The amount was down by 40 million tons compared to fiscal 2011. The main reasons for this included the nuclear power plants that were stopped after regular inspections due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. The power generation sector, which accounts for nearly 40 percent of CO2 emissions, has the potential for reducing emissions by about 5,000 million tons, assuming our latest technologies at the top international level would be deployed across the world. Going forward, MHI will continue to conduct business by maximizing its comprehensive strengths to further reduce the global environmental load. 110 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming CO2 reduction potential assuming MHI products are introduced globally As an example, we estimated the potential CO2 reduction if MHI products were introduced globally. We will continue working so that MHI's activities may serve to realize further contributions in the area of global warming. 111 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal Promoting the reduction of landfill disposal volumes at all works MHI met its target by achieving zero emissions at all 13 works in fiscal 2010. In addition to our target of conserving resources and promoting restraint in purchasing materials to reduce the total amount of waste produced by 40 percent in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 1992, we have set two targets: reducing the landfill disposal volume in fiscal 2012 by 98 percent compared to fiscal 2000, and achieving the landfill disposal ratio of one percent or less in fiscal 2012. MHI took actions to achieve these targets. In fiscal 2012, the last year of the goal, the landfill disposal volume was reduced by 97.5 percent compared to fiscal 2000—barely missing the target figure—and an average landfill disposal ratio of 0.5 percent was achieved for the entire company. Efforts will be made in fiscal 2013 and beyond to achieve even further reductions in landfill disposal volumes. Achievement of landfill disposal ratios of one percent or less Works Landfill disposal ratio (percent) Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.7 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.7 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.01 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works 0.1 Takasago Machinery Works 0.1 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 0.3 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works 0.5 Hiroshima Machinery Works 0.004 Mihara Machinery Works 0.1 General Machinery & Special Vehicles 0.1 Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems 0.5 Machine Tool 0.8 Iwatsuka Plant 0.2 112 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Landfill disposal volume/ratio (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY FY2000 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2012 Target Landfill disposal volume 23,884t 1,030t 714t 602t 478t 23,884 tons 1,030 tons 714 tons 602 tons 478 tons Landfill disposal ratio 12.6% 0.8% 0.6% 0.5% 1.0% Waste generation volumes and recycling rate (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY FY1992 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Generation 216,000 151,000 131,000 133,000 129,000 132,000 volume tons tons tons tons tons tons Recycling rate 83% 89% 90% 90% 88% 113 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Waste generation by material Scrap metal 59.6% Acid and alkali wastes 7.3% Waste wood 7.0% Slag 6.1% Waste plastic 5.4% Waste oil 4.6% Waste paper 4.4% Sludge 4.3% Other 1.3% Paper usage (including Head Office usage amount) (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Paper usage 3,536t 2,950t 2,718t 2,719t 2,563t 114 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Using Electronic Manifests (e-manifests) Completing the introduction of e-manifests throughout the entire company MHI made efforts based on its policy of introducing e-manifests at all works including the Head Office over the three-year period between fiscal 2009 and 2011. In fiscal 2011, the introduction of e-manifests was completed throughout the entire company. E-manifests are a means to fulfill our responsibility as waste producers to prevent illegal dumping. By digitalizing waste disposal manifests, a better understanding of the flow of outsourced waste disposal can be achieved. MHI introduced a waste management system at all its sites in 2008 that includes management of data such as permissions for waste management operators and their expiry dates. In 2009, all MHI sites registered with the Electronic Manifest System (JWNET), which is stipulated by the Waste Management Act and managed by the Japan Industrial Waste Information Center. Our Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works began operations using e-manifests in November of that year. In fiscal 2010 JWNET was introduced at seven works, followed by activities to introduce JWNET at the remaining works in fiscal 2011. JWNET was introduced at all works by March 31, 2012. Conceptual scheme of e-manifest 115 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Protecting Water Resources Reducing water usage during production In fiscal 2010, MHI set a target to reduce its water usage (Note) to 9.35 million tons by fiscal 2012 — a 2 percent reduction compared to the average annual usage (9.52 million tons) from fiscal 2005 to 2007. After making reduction efforts at each works and business segments, the target was met in fiscal 2012 when the usage amount was cut by 26.3 percent to 7.02 million tons. As an example of measures to reduce water usage, water usage was reduced at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works by employing a coolant purification system when renovating the compressors. At Takasago Machinery Works, old pipes are regularly replaced, leading to large reductions in water usage. (Note) Water usage: Total volume of water supply, industrial water, and groundwater Water usage and reduction ratio (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2005-2007 2010 2011 2012 2012 target average Usage amount 9,520,000t 7,660,000t 7,220,000t 7,020,000t 9,350,000t 116 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Water usage and discharge (Note) (Note) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. FY 2009 2010 2011 2012 Water supply 2,762,000t 2,656,000t 2,495,000t 2,241,000t Industrial water 3,871,000t 3,058,000t 2,732,000t 2,774,000t Groundwater 1,858,000t 1,947,000t 1,996,000t 2,005,000t Other 2,268,000t 2,410,000t 2,043,000t 2,763,000t Total usage amount 10,759,000t 10,071,000t 9,266,000t 9,783,000t Discharged into public waters 8,554,000t 8,291,000t 8,133,000t 8,261,000t Discharged into sewer system 573,000t 620,000t 527,000t 472,000t Total discharge amount 9,127,000t 8,911,000t 8,661,000t 8,733,000t Recycled water usage Recycled water usage by all of MHI in fiscal 2012 was 567,000 tons, a 132,000 ton decrease from 699,000 tons in fiscal 2011. Recycled water is used to cool down products and equipment in manufacturing processes, to clean office floors and restrooms, and for landscaping use at works. We will investigate more methods for utilizing recycled water—including at works where recycled water use is under employed—and make efforts to reduce our water usage. 117 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives Promoting the reduction of substances subject to the PRTR system In fiscal 2012, MHI released a total of 1,816 tons of substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) (Note 1) system (Note 2). Roughly 98 percent of these emissions consisted of xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene, which are primarily used in painting and cleaning applications. Xylene is used for painting ships, and its usage is typically specified by ship owners. It is therefore difficult to use an alternative substance, making reducing the amount of xylene a challenge. In the future MHI will continue promoting the adoption of alternative products (such as water-based paint) and steadily carry out activities to reduce the usage of substances subject to the PRTR system. (Note 1) PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register): The PRTR system requires publication of the sources and emission volume of toxic chemical substances and the amounts of such substances removed from manufacturing plants. The system is provided for under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. (Note 2) In principle, these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. PRTR emission and transfer amount PRTR emission and transfer amount of environmental pollutants [The PRTR system data under the amendment of Cabinet Order for Enforcement of the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof ] (Note 1) (Unit: t) No. Name of Substance FY2011 FY2012 Emission Transfer Emission Transfer Amount Amount Amount Amount 20 2-Aminoethanol 0.1 3.2 0.1 2.1 53 Ethylbenzene 340.0 27.6 314.7 21.6 57 Ethylene glycol monoethyl ether 6.7 0.2 5.1 0.2 58 Ethylene glycol monomethyl ether 5.2 0.3 71 Ferric chloride 0.0 0.6 0.0 2.0 80 Xylene 948.9 87.8 904.0 60.3 82 Silver and its water-soluble compounds 87 Chromium and chromium(III) 0.3 10.7 0.0 14.6 compounds 88 Chromium(VI) compounds 0.0 10.2 0.0 11.9 (Note 2) 104 Chlorodifluoromethane 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 (HCFC-22) 132 Cobalt and its compounds 0.5 6.2 0.0 8.1 118 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances No. Name of Substance FY2011 FY2012 Emission Transfer Emission Transfer Amount Amount Amount Amount 133 2-Ethoxyethyl acetate 5.8 0.2 4.4 0.2 181 Dichlorobenzene 0.0 1.6 0.0 1.6 185 Dichloropentafluoropropane 4.5 1.6 (HCFC-225) 186 Dichloromethane 0.3 2.7 0.2 2.0 188 N,N-Dicyclohexylamine 0.0 5.1 0.0 4.2 238 Hydrogenated terphenyl 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.5 240 Styrene 14.5 0.0 11.5 0.0 243 Dioxins (Note 3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (Note 2) 262 Tetrachloroethylene 9.8 30.7 8.4 1.7 281 Trichloroethylene 0.9 24.0 296 1,2,4-Trimethylbenzene 1.7 0.2 1.7 0.1 297 1,3,5-Trimethylbenzene 4.9 1.6 2.4 1.0 300 Toluene 637.7 69.5 552.9 36.6 304 Lead 0.0 0.0 308 Nickel 0.2 8.1 0.0 9.9 333 Hydrazine 0.0 0.0 1.2 0.1 336 Hydroquinone 0.0 2.3 349 Phenol 1.5 0.0 374 Hydrogen fluoride and its water0.0 0.0 0.0 10.8 soluble salts 384 1-Bromopropane 2.8 0.7 4.4 1.5 392 n-Hexane 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.5 400 Benzene 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (Note 2) 408 Poly(oxyethylene)octylphenyl ether 0.0 0.0 3.1 0.0 410 Poly(oxyethylene)nonylphenyl ether 1.8 0.0 412 Manganese and its compounds 0.0 4.7 0.0 7.1 438 Methylnaphthalene 0.0 0.0 448 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene) 0.0 29.3 0.0 5.7 diisocyanate 453 Molybdenum and its compounds 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 (Note 1) In principle, all these data represent production sites data of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. non-consolidated. (Note 2): For designated Class 1 specified chemical substances (marked with a star), records are for substances whose annual transaction amount is 0.5 tons or more. For other Class 1 specified chemical substances, records are for substances whose annual transaction amount was 1 ton or more. (Note 3): The unit of dioxins is mg-TEQd 119 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances Promotion of organochlorides reduction and replacement activities Dichloromethane, trichloroethylene, and tetrachloroethylene are used as paint removal agents and oil cleaning agents. MHI established a goal of achieving zero atmospheric emissions by fiscal 2012, and made efforts to reduce usage of these substances and switch to alternative substances. As a result, in fiscal 2011, the introduction of replacement equipment for cleaning equipment that used trichloroethylene was completed. Starting from fiscal 2012 we have been able to reduce the entire company's atmospheric emissions of trichloroethylene to zero. Meanwhile, MHI completed an evaluation of replacing dichloromethane with non-dichloromethane removal agents in fiscal 2008. The company implemented facility improvements for this replacement in fiscal 2009, and the replacement of this substance has been carried out sequentially from fiscal 2010. However, 0.4 tons of atmospheric emissions of dichloromethane remained in fiscal 2012. For tetrachloroethylene, an alternative agent has been selected and facilities for changing over to the alternative agent have been installed, but 8.4 tons of tetrachloroethylene emissions still remained in fiscal 2012. As a result, we were not able to achieve our goal of zero atmospheric emissions by fiscal 2012. We have therefore included the zero atmospheric emission target into the Second MHI Group Environmental Targets commenced in fiscal 2013 and will continue to work towards achieving this target. Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides FY 1996 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Dichloromethane 55.0t 23.7t 18.6t 8.9t 0.6t 0.4t Trichloroethylene 54.2t 0.6t 2.1t 0.7t 0.9t 0.0t Tetrachloroethylene 153.0t 11.5t 6.6t 9.1t 9.9t 8.4t Total 262.2t 35.8t 27.3t 18.7t 11.4t 8.8t Voluntary targets for the reduction of VOCs atmospheric emissions Emissions of VOCs, which are causal agents of photochemical smog, are regulated for facilities that release a given volume of these substances under the Air Pollution Control Law. In addition to legal and regulatory compliance, MHI set a voluntary target for decreasing atmospheric emissions of VOCs in fiscal 2012 by 30 percent from the fiscal 2000 level—focusing on xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene, which are emitted in large volumes—and worked to accomplish reductions. However, the emissions volume in fiscal 2012 was 1,782 tons, only a 21.4 percent decrease from the fiscal 2000 level, short of our target. We have therefore included the 30-percent target into the Second MHI Group Environmental Targets commenced in fiscal 2013 and will continue to work towards achieving this target. 120 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances Atmospheric emissions of VOCs FY 2000 2011 2012 2012 target Toluene 581t 638t 553t Xylene 1,504t 949t 905t Ethylbenzene 150t 341t 315t Organochlorides (Note) 32.9t 11.4t 8.8t Total 2,268t 1,939t 1,782t 1,564t (Note) Dichloromethane, Trichloroethylene, Tetrachloroethylene Promotion of outsourced disposal of equipment using PCBs As of March 2006, MHI had already registered the disposal of equipment using PCBs (Polychlorinated biphenyls) either currently in use or stored at its works, with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO), a special entity wholly funded by the Japanese government. The company also signed a consigning contract for disposal in 2007. By fiscal 2012, consigned disposal was undertaken at 12 sites (Note). However, according to the Law Concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste, even equipment which uses trace amounts of PCBs not disposed of by JESCO must be detoxified by March 2027. Therefore, MHI has begun disposal at Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works and six other works and business segments in fiscal 2012. (Note) MHI Head Office, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, Mihara Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems, Machine Tool, Iwatsuka Plant PCBs storage facilities at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works 121 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Main Products and Technologies in 2012 Promoting development of flue gas carbon capture and storage technology In its effort to help mitigate global warming, MHI is working on the development of a technology to capture CO2 from power plant and manufacturing plant flue gas and store it underground, a process called carbon capture and storage (CCS). MHI's CO2 capture technology employs a high-performance, energy efficient chemical absorption method using KS-1TM, a solvent jointly developed with Kansai Electric Power Co. MHI has the world's leading track record in commercial CO2 capture plants, having delivered since 1999 ten CO2 capture plants from natural gas or fuel oil fired boiler flue gas for chemical plant applications around the world, and one plant currently under construction. Also, as part of the U.S. Department of Energy's Regional Carbon Sequestration Partnership Phase III program, the company is working with Southern Company, on the plant constructed at Power Plant Barry in Alabama, a CO2 capture plant with a capacity of 500 metric tons of CO2 per day. Since June 2011, MHI has been conducting demonstration testing for capturing CO2 from coal-fired flue gas and storing it in a deep saline geologic formation. In February 2013, MHI's CO2 capture plant received the 2012 Environmental Business Award in the eco japan cup, an environmental business contest hosted by Environmental Businesswomen and Japan's Ministry of the Environment. The award was conferred after MHI gained recognition for its early success in commercializing a product that helps address the global warming problem and for making advances in CCS for coal-fired flue gas, a technology that is likely to see a large expansion in applications and demand going forward. CCS demonstration plant in the U.S. eco japan cup 2012 award ceremony 122 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact MALS installed on ferry vessel to verify energy benefit for marine transport As part of our effort to develop energy-saving technologies for vessels, we are expanding the application of the Mitsubishi Air Lubrication System (MALS), a technology we developed to reduce frictional resistance between the ship hull and seawater by introducing a layer of air bubbles blown from the ship's bottom. This effort includes developing systems for high-speed, slender vessels (Note), the hulls of which have little flat area, thus rendering the application of this technology more difficult. In September 2012, we installed MALS on a ferry operated by Japan's A-LINE Ferry Co., Ltd. and, testing the system under poor conditions with waves ranging from 2.5 to 3 meters high, confirmed that MALS improved fuel efficiency (reduced requisite propulsion power) by more than 5%. This energy-saving effect is about enough to compensate for the decrease in fuel efficiency caused by complying with more stringent NOx emission regulations that have gone into effect in Japan for diesel propulsion systems. As air bubbles also function as a cushion, MALS also reduces vibration and noise. (Note) Slender vessel: A vessel with a relatively small block coefficient (Cb). Cb = volume of water displacement divided by the volume of the block defined by a ship's length x breadth (width) x draft (depth to waterline). Computer illustration of air stream generated by MALS 123 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Demand response pilot tests conducted for smart community development As part of the Keihanna Eco City Next-Generation Energy and Social Systems Demonstration Project, MHI partnered with Kansai Electric Power Co. and Mitsubishi Electric Corporation in conducting the Wise Ways of Using Electricity Program at around 700 normal households from July to September 2012. The program was aimed at testing demand response (Note 1) mechanisms using information and communication technologies. Participating households were given a tablet device with which they could check their electricity use and receive requests to reduce consumption. Three critical peak pricing (CPP) (Note 2) packages were also set up, setting weekday electricity rates at double, triple, and quadruple times the standard rates, to determine their effect in curbing electricity demand. The results showed that a double rate reduced demand by 9.3%, a triple rate by 11.7%, and quadruple rate by 14.1%. The same program was conducted from December 2012 to February 2013, the results of which are currently under analysis to determine the program's effect in reducing power demand in winter and devise optimum strategies for supply-demand management. (Note 1) Reduction or a temporal shift in electricity use by end users in response to incentives from the electricity supplier aimed at curbing demand when power supply is reaching maximum output. (Note 2) Pricing scheme that increases the electricity rate during hours of peak power demand to discourage power use. Screenshot of a tablet device showing CPP warnings 124 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact MHI releases air-cooled heat pump module chiller boasting industry-leading energy efficiency In December 2012, MHI began sales of the Voxcel, an air-cooled heat pump module chiller (Note 1) that boasts leading energy efficiency in the heat source equipment industry (Note 2). A unique feature of the Voxcel is its ability to provide heating efficiently even in winter temperatures as low as -10°C, which it does by achieving a rated heating capacity of up to 50% higher than regular operation. This allows it to satisfy temporary spikes in heating demand—such as when there is a large temperature difference between interior and exterior spaces, or in early mornings or at other times when the building itself is cold—without the need for equipment expansion. Voxel is available in four models—30 HP, 40 HP, 50 HP, and 60 HP (67 kW–160 kW)—and, by connecting units (1 unit = 4 modules) in series, is expandable up to 120 units (maximum 7,200 HP, 19,200 kW). Moreover, central control of up to 120 units is possible by linking them to MHI's Ene-Conductor total heat source control system. Linking this system further to a MHI turbo chiller makes it possible to save energy on both heating and cooling, both supplied under optimum control as an integrated heat source system. (Note 1) General term for systems used as a heating and cooling heat source for large facilities, or for maintaining the temperature of equipment used in various industries (Note 2) MHI research as of November 9, 2012. Coefficient of performance (COP; a measure of energy efficiency) of 4.13 for cooling and 4.18 for heating (30 HP model) Voxcel air-cooled heat pump module chiller 125 三菱重工の責任と行動 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Social Contributions Report MHI maintains relationships with diverse populations in various regions and communities in the course of developing and manufacturing products and technologies that are essential for social infrastructures and industry as well as the day-to-day lives of people across the world. To fulfill its corporate responsibility as a social and public entity, MHI has been pursuing its business operations with due consideration for its diverse stakeholders. Commitment to Our Customers ................................................... 127 MHI’s creed: “We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to contribute to the advancement of society.” To establish enduring manufacturing capability and to serve as a truly global corporation, MHI promotes the supply of products and services that place priority on safety and quality. • Enhancing Product Safety • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) • Maintaining and Strengthening Defense Production and Technological Bases Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors ..... 135 MHI strives to forge relationships of trust with shareholders and investors by accurately and promptly disclosing information, and expanding opportunities and settings for communication. • Disclosure Principles and IR Activities • Share and Dividend Report • Inclusion of MHI in Eco-funds and SRI Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) ... 138 As a corporation that strives to be a leading company of manufacturing, MHI views its suppliers as key partners who provide the company with materials and services for producing products and who share the same desire for mutual prosperity. To remain competitive in a rapidly changing business environment, the company will work together to improve Monodzukuri capability throughout the entire value chain. • Fair Dealing • Promoting CSR Procurement • Procurement Education and Training Commitment to Our Employees ................................................ 143 Believing that human resources are the company's most important asset and that their growth leads to the development of the entire company, MHI is actively working to utilize and cultivate diverse human resources and build a better working environment in which employees can fully demonstrate their abilities. • Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources • Building a Better Working Environment • Forum 35 Social Contribution Activities ...................................................... 155 MHI is involved in a wide range of local community programs and youth programs, in line with the company’s policy on social contribution activities at the community level. In a bid to build closer relationships with local communities, MHI will soon be launching a new initiative that involves working with NPOs and other organizations to address social issues at the local level. • Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities • Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2012) • Examples of Social Contribution Activities (FY2012) • Examples of Social Contribution Activities by MHI Group Companies (FY2012) 126 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Enhancing Product Safety Strengthening safety and quality management systems MHI is continuing to promote product safety activities throughout the company. One example of our efforts started in fiscal 2005, is the Product Safety Project between the Legal Department and the Production System Innovation Planning Department. The Product Safety Project — which was brought to an end in fiscal 2012 — involved risk assessments to ascertain and reduce areas of risk related to product safety in three product groups — mass and medium-lot manufactured products, built-to-order components and built-to-order plants — along with strategies in other areas such as completion of instruction manuals. In the future it will be expanded to include product business support and thorough training and human resources development. The QMS Promotion Group was established in April 2013 as part of the Monozukuri Innovation Planning Department at the Technology & Innovation Headquarters. Inheriting responsibility for the activities originally conducted by the Quality Management & Product Safety Planning Center in the same department, the new Group is working to entrench and enhance management systems in the areas of safety and quality. Continuously strengthening product QMS MHI has created a quality management system (QMS) to offer products that are safe and of assured high quality. As of December 2012, all production facilities in Japan and nearly 90 percent of all facilities worldwide have completed the ISO 9001 certification process. The QMS is optimized to the product categories at each facility and is subject to ongoing improvement. In April 2013, MHI established a QMS Promotion Group in the Monozukuri Innovation Planning Department. The QMS Promotion Group has been working to strengthen quality management, including at Group companies, and improve work processes to meet the needs of globalization by sharing technologies and knowledge horizontally across the Group. Key product quality and safety programs Nuclear Safety Steering Committee continues efforts to prioritize nuclear safety The Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business was established in December 2004 in response to a secondary piping damage incident at Unit 3 of the Mihama Power Station (supplied by MHI and operated by Kansai Electric) in August 2004. In January 2013, the board's name was changed to the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee in order to share issues and decide courses of action relating to MHI's nuclear business, as well as to internally reform and expand the nuclear quality assurance management system. The committee conducts these activities under the guidance of a steering committee whose mission is to manage activities that help ensure nuclear safety. In fiscal 2012, the Nuclear Safety Steering Committee discussed and deliberated on MHI strategy to comply and modify existing plants in accordance with the July 2013 revisions to nuclear regulations, which were made in response to the accident at TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. In addition, the committee discussed various efforts to foster a nuclear safety culture within the company, thereby confirming that Mitsubishi will continue to prioritize efforts to improve safety at nuclear facilities. 127 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Measures for enhancing PWR power plant safety Nuclear Energy Systems set up an emergency task force immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake to deploy safety improvement measures. After the Advanced Plant Safety Department was established in August 2011, a group dedicated to Fukushima countermeasures, the task force was transferred under the department's direction. The task force has been reflecting lessons learned from Fukushima to all MHI-supplied PWR reactors in Japan, including responses to simulated loss of all AC power sources. In July 2012, MHI provided Kansai Electric Power Company with across-the-board support for restarting Units 3 and 4 at its Oi nuclear power plant, thus contributing to the first operational restart in Japan since the disaster. The new safety criteria under deliberation by the Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA: established in September 2012) will go into effect in July 2013 and will serve as the basis on which all future restart decisions will be made. While the NRA announced an outline of the new safety criteria in February 2013, in partnership with power utilities, Nuclear Energy Systems has already formulated a safety action plan (including countermeasures such as portable pumps and hydrogen recombiners) and begun making a concerted effort to achieve early restarts. Nuclear Energy Systems has also submitted a proposal to power utilities outlining mid and long term measures for improving safety and reliability (e.g., filtered containment vents and secondary back-up generators) and is working towards action. MHI remains committed to addressing these issues promptly in order to contribute to ongoing improvements in the safety and reliability of nuclear power plants and to ensure a stable energy supply. Shipbuilding: enhancing QMS activities to prevent product accidents In Shipbuilding & Ocean Development, MHI builds and repair a wide range of ships and marine products in the Nagasaki, Kobe, Shimonoseki, and Yokohama regions. Although each region accommodates different types of ships according to its unique capabilities, the company strives to adopt the same quality indicators, non-conformity management systems, safety and quality education programs, and internal audits in all regions, and is working with each region to improve work processes and quality management capacity to realize a more advanced QMS and cultivate an attitude focused on safety and quality. Shipbuilding & Ocean Development operations work to deliver products and services that meet customers' expectations by ISO 9001 external audit for QMS activities and by obtaining worksite certification from various classification societies (Note). (Note) Non-profit organizations that establish rules and standards for the construction and outfitting of ships 128 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Aircraft: endeavoring to ensure aircraft safety through education and training, and promotion of safety measures Based on the Aircraft Safety Policy established in 1991, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works has given its highest priority to assurance of aircraft safety. Unfortunately, in 2000 there was an emergency landing accident involving an MH2000 helicopter, and in 2007 an F-2 jet fighter crashed and burst into flames. MHI understands the gravity of these incidents, and to prevent such incidents from occurring again, MHI pilots give presentations to MHI employees and employees from partner companies in order to ensure safety awareness. In fiscal 2012, 76 presentations were given to many employees of the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works and other divisions, employees of onsite contractors, and employees of partner companies from April 2012 through March 2013. MHI plans to extend these presentations to employees in our corporate and technical divisions as well. MHI is also working on applying the three-pronged strategy it has adopted for preventing future accidents with the F-2 jet fighter — more detailed and precise work instructions (publishing of new work instructions), better self-checking by workers (creation of a self-checking program), and better skills management — to other aircraft models manufactured and serviced by the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. Safety and quality assurance reform meetings attended by the general manager of the manufacturing site have been held since 2007. These are used to pursue education activities and improvement activities for increasing the efficacy of measures to prevent the recurrence of wire connection errors that can lead to accidents. To integrate these improvement activities with front-line operations, shop floor discussion meetings are held at each plant, where participants share information such as yearly progress and future goals. MHI will continue to carry out these actions as it strives to improve safety of aircraft manufacturing and maintenance. Transportation systems: ensuring the safety of transportation systems based on quality management systems MHI is working on the development of various transportation systems with a high potential for use in public settings, such as an Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) system and Automated People Mover (APM) for use in airports and other facilities in cities. To ensure that such transportation systems function with high degree of safety, MHI operates a quality management system based on ISO 9001 and our own quality policies in all processes from design, procurement, and manufacturing to installation and test operation. Every year, top managers and relevant personnel in Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems review these activities, evaluate the effectiveness of the quality management system and propose new actions for improvement. Workshops are also held so that relevant personnel can share information, for example, information on revisions made to laws, regulations and standards pertaining to railways. Mechanisms are also being developed to incorporate safety standards and customer requirements in various countries into the initial design stage of projects developed in and outside Japan. In addition to these efforts, since fiscal 2011, MHI has been working to facilitate sharing of knowledge within the organization. Employees involved in past projects pass on their experiences and lessons learned so that current project members can relive their experience, acquire useful skills and knowledge, and acquire a stronger awareness of product safety. 129 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Air-conditioners: implementing safety verifications in every stage-development, usage, and disposal, based on design management standards Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters established design management standards in 1994 to ensure the safety of air-conditioners. To that end, when developing a product, quality check sheets and other measures are used to verify that products, when properly used, will not cause harm to people or property due to reasons such as harmful materials or possible fire or explosion at any point from development through to usage and disposal. In fiscal 2010, the department participated in the company-wide Product Safety Taskforce, and received instruction from key MHI experts on product safety risk assessment procedures for centrifugal chillers and ground transportation refrigeration units. This information was used to create a risk assessment template for complying with the EU machinery directive, which has been used to verify the safety and quality of MHI products sold in the EU since May 2011. To further strengthen product safety activities, in fiscal 2013 we plan to create a standardized risk assessment template based on the EU machinery template and apply it to all products manufactured by Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems. Conducting training to prevent product accidents with the establishment of an Accident Exhibit and Materials Room and other measures It goes without saying that, as a global and highly diversified manufacturer, the MHI Group's top priority is to ensure the safety and quality of its products. To promote product safety, we work to educate employees about safety and quality to prevent product accidents. One example of this is the establishment of the Accident Exhibit and Materials Room based on past accidents. The Accident Exhibit and Materials Room, opened in April 2010 at an MHI training center in Nagoya, introduces examples of serious accidents that have happened involving MHI Group products, such as a large cruise ship that caught fire while under construction. Its mission is to give all employees who handle MHI Group products, whether it be through design, procurement, manufacturing, or after-sale services, to pledge not to allow accidents like these to happen again, to learn from these accidents, and to put the lessons learned from these accidents to use in their respective jobs. The facility was given an extensive overhaul in April 2012, including the addition of new video presentations and artifacts designed to convey a greater sense of realism in regards to the nature of the accidents and the events experienced at the accident site. Approximately 17,000 visitors have passed through the facility since its opening. Meanwhile, since 2010 MHI has also held safety and quality training sessions describing past safety incidents, attended by new engineering and administrative recruits, employees in their fourth year at the company, and newly appointed deputy managers. In fiscal 2012 MHI expanded this to include newly appointed managers (approximately 400 people) and newly recruited technicians (approximately 200 people), increasing the total number of employees who have received this training to around 5,200. Going forward, MHI will continue to expand its product safety education program to give employees more opportunities to become aware of the importance of safety and quality. The refurbished Accident Exhibit and Materials Room 130 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) Pursuing products and services that can be trusted from the prioritized customer point of view One statement of the MHI creed is: We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. Therefore, the company's top priority is to always place itself in the customer's shoes and meet their expectations by providing products and services with high added value. Each headquarters and division of MHI works to boost customer satisfaction (CS) levels by conducting CS surveys and soliciting feedback and suggestions from the market and from customers. Basic CS Training, introduced in 2002, is used to improve employee awareness and foster the development of a customer-oriented corporate culture at MHI. Through these activities, MHI will continuously work to provide products and services that satisfy customers. Basic CS training (Hiroshima) Promoting advertising activities MHI established the Corporate Communication Department to promote advertising activities based on MHI business plans that target stakeholders in all global regions. As MHI moves ahead with its activities, the department confirms facts in close conjunction with the Global Strategic Planning & Operations Headquarters, the Corporate Department, and other business segments and overseas sites and Group companies, to enable them to provide accurate information to customers, and endeavors to abide by all provisions in related laws and industries. After running advertisements, the Department assesses the improvement in recognition level in each form of media and the spreading of the corporate image. In fiscal 2012, we ran our first TV commercial series in Japan presenting MHI technologies in 19 years, highlighting the vibration control systems that protect the Tokyo Skytree® tower from wind, the hollow-head engine valves that contribute to improved fuel efficiency in luxury sports cars, and other technologies. We also ran corporate ads in newspaper, transit, online, and radio media in conjunction with the TV commercial. Overseas, we ran a series of ads in the Financial Times (U.K.) promoting our aircraft, H-IIA launch vehicle, LNG carriers, and turbochargers. There were no legal or regulatory violations related to our advertising activities in fiscal 2012. 131 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Implementing technical support as an aspect of preventative maintenance Since 1999, MHI has maintained high operating rates for thermal power plants (gas turbine) delivered both in and outside of Japan and provided technical support to prevent problems. This is a paid service for observing and supporting the operations of gas turbine plants in real time, around the clock, 365 days a year, from remote monitoring centers established in two locations, one in Japan and one outside of Japan. We are working to prevent the occurrence of problems by applying monitoring diagnostic capabilities that draw upon over ten years of accumulated operational data. Also, by automatization of abnormality diagnosis that utilize Taguchi method, any suspension of operations is kept as short as possible by quickly detecting plant anomalies and immediately implementing troubleshooting procedures. As of April 2013, the service is used on 84 generators at 35 plants around the world with a combined total output of over 20 million kW, thereby safeguarding the consistency of power generation operations of our customers. Remote monitoring center 132 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Promoting nuclear power Public Acceptance (PA) activities MHI has been hosting tours of the nuclear power plant production facility at Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works since 1988. MHI has also been involved in nuclear PA activities since 1989, including publication of the nuclear magazine, Atom Power, which helps to promote awareness of the need and safety of nuclear power generation. Approximately 1,600 visitors attended tours of the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works during fiscal 2012. The total number of visitors over the last decade is more than 43,000. TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station utilizes a BWR, which differs from the PWR models supplied by MHI. Nevertheless, MHI provided technical assistance for stabilizing TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station after the accident. MHI has also been deploying emergency safety countermeasures at MHI-supplied PWR nuclear power plants in order to increase its safety and reliability. MHI will continue to pursue Public Acceptance (PA) activities by providing information and conducting tours in order to restore public confidence in nuclear power generation. (Note) Nuclear Power PA (Public Acceptance) activities: Public outreach programs encourage a clearer understanding of nuclear energy 133 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Maintaining and Strengthening Defense Production and Technological Bases Contributing to the peace and safety of Japan through technology MHI is dedicated to the core vision of supplying cutting-edge technology for national safety and security. As a leading supplier in the Japanese defense industry, MHI endeavours to maintain and strengthen defense production and technological bases. MHI develops and manufactures a vast array of defense equipment based on the requirement of government of Japan, including fighter planes, helicopters, missiles, defense vessels and tanks, and also provides operational support. The environment surrounding the defense of Japan has been changing dramatically over the last few years. In light of the current financial difficulty of Japan and the speed of technological progress, it is increasingly important to maintain and strengthen defense production and technological bases, in order to satisfy the requirements of the government. MHI is focusing on the future security environment and is developing various technologies that meet the needs of the country. This includes research on the Advanced Technology Demonstrator for the purpose of achieving technologies, such as stealth and high maneuver flight control technology to be applied to future jet fighters. Cutting-edge technologies in the defense sector have a broad reach, and ripple effects to the civilian sector are expected, in the fields of materials, components, and processing technology. So we believe defense technologies can also contribute to long-term technological advances in Japan and the defense sector is expected to develop as a national strategic industry. UH-60JA utility helicopter (for use by the Japan Ground Self-Defense Forces). Ratio of defense-related businesses sales to total sales FY Ratio Amount 2010 12.4% 361.0 billion yen 2011 12.8% 359.7 billion yen 2012 11.0% 308.6 billion yen 134 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors Disclosure Principles and IR Activities Promoting IR activities to facilitate a detailed understanding of our business Through Investor Relations (IR), MHI strives to keep institutional and individual investors in Japan and around the world fully informed of the activities of the company. The Corporate Communication Department, set up for the sole purpose of managing investor relations, provides useful and up-to-date information as well as briefings and meetings designed to provide opportunities for direct communication. Comments and suggestions from these meetings are incorporated into future IR programs. Providing accurate information online that is easy to understand MHI releases information in accordance with laws and regulations as mandated by the exchanges on which the company is listed. In addition, information is constantly being updated on the Investor Relations section of the website. In an effort to communicate information that is accurate and easy-to-understand, the website also features a range of useful information and data that is not required by laws and regulations, along with charts and explanations of securities terminology. There are also videos of the General Meeting of Shareholders and other meetings such as financial results briefings and meetings on business operations for the benefit of institutional investors and analysts. In fiscal 2012, we added new communication media to broaden our interface with shareholders and other investors. We developed our first app that allows users to read the MHI Annual Report on a smart phone (iPhone) or tablet device (iPad), allowing access to important company information without constraints of time or space. We also sought to make this information easier to read and search through by providing an online edition of the Annual Report. Implementing various briefings on business operation and strategy In response to demand from investors and analysts for more information on business performance and future planning of individual operations, MHI holds quarterly financial briefings as well as other types of briefings related to business performance and planning. The fiscal 2011 Financial Results Briefing and 2012 Medium-Term Business Plan Briefing was held in April 2012, with 191 attendees. This was followed in June by a business briefing on the Engineering Headquarters and eight business segments. Total attendance was 355. MHI maintained its commitment to good communication with individual investors. Briefings were held twelve times in cities across Japan (mostly in locations close to MHI facilities) and drew a combined attendance of around 1,350. The briefings at Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum (in Yokohama, Kanagawa), History Museum (Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works) and M's Square (in Shinagawa, Tokyo) also included facility tours. The first online briefing for individual investors was also held, with investors across Japan listening in. Given the positive feedback we have received on these briefings, such as comments on how useful they are for understanding MHI's various businesses and financial results, we will continue to make efforts to disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner. 135 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors Holding plant tours for shareholders MHI has been conducting twice-yearly plant tours for shareholders since 2005 to provide opportunities to deepen understanding of its business activities. Plant tours in fiscal 2012 were held at Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works (in September 2012) and Takasago Machinery Works (in March 2013). Visitors commented that they were thrilled with the rare opportunity to witness ships as long as 200 meters first-hand. Also, visitors said that things such as employees checking on each other and posters encouraging safe work practices indicated the efforts in terms of safety within the company. MHI will continue striving to incorporate feedback and suggestions on IR programs. Plant Tours (FY2012) Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works (in September 2012 with 73 participants) ·Tour of the building berth, history museum, and Ganryu Island Takasago Machinery Works (in March 2013 with 71 participants) ·Tour of the Assembly Shop for Gas Turbine, Combined Cycle Power Plant for Verification Test, and Educational and Training Center of Technical and Human Skill Building berth tour (Shimonoseki Shipyard & Assembly Shop for Gas Turbine tour (Takasago Machinery Works) Machinery Works) 136 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors Share and Dividend Report Fiscal 2011 dividend distributions For fiscal 2012, a 5 yen per share year-end dividend was distributed. An interim dividend of 3 yen per share was distributed, which brings the total dividend for the year to 8 yen per share. Dividend disbursements over the past five years FY Dividend per share 2008 6 yen 2009 4 yen 2010 4 yen 2011 6 yen 2012 8 yen Inclusion of MHI in Eco-funds and SRI Selection by Eco-funds and SRI Indicators The MHI Group practices management with a focus on CSR and conducts a wide range of activities to enhance its business, environment and society, including corporate governance and risk management. Thanks to efforts like these, MHI was again included in the eco-funds, formed based upon surveys of companies conducted by corporate rating agencies in Japan and overseas, and MS-SRI, a socially responsible investment index coordinated by Morningstar Japan K.K. 137 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Fair Dealing Opening a door to new suppliers and ensuring fair evaluation and selection MHI procures a variety of materials and services both domestically and abroad that include materials such as steel, machinery, equipment, and components. MHI is open to all motivated and competitive suppliers. Suppliers are fairly and equitably selected and evaluated in accordance with the applicable laws and industry practices, in order to build relationships of trust predicated on mutual prosperity. This approach is stipulated in the MHI Procurement Policy (released in 2002), which can be viewed on the Procurement page of the company website. The Procurement page also includes application guidelines for prospective suppliers and contact information for material procurement for the benefit of companies that are interested in doing business with MHI. MHI Procurement Policy 1. Openness We strive to provide business opportunities openly to suppliers throughout the world, and welcome creative and competitive suppliers. 2. Fairness We provide chances for competition to qualified suppliers, and evaluate and select suppliers fairly based on criteria such as the suppliers' product quality, price, delivery schedule, technology and financial conditions. 3. Partnership We regard our suppliers as partners based on the mutual understanding that both partners should benefit from the relationship. 4. Compliance We comply with rules, regulations and social norm based on our compliance management policy, and all information submitted to MHI will be kept and used properly. Thoroughly preventing illegal and unfair dealings The Compliance Principles, which set out compliance requirements under applicable laws and regulations, are used by the Procurement Department to ensure compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, which forbids unfair dealings by large companies towards smaller companies, as well as the Construction Industry Law. MHI is striving to prevent improper practices such as fraudulent ordering through a system of separating the departments responsible for ordering, receiving and utilizing procured goods and having them provide mutual restraints. Compliance is carefully monitored at every stage of ordering and inspection, with the results checked via internal audits in accordance with the PDCA cycle for legal compliance. 138 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Promoting CSR Procurement Guidelines and CSR activities in the entire supply chain In June 2010, MHI drew up the MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines, and provided MHI's business partners with information about CSR activities and programs that are designed to promote a consistent approach to CSR throughout the supply chain. The Guidelines are divided into five points that include comprehensive compliance and promotion of corporate ethics, and assurance of product safety and quality, cost, delivery schedule (QCD), enhanced technological development capabilities, and considerations regarding human rights and workplace safety. Business partners are expected to embrace the MHI Guidelines, which are discussed at dedicated presentations and are also available on the company website. Some 300 business partners took part in a self-assessment survey of CSR programs conducted in fiscal 2011. MHI has incorporated the CSR efforts of business partners as one item for evaluation and is preparing a method which appropriately evaluates these efforts. In fiscal 2012, MHI instituted a partner evaluation method with the aim of optimizing its supply chain and strengthening collaboration with business partners. MHI evaluated all five points (quality, cost, delivery, technology, and management) against a group-wide policy at around 2,300 major partners. MHI also asked business partners to conduct a self-assessment of their CSR programs and included the score results in the management category of the partner evaluations. MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines 1. Compliance and Corporate Ethics We ask all Partners to persist in compliance related to all business activities, to foster corporate ethics, and also, to work on building and operating an organization to facilitate this. 2. Safety, Quality, Cost, Delivery and Innovation In order to maintain and improve the value of MHI's products, we ask all of our Partners to provide materials and services with assured safety and quality, cost and delivery ( QCD ). Moreover, in order to create end products with high added value, we ask for your continuous improvement in developing new technology. 3. Human Rights, Health and Safety In the business activities of all of our Partners (including their respective supply chains), the human rights of all employees must be respected and safe, comfortable working environments be assured. 4. Respect for the Environment In order to achieve a more sustainable society, we ask all of our Partners to continuously monitor and seek to reduce environmental impact of their activities. 5. Contribution to the Region and Society We ask all of our Partners to work positively on the activities to contribute to the development of international society as well as regional society and to foster the next generation etc. Our Partners are free to determine the most effective way to fulfill their social responsibilities, which may include contributions through normal course of their business, charitable donations or contributions of facilities and/or resources. 139 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Building closer ties with business partners through management reforms and other improvement programs At the first Business Partners Conference in 2008, MHI pledged to incorporate requests, suggestions and feedback from business partners into management reforms and other improvement programs at MHI. The company remains committed to this process. During fiscal 2012, MHI continued to solicit Value Engineering (VE) proposals (Note) from business partners through a dedicated website. 3,277 of the 3,922 proposals received have been adopted. The fifth Business Partners Conference in November attracted 295 companies (309 participants). The conference included speeches by the MHI president and general manager of the Procurement Planning & Administration Department, a panel discussion, and presentations on examples of improvement initiatives carried out with business partners. Certificates of gratitude were presented for stronger product price competitiveness, higher quality, and shorter lead times. In addition, individual works and business segments have been holding similar business partner conferences, and in the future we will continue to foster stronger ties with business partners through such reciprocal communication. (Note) VE: A method for both improving product value and reducing costs Business Partners Conference First business partners conferences held overseas MHI held its first overseas Business Partner Conferences in Bangalore, India in February 2013, and in Shanghai, China in March 2013. The conference in India was attended by 13 business partners. Presentations at the India conference featured such topics as MHI's power systems and other businesses, its procurement policy, and examples of VE proposals. The Q&A session that followed attracted numerous questions on VE and other topics, turning the session into an active discussion. The China conference, meanwhile, drew attendance from 60 Chinese business partners. Presentation topics included an overview of MHI, its procurement policy, and examples of VE proposals, during which time partners were also called on to join in continuous cooperation. The Q&A session was as lively as in India, with partners showing an eagerness to participate in the activity. The business partner conference in India The business partner conference in China 140 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Declaring Basic Policy Concerning Conflict Minerals Armed groups engaged in conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries have committed serious human rights abuses and acts of environmental destruction. Some of the minerals produced in this region are thought to be a source of funding for these armed groups. In April 2013, MHI Group published its Basic Policy Concerning Conflict Minerals on its website, declaring that the company has no intention of abetting human rights abuses or environmental destruction by procuring raw materials, parts or products which contain the conflict minerals. Working with our customers and business partners, the MHI Group will continue efforts to avoid benefiting these armed groups . 141 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Procurement Education and Training Training for employees engaged in procurement activities Procurement departments at MHI provide a range of training programs designed to ensure compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. In fiscal 2012, MHI concentrated on providing training to more Group companies. Forty-five young employees, including 30 from Group companies, attended a training session covering procurementrelated laws and regulations and important points to be aware of when carrying out procurement work. A total of 104 new employees and employees just transferred to procurement departments, including 54 Group employees, were given an introductory course on basic information concerning procurement practices. Additionally, 378 MHI employees and a further 653 Group employees took an e-Learning course on the Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. MHI remains committed to providing procurement training programs tailored to the company's operational plans and ongoing amendments to legislation. Compliance training 142 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources Active recruitment and utilization of mid-career, overseas and female workers In addition to new graduates, MHI also hires mid-career professionals in order to ensure the diverse range of human resources required maintain its position as an industry leader. In fiscal 2012, approximately 450 new graduates (who joined the company in April 2013) and approximately 60 mid-career professionals were hired. When hiring both new graduates and mid-career workers, MHI carries out fair screening with an emphasis on human rights and without discrimination due to gender or other reasons. Most mid-career hires fill technical or engineering positions that require a high level of expertise and where they can use the special skills they have developed in their respective fields. MHI is also actively working within and without Japan to hire personnel to deploy overseas for the global development of its business. The company is hiring overseas university students and international students studying in Japan through proactive recruitment efforts. In fiscal 2012, in addition to the same hiring activities in the U.S., the U.K., Singapore, and Australia we carried out during the previous year, MHI also implemented recruitment PR activities for the first time in India. This resulted in the hiring of about 20 new graduates. (Mid-career employment included three overseas university students and three people with non-Japanese citizenship.) MHI is also promoting the employment and utilization of female workers. In fiscal 2012, approximately 36 percent of newly graduated clerical recruits were women. In fiscal 2012, 0.9 percent of managers were female; this number has been increasing each year. Helping all seniors use their skills for a longer period after retirement With the size of Japan's workforce declining as a result of a low birth rate and aging population, MHI introduced on April 1, 2013, an employment extension program to provide veteran employees with opportunities to continue using their extensive knowledge and skills after retirement. The new program is a revised version of a previous program that set standards for eligibility. Now, all retirees are eligible for employment up to the age of 65. As of April 1, 2013, MHI has rehired approximately 2,500 employees. These re-employed workers are active as experienced professionals, and serve to transfer their skills and expertise to others. 143 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Expansion of hiring to utilize skills of the differently-abled people MHI works to expand job opportunities for differently-abled people and to create a suitable working environment for all employees. For example, the Work Supporting Center was established at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works in July 2005 to provide a workplace for carrying out the digitization of in-company materials, data entry, shipping work, and other tasks. Other works are also working to create environments that will allow a greater number of differently-abled people to work with peace of mind, for example by educating employees, installing emergency warning lights, and making other efforts, both tangible and intangible, so they can hire people with hearing disabilities. In fiscal 2012, MHI's efforts to promote the expansion of hiring for differently-abled people included strengthening its hiring activities by further raising in-house target values for the employment of differently-abled people, utilizing an employment website for differently-abled people, collaborating with regional Hello Work (Employment Security Bureau) offices, and proactively utilizing various types of recruitment information such as job interview events. As a result, MHI's employment rate for differently-abled people reached 2.10 percent as of April 1, 2013, exceeding the statutory minimum of 2.0 percent. We will further increase such hiring in the future with the help of information and close cooperation with each of our main hubs. Improving education to strengthen global responsiveness MHI is working to improve employee capabilities and enhance education with the aim of being a global corporation that is capable of responding to changes in the rapidly transforming market. Based on on-the-job training (OJT) in workplaces, we are implementing various educational programs starting immediately after hiring according to job level and function. The main themes of education according to job level include leadership and management. With the aim of strengthening our ability to respond to globalization, starting from fiscal 2011 MHI established new systems including MHI Global Training (MGT), in which around 100 employees were dispatched overseas. 144 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Strengthening development of local staff Training and promoting staff who are hired locally is crucial to MHI's effort to accelerate business globalization. It is therefore important that local employees understand MHI's management principles, the history of the MHI Group, and the types of businesses it operates. It is for this reason that MHI has created and begun distributing to local staff around the world the MHI Starter Kit, a succinct educational booklet on the MHI Group. MHI will use these materials to better educate a growing number of local staff. MHI Starter Kit Strengthening the development of junior technicians on the forefront of manufacturing At MHI, the number of junior technicians is increasing as more senior technicians retire. For that reason there is an urgent need to train technicians who can maintain the front line of manufacturing. To that end, MHI prepared textbooks that are standardized for the entire company to ensure the commonality and uniformity of education. We have also made DVDs to create digital versions of Skills of the Master manuals developed by veteran technicians. These and other efforts are to ensure the steady succession of techniques and the rapid development of junior technicians. In addition, with the aim of improving levels of expertise and energizing our junior technicians, we hold company-wide skills contests in machine assembly, lathing, welding, and other fields. MHI is also working to improve the leadership skills of employees who serve as instructors. 145 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Bolstering training activities for Group company employees To reinforce the management and overall constitution of MHI Group business operations, employee education initiatives throughout the entire Group are being implemented since fiscal 2007. Since fiscal 2009, MHI has provided Group company employees with group training, where managers take training according to their respective ranks and all employees take courses on English business communication and business skills. In addition to this, in fiscal 2012 approximately 560 Group company employees participated in training, including a new management training course for general managers. Group training for MHI Group companies Encouraging mutual understanding through dialogue and the enhancement of personal capabilities MHI is taking action to develop the abilities of each person, and to create working environments in which employees can perform invigorating work that is free from anxiety, by encouraging mutual understanding and trust through dialogues between supervisors and subordinates. A common awareness of issues is created by having supervisors provide regular opportunities for dialogue based on self-reports by subordinates. Supervisors communicate with subordinates about the roles they are expected to fulfill while also paying attention to their requests and business improvement suggestions. For example, for those working in technical and clerical divisions, MHI operates a Management by Objectives (MBO) system in which work targets are set and progress evaluations are made twice a year. In addition, in manufacturing divisions subordinates and their supervisors hold discussions once a year for the purpose of two-way communication. 146 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Basic Data Breakdown of employees by age (FY2012) Under 30 30-39 40-49 50-59 60 and over Male 7,657 9,071 6,397 4,643 508 Female 753 808 805 450 19 Total 8,410 9,879 7,202 5,093 527 Number of new graduates hired University Vocational school and Total junior college, high (females in brackets) school, other Joined the company 348 286 634 (60) in April 2012 Joined the company 285 167 452 (44) in April 2013 Number of female managers (section manager and above; excluding medical staff) April 2009 April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 April 2013 219 248 266 288 293 Number of rehired employees (excluding those from Group companies) April 2011 October 2011 April 2012 October 2012 April 2013 2,172 2,229 2,259 2,368 2,426 147 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Building a Better Working Environment Supporting the balance between childcare, family care and work in various ways In order to create an environment in which it is easy for employees to work and also have a family, MHI is making efforts to expand its various support systems that give consideration to childcare and family care. In November of fiscal 2011, MHI newly established the child planning leave system, which can be used for infertility treatment, and the annual holiday by hour system, in which employees can use their leave in increments of one to two hours according to their circumstances for purposes such as childcare and family care, and to make it easier to commute during pregnancy by avoiding rush hour. Furthermore, the periods for family-care leave and family-care work have been expanded; and each can be used for a total of up to one year. In addition, the systems for childcare leave, childcare and work, family-care leave, and family-care work all now exceed statutory minimums. Information about the systems and procedures regarding childcare and family care are available on our intranet so that employees can access it easily. In January 2012, we hosted a lecture on career planning and work-life balance for female employees, given by MHI's first non-Japanese female director. Other initiatives include holding discussion panels between individuals on childcare leave and those who have taken such leave in the past in hopes of enabling a smooth transition back to work. In the future as well, we will go beyond merely operating these systems. We will work to promote employee awareness and understanding, as well as to create comfortable workplaces with consideration given to work-life balance. 148 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Programs that focus on work-life balance Childcare and childbirth Child planning leave Childcare leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for childcare purposes (Note 1) Childcare work shift system (shortened work hour system) Work leave to care for a sick child Special grants for employees who balance work and childcare (Note 2) Next generation nurturing support grants (Note 3) Career Return Program (Note 4) Family care Family-care leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for family-care purposes (Note 1) Family-care work shift system (shortened work hours system) Work leave to care for a family member Career Return Program (Note 4) Other Flex-time system Paid holiday system by half day Annual holiday by the hour system Trips and time off for longtime employees (Note 1) Accumulated paid holidays is a system in which up to 50days paid holidays can be accumulated to use for illness, injury, childcare, family care, and other purposes. (Note 2) Special grants for working employees who place their children in daycare provide ¥5,000 per month to working employees who place children in daycare until the end of the fiscal year in which the child reaches three years of age (approximately 867 grants paid in fiscal 2012). (Note 3) Next generation nurturing support grants provide ¥100,000 per employee with three or more children (approximately 236 grants paid in fiscal 2012). (Note 4) The Career Return Plan is a system that opens the door to individuals who want to reenter the company after having left due to marriage, childbirth, childcare, family care and transfer of spouse. 149 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Nursery operated on the grounds of our Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works In April 2010, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works opened the first MHI in-house nursery, MHI Kira Kids Nursery. All MHI Group employees working in the Nagasaki area can leave their preschool-aged children at any time between 7am and 8pm. Since opening its doors, the nursery has held various events such as parent & child picnics and Christmas parties as well as Respect-for-the-Aged events for elderly residents of the community that were well received by participants. In addition to our goal of continuing to be a nursery well loved by employees and local residents, we look to establish nurseries at other MHI locations as well based on the performance of this nursery. Respect-for-the-Aged party held for local Cooking class as part of kids' food education residents Efforts for raising awareness of human rights in individual workplaces Since the establishment of the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992, MHI has been improving awareness of human rights throughout the company. Human rights awareness training is held each year for new employees and newly appointed managerial staff, such as managers and deputy managers. This training handles themes related to human rights issues and harassment, including fundamental knowledge and points to be aware of. In fiscal 2012, approximately 1,000 new recruits and 1,500 newly appointed managers and supervisors participated in human rights awareness training. In order to prevent power harassment (workplace bullying and harassment), we continued to hold an e-Learning course that was introduced in fiscal 2010, and in fiscal 2012 conducted awareness training for senior managers at all works. Since 2011, we have also been working to educate the rest of the MHI Group, for example by training senior managers at Group companies and creating and distributing a new booklet to raise awareness among all employees. MHI will continue working to strengthen its activities to increase awareness of human rights. 150 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Creating safe and healthy workplaces centered on a basic policy for employee safety and health MHI embraces a basic policy for employee safety and health founded on the following three commitments: (1) Always hold fast to the conviction that life is precious, and carry out measures that prioritize safety and are appropriate to each position and location; (2) Devote every effort to safety in creating outstanding products that contribute to the development of society; (3) Maintain awareness that sound health is the basis upon which all else depends, and ensure that all employees have comfortable workplaces that enable them to be sound in body. Based on these principles, we operate an occupational health and safety management system throughout the company to create safe, pleasant workplaces. We will continue to further enhance our efforts aimed at reducing occupational accidents and leave due to injury or sickness. Industrial accident frequency rate FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 MHI 0.31 0.23 0.29 0.27 0.11 Manufacturing industry 1.12 0.99 0.98 1.05 1.00 (Note) Industrial accident frequency rate: number of deaths or injuries sustained through industrial mishaps per million hours on the job. It is calculated as follows: number of deaths or injuries sustained on the job that require one or more days of leave / aggregate number of hours worked × 1,000,000. Risk management and training to prevent work-related accidents and injuries In order to reduce the risk of occupational accidents, MHI makes improvements based on the results of risk assessments implemented at each works. These assessments are related to tasks and equipment, and are mainly focused on the safety and manufacturing sectors. We are also implementing safety education for entry-level employees and other people. This education utilizes visual learning materials and hands-on equipment that makes it possible to actually experience accident simulations. This hands-on equipment has been installed at eight works including the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works and Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works. Furthermore, in the future MHI will continue to make systematic efforts to improve equipment and update outmoded facilities in order to create safe, comfortable workplaces. 151 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Opening the Safety Transmission Center at Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works In October 2010, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works opened a new educational facility on work safety. Called the Safety Transmission Center, the facility is dedicated to the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works' resolution not to let any fatal accidents occur in its production operations. The facility consists of two zones: the Accident Case Studies Zone, where videos and displays show employees how accidents happen and what to do to prevent them, and the Human Error Study Zone, where employees can learn, in a hands-on format and using real-life examples, the principles that trigger human error and how to identify risks before accidents occur. The Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works is working to cultivate in its workforce a sensitivity to hazards and a culture of safety, using the Safety Transmission Center as a place where all employees, from mangers to operators, can learn nearly firsthand the horror of accidents and the pain they cause, and decide for themselves what they can and should do to prevent them. Safety Transmission Center 152 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Maintaining and improving physical and mental health At MHI, we create healthcare divisions at each works in order to proactively support employees in maintaining their physical and mental wellbeing. We carry out the maintenance of systems, as well as the drafting and unified development of measures, as part of a project to strengthen health management throughout the entire company. Specifically, MHI is implementing health promotion measures that include health-related guidance and the setting of company-wide targets based on the Body Mass Index (BMI; a body mass index that serves as a standard for obesity, etc.). Various mental health measures are also implemented. Health promotion and mental health measures Health promotion measures (implemented at each office) ⋅Measures to prevent lifestyle diseases (implementing health-related guidance targeted at reducing the ratio of employees with a BMI of 25 or greater) ⋅Health lectures, health consultations ⋅Activities to increase health (walking rallies, athletic meets, long-distance relay races, etc.) Mental health measures ⋅Primary prevention (employee education) -Education, training -Anti-stress measures in workplaces (stress checks) -Interviews regarding long periods of overtime work (more than 45 hours per month) ⋅Secondary prevention (early detection and treatment) -Encouraging the usage of consultation hotlines -Strengthening cooperation with medical specialists, consultants, industrial physicians, etc. ⋅Tertiary prevention (screening when returning to work, the rehabilitation working program) -Implementing work screening and the rehabilitation working program (Note) as support for returning to work (Note) The system is set according to person's plan for returning to work, within the range of four to eight hours of designated working time, or for half-day work in either the morning or afternoon, for a period of up to three months -Detailed follow-up after returning to work as a measure to prevent reoccurrence Promoting communication between management and employees MHI believes that communication between management and employees is crucial for carrying out smooth business operations. In line with this thinking, the company's intranet, corporate newsletter and other resources are fully utilized to disseminate management information and messages from top management to all employees as quickly as possible. In addition, various labor-management consultations provide forums for management to both convey management policies and strategies as well as to hear the views of the employees to be integrated into management practices. 153 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Forum 35 Forum 35 inspires people to work through employee exchange Individuals who are in their mid-thirties take great responsibility for their work as mid-level employees and play central roles at their workplaces. Forum 35 activities promote exchange between employees of this generation—around the age of 35—which surpasses the boundaries of job title and location. Through discussions about a wide range of themes related to the company and society, these activities help invigorate the organization. Beginning in MHI's Head Office in July 2009, these activities have spread to the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, and Ritto Machinery Works. Participating employees hold periodic meetings at their locations, exchange between works and with other companies, and discussions with the president and vice presidents. The feedback received about this activities includes, I gained a renewed understanding of the importance of the role that a manufacturer must fulfill towards society, and I realized the broad scope of MHI's products and great technological strengths. Forum 35 has been established as an initiative that energizes the organization. A discussion with the President & CEO and representatives from eight works 154 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities Conducting activities that suit the characteristics of each region based on the MHI policy on Social Contribution Activities MHI used the opportunity of the publication of the Social and Environmental Report in 2004 to formulate the basic concepts for social contribution, stated as We are obligated to be an innovative partner to society and We place importance on relationships with local communities based on mutual trust. The MHI policy for social contribution activities was released in 2007 based on extensive discussion and debate regarding the nature of public expectations as well as feedback from external sources. Various programs are being carried out in each region of Japan in accordance with the policy. Local contribution Live together with communities and contribute to their development Our basic policy is to live together with local communities of branch offices, overseas offices, and Group companies in foreign countries, building strong relationships based on mutual trust. With this in mind, we undertake various activities suitable for local cultures and contribute to the local development and activation both in Japan and overseas. Upbringing of the next generation Transfer the heart of Japanese manufacturing as well as the arts of science and technology to the next generation MHI has developed and produced more than 700 kinds of products in its long history, cultivating the heart of Japanese manufacturing and the arts of science and technology. To pass its knowledge and skills onto succeeding generations, MHI has a tradition of organizing educational activities such as science classes with experiments for children. 155 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2012) Expenditure of approx. 2.096 billion yen on social contribution activities MHI endorses the One Percent Club, a program initiated by Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in which participating members commit at least 1 percent of ordinary profit to social contribution activities. As a member of the One Percent Club, MHI is actively involved in a range of social contribution activities. The company reports expenditure on social contribution activities each year. In fiscal 2011, MHI spent approximately 2.096 billion yen on social contribution activities, equivalent to 2.39 percent of ordinary profit. Change in expenditures on social contribution activities FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 Academic research 339 million yen 247 million yen 164 million yen Education 537 million yen 633 million yen 596 million yen Community activities 158 million yen 141 million yen 180 million yen Sports 114 million yen 149 million yen 133 million yen Other 507 million yen 440 million yen 1,023 million yen Total 1,655 million yen 1,610 million yen 2,096 million yen Percentage of ordinary profit 6.89% 2.36% 2.39％ (Note 1) Figures include cash donations, payments in kind, activities by employees, free use of company facilities, etc., converted into monetary equivalents; activities privately performed by employees are not included. (Note 2) Includes group companies under consolidated accounting. (Note 3) Social contribution expenditures related to the Great East Japan Earthquake (donations, etc., made from March 11 through March 31, 2011) are included in the figures for FY2011, not FY2010. (Note 4) Figures for FY2012 are now being prepared. About donation recipients In addition to groups with a close business relationship with MHI, groups that perform the following activities, either in isolation or in conjunction with MHI, were chosen as the main beneficiaries of donations, in accordance with the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines. Close ties with the Earth: environment preservation, etc. Close ties with Society: disaster relief, community work, welfare, promoting culture and the arts, international exchange and international cooperation A bridge to the next Generation: nurturing the next generation, academic research, boosting technical capabilities 156 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Robust recovery assistance to areas hit by natural disasters The MHI Group has long embraced a humanitarian perspective and offered assistance and support across the world in the aftermath of large-scale natural disasters. Continuing our reconstruction assistance for communities hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, in fiscal 2012 we again engaged in various activities to support children, such as teaching science classes, sponsoring charity musicals, and hosting a rugby workshop. We also launched new assistance efforts, such as the MHI Miyagi Mini-Fund, which provides assistance to community restoration efforts in the disaster regions, and donating (Note) dishes and eating utensils made from a MHI proprietary shape-memory polymer to social welfare facilities. (Note) In partnership with the labor union, a matching donation given by the company on top of money donated by employees through the Tomoshibi Fund. Employees soliciting donations to the Tomoshibi Fund Science classes At a science class held in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture, the site of a large-scale offshore wind farm demonstration and research project, MHI employees used models to explain simply how wind power generation works. Students responded with various comments, such as how much they looked forward to seeing the completed wind turbines. Other science class programs covering topics related to MHI’s businesses were also held in Ishinomaki City, Minamisanriku Town, and Kesennuma City, municipalities in Miyagi prefecture, in partnership with the Kodomo Uchu Mirai Association (KU-MA; meaning “Children Space Future Association”). Charity musicals The charity musical “Peter Pan and Wendy,” which we co-hosted with a theater company and which was performed in Minamisanriku Town and Kesennuma City, Miyagi Prefecture, attracted an audience of 935 students and teachers. The musical, which teaches the importance of hope and friendship, received rave reviews. 157 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Rugby workshop Players of the MHI Sagamihara Dynaboars, the rugby team of MHI’s General Machinery & Special Vehicles, coached around 60 city elementary school students and 130 prefectural high school students at a tag rugby workshop in Date City, Fukushima Prefecture. Additionally, in a social exchange program called the “Rugby Smile Program,” MHI invited 33 elementary school children in Date City, Fukushima Prefecture, to Sagamihara City to watch a MHI Sagamihara Dynaboars rugby match, spend a night with other tag rugby players from elementary schools in Sagamihara City, and compete in a tag-rugby match. Rugby workshop Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works’ “Forum 35” group provides recovery assistance Members of “Forum 35,” a group at Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works whose mission is to stimulate communication among employees around the age of 35 who perform a core role in the workplace and thus invigorate the entire company, visited Minamisanriku Town, Miyagi Prefecture, in February 2013 and did volunteer work to remove sediment from roadside drainage ditches. The group also held a Tohoku Product Fair at the Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works’ annual ekiden race. Some of the proceeds from the fair were combined with monetary donations, to a sum of 75,535 yen, and were donated to the Minamisanriku Disaster Volunteer Center along with a multi-function printer. Removing sediment from a drainage ditch Tohoku Product Fair 158 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Prefab refrigeration unit donation The Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems business headquarters donated prefabricated MHI storage refrigeration units to the Shichigahama branch office of the Japan Fisheries Cooperative in Miyagi Prefecture. The region had a vigorous seaweed cultivation and fishing industry, however the cultivation and processing equipment, as well as fishing vessels, suffered severe damaged from the tsunami caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake. The donated storage refrigeration units are indispensable for the pollination of seaweed in the summer, and are expected to be of assistance in the restoration efforts. Prefab refrigeration unit after installation Staff member explains features of the prefab refrigeration unit Major support activities in recent years Year Disaster Scale of Type of support support 2012 Great East Japan 28.62 million Cash donation and donation of refrigeration Earthquake yen unit and other supplies 2011 Thailand floods 45 million Cash donation and supplies yen Great East Japan 680 million Cash donation and donation of solar power Earthquake yen systems and forklift trucks 2010 China Qinghai Earthquake 10 million Cash donation yen Chile Earthquake 5 million yen Cash donation Haiti Earthquake 10 million Cash donation and donation of lighting towers yen with generators 2009 Indian Ocean Earthquake 3 million yen Cash donation and Tsunami Damage from Typhoon 2.54 million Cash donation Morakot yen L'Aquila Earthquake in Italy 2.54 million Cash donation yen 159 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Activities that support the development of the next generation Science classes held by employees of various worksites The decline in children's interest and understanding of science has been an important issue in Japan in recent years, as such a decline could lead to a drop in global competitiveness for Japan, which depends on science and technology for economic growth. Given this context, since 2008 MHI has been supporting a visiting science class program, where employees in each business segment and works across Japan teach a science class in a variety of formats, such as by visiting local schools, or by inviting students to plants or the Minato Mirai Industrial Museum. The goal of the program is to help raise human resources who can contribute to science and technology and the global community. Classes were held again in fiscal 2012, with employees in each business segment partnering with local NPOs and other organizations to teach the class using products and technologies from their respective workplaces. More than 5,400 students participated in these classes nationwide. Host schools have responded with great enthusiasm, commenting on how the classes are not only fun but also relevant, and how they are thankful for having classes that pique the children's interest. Science classes held in FY2012 Taught by Grade level Number of Activities, topics participants (Note) Nagasaki Shipyard & Elementary school 16 Pop-pop boat construction Machinery Works Kobe Shipyard & Elementary school 150 Air pressure experiment; lecture Machinery Works using wakamaru communication robot Shimonoseki Shipyard & Elementary school 170 Pop-pop boat construction; Machinery Works lecture on aircraft and ships Yokohama Dockyard & Elementary school 224 Lecture on wind turbines Machinery Works Takasago Machinery Elementary school 150 Lecture on computers; craft Works workshop Nagoya Aerospace Elementary, junior 1,104 Lecture on rockets and aircraft Systems Works high, and high schools Nagoya Guidance & Elementary, junior 1,642 Lecture on rockets Propulsion Systems high, and high Works schools Hiroshima Machinery Elementary school 240 Lecture using robotic fish Works Mihara Machinery Works Elementary school 18 Lecture on motors and brakes and the principles of how trains start and stop General Machinery & Elementary school 48 Lecture on turbochargers Special Vehicles Air-Conditioning & Elementary school 80 Lecture on the mechanism Refrigeration Systems behind temperature change 160 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Taught by Grade level Number of Activities, topics participants (Note) Machine Tool Elementary 97 Lecture on motors and gears school Head Office Elementary 456 Lecture on planes and wind school power generation systems on water Mitsubishi Minatomirai Elementary and 1,036 Paper airplane and ship-themed Industrial Museum junior high schools craft workshops (Note) Includes repeat participants; participants include students' parental guardians and teachers of host schools Science class held by Hiroshima Machinery Science class held by Mihara Machinery Works Works Supporting the next generation at all stages from junior high to graduate school In addition to science classes for elementary schools, MHI also extends support to students at various stages in their education, from junior high school to graduate school. Takasago Machinery Works, held a workplace experience program called Toraiyaru Week for 8th graders in Hyogo prefecture, in which it hosted 10 students on request from a local junior high school and offered them various experiences which they would never have in a typical classroom, such as paperweight construction, using CAD to create designs, and learning sandblast surface treatment in the blade plant. Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works held welding demonstrations for students of industrial high schools in Nagasaki prefecture, performed by employees who had won awards at various welding competitions. In March 2013, MHI and the Institute of National Colleges of Technology, Japan signed a comprehensive partnership agreement aimed at promoting academic excellence and industrial technology in Japan. By providing internships, sharing lecturers, and conducting joint research, we hope to cultivate and strengthen the manufacturing skills of young people. Teaming up with the University of Tokyo, we established an endowed chair on cutting-edge energy conversion engineering (Power Systems) in September 2008 and an endowed chair on aerospace innovation (Aerospace Systems) in August 2009, thus contributing to the development of the next generation in technical fields related to MHI's business and in public policy research. In addition to the above programs, MHI Environmental & Chemical Engineering offered a two-week (10 workdays) internship from the end of July 2012. Seven students from six universities and graduate schools were given a course on the design of a waste incineration facility and after-sales servicing. 161 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Funds for Community Engagement, a new in-house system to promote social contribution activities MHI introduced a new in-house system Funds for Community Engagement (former Social Contribution Fund) in fiscal 2012 to promote active involvement in social contribution activities designed to address needs and issues of the local communities around company facilities. Under this system, time donated by company employees to volunteer work is converted to a monetary value, which is then converted to an equivalent budget allocation. Money in the budget is used along with the dispatch of employee volunteers to build collaborative relationships with NPOs and other local groups and address social issues together. In fiscal 2012, the year the system was launched, MHI developed and implemented social contribution activities designed to encourage employees from all works and facilities to get involved in volunteer programs. For example, the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems' Biwajima Plant received support from the Toki-Shonai River Support Center — an NPO that works in community development and river maintenance throughout the watershed of the Shonai River, which flows near the plant, and the Toki River, the name of the upstream portion of the same river — to run a booth for making reusable chopsticks at the plant's community event (Family Festival). Wood obtained by thinning cedar, cypress, and other tree species from forests at the source waters of the Toki-Shonai River was used to make the chopsticks. Since participants could make their own one-of-a-kind chopsticks, the booth was a big success and allowed time for employees to enjoy interacting with members of the local community. This event included, in fiscal 2012 MHI supported the activities of 16 organizations working in such varied fields as education, social welfare, environmental conservation, culture, the arts, and sports. Because this new system also creates great opportunities for MHI employees to communicate with people from local communities, MHI will look to expand the scope of activities, for example by supporting activities in fields that have a close connection to MHI's businesses. Festival visitors make their own reusable chopsticks from thinned wood (Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems) ■ List of support recipients in fiscal 2012 Global Fund for Education Assistance (general incorporated foundation) Plan Japan (international NPO) LINC (NPO) Community Support Center Kobe (NPO) Shimonoseki Social Welfare Council (social welfare corporation) Sherlock Holmes (NPO) Science Café Harima Group for Planting 10,000 Cherry Trees on the Kakogawa River (NPO) Shimins Seeds (NPO) Chubu Philharmonic Orchestra (NPO) Komaki (NPO) Hitachi Science Club (NPO) Mihara City Environmental Committee Sagamihara City Rugby Ball Association (NPO) Toki-Shonai River Support Center (NPO) Ritto Forest Club projects, Ritto-city Society of Commerce and Industry 162 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Examples of Regional Social Contribution Activities (FY2012) Holding a baseball clinic on a remote island Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works held a baseball clinic for 20 children living in a foster care facility in Kamigoto-cho, a town located on the northern part of the Goto Islands of Nagasaki Prefecture. The coaches, players, and former players of the Works' hardball baseball club served as instructors. The clinic's mission was to contribute to the healthy development of youths, achieved through such activities as technical instruction and a clinic barbeque that allowed the participants and instructors to socialize with one another. Showing how to use the lower body Teaching bat control Protecting fireflies in collaboration with a local organization Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works teamed up with local volunteer organization Toyora Firefly Community Association to carry out firefly preservation activities in the Dangu River area of Shimonoseki in Yamaguchi Prefecture. Around 20 employees and their family members planted plants and laid down stones that are necessary for firefly development. Employees and local volunteers Planting and laying stones in the river 163 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Hosting a charity concert Every year since fiscal 2003, Takasago Machinery Works has hosted a charity concert in Takasago, Hyogo Prefecture, with the goal of providing local residents with an opportunity to listen to high-quality music for a reasonable price. All proceeds from the concerts are donated to cultural and social welfare programs in the city. The 10th concert, held in fiscal 2012, gathered 1,469,569 yen in donations. The Takasago City Hoden Junior High School chorus club performed in the concert and also joined guest singer Kyogo Kawaguchi. All who performed in the concert Junior high school students sing along with Kyogo Kawaguchi Foreign currency charity drive Taking notice of the number of overseas business trips its employees go on, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works began in fiscal 2012 a drive to collect unused foreign currency as part of its CSR program. The drive has gradually expanded, raising in fiscal 2012 9 kilograms of coins and bills for donation to the Japan Committee for UNICEF. Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works will continue this program, which puts tucked-away coins and bills to use benefiting disadvantaged people in developing countries. Foreign currency collected by employees 164 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Forest management activities In May 2012, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works held its sixth forest care program in the Onaza satoyama ecosystem (a rural area where humans interact closely with the environment through agriculture and other activities) located in Aogaki-cho in Tamba, Hyogo Prefecture. Eighty-seven employees and their family members took part in the program, planting 60 broadleaf saplings and tending saplings planted at previous programs. Employee volunteers who participated A family plants a tree together Hosting wind turbine tours for families Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works took part in “Wind Day 2012 in Yokohama,” a wind turbine tour event for families hosted by the Japan Wind Energy Association, the Japan Wind Power Association, and Yokohama City, providing tours to 144 parents and children in June 2012. Participants let out shouts of amazement at the size of an offshore wind turbine nacelle (generator cover housing), and in the mini-lecture that followed, asked lots of questions about the number of wind turbine blades, how wind power is used, and other topics. Families look up at a wind turbine Children are shocked by the size of a wind turbine blade 165 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Examples of Social Contribution Activities by MHI Group Companies (FY2012) Exhibiting at the 2012 Japan International Aerospace Exhibition (JA2012) Diamond Air Service took part in Japan International Aerospace Exhibition 2012 (JA2012, held in Nagoya), an event dedicated to promoting understanding and youth interest in the aerospace industry, by exhibiting MHI's MU-300 (JA30DA) aircraft at Chubu International Airport (Centrair). The MU-300 on display Visitor of the exhibition Eco-point program utilized for donations The Yokohama office of MHI Plant Engineering, Ltd. created its own eco-point program in which employees are awarded points for taking eco-friendly actions (such as using their own reusable chopsticks and drink containers, recycling, and participating in cleanup activities around the plant), which can then be redeemed for cash on their Edy accounts and used to make purchases in the employee cafeteria. The company has also donated 205,000 yen, or the equivalent of half of the points redeemed by employees, to Ashinaga, an organization that collects anonymous donations to provide educational and emotional support to orphans worldwide. Cleanup efforts An employee carries his own reusable drink container 166 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Supporting stray dog rescue activities Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioners Australia, Pty. Ltd. (MHIAA) supports Doggie Rescue, a volunteer organization that rescues, shelters and finds new homes for stray dogs in the northern part of Sydney. Specifically, MHIAA provides air-conditioning equipment and regular servicing in the organization's building free of charge, and also helps promote the organization by purchasing charity goods and displaying the organization's logo on company business cards. MHIAA will look to expand its support going forward and work to reduce incidences of stray dogs being put down. Spending time with rescued dogs The dogs are given a spacious kennel Supporting the Thai flood recovery Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. (MHIT) employees and their families, a total of 35 people, volunteered at the Sorndee Pracharat Anusorn School in Ayutthaya Province as part of the company's program to support the recovery from the heavy flood in Thailand in 2011. They repaired damaged school buildings, repainted chairs and desks, and donated school supplies. Repairing damaged school buildings Employees and their family members who volunteered 167 Recognition from Society Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2012 March Best Supplier Award PT. POWER SYSTEMS PT. PLN (Persero) SERVICE INDONESIA, PT. POESER March Certificate of Appreciation (for MHI's Power Systems, Mitsubishi Sendai Refinery, JX Nippon contribution to the Sendai Refinery's early Heavy Industries, Ltd. Oil & Energy Corporation restart of operations following the Great East Japan Earthquake) March Atomic Energy Historic Award Nuclear Energy Systems, Atomic Energy Society of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Japan Ltd. March Certificate of Appreciation (for early Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Tokyo Regional Civil recovery of Sendai Airport facilities, which Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Aviation Bureau sustained catastrophic damage in the Great East Japan Earthquake) March Honorable Mention Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Atomic Energy Society of Ltd. Japan April Certificate of Appreciation (for collection of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, National Federation of monetary donations for children affected Ltd. UMESCO Associations in by the Great East Japan Earthquake) JAPAN April Certificate of Appreciation (for many years Defense Aircraft Division, Japan Maritime of supporting maintenance of SH-60K Aerospace Systems, Self-Defense Force battle command system software) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. April Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Minister of Education, Science and Technology Award in the 41st Ltd. Culture, Sports, Science Japan Industrial Technology Awards (for and Technology in Japan development of the new E5 series high-speed trains) April Certificate of Appreciation (for zero work Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, High-Speed Nuclear accidents in fiscal 2011) Ltd. Reactor Research & Development Center April Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Award in the 41st Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Ltd. Japan Industrial Technology Awards (for Ltd. development of the new E5 series high-speed trains) April Certificate of Appreciation (for MHI's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, TABLE FOR TWO contribution to providing school lunches to Ltd. International children in developing countries through continued support of the TABLE FOR TWO program) April 1st place among Silver recipients in Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Morningstar Japan K.K. machinery category of Gomez IR Site Ltd. Rankings May Zero Accidents Award (for zero accidents Nuclear Energy Systems, Health and Safety in two years of regular maintenance) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Committee, Genkai Nuclear Ltd. Power Station, Kyushu Electric Power Co., Inc. May 2011 JSCE Tanaka Award (for excellence Hiroshima Airport Bridge Japan Society of Civil in bridge design and construction) and Tokyo Gate Bridge, Engineers Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. May Award of Excellence in Driving School Hiroji Center Co., Ltd. Association of HiroshimaManagement Accredited Driving Schools Hiroshima Prefectural Office 168 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2012 June Certificate of Appreciation (for MHI's Sagamihara Machinery Works, Central Kanagawa long-standing commitment to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Prefectural safeguarding the public through the Administration Center prevention of explosives-related accidents) June Chairman's Award (ESA30 Q-ton Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Heat Pump and Thermal CO2-refrigerant heat pump for industrial Storage Technology water heater systems) Center of Japan June Certificate of Appreciation (for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 1st Armored Training commitment to security infrastructure Unit, Japan Ground development and enrichment of the Self-Defense Force Japan Ground Self-Defense Force) June Award of Excellence for Nagasaki City Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Public Business Library in 13th Public Construction Prize Association, Ltd. June Japan Association for Safety of Sagamihara Machinery Works, Japan Association for Hazardous Materials Chairman's Award Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Safety of Hazardous (for exemplary work-site that handles Materials hazardous materials) June 2012 JSTP Medal for Innovative Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals The Japan Society for Technology Machinery, Inc. Technology of Plasticity June Certificate of Appreciation (for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Tohoku Electric Power completing installation of power Co., Inc. generation facilities during the contruction of Higashi-Niigata Thermal Power Station's No. 5 unit in short time) June Certificate of Appreciation (for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Tohoku Electric Power completing machinery construction Co., Inc. during the contruction of Akita Thermal Power Station's No. 5 unit in short time) June Award for class completions in Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Japan Association of Continuing Professional Development Bridge & Steel Structures Bridge Construction Engineering Co., Ltd. Management Engineers June Safety Excellence Award Tokyo Gate Bridge construction Tokyo Branch, Japan (parts 2 and 5), Mitsubishi Heavy Construction Industries Bridge & Steel Occupational Safety Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. and Health Association June Model Business Award (for completing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Safety Committee, construction of magnetic card-based toll Nagoya Construction collection machines and ETC machines Office, for the Isewangan Expressway without Nagoya Branch, Central accident or injury) Nippon Expressway Company Limited June Certificate of Excellence Eba Plant, Hiroshima Machinery Hiroshima Federation of Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Associations for Hazard Industries, Ltd. Material Safety July Certification of Appreciation for Yokohama Dockyard & Re-Lifestyle (NPO) supporting Re-Lifestyle Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. July Certificate of Appreciation (for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Japan Coast Guard constructing Kunigami and Motobu stateof-the-art large patrol vessels) July 2012 4th Engineering Achievement Developers of a technology for Engineering Award removing mercury from exhaust Advancement gas, Association of Japan Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. July Commendation of Engineering Service Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Engineering (for completing construction of Haneda Advancement Airport D-Runway as a member of team Association of Japan including Kajima Corporation and 13 other companies) 169 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2012 July Ship Job of the Year 2011 (MV Tønsberg Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Japan Society of Naval RoRo carrier) Ltd. Architects and Ocean Engineers July Certificate of Appreciation (for Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. contributing through restoration work to Ltd. an early restart and stable operations of Kirin Brewery Sendai Plant, which was damaged in the Great East Japan Earthquake) July 2012 Commendation of Engineering Haneda Airport D-Runway Engineering Service and Special Achievement Award construction team (Mitsubishi Advancement Heavy Industries, Ltd. and 14 Association of Japan other companies) July Certificate of Appreciation (for providing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Minister of Land, rapid recovery assistance to disaster Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Infrastructure, Transport region following the Great East Japan and Tourism Earthquake) July Certificate of Appreciation (for providing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries NTT Facilities, Inc. rapid recovery assistance to disaster Engine Systems Co., Ltd. region following the Great East Japan Earthquake) July Certification for Excellence in Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Kanto Regional Construction Work (National Route 16 Bridge & Steel Structures Development Bureau elevation project in Machida, Miyayama Engineering Co., Ltd. Viaduct, Negishi construction, YBB) July Good Construction Project (Tokyo Gate Miyaji Engineering Co., Ltd. Tokyo Bay Waterway Bridge (part 5)) and Mitsubishi Heavy Office, Kanto Regional Industries Bridge & Steel Development Bureau Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. joint venture July Commendation for Disaster Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Yokohama National Reconstruction Service (National Route Bridge & Steel Structures Highway Office, Kanto 357 Bay Bridge repair) Engineering Co., Ltd. Regional Development Bureau July Safety Award (construction of upper Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Kyushu Regional poertion of Suwagawa River Bridge on Bridge & Steel Structures Development Bureau National Route 208) Engineering Co., Ltd. and Nippon Steel Topy Bridge Co., Ltd. joint venture July Good Construction Project (construction Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Hiroshima National of steel upper portion of Honkawa Bridge Bridge & Steel Structures Highway Office, Chugoku on National Route 2) Engineering Co., Ltd. Regional Development Bureau July Good Construction Project (construction Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Chubu Branch, Japan around spillway gate of Ure Dam) Bridge & Steel Structures Water Agency Engineering Co., Ltd. July Certificate of Appreciation (for providing Takasago Division, MHI Plant Department of lecturer for manufacturing engineering Engineering Co., Ltd. Mechanical Engineering, class at the Department of Mechanical Faculty of Science and Engineering, Setsunan University) Engineering, Setsunan University July Certificate of Appreciation (for shortening Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Tachibana Bay Thermal worktime for replacing part of the Ltd. Power Station, Electric high-temperature steam reheat piping in Power Development Co., Tachibana Bay Thermal Power Station's Ltd. Unit No. 2) August Certificate of Appreciation (for helping Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, National Federation of restore education for children in the Ltd. UNESCO Associations in disaster zone through contributions to the Japan UNESCO Association Scholarship for 3.11 Disaster-Stricken Children and Students) 170 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2012 August Letter of appreciation for participation in the Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., 2012 Walkathon 21st Nagoya Walkathon Ltd. Committee, Chubu Branch, American Chamber of Commerce in Japan August Certificate of Appreciation (for early Mitsubishi Heavy Kimitsu Cooperative completion of construction of Kimitsu Industries, Ltd. Thermal Power Co., Ltd. Cooperative Thermal Power's Unit No. 6 without accident or injury) August Certificate of Appreciation (for restart of Oi Power Systems, Mitsubishi Oi Nuclear Power Plant, Nuclear Power Plant's No. 3 and 4 reactors) Heavy Industries, Ltd. Kansai Electric Power Co., Ltd. September Certificate of Appreciation (for promoting Mitsubishi Heavy Institute of Space and space development through contributions to Industries, Ltd. Astronautical Science, test firing at the Noshiro Rocket Testing Japan Aerospace Center) Exploration Agency October Silver Order of Merit (for many years of Mitsubishi Heavy Japanese Red Cross service to Red Cross activities) Industries, Ltd. Society October 2012 Good Design Award (Chiba City Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Institute of Design Monorail) Industries, Ltd. Promotion October Good Design Award ( MS Solar Tank Base Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Japan Institute of Design solar panel mount) Mechatronics Systems, Ltd. Promotion October Certificate of Appreciation (Hakkai-bashi Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Minamiuonuma City, Bridge) Bridge & Steel Structures Niigata Prefecture Engineering Co., Ltd. October Certificate of Appreciation (for recognizing General Machinery & Japan Ground the importance of national defense and Special Vehicles, Mitsubishi Self-Defense Ordnance long-term commitment to student education) Heavy Industries, Ltd. School October Certificate of Appreciation (for recognizing Mitsubishi Heavy 3rd Air Depot, Japan Air and contributing to 3rd Air Depot's mission in Industries, Ltd. Self-Defense Force national defense through the manufacture and repair of F-2 fighter jet flight simulators and ballistic missile defense support systems) October Outstanding VE Activity Award (for making a Hiroshima Machinery Society of Japanese noteworthy contribution to company Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Value Engineering management through VE efforts) Industries, Ltd. October 2nd Place, Men's Indoor Fire Hydrant General Machinery & Sagamihara Disaster Division, 29th In-House Fire-Fighting Special Vehicles, Mitsubishi Prevention Association Competition Heavy Industries, Ltd. November Certificate of Appreciation (for active Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Japan Committee, participation in vaccine assistance activities) Ltd. Vaccines for the World's Children November Certificate of Appreciation for sponsoring the Yokohama Dockyard & Japan Relations Office, Children's Eco-Project Program Machinery Works, World Food Programme Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. November Outstanding Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Kanazawa Plant, Resources and Waste Activities, Yokohama Environmental Action Yokohama Dockyard & Recycling Bureau, City of Award (8th consecutive year) Machinery Works, Yokohama Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. November Outstanding Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Honmoku Plant, Yokohama Resources and Waste Activities, Yokohama Environmental Action Dockyard & Machinery Recycling Bureau, City of Award (7th consecutive year) Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Yokohama Industries, Ltd. November 2012 Best Project MIA Mover APM Project Engineering News-Record November Outstanding Design Award, 2012 Kanagawa Mitsubishi Heavy Kanagawa Shimbun Shimbun Advertising Awards Industries, Ltd. 171 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2012 November Certificate of Appreciation (for completing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Hokkaido Electric construction of Tomato-Atsuma Power Station Ltd. Power Co., Ltd. without accident or injury) November Certificate of Appreciation (for contributing to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Japan Aerospace the advancement of space development Ltd. Exploration Agency through service in the launch of a science satellite and obervation rocket at Uchinoura Space Observatory of Kagoshiima Space Center) November 2012 Internet IR Excellence Award Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Daiwa Investor Ltd. Relations Co., Ltd. November Best Company Website Rankings, 1st place in Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Nikko Investor machinery industry Ltd. Relations Co., Ltd. November Commendation for Zero Accidents in first half of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Fukushima Diaichi fiscal 2012 Ltd. Nuclear Power Station, Tokyo Electric Power Co., Ltd. December Certificate of Appreciation (for donating the Takasago Machinery Takasago City proceeds of a charity concert) Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. December Commendation of Service to Promoting Blood Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Kanagawa Chapter, Donations Ltd. Japanese Red Cross Society December Certificate of Appreciation (for replacing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries East Japan Works 200,000 m3 holder piston at Keihin works Bridge & Steel Structures (Keihin), JFE Steel without accident and with shortened schedule) Engineering Co., Ltd. Corporation December Excellent Website, Content Planning and Web MHI SHOWCASE, Japan Web Grandprix Architecture Category, 6th Corporate Web Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Grandprix Ltd.'s website December Special RIA (Rich Internet Applications) MHI SHOWCASE, Japan Web Grandprix Consortium Award, 6th Corporate Web Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Grandprix Ltd.'s website 2013 January Certificate of Appreciation (for contributing to Nagoya Aerospace Aichi Prefecture local safety) Systems Work, Mitsubishi Minato Police Station Heavy Industries, Ltd. January Certificate of Appreciation (for contributing to Asuka Plant, Nagoya Aichi Prefecture Kanie local safety) Aerospace Systems Work, Police Station Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. January Certificate of Appreciation (for contributing to Komaki Minami Plant, Aichi Prefecture local safety) Nagoya Aerospace Nishibiwajima Police Systems Work, Mitsubishi Station Heavy Industries, Ltd. January Certificate of Appreciation (for prevention of Nagoya Guidance & Aichi Prefecture accidents and crime through traffic safety and Propulsion Systems Works, Komaki Police Station crime prevention education) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. January Chairman's Award for Promotion of the Machine Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Japan Society for the Industry (MHI vero4DRT) Ltd. Promotion of Machine Industry January Chairman's Award, 2012 Energy Conservation Takasago Machinery Energy Conservation Awards Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Center, Japan Industries, Ltd. January 10th (2012) Promotion of Machine Industry Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Japan Society for the Awards (abdomen radiation therapy device with Ltd. Promotion of Machine target tracking capability, developed with Kyoto Industry University, the Foundation for Biomedical Research and Innovations, and others) 172 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded 2013 January Certificate of Appreciation (for contributing to Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Hyogo Prefectural exhibition at the Monodzukuri Museum) Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Monodzukuri Institute Industries, Ltd. February Certificate of Appreciation (for supporting the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Nagoya City Project to Host Children from Rikuzentakata Work, Mitsubishi Heavy City in Nagoya ) Industries, Ltd. February 2012 Environmental Business Award (CO2 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, eco japan cup Recovery Plant) Ltd. Organizing Committee February Japan Machinery Federation Chairman's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Japan Machinery Award, 2012 Excellence Energy-Saving Ltd. Federation Machine Commendations (cascading heat exchange-type CO2 recovery plant) February Certificate of Appreciation (for large Aerospace Systems, Kawasaki Heavy contribution to production of the OH-1 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Industries, Ltd. observation helicopter for the Ministry of Ltd. Defense) February Excellence Award (LNG carrier Sayaendo) 2012 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Nikkei Inc. Nikkei Excellent Products and Services Awards Ltd. February Certificate of Appreciation (for replacing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Kawasaki Thermal 100,000 m3 COG holder at Yawata Steel Bridge & Steel Structures Power Station, Tokyo Works) Engineering Co., Ltd. Electric Power Co., Ltd. March Certificate of Appreciation (for replacing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Yawata Steel Works, 100,000 m3 COG holder at Yawata Steel Bridge & Steel Structures Nippon Steel & Works) Engineering Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Metal Corporation, March Certificate of Appreciation (for enhancing Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Hamaoka Nuclear reliability of watertight doors of reactor building) Bridge & Steel Structures Power Station, Chubu Engineering Co., Ltd. Electric Power Co., Ltd. March Certificate of Appreciation (for GH replacement Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Kashima Works, at Kashima Works (disaster reconstruction Bridge & Steel Structures Nippon Steel & work)) Engineering Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Metal Corporation, March Certificate of Appreciation (for contributing to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Tohoku Electric Power the quick recovery of the Haramachi Thermal Mechatronics Systems, Ltd.; Co., Inc. Power Station, which sustained damage in the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Great East Japan Earthquake) Ltd. March Certificate of Appreciation (for showing deep Nagoya Aerospace Systems Rikuzentakata City understanding of Nagoya's project to host Work, Mitsubishi Heavy Yonesaki Junior High junior high school students from Rikuzentakata Industries, Ltd. School City, and helping give the students experience in a real work environment) March Certificate of Appreciation (for donating half of Yokohama Division, MHI Ashinaga the company's 2012 environmental activities Plant Engineering Co., Ltd. points (internal eco-point program) to the Tohoku Rainbow House) 173 Progress toward a Sustainable Society MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad( :Society/ :Environment) ( :Society/ :Environment) Japan World 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 1967 Institution of Basic Law for Environmental Pollution Control. 1970 Completion of Japan's first 1970 PWR power plant. 1971 Establishment of Environment Agency. 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment convenes in Stockholm. Adoption of Statement for Human Environmental Quality. Establishment of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). 1973 Inauguration of Environment Management Department. 1976 OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises issued. 1977 Development of Basic Guidelines for Safety & Health Management. 1978 Creation of Environmental Manager Conferences. 1980 Establishment of Committee on 1980 Promotion of Training in the Dowa Issue. 1981 Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women went into effect. International Year of Disabled Persons. 1985 Enactment of Equal Employment Opportunity Law. 1987 Establishment of Export1987 Enactment of Ozone Layer related Regulations Monitoring Protection Law. Committee. 1988 Launch of In-house Conference on CO 2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 1989 Launch of In-house Conference on CO 2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 174 MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad( :Society/ :Environment) ( :Society/ :Environment) Japan World 1990 1990 Institution of Americans with Disabilities Act. 1991 Establishment of Keidanren Global Environmental Charter. Establishment of Keidanren Charter of Corporate Behavior. Enactment of Child Care Leave Law. 1992 Committee on Promotion of 1992 Ministry of International 1992 United Nations Conference on Training in the Dowa Issue Trade and Industry Environment and Development (Earth renamed Committee for Raising requests Voluntary Plan Summit) convenes in Rio de Janeiro; Awareness of Human Rights. on the Environment. adoption of Rio Declaration on Establishment of Committee Environment and Development and for the Promotion of Employment Agenda 21. of the Handicapped. 1993 Formulation of voluntary plan 1993 Enactment of Basic entitled, Our Approach to Environmental Law. Environmental Problems. 1994 Caux Round Table draws up Principles for Business. 1995 Child Care Leave Law 1995 1st Conference of the Parties to the revamped into Child Care United Nations Convention on Climate and Family Care Leave Change (COP1) convened in Berlin. Law. 1996 Formulation of Environmental 1996 Revision of Keidanren 1996 ISO 14001 is instituted. Policies and establishment of Charter of Corporate 2nd Conference of the Parties to the Environment Committee. Behavior. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP2) convened in Geneva. 1997 Acquisition of ISO 14001 1997 Formulation of 1997 3rd Conference of the Parties to the certification by Yokohama Keidanren Voluntary United Nations Framework Convention Machinery Works, a first for Action Plan on the on Climate Change (COP3) convened in Japan's heavy industry Environment. Kyoto. manufacturers. Launch of R410A-compatible air-conditioners. (R410A: new type of environment-friendly refrigerant) 1998 Development of system that 1998 Enactment of Law 1998 4th Conference of the Parties to the thermally decomposes PCBs Concerning the Promotion United Nations Framework Convention contained in industrial effluents. of Measures to Cope with on Climate Change (COP4) convened in Global Warming. Buenos Aires. Enactment of Law to Promote Specified Nonprofit Activities. 1999 Delivery of combined-cycle 1999 Enactment of Pollutant 1999 5th Conference of the Parties to the power plant incorporating the Release and Transfer United Nations Framework Convention M701G gas turbine, featuring the Register (PRTR) Law. on Climate Change (COP5) convened in world's highest efficiency rating. Bonn. 175 MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad( :Society/ :Environment) ( :Society/ Japan World :Environment) 2000 ISO 14001 2000 2000 2000 Enactment of The Basic Law 2000 6th Conference of the Parties to the certification acquired for Establishing a Recycling-based United Nations Framework Convention by all production Society. on Climate Change (COP6) convened bases (13 works). Revision of Law for the Promotion of in The Hague. Recycled Resources Utilization. United Nations Global Compact is Enactment of Construction Material instituted. Recycling Law, Food Recycling Law Issuance of GRI Sustainability and Law on Promoting Green Reporting Guidelines Version 1. Purchasing. 2001 Acquisition of ISO 2001 Establishment of Ministry of the 2001 7th Conference of the Parties to 14001 certification by Environment. the United Nations Framework Engineering Enactment of Law Concerning Convention on Climate Change Department. Special Measures against PCB Waste. (COP7) convened in Marrakech. Establishment of Enactment of Fluorocarbons ISO Council launches feasibility Compliance Recovery and Destruction Law. study on establishing international Committee. CSR standards. 2002 Establishment of 2002 Ratification of Kyoto Protocol. 2002 World Summit for Sustainable mediumto long-term Enactment of Soil Contamination Development convened in environmental activity Countermeasures Law. Johannesburg. goals. 8th Conference of the Parties to the Nippon Keidanren revamps Keidanren Charter of Corporate United Nations Framework Convention Behavior into Corporate Behavior on Climate Change (COP8) convened Charter. in New Delhi. First meeting of CSR GRI Sustainability Reporting Standardization Committee held by Guidelines Version 2 released. Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2003 Establishment of 2003 2003 Trial project for trading of 2003 First study meeting held to discuss Construction greenhouse gas emissions treaty on safety of radioactive waste Business Act implemented by Ministry of the management. Compliance Environment. 9th Conference of the Parties to Committee. Emissions standards for diesel the United Nations Framework vehicles tightened. Convention on Climate Change Revision of Waste Management and (COP9) convened in Milan. Public Cleansing Law. Japan Association of Corporate Executives for Economic Development releases 15th Corporate White Paper, entitled, Evolution of Market and Social Responsibility-Minded Business Management. 2004 Joined United 2004 Tenth item (on corruption Nations Global prevention) added to United Nations Compact initiative. Global Compact. 10th Conference of Establishment of the Parties to the United Nations Managing Board for Framework Convention on Climate Innovation in the Change (COP10) convened in Buenos Nuclear Business. Aires. 2005 Introduction of 2005 Enactment of Act on the Protection 2005 Kyoto Protocol goes into force. Executive Officer of Personal Information. 11th Conference of the Parties to system. the United Nations Framework Establishment of Convention on Climate Change Internal Audit (COP11) and the 1st Meeting of the Department. Parties to the Kyoto Protocol Establishment of (COP/MOP1) convened in Montreal. CSR Center. Establishment of Order Compliance Committee. 2006 Acquisition of ISO 2006 Enactment of New Company Law. 2006 GRI Sustainability Reporting 14001 certification by New National Energy Strategy Guidelines Version 3 released. Head Office (including formulated. 12th Conference of the Parties to branch offices). the United Nations Framework Establishment of Convention on Climate Change CSR Committee. (COP12) convened in Nairobi. Establishment of EU announced target of reducing CSR Department. CO 2 emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. 176 MHI's Activities Year Major Events in Japan and Abroad( :Society/ :Environment) ( :Society/ :Environment) Japan World 2007 Establishment of CSR 2007 21st Century Environmental 2007 Fourth Assessment Report Action Guidelines. Nation Strategy formulated. released by the United Nations Enactment of the revised Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Consumer Products Safety Law. Change (IPCC). 2008 Development of CSR Action 2008 Application of internal control Plan. report system based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (J-SOX) started. Holding of the G8 Hokkaido Toyako Summit. Revision of Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. 2009 Revision of Soil 2009 The Green New Deal advocated Contamination Countermeasures by the U.S. is embraced by Law. countries across the globe. 2010 Achievement of zero 2010 2010 Cabinet determines Basic Law 2010 15th Conference of the Parties to emission at all locations for Prevention of Global the United Nations Framework Establishment of the Warming Convention on Climate Change Accident Exhibit and Materials Cabinet determines 2010 (COP 15) convened in Room National Strategy for the Copenhagen. Establishment of the CSR Conservation and Sustainable COP10 10th Conference of the Promotion Section of the Use of Biological Diversity Parties to the Convention on Presidential Administration Revision of the Waste Biological Diversity held in Nagoya Office Disposal Act Adoption of the Nagoya Protocol Revision of the Air Pollution and Aichi Target Control Law CSR Standards (ISO 26000) Revision of the Water issued Pollution Prevention Act 2011 Implementing Energy-saving 2011 Decision to introduce an 2011 International energy Measures at All Works environmental tax for measures management standard (ISO 5001) against global warming issued Feed-in Tariffs for renewable UN International Year of Forests energy Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Establishment of Principles for Accounting and Reporting Standard Financial Action towards a 17th Conference of the Parties to Sustainable Society the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP17) convened in Durban GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.1 released 2012 Establishment of the CSR 2012 Publication of General 2012 UN Conference on Sustainable Group in the Corporate Guidelines on Supply Chain Development (Rio+20) held in Rio Communication Department of GHG Emission Accounting Ver. de Janeiro, Brazil the Presidential Administration 1.0 Eleventh Meeting of the Office Amended Water Pollution Conference of the Parties (COP11) Creation of MHI Control Law enters into force to the Convention on Biological Environmental Vision 2030 Feed-in tariff system for Diversity held in Hyderabad, India Funds for Community renewable energy launched Eighteenth Meeting of the Engagement established Cabinet approves National Conference of the Parties (COP18) Biodiversity Strategy of Japan to the UN Framework Convention on 2012-2020 Climate Change held in Doha, Qatar Environmental tax for measures against global 2012 International Year of warming goes into effect Sustainable Energy for All U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopts rule mandating companies to disclose use of conflict minerals 177 Main Third-party Opinions on Past CSR Reports and Our Responses Main opinions on the 2012 report and our responses 1. We felt it could be made a little bit more interesting and exciting. We hoped that it would break new ground in being a report that would be enjoyable for third parties reading it for the first time. In the 2013 Report As a company supporting social and industrial infrastructure through manufacturing, we think of the root of manufacturing as the joy and pleasure children experience when they make their own creations, as when they innocently and creatively assemble toys, and we tried to express that feeling of fun and excitement using a cover design that would bring it out. Furthermore, in the Towards an Assured Future for Mankind and Earth feature, we aimed for a CSR report that would be enjoyable for first-time readers, by expressing through illustrations how our company’s operations, products and technologies would support the resolving of social issues and the expectations of mankind. 2. We hope that originality will be developed beyond the traditional CSR report concept through innovative ideas, allowing us be a leader for Japanese CSR reports and creating the opportunity for Japanese CSR reports to lead the world. In the 2013 Report We strove to create a CSR report that, more than ever, presented information visually, by further clarifying the functions of the brochure and the website, and carefully selecting the information that would be included in the CSR Report digest version (brochure). We tried as much as possible, making effective use of photographs, charts and graphs to succinctly bring across information of the most concern to society. In addition, through Stakeholder Dialogue, we have been reporting on our efforts towards understanding and identifying human rights issues, which include our Human rights due diligence workshops, which are attracting stronger focus worldwide (which we participated in alongside other companies, NGO/NPOs, academic specialists and experts). 3. Now more than ever, making global society sustainable will mean disseminating and utilizing our creed throughout our business, based on Mitsubishi's Three Corporate Principles. I want to clearly visualize how Mitsubishi Heavy Industries is truly contributing to the world. In the 2013 Report Our President and CEO, Shunichi Miyanaga, has expressed Commitment by Management, leveraging our comprehensive strengths in manufacturing to help realize a sustainable society; as well as that we have set out a corporate vision regarding the Energy & Environment field, which includes thermal power, nuclear power generation, and so on. We also explained The three Corporate Principles, our creed, our CSR Action Guidelines, and promoting more business-integrated CSR, in CSR of the MHI Group. At the same time, alongside an introduction to our CSR activities in our highlights article, we set out the results of promotion of our CSR Medium-Term Action Plan in an easily comprehensible table. 178 Main opinions on the 2010 report and our responses 1. In order to improve your report, please include opinions and comments from society and bring in stakeholders to participate. The 2011 report has contributions from various stakeholders, including customers and school teachers both in Japan and overseas. These can be found in the Feature Article, the social responsibility reports Commitment to our Customers, Commitment to our Shareholders & Investors and Contributions to Society. In A bridge to the next Generation, we feature dialogues with NPOs and elementary school head teachers as well as other material created with the cooperation of stakeholders. 2. I would like to see the same report issued and appreciated worldwide. The 2011 report contains details on CSR activities at overseas locations in the Feature Article entitled Close ties with Society such as MHI's involvement with the community in Thailand, the volunteer work done by its locally hired employees there and donations for the construction of a new elementary school. 3. I would like your report to show us what kind of attitude your employees have toward their own job at MHI and whether they feel any social significance in what they do. The Feature Article and Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities in the 2011 report include stories about the achievements of employees who take every opportunity to engage in CSR activities to lift morale at work and details about those CSR activities themselves. Main opinions on the 2009 report and our responses 1. Please make it easier to understand for lay people, more interesting and improve readability. The 2010 report includes a section entitled Dialogue by renowned journalist Akira Ikegami, who is committed to describing difficult subjects simply, written in a way so that management's concepts and stance towards CSR are conveyed clearly. We also made efforts to improve general readability such as increasing the size of the print and photos. 2. You should have more reactions from people where CSR activities were conducted. The 2010 report includes a new page entitled, Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities featuring contributions from employees involved in CSR activities on-site. 3. I would like the report to include independent midto long-term CO2 reduction targets as well as the formulation and announcement of a road map for the attainment of targets based on MHI technology. In the 2010 report, the section entitled Dialogue describes in detail our CO2 reduction targets and the annual amount of CO2 eliminated through the use of our products. 179 Main opinions on the 2008 report and our responses 1. I would like to see your report include MHI's vision for a long-term energy mix. In the 2009 report's feature article entitled Close ties with the Earth lays out MHI's vision regarding a long-term energy mix through the realization of the 3E's, namely energy security, environmental protection and economic sustainable growth. 2. The report should include MHI's efforts to support labor, human rights and coexistence with the community on-site. The 2009 report's feature article, Close ties with Society, describes on-site occupational accident prevention measures and safety training as well as efforts to maintain good relations with locally hired staff. 3. Please include information on the defense industry. The 2009 report's article Commitment to our Customers provides insight on MHI's concept and stance regarding the defense industry as well as some of the equipment we provide the military. 180 GRI Guideline Comparison List Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and United Nations Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Global Compact Principles Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of Principle the CSR Report 2013 1.Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or 3-11 (Dialogue) equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3-11 (Dialogue) 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) 37-42 (CSR Action Plans) 91-97 (Targets and Progress) 2.Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 43-52 (Company Profile) 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 43-52 (Company Profile) 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 43-52 (Company Profile) 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 43-52 (Company Profile) either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 43-52 (Company Profile) 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 43-52 (Company Profile) customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 43-52 (Company Profile) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 168-173 (Recognition from Society) 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. (Back Cover) Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 1 (Editorial Policy) ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions 1 (Editorial Policy) and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and 99 (Environmental other information in the report. Accounting) 110 (CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012)) 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. (GRI Guideline Comparison List) Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not 53 (Third-Party Opinions, included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the Acting on Third-Party scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship Opinions) between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 181 Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and United Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Detailed Nations Global Compact Principles Global Compact version (PDF) of the CSR Report Principle 2013 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 55-58 (Current Status of governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Corporate Governance and organizational oversight. Internal Controls) 60-62 (Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 63-67 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2012) 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 55-58 (Current Status of officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the Corporate Governance and reasons for this arrangement). Internal Controls) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members 55-58 (Current Status of of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive Corporate Governance and members. Internal Controls) 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 55-58 (Current Status of direction to the highest governance body. Corporate Governance and Internal Controls) 148-153 (Building a Better Working Environment) 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, (MHI Website : Securities report , senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the Quarterly report) organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 1 (Creed) principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) status of their implementation. 37-42 (CSR Action Plans) 71-73 (Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines) 78-80 (Environmental Management Promotion System) 91-97 (Targets and Progress) 138 (Fair Dealing) 139-141 (Promoting CSR Procurement) 155 (Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities) 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's 3-11 (Dialogue) identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 55-58 (Current Status of compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Corporate Governance and Include frequency with which the highest governance body assesses sustainability Internal Controls) performance. 60-62 (Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 63-67 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2012) 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 78-80 (Environmental Management Promotion System) 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 182 Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Detailed United Nations Global Compact Principles Global Compact version (PDF) of the CSR Report 2013 Principle Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 3-11 (Dialogue) addressed by the organization. 59 (Risk Management) 60-62 (Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 63-67 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2012) 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 71-73 (Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines) 87 (Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks) 127-130 (Enhancing Product Safety) 138 (Fair Dealing) 139-141 (Promoting CSR Procurement) 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 1 (Editorial Policy) principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or 3-11 (Dialogue) endorses. 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 3-11 (Dialogue) engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 33-34 (Dialogues with Stakeholders) 60-62 (Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 127-130 (Enhancing Product Safety) 131-133 (Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS)) 135-136 (Disclosure Principles and IR Activities) 139-141 (Promoting CSR Procurement) 148-153 (Building a Better Working Environment) 154 (Forum 35) 156-162 (Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2012)) 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key 37-42 (CSR Action Plans) topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5.Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other 156-162 (Achievements Made through community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Social Contribution Activities (FY2012)) providers and governments. 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 3-11 (Dialogue) organization’s activities due to climate change. 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) 15-24 (Special Feature) 25-32 (Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities) 37-42 (CSR Action Plans) 91-97 (Targets and Progress) 99 (Environmental Accounting) 110 (CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012)) 122-125 (Main Products and Technologies in 2012) EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 183 Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and Corresponding Global Relevant page(s) in the Detailed United Nations Global Compact Principles Compact Principle version (PDF) of the CSR Report 2013 Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 3-11 (Dialogue) provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro 15-24 (Special Feature) bono engagement. 25-32 (Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities) 110 (CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012)) 122-125 (Main Products and Technologies in 2012) 156-162 (Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2012)) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, 139-141 (Promoting CSR including the extent of impacts. Procurement) 148-153 (Building a Better Working Environment) Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Principle 8, Principle 9 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principle 8 98 (Material Balance) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Principle 8 98 (Material Balance) 101-106 (Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Principle 8, Principle 9 101-106 (Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures) 107-108 (Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transport) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Principle 8, Principle 9 3-11 (Dialogue) products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 15-24 (Special Feature) result of these initiatives. 91-97 (Targets and Progress) 110 (CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012)) 122-125 (Main Products and Technologies in 2012) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Principle 8, Principle 9 achieved. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Principle 8 98 (Material Balance) 116-117 (Protecting Water Resources) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Principle 8, Principle 9 116-117 (Protecting Water Resources) Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Principle 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services Principle 8 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Principle 8 82-86 (Initiatives to Preserve Biodiversity) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on Principle 8 82-86 (Initiatives to Preserve biodiversity. Biodiversity) 91-97 (Targets and Progress) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list Principle 8 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 184 Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and Corresponding Global Relevant page(s) in the Detailed version United Nations Global Compact Principles Compact Principle (PDF) of the CSR Report 2013 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 91-97 (Targets and Progress) 98 (Material Balance) 101-106 (Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures) 107-108 (Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transport) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 98 (Material Balance) 101-106 (Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Principle 7, Principle 8, 91-97 (Targets and Progress) achieved. Principle 9 101-106 (Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures) 107-108 (Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transport) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Principle 8 91-97 (Targets and Progress) 98 (Material Balance) 101-106 (Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures) EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Principle 8 98 (Material Balance) 118-121 (Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives) EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Principle 8 98 (Material Balance) 116-117 (Protecting Water Resources) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Principle 8 98 (Material Balance) 112-114 (Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal) 115 (Using Electronic Manifests (e-manifests)) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Principle 8 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies Principle 8 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Principle 7, Principle 8, 3-11 (Dialogue) services, and extent of impact mitigation. Principle 9 12-14 (CSR of the MHI Group) 15-24 (Special Feature) 25-32 (Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities) 91-97 (Targets and Progress) 110 (CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012)) 122-125 (Main Products and Technologies in 2012) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Principle 8, Principle 9 reclaimed by category. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Principle 8 non--monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Principle 8 91-97 (Targets and Progress) other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, 107-108 (Measures to Curb CO2 and transporting members of the workforce. Emissions in Transport) Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by Principle 7, Principle 8, 99 (Environmental Accounting) type. Principle 9 Social Labor Practices and Decent Work 185 Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and Corresponding Global Relevant page(s) in the Detailed United Nations Global Compact Principles Compact Principle version (PDF) of the CSR Report 2013 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and 43-52 (Company Profile) region, broken down by gender. 143-147 (Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources) 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover Principle 6 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Principle 1, Principle 3 148-153 (Building a Better agreements. Working Environment) 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including Principle 3 whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Principle 1 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Principle 1 148-153 (Building a Better and number of work-related fatalities by region. Working Environment) 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs Principle 1 148-153 (Building a Better in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community Working Environment) members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Principle 1 unions. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 143-147 (Utilizing and Cultivating continued employability of employees and assist them in managing Diverse Human Resources) career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 143-147 (Utilizing and Cultivating development reviews. Diverse Human Resources) Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Principle 1, Principle 6 143-147 (Utilizing and Cultivating category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, Diverse Human Resources) and other indicators of diversity. 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Principle 1, Principle 6 189-192 (CSR-Related Data) Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements Principle 1, Principle 2, Principle and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Principle 6 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Principle 1, Principle 2, Principle 139-141 (Promoting CSR undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Procurement) Principle 6 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Principle 1, Principle 2, Principle 148-153 (Building a Better concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Working Environment) including the percentage of employees trained. Principle 6 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Principle 1, Principle 2, Principle 6 186 Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) Corresponding Global Relevant page(s) in the Detailed version and United Nations Global Compact Principles Compact Principle (PDF) of the CSR Report 2013 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Principle 1, Principle 2, association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and Principle 3 actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant Principle 1, Principle 2, 63-67 (Activities of Major Related risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to Principle 5 Committees in Fiscal 2012) the effective abolition of child labor. 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 139-141 (Promoting CSR Procurement) Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant Principle 1, Principle 2, 63-67 (Activities of Major Related risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Principle 4 Committees in Fiscal 2012) contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to labor. Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 139-141 (Promoting CSR Procurement) Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's Principle 1, Principle 2 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Principle 1, Principle 2 people and actions taken. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject Principle 1, Principle 2, to human rights reviews and/or impact Principle 4, Principle 5, assessments. Principle 6 Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed,addressed and Principle 1, Principle 2, resolved through formal grievance Principle 4, Principle 5, mechanisms. Principle 6 Society Community SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks Principle 10 59 (Risk Management) related to corruption. 63-67 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2012) 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 74 (Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness) SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption Principle 10 59 (Risk Management) policies and procedures. 63-67 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2012) 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 71-73 (Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines) 74 (Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Principle 10 187 Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Corresponding Global Compact Relevant page(s) in the Detailed (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle version (PDF) of the CSR Report 2013 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Principle 1, Principle 2, Principle 3, development and lobbying. Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6, Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9, Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Principle 10 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Promote Compliance that regulations. Encompasses the Entire Group) Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Principle 1 127-130 (Enhancing Product products and services are assessed for improvement, and Safety) percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Principle 1 68-70 (Organizing a Structure to and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of Promote Compliance that products and services during their life cycle, by type of Encompasses the Entire Group) outcomes. 127-130 (Enhancing Product Safety) Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by Principle 8 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Principle 8 131-133 (Enhancing Customer and voluntary codes concerning product and service Satisfaction (CS)) information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of 131-133 (Enhancing Customer surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Satisfaction (CS)) Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary 131-133 (Enhancing Customer codes related to marketing communications, including Satisfaction (CS)) advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches Principle 1 of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 188 CSR-Related Data Group Data Summary (Unit) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Capital (non-consolidated) Billion yen 265.6 265.6 265.6 265.6 265.6 Orders received (consolidated) Billion yen 3,268.7 2,476.2 2,995.4 3,188.8 3,032.2 Net sales (consolidated) Billion yen 3,375.6 2,940.8 2,903.7 2,820.9 2,817.8 Breakdown by industry segment: (Note 1) Shipbuilding & ocean development Billion yen — 230.6 302.4 311.6 225.8 Europe Billion yen — 1,066.1 996.9 955.3 988.7 Machinery & steel structures Billion yen — 625.7 557.5 428.8 482.5 Aerospace systems Billion yen — 500.2 472.2 495.9 485.8 General machinery & special vehicles Billion yen — 286.8 343.0 381.7 389.1 Others Billion yen — 231.1 231.5 247.3 245.7 Breakdown by region: (Note 2) Japan Billion yen — — 1,480.5 1,639.9 1,555.9 Asia Billion yen — — 373.7 381.8 457.6 North America Billion yen — — 347.4 296.0 379.0 Europe Billion yen — — 217.0 225.7 217.5 Central & South America Billion yen — — 200.8 142.1 105.1 Africa Billion yen — — 169.2 51.6 23.4 The Middle East Billion yen — — 102.6 68.7 47.5 Oceania Billion yen — — 12.1 14.8 31.5 Operating income (consolidated) Billion yen 105.8 65.6 101.2 111.9 163.5 Net income (consolidated) Billion yen 24.2 14.1 30.1 24.5 97.3 Research and development expenditures (consolidated) Billion yen 101.3 129.2 123.2 121.4 120.0 (Note 1) Segments changed from fiscal 2009. Segment breakdown data for fiscal years 2007 and 2008 not indicated. (Note 2) Geographical breakdown changed from fiscal 2010. Geographical breakdown data for fiscal years 2008 and 2009 not indicated. Management-Related Data (Unit) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 No. of participants in CSR Sessions 1,037 751 614 786 657 (Including some Group companies) No. of recipients of CSR sessions for new 1,463 1,726 1,490 940 655 employees (Including some Group companies) No. of participants in compliance promotion 65,542 / 66,618 / 64,422 / 72,375 / 34,972 / (Note) training/participation rate (non-consolidated) 96.8% 96.4% 96.5% 96.8% 95.1% (Note) Includes dispatched employees, re-hired employees, etc. from the second half of 2011. Environmental Report-Related Data (Unit) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Environmental Management Systems Adopted (non-consolidated) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100 Registered ISO 14001 Internal Auditors (non-consolidated) 687 815 847 980 995 Green purchasing rate for office goods (non-consolidated) 94.0% 92.6% 92.8% 95.5% 97.2% (Note 1) Environmental Accounting (non-consolidated) Items: Investment in environmental preservation Million yen 6,242 6,643 6,987 6,164 10,452 Environmental preservation costs Million yen 15,350 15,589 18,100 14,451 12,879 Economic benefits associated with Million yen 4,005 1,566 2,474 1,694 1,744 environmental preservation activities Energy consumption at production plants (nonMJ 11,145,018,541 10,065,623,261 10,022,441,101 9,950,202,198 9,745,342,381 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Purchased electricity MWh 857,030 757,335 766,802 731,045 712,456 Heavy fuel oil A kL 20,680 15,271 13,508 16,098 12,727 City gas km3 24,409 21,964 29,094 32,541 36,653 Light oil kL 4,723 3,799 4,270 6,478 6,807 Heavy fuel oil C kL 3,671 5,173 2,601 2,677 2,342 Kerosene kL 5,968 6,232 6,008 4,529 4,213 Steam MJ 294,622,069 226,721,295 — — — LPG t 5,101 4,488 4,060 4,157 3,403 LNG t 231 218 196 193 182 Jet fuel kL 1,790 1,392 1,055 909 879 Gasoline kL 620 477 443 559 360 189 (Unit) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total volume of transportation (non-consolidated) Thousand tk 159,810 119,064 109,327 120,899 144,781 Energy consumption in transport (non-consolidated) GJ 283,303 207,823 193,641 211,102 256,277 Water usage in production plants (non10,000 tons 1,120.9 1,075.9 1,007.1 926.6 978.3 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Water supply 10,000 tons 289.8 276.2 265.6 249.5 224.1 Industrial water 10,000 tons 359.0 387.1 305.8 273.2 277.4 Groundwater 10,000 tons 213.3 185.8 194.7 199.6 200.5 Others 10,000 tons 258.8 226.8 241.0 204.3 276.3 Volume of chemical substances (PRTR) handled Tons 3,666 3,327 2,715 2,873 2,737 (non-consolidated; only production sites) Paper consumption (non-consolidated) Tons 3,536 2,950 2,718 2,719 2,563 CO2 emissions resulting from energy use at production plants (non-consolidated; only 10,000 tons 51.3 44.9 43.5 43.7 42.5 production sites) Greenhouse gas emissions at production plants excluding CO2 emissions from energy use (nonTons 13,122 8,062 2,339 3,181 1,422 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) Tons 3,318 726 950 913 491 Dinitrogen monoxide (N2O) Tons 1,341 1,006 870 525 406 Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) Tons 1,346 549 320 1,544 364 Methane (CH4) Tons 1,876 1,132 138 136 100 CO2 emissions not resulting from energy use Tons 5,241 4,649 61 63 61 CO2 emissions in transport (non-consolidated) t-CO2 19,460 14,268 12,845 14,562 17,510 Waste water volumes at production plants (non10,000 tons 940.4 912.7 891.1 866.1 873.3 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Discharged into public waters 10,000 tons 886.0 855.4 829.1 813.3 826.1 Discharged into sewer system 10,000 tons 54.4 57.3 62.0 52.7 47.2 Water pollutant discharge volumes at production Tons 81 69 71 66 59 (Note 2) plants (non-consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: COD Tons 32 28 35 33 32 Nitrogen Tons 47 40 34 31 25 Phosphate Tons 2 1 2 2 2 Volume of waste generated at production plants Thousand 151 131 133 129 132 (non-consolidated; only production sites) tons Breakdown by category: Thousand Scrap metal 84.7 81.7 85.5 81.1 78.8 tons Thousand Slag 14.3 8.4 8.5 7.5 8.0 tons Thousand Waste plastic 9.0 7.4 6.1 6.1 7.1 tons Thousand Waste wood 10.1 7.2 7.1 7.5 9.2 tons Thousand Waste paper 7.3 7.2 6.0 5.8 5.8 tons Thousand Waste Oil 9.3 6.9 6.7 6.7 6.1 tons Thousand Sludge 9.1 6.1 5.4 4.2 5.7 tons Thousand Acid and alkali wastes 4.8 3.9 5.7 7.6 9.6 tons Thousand Other 2.7 2.9 2.2 2.2 1.7 tons Waste recycling rates at production plants (non83% 89% 90% 90% 88% consolidated; only production sites) Final disposal waste volumes at production Tons 9,457 2,386 1,030 714 602 plants (non-consolidated; only production sites) 190 (Unit) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Air pollutants emissions volumes at production Tons 289 251 190 257 279 plants (non-consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: NOx Tons 185 169 139 196 209 SOx Tons 93 70 43 42 47 Soot Tons 11 12 8 19 23 Volume of chemical substances handled (PRTR) Tons 2,361 2,040 1,948 1,987 1,816 (non-consolidated; only production sites) Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides Tons 35.8 27.3 18.7 11.4 8.8 (non-consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Dichloromethane Tons 23.7 18.6 8.9 0.6 0.4 Trichloroethylene Tons 0.6 2.1 0.7 0.9 0.0 Tetrachloroethylene Tons 11.5 6.6 9.1 9.9 8.4 Atmospheric VOC emissions (xylene, toluene, ethylbenzene, dichloromethane, trichloroethylene Tons 2,289 1,985 1,899 1,939 1,782 and tetrachloroethylene) (non-consolidated; only production sites) CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (nonThousand 106,500 101,300 149,105 66,574 29,192 (Note 3) consolidated) tons (Note 1) Monetary terms (Note 2) Total for items subject to quantity restrictions (Note 3) Estimated based on actual deliveries for fiscal year and actual power output generated. Comparisons to fiscal 1990. For details of bases for calculation, please refer to “CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2012)” Social Contributions Report-Related Data (Unit/ Comments) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Dividend distribution (non-consolidated) Yen 6 4 4 6 8 Number of employees (consolidated) 67,416 67,669 68,816 68,887 68,213 Breakdown by region: Japan 56,785 56,696 56,815 55,851 54,084 Asia 4,999 5,228 5,747 6,466 6,982 North America 2,641 2,497 2,853 3,072 3,668 Central & South America 824 900 895 848 888 Europe 2,134 2,286 2,353 2,474 2,428 The Middle East 2 24 57 71 53 Africa — 1 50 57 60 Oceania and others 31 37 46 48 50 Number of employees (non-consolidated) 33,614 34,139 33,031 32,494 31,111 Breakdown of employees by age/gender Under 30 Male/Female — 8,141 / 737 8,226 / 781 8,101 / 773 7,657 / 753 30-39 Male/Female — 9,592 / 972 9,469 / 927 9,475 / 863 9,071 / 808 40-49 Male/Female — 5,605 / 661 5,827 / 687 6,305 / 759 6,397 / 805 50-59 Male/Female — 7,478 / 439 6,182 / 416 5,328 / 444 4,643 / 450 60 and over Male/Female — 497 / 17 502 / 14 429 / 17 508 / 19 Number of new graduates hired (non— 1,805 1,472 986 634 (Note 1) consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male — 1,659 1,336 906 574 Female — 146 136 80 60 Breakdown by educational qualification University — 820 672 480 348 Vocational school, High school and junior — 985 800 506 286 college, other Number of mid-career professionals (non905 452 135 114 77 consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male 820 429 127 99 68 Female 85 23 8 15 9 Number of re-employed workers (non934 1,365 1,720 2,172 2,259 (Note 1) consolidated) Number of female managers (non-consolidated) 182 219 248 266 288 (Note 1) 191 (Unit/ Comments) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Average age (non-consolidated) — 39.4 37.8 38.5 38.4 Average number of years worked (non— 17.4 15.7 16.2 16.0 consolidated) Average annual salary (non-consolidated) Yen 7,568,830 7,267,210 7,201,076 7,365,904 7,549,123 Number of employees who resigned of own — 289 355 309 280 volition (non-consolidated) Use of annual paid holidays (non-consolidated) 71.8% 71.8% 72.3% 72.8% 70.5 Number of employees who took maternity leave — 1,049 1,130 1,200 1,243 (non-consolidated) Number of employees who took childcare leave 123 165 170 181 273 for the first time (non-consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male 4 8 14 12 16 Female 119 157 156 169 257 Percentage of employees who returned to work — 99% 99% 98% 100% after childcare leave (non-consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male — 100% 100% 100% 100% Female — 99% 99% 98% 100% Number of employees who took family-care 14 13 13 15 9 leave for the first time (non-consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male 5 5 10 11 8 Female 9 8 3 4 1 Disabled people employment rate (non1.94% 1.96% 2.01% 1.97% 2.08% (Note 1) consolidated) Average employee overtime (non-consolidated) Hours — — — 27.4 29.4 Industrial accident frequency rate (non0.31 0.23 0.29 0.27 0.11 consolidated) Unionization (non-consolidated; Japan only) — — 100% 100% 100% Social contribution expenses (MHI and group (Note 2) Million yen 1,600 1,655 1,610 2,096 1,480 companies under consolidated accounting) (Note 3) Breakdown by area: Academic research Million yen 128 339 247 164 177 Education Million yen 766 537 633 596 503 Community activities Million yen 131 158 141 180 153 Sports Million yen 112 114 149 133 173 Other Million yen 463 507 440 1,023 474 Percentage of ordinary profit 2.12% 6.89% 2.36% 2.39% 1.00% (Note 1) 2013 figures indicated in “Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources” (Note 2) Figures include cash donations, payments in kind, activities by employees, free use of company facilities, etc., converted into monetary equivalents; activities privately performed by employees are not included. (Note 3) The social contribution outlay for fiscal 2010 does not include contributions (including charitable contributions) relating to the Great East Japan Earthquake (March 11-31, 2011), which have been allocated to the fiscal 2011 figures. 192
