Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report in respect of Aspen’s application of the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 Principles for 2014 10 000 employees Products distributed in more than 150 countries 16 consecutive years of double-digit growth Group Chief Executive’s statement “In its capacity as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Aspen looks forward to building on its existing reputation for respecting basic human rights, engaging in fair labour practices, being environmentally responsible and having a zerotolerance approach to corruption.” Stephen Saad Group Chief Executive Aspen’s commitment to the UN Global In its capacity as a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Aspen Compact looks forward to building on its existing reputation for Aspen became a signatory of the United Nations Global respecting basic human rights, engaging in fair labour practices, Compact (“the UN Global Compact”) with effect from 31 July being environmentally responsible and having a zero-tolerance 2013 and is currently an active participant in this Compact. I am approach to corruption. pleased to reaffirm Aspen’s support of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, My thanks go to the Social & Ethics Committee for providing environment and anti-corruption. guidance on the implementation of policies and procedures applicable to the Group as a whole in respect of the application Regional Ethics Officers, appointed for each business in terms of the letter and the spirit of the 10 Principles set out in the of Aspen’s ethics management programme, were required to UN Global Compact and monitoring the Group’s performance in report on the application of these 10 principles in their regions respect of this application. and now serve as a monitoring resource to ensure these are consistently applied. The Regional Ethics Officers also engaged This Communication of Progress Report describes Aspen’s with the key business leaders in their relevant operations actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global to ensure that they understand these principles and Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and recommendations and implement the processes and controls daily operations. Aspen also commits to sharing this information necessary to support them. The Company Secretary & Group with its stakeholders using its primary channels of Governance Officer monitors adherence to the Group’s communication. Code of Conduct and Ethics management principles and had overarching responsibility on reporting on the application of the 10 Principles throughout the Group. Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication of Progress Report 2014 1 Section 1 – Human Rights Principles Principle 1: B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: M  ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals Aspen’s adherence to fundamental human rights is enshrined in its Code of Conduct, available online, which confirms that “Aspen supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human and employment rights” and confirms its commitment to respecting fundamental human rights and treating all employees and others with fairness, equality and respect to foster an open, transparent, and trusting environment which is free from prejudice, discrimination, bias, harassment and/or violation. Implementation The Aspen Code of Conduct, which requires the formal acceptance of every new Aspen employee, further provides that all employees are responsible for ensuring that Aspen upholds its commitments in respect of Human Rights. All Aspen suppliers and service providers are required to agree to, or acknowledge, the Aspen Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers when entering into new commercial agreements with Aspen, thereby ensuring that human rights are respected within Aspen’s value chain. Measurement of outcomes Aspen encourages employees and external stakeholders to report any breaches or suspected breaches of its Code of Conduct, including any possible human rights abuses or infringements in terms of Aspen’s Whistleblowers’ Standard Operating Procedure. An independently monitored whistleblowing hotline, Deloitte’s Tip-Offs Anonymous is operated to ensure that these incidents are brought to the Company’s attention and these tip-offs can be made on an anonymous basis. All reported incidents are formally recorded and reported to the Social & Ethics Committee for consideration. There have been no reports of human rights abuses or infringements during the past year (2013: nil). There are a number of other human resource and ethics-related policy documents, procedures and statements applicable throughout the Group, which confirm Aspen’s commitment to protecting basic human rights. These include, among others, the applicable grievance procedures, the Group’s whistleblower procedure and respective recruitment and selection policies. Please refer to page 44 of Aspen’s Sustainability Report available online for the 2014 financial year for further information regarding the Group’s commitment to respecting human rights and promoting equality. 2 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication of Progress Report 2014 Section 2 – Labour principles Principle 3: B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of ➤➤ it is respectful of its employees’ right to join and form association and the effective recognition of the independent trade unions and freedom of association. right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: T he elimination of all forms of forced and All employees are free to belong to trade unions and compulsory labour; relationships with trade union representatives, considered to be Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and key stakeholders, are managed in a proactive and responsible Principle 6: T he elimination of discrimination in respect of manner by site Human Resources managers. Formal processes employment and occupation. are in place to foster a culture of transparency and constructive engagement with trade union representatives in each territory. Assessment, policy and goals The use of child labour, forced labour and/or compulsory labour Measurement of outcomes is strictly prohibited by the Aspen Code of Conduct. This Code Aspen encourages employees and external stakeholders to also specifically confirms its commitment to the elimination of report any breaches or suspected breaches of its Code of discrimination in respect of employment policies and practices. Conduct, including any possible human rights abuses or Freedom of association and the effective recognition to the right infringements in terms of Aspen’s Whistleblowers’ Standard to collective bargaining is also assured in terms of this Code. Operating Procedure. An independently managed anonymous tip-offs hotline is also operated to ensure that these incidents Implementation are brought to the Company’s attention. All reported The Aspen Code of Conduct, which requires the formal incidents are formally recorded and reported to the Social & acceptance of every new Aspen employee, provides that all Ethics Committee for consideration. employees are specifically responsible for ensuring that Aspen upholds: During the year, no incidents of discrimination, forced labour or ➤➤ freedom of association and the effective recognition to the compulsory labour were found to exist in the Group (2013: nil). right to collective bargaining; These aspects are monitored in respect of all business units. In addition, there were no reported incidents in the Group where ➤➤ the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the rights of indigenous people were violated. Furthermore, no ➤➤ the effective abolition of child labour; and businesses in the Group have been considered to be at risk of ➤➤ the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment violating human rights which protect child labour, forced or policies and practices. compulsory labour. All Aspen suppliers and service providers are required to agree Employees across the Group are free to exercise their rights to to, or acknowledge, the Aspen Code of Conduct for Suppliers belong to trade unions and collective bargaining councils – at and Service Providers when entering into new commercial year-end approximately 24% of the Group’s employees were agreements with Aspen. In terms of this Code each Aspen members of a trade union and approximately 26% were supplier or service provider warrants, to the best of its represented by collective bargaining councils. knowledge, that in relation to the performance of its obligations to Aspen: Please refer to pages 36 to 44 of Aspen’s Sustainability Report ➤➤ it does not employ, engage or otherwise use any child labour; available online for the 2014 financial year for further ➤➤ it does not use forced labour in any form (prison, indentured, information regarding the Group’s commitment to respecting bonded or otherwise) and its employees are not required to employee rights. Please also refer to pages 47 to 49 for further information on Aspen’s efforts around employee lodge papers or deposits on starting work; health, wellness and safety. ➤➤ it provides a safe and healthy workplace, presenting no hazards to its employees. Any housing provided by the supplier to its employees is safe for habitation. The supplier provides access to proper sanitation, clean water, food, and emergency healthcare to its employees in the event of accidents or incidents at the supplier’s workplace; ➤➤ it does not discriminate against any employees on any ground (including race, sexual orientation, religion, disability or gender); ➤➤ it does not engage in or support the use of corporal punishment, mental, physical, sexual or verbal abuse and does not use cruel or abusive disciplinary practices in the workplace; ➤➤ it pays each employee at least the minimum wage, or a fair representation of the prevailing industry wage (whichever is the higher) and provides each employee with all legally mandated benefits; ➤➤ it complies with the laws on working hours and employment rights in the countries in which it operates; and Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication of Progress Report 2014 3 Section 3 – Environmental principles Principle 7: B  usinesses should support a precautionary ➤➤ promoting extended producer responsibility in a pragmatic approach to environmental challenges; manner and ensuring compliant waste management Principle 8: U  ndertake initiatives to promote greater principles and practices are implemented throughout the environmental responsibility; and supply chain until the final disposal of waste material by an Principle 9: E  ncourage the development and diffusion of approved and accredited waste management service environmentally friendly technologies. provider; and ➤➤ enhancing environmental training and awareness for our Assessment, policy and goals employees and contractors to encourage responsible Consistent with its commitment as a responsible corporate environmental practices in the workplace which, in turn, citizen to contribute to sustainable development, Aspen’s Code supports the preservation of the broader environment within of Conduct confirms that it exercises a systematic approach which the Company operates. to health, safety, quality and environmental management in order to achieve continuous performance improvement and Implementation compliance to relevant legislation, regulations and guidelines. Aspen’s Board monitors the status of environmental risks through review of material environmental management Aspen recognises the importance of supporting global initiatives performance indicators at scheduled intervals. The Social & aimed at protecting the environment and conserving natural Ethics Committee assists the Board in monitoring the adequacy resources. Aspen’s environmental management philosophy, of environmental management systems in the Group and the available online, advocates containment of the carbon footprint extent to which these comply with relevant legislation. across the supply chain in a technically and economically feasible manner. This is further promoted in the Group’s Designated business unit executives are responsible for Responsible Corporate Citizenship Philosophy. ensuring compliance with all relevant environmental legislation and implementation of Aspen’s environmental management The Aspen environmental management protocol also philosophy, as appropriate. Under the direction of the Group acknowledges that the responsible management of the Strategic Operations Executive, the Group SHE department environment is an integral part of the sustainability of Aspen’s monitors the alignment of business unit environmental operations and confirms that environmental management, management systems to the Group standards, develops and protection and conservation will be incorporated into Aspen’s promotes Aspen’s environmental management protocol, and value chain and be promoted by the following principles: monitors environmental legislative compliance across the ➤➤ ensuring compliance with relevant environmental regulations Group’s manufacturing facilities. and legislation governing the responsible manufacture and supply of Aspen’s products; The Aspen Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers ➤➤ carrying out of environmental risk assessments to identify also requires that Aspen’s suppliers and service providers actual and potential environmental impacts emanating from undertake responsibility for conducting business in compliance our operations; with applicable environmental laws and regulations when ➤➤ conducting of environmental risk assessments and/or audits performing their obligations to Aspen and ensuring that they to evaluate the level of environmental compliance and the conduct their business in an environmentally conscious manner effectiveness of the applied environmental management and insofar as is feasible from renewable resources, while system; minimising the resources used and waste generated by them. ➤➤ promoting the efficient use of resources such as energy, water, paper and production materials with due regard to the Measurement of outcomes scarcity of natural resources and the environmental impact Please refer to the Aspen Sustainability Report for the 2014 resulting from the utilisation and application of such financial year available online, specifically pages 50 to 53, for resources in conducting our business activities; the full details in respect of the Group’s efforts to protect the ➤➤ containment and reduction of our carbon footprint in our environment and to conserve natural resources. operations and in the broader supply chain in a technically and economically feasible manner through structured systems of environmental monitoring, reporting and management; ➤➤ monitoring and measuring the quality of air emissions and waste water discharge against benchmarked standards and legal requirements through accurate and effective systems of measuring, reporting and controls; ➤➤ the engagement of external experts or consultants to seek independent assurance on the levels of environmental compliance and/or for value-added advice on technically complex matters pertaining to environmental management; ➤➤ responsible management of waste through the selection of effective and feasible methods of waste disposal which are aligned to the waste hierarchy; ➤➤ implementing robust waste management control systems to safeguard raw materials, packaging materials and finished goods against unauthorised use and to ensure that these waste products are disposed of in accordance with required specifications in a controlled manner; 4 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication of Progress Report 2014 Section 4 – Anti-corruption principles Principle 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption in all under contracts of employment and does not negatively its forms, including extortion and bribery. influence their productivity or the credibility of the Group. Assessment, policy and goals Aspen endeavours to promote a culture of openness and Aspen has a zero-tolerance approach to unethical behaviour transparency throughout the Group and employees and other and is committed to ensuring that the Group and its employees stakeholders are encouraged to report unethical conduct and uphold Aspen’s laudable reputation. The Group Code of Conduct other transgressions of which they become aware. governs the conduct of all Aspen’s employees throughout the Group and is aligned with the Organisation for Economic An independently monitored whistle-blowing hotline, Deloitte’s Co-operation and Development recommendations regarding Tip-Offs Anonymous, has been made available to employees corruption. across the Group’s businesses, whereby employees can report suspected fraud and/or activities which are considered to be Aspen fosters honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of its transgressions of the Group’s Code of Conduct. Tip-offs training business and expects the same in its relationships with all those and awareness sessions are conducted periodically to promote with whom it does business. utilisation of the facility where necessary. The tip-offs service has also been extended to key customers and suppliers in the Aspen is committed to the fight against bribery. As a result, it is South African business. The implementation of this service to unacceptable for any employee or agent of Aspen to directly or selected suppliers and customers at Aspen’s International indirectly offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form. businesses is in progress. The details in respect of this hotline are available on Aspen’s website. Implementation A formalised ethics management programme has been The Board has adopted a formal policy to regulate conflicts of implemented at all of the Group’s businesses. This programme interest and trading in the Company’s securities. is managed by the Company Secretary & Group Governance Officer under the direction of the Social & Ethics Committee and Measurement of outcomes is aimed at: All logged tip-off calls and internal reports in regards to possible ➤➤ assisting the Audit & Risk Committee and the Social & Ethics incidents of fraud, theft and corruption were reported to the Committee in assessing the Group’s ethics profile, risks and responsible functionaries within Aspen. Corrective action has opportunities; and been implemented where necessary to improve controls and to ➤➤ assisting the Social & Ethics Committee to monitor prevent recurrence of any incidents found to be in breach of implementation and compliance with the Group’s policies Aspen’s stated policies and Code of Conduct. which guide expected ethical behaviour. Quarterly reports detailing the tip-offs received, how these Aspen’s induction programme educates new employees on tip-offs have been investigated and the corrective measures the ethics, values and the business philosophy of the Group. taken are submitted to the Audit & Risk Committee and Social & All new employees are given a copy of, and are required to sign Ethics Committee as appropriate. There have been no material an acceptance of the Code of Conduct on commencement incidents of fraud, theft or corruption during the year. of their employment with the Group. The Code of Conduct is available to all employees on the Group’s intranet and is also A review of the effectiveness of the Group’s ethics management contained in the employee handbook. programme was performed during the year and the programme was found to be effective in all material respects. The Group conducts its business in a highly regulated environment, however, one in which the potential for unethical Please refer to pages 2 to 4 of Aspen’s Social & Ethics marketing and promotional practices remains inherent. Aspen Committee report available online for more information on its endorses the ethical marketing of medicines and adheres to approach to unethical conduct, including corruption, and the the principles contained in the marketing codes to which it Group’s ethics management programme. subscribes. The Group has a written policy on gifts and benefits in terms of which employees of the Group, including directors, are prohibited from accepting or giving gifts or hospitality that are not of a nominal value or participating in events sponsored by current or prospective customers or suppliers. Any employee who receives a gift or other benefit exceeding the local currency equivalent of USD100 is required to disclose this in writing to the Company Secretary & Group Governance Officer. Some types of gifts, benefits or entertainment are prohibited even if the value falls below this threshold. A Group-wide register of gifts is maintained by the Company Secretary & Group Governance Officer and is noted by the Social & Ethics Committee on a periodic basis. This register is also made available for inspection by the Board or any member of senior management on request. Aspen does not make payments or other contributions to political parties, organisations or their representatives or take part in party politics. Employees are free to participate in the political process in their private capacity provided it does not constitute a breach of the principles set out in the Code of Conduct and/or the relevant employee’s obligations to Aspen Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication of Progress Report 2014 5 Building Number 8, Healthcare Park, Woodlands Drive, Woodmead PO Box 1587, Gallo Manor, 2052 Telephone 011 239 6100 Telefax 011 239 6144 www.aspenpharma.com
