I am pleased to confirm that FarmMountain support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. In this second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our way of handeling our business, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication our coffee book. Yours sincerely Lars Bendix FarmMountain´s “walk the talk” Our primary focus has always been to obtain the But that is not all: our goal is to quadruple our farmhighest quality coffee possible. That’s why we’re ers’ income by 2015. By working together, supportpresent at the coffee’s source, right alongside our ed by you, Senior without Borders, our customers, coffee farmers. we are convinced that our farmers’ coffee can be so unique, that its price will double at a minimum. Simply put, the better the coffee, the higher the price, and the closer we get to achieving the Millennium Goals. Our values are based on the UN’s Millennium Development Goals for 2015. Everything we do is intended to make progress towards reaching them. We also require our farmers to sign the UN’s Global Compact, as we believe its values to be essential for our relationship. We are however confident that our customers can taste the difference in every great cup of FarmMountain coffee, produced laboriously, and with great love, by our farmers. Communications on Progress At FarmMountain we do everything in our power to Up to date FarmMountain and Seniors without support the four main-areas: human rights, labor, borders has with the help from farmers build 1200 environment, and anticorruption. stowes, and another batch of 1200 stowes are to be build in 2014. FarmMountain is continuingly trying to improve the To reduce the felling of trees we have learned peoconditions for our coffeefarmers in Uganda and Maple to build energy-efficient stoves to replace cooklawi. The farmers are not employed by us, but we ing over three stones . still perceive it as our responsibility to ensure them The smoke is now headed out of the huts and it will a reasonable standard of living. ultimately reduce the incidence of serious lung diseases , especially among women. As a small company we have very limited resources, It’s vital and hard to get dry wood to get the fire and therefore we depend on our partners to help us burning in a proper way in this rainy area . make a difference. Our partners are Go Local, Danida, Seniors without boarders, Frellsen Coffee and Therefore we have started a project in which small Lauritz Foundation. Our partners help us in different groups have learned to make briquettes of biologiprojects that support our work with the farmers and cal waste, eg . shells of coffee beans , banana leaves further help raising their standard of living. etc. The briquettes burn at a high temperature and reduces smoke more . Like the fact, that most of the women in the farmer’s The groups sell the briquettes to the other residents families where cooking inside their houses, causing and thereby a side income for the coffee. the smoke to pollute the air so severely, that it corresponds to the women and the children inside the It gets even better when the Jatropha plant begins houses each smoking 40 cigarettes a day. In those to be harvested for the oil-rich nuts. They are plantcases, we turn to our partners and connect them to ed as hedges and are sold in small nurseries run by the problems so that together we can find the right single women who are in a difficult situation . In the solution. near future the crushed enjoyed included in the coals and make them even better. Human rights We believe in, and support the idea that, all people It’s all tied together by our support for the formaare equal. Therefor we work actively with creating tion of credit and savings groups. Once a week meet better opportunities for women. members of these groups (about 30 people). They pay a weekly deposits that are stored in a common Too many young girls have to leave school early . It pot and each has a kind of savings account . has several causes : early pregnancies can not afford You can borrow up to 3 times its subscription and school fees , violence and sexual abuse , to name the pay back the loan within three months. The Group most important. determines the interest rate. But they are also at home when they have their menstrual periods due lack of volume. Each district has a At the end you get paid its savings pool. The money group of these dropouts learned to sew washable is typically used to hold Christmas and school fees pads and an extra course means that they are now , but more and more people are using money proable to sew including school uniforms . In this way ductively : purchase used clothing that they sell in they create an income. the market, purchasing more material for their small business, selling corn wholesale etc. It is not enough to create an income , it is imporTo support the farmer’s health they are being taught tant to be able to read and write. Therefore , we about aids and how to protect themselves against it. conducted courses for men and women who do We have tested the farmers, so those who have aids not have these skills. Up to 200 participated and can avoid causing others to get infected. The work to we hope to get money to continue. Specifically , we prevent aids is being carried through in cooperation hope to start a course for young people who have with Danida. dropped out of school . You can read more about SuG on facebook page Rural Development Mt. Elgon and Budaka. Labour Environment We treat our farmers with respect and regard them Our coffee is produced without any use of pesticides. all as being equal. We employ women under the We don´t have the official ecological certification, same conditions as men, and we doesn´t use child since that requires a lot of demanding paperwork labor. When negotiating terms of agreement we alfrom the farmers. To us the most important thing is ways communicate directly with our farmers. That to know, that we are doing things right, and not, that way we avoid third parties trying to cheat the farmwe are telling our costumer’s, that we are doing one ers, and we know exactly what kind of arrangements thing right. We are educating the farmers in sustainwe are committing to. able farming to ensure their awareness towards the great responsibility they have when living and workWe feel a great responsibility towards our farmers, ing in a natural environment as fragile as the rainforsince they are doing everything they can to meet our est. We are continuingly working on preserving and demands towards quality. Therefor we are paying restoring the rainforest. We are therefore planting them a price higher than that of the global market. shadowtrees, which provides shadow to our coffeetrees and prevents mudslides. The shadow trees Our long term goal is to ensure the farmers an inare grown in orphanages, from whom we buy the come 4 times higher than when we started trading trees. with them in 2007. One of the means to that goal is To make sure, that the shadowtrees are left alone, to develop high quality coffee, which can be sold at Jatropa trees are planted around all the farms. They a premium price. Therefor it is a slow process, since provide protection against cattle entering the fields it requires the quality to be developed and the cusand destroying the coffeetrees. At the same time, tomer’s getting used to paying for good coffee. they provide the farmers with wood to burn, so they won’t have to harm the rainforest in order to collect Also we are helping the farmers to earn or save wood. money in other ways than coffee. We are planting Jatropa trees, from where the farmers can collect oil to use or sell as fuel. Anticorruption Monitoring and Evaluation. We do not in any way give in to corruption. We only The CEO regularly informs the organisation, which deal with our farmers and the people working with initiatives have been initiated. Furthermore we disthem whom we have absolutely confidence in. We cuss daily how we can improve our brands value by have never bribed anyone, or received anything unsetting up CSR initiatives. When we mesaure the der the table, and we do not allow our partners to outcome by numbers, we can mesaure the impact do so either. of units or custemers that chose us compared to traditional products without visible CSR profile. We know that corruption is a big issue in Uganda and Malawi, where we do business, but we have With our partners we see the improvement by havmade it very clear that we do not support that, and ing a quantitative and a qualitative research with the don´t want to do business with anyone who does. farmers based on common sense and the farmers feedback on their income level. We have experienced corruption with one of our This is however a problem we have to lok into in 2014. Some farmerfamilies suffer from the extra insuppliers, and when we found out, we refused to come in the way that the male might spent finances continue working with them, and advised them to wrongly and therefore in this way the income does find a new chairman and get things sorted out. not help the women. We have now resumed cooperation with the supWe can measure the quality, and prove the effect of plier in question, since they have selected a new it to the extent, that customers are willing to pay the chairman, and are now free of corruption. By ending price for it, which allow us to pay the farmers what all cooperation with the supplier, but giving them a we do. second chance when they are back to doing things Raising the standard of living among the farmers right, we believe we are setting the example, that must be perceived as an obvious consequence of the only way of running a successful business is to the raised income. Also our other projects all suprun it properly. port that goal, and therefore the outcomes of those One issue on corruption or indication on this hapmust be evidence for that. pened in our daily business with a bank. We tryed together with our partner to open it, but So far 1200 stoves have been installed with the faminothing happened in a 3 month time. lies. This means, that we have minimized the risk of First when we official wrote to the bank to termithose 1200 families getting sick and perhaps even nate the L/C they opened the day after. suffering a premature death because of the polluted air. We have a zero anticorruption statement in our 8 saving associations have been established, and are branding book, and communicate it on a regular baoperating as we speak. sis. We have now planted 75.000 shadowtrees, to support the coffeetrees and help maintaining and restoring the rainforest, and this will this year improve farmfers outcome by 20% We have also set up charging stations in the villages where the farmers live. That means that they don’t have to drive all the way into town each time they have to charge their mobile phones, since there are no electricity in the villages. The stations are provided with power from solar panels, we are installing at the schools, which also provides power to light up the classrooms. The Danish CSR Fond gave us the first price in the group of Global Partnership 2012, an since it is one of our focus areas, it really helped us to expand our business with focus on CSR. Future initiatives We are planning to: Start a project with Go Local to get our working partners to register within the global compact framework. Actively inspire our partners to give fundemental advise on Corporate Social Responsibility issues, and to implement way to walk the talk. Continue and expand our ASAP network.
