READING THE SPIRIT OF THE TIME KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Koç Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 CONTENTS Initiatives carried out by Koç Group www.koc.com.tr gc@koc.com.tr For more detailed information Your feedback, suggestions and critiProjects and examples of best pracregarding our operations as well as cisms are the most valuable source we tices conducted by the Group Compaany updates and news beginning have to improve our reporting studies. nies Arçelik, Aygaz, Ford Otosan, Koç 1 January 2014, you may visit Koç Information Technologies Group, Opet, Holding corporate website along with Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, Tat, Tofaş, the websites of the individual Group TürkTraktör, Tüpraş and Yapı Kredi companies and Vehbi Koç FoundaJoint projects conducted by NGOs tion. You may find the PDF version supported by the Group, The Vehbi Koç of CSR Report on the corporate Foundation and affiliated institutions. website. Contents: The Global Compact 1 About the Report United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) consists of 10 principles of human rights, labor 2 Message from the Chairman conditions, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are based on a guiding 3 Message from the CEO perspective for businesses and organizations in order allow them to achieve further 4 Koç Group in 2013 objectives in terms of risk management, efficiency growth, motivation and fidelity of employees, brand awareness as well as access to new markets. 6 Governance at Koç 12 Human Rights at Koç Adopted on a voluntary basis, the Global Compact has been made gradually more wi16 Work Environment at Koç despread since the year 2000 while the studies conducted in order to ensure complian24 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç ce with the aforementioned principles are reported through the UNGC website. 36 Ethical Values at Koç According to the data provided on the UNGC website (www.unglobalcompact.org) at the 38 MLMM time when this report was coming out, the Global Compact has reached over 12,000 44 Social Development at Koç participants from 130 countries, 8,100 of those participants are businesses and the remaining 4,271 include public agencies, local administrations, associations, foundations, 56 GRI Indicators trade unions, professional organizations and academic bodies. With 291 participants in Turkey, the UN Global Compact has established a local network. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights P.12-15 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and P.12-15 Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Standards P.12-15 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; P.12-23 Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; P.12-23 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and P.12-23 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment P.24-35 Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P.24-35 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility P.24-35 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies Anti-Corruption P.36-37 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Koç Holding ABOUT THE REPORT Main criterion for companies to enable their long term deveThis report covers Koç Holding activities and projects carried lopment is the capacity to read the spirit of time by anticipating out in Turkey between January 1st 2013 and December 31st stakeholder expectations accurately as well as the conditions 2013. The principles suggested by GRI G3 framework are they operate in. Key factor which enabled Koç Group, for 88 adopted in determining the content, scope and the cohesiveyears, to increase its business value even during the most ness of the report. This year, our report covers practices and challenging periods, to deliver innovative products and services performances of Group Companies Arçelik, Aygaz, Ford that increase quality of life for people living in its operating Otosan, Koç Information Technologies Group* Compageographies, and to conduct projects suitable for development nies, Opet, Otokar, Otokoç Otomotiv, Tat, Tofaş, Tüpraş, expectations and demands, is structuring its working principles TürkTraktör and Yapı Kredi. Unless there is a statement to and operations through vision beyond of its time. the contrary, apart from the sections that present the general profile of Koç Holding, the performance of all these companies In line with transparency and accountability principles, we is included in the data regarding sustainability performance intend to foster our relations with stakeholders in a constructive indicators. Although the report encompasses information on climate. To that end, since 2008, we publish Koç Group Corpocorporate structure, projects and performance results regarrate Social Responsibility Reports through which we present our ding Vehbi Koç Foundation, unless there is a statement to the management approaches and performance regarding social, contrary, its performance is not included in the consolidated environmental and economic aspects to our stakeholders in a quantitative performance data, tables and charts presented comprehensive and reliable framework. throughout the report. The reporting content that we have generated represents 87% of Group employees and 94% of Like the previous reports we issued, in 2013, we have followed combined revenue. the UN Global Compact COP reporting principles and the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Reporting Framework B level application * Koç Information Technologies Group does not represent a requirements. We take the extent of impact areas and the diverlegal entity, but a common name for, Koç Group IT Companies, sity of stakeholders into account while we develop the content namely KoçSistem, Bilkom, Koç Information and Defence of the report and its communicative language. In this regard, a Technologies. Within this report, unless otherwise stated, all broad range of stakeholder, mainly, our employees, customers, performance and application information disclosed regarding shareholders, investors, occupational organizations and NGOs Koç Information Technologies Group consists of the shared data constitute the audience for our report. and practices of these 3 companies. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 1 Message From the Chairman Dear Stakeholders, A small family business founded 88 years ago, Koç Group expanded into the largest private sector establishment of Turkey operating in several sectors.Our most important characteristic, which prepared the ground for this transformation that Koç Group has realized, is our capacity to read the spirit of our times and and to adapt to new conditions swiftly and to respond effectively. By this means, Koç Group has kept its successful and leading stance in every period regardless of the conditions. Today we are living in the age of worldwide transformation in all spheres, from environment to business and social life. In this period of transformation, the spirit of our times testifies to the substantiality of pursuing responsible and sustainable business models also indicated by our corporate values that we have emphasized since our establishment. In consideration of this requirement, Koç Holding and our Group companies are focusing on the active management of sustainability risks and on ensuring sustainable growth through long termed strategies. By virtue of this standpoint, our success is increasing every passing day and Koç Group solidifies its position before our international stakeholders as one of the most credible investment options in Turkey. Last year, when the international credit rating agencies S&P and Moody’s determined the credit rating of Koç Holding as “investable”, we became the first Turkish company ever to be rated at this level. Such achievements encourage us about the accuracy and consistency of our principles and objectives. In 2013, Koç Group, with over 80,000 employees in various sectors, produced a combined revenue equal to 8% of the national income of Turkey and realized 10% of Turkey’s total export. Being the largest private sector employer of Turkey, the considerable sphere of influence our Group has, increases our responsibility to present future generations with a sustainable and high-class living standard. This responsibility is a precious legacy which Our Founder Vehbi Koç has left behind. In order to advance this legacy, we develop products and services which are environmentally safe in terms of production conditions and use, contribute to the improvement of socioeconomic quality of life, meet the expectations and necessities of the day and are accessible by large segments of society as we have done for 88 years. We strive to present an example for the best and the truest with the activities we pursue in many areas, influencing the economic, social and environmental development of our main geography of operation, Turkey. During the reporting period, Koç Group companies sustained their high performance in all areas of sustainability, particularly environment. This year, we have improved our performance in the areas of energy and water efficiency, GHG emission and waste reduction compared to the last period. In 2013, our Group companies have presented the most environmentally-friendly product options in their sectors and gained the appreciation of consumers. Our increasing allocation of resources for R&D studies, having become one of the leading companies of Europe in this field, has certainly contributed immensely to these achievements. Climate change is still facing us as the paramount environmental issue of today’s world, waiting for an effective response. If we intend to create a sustainable future for posterity, it is necessary for public and private sectors as well as civil society to deal with this issue jointly. For this reason, as Koç Group, on the one hand, we improve our operation processes in view of climate risks; while on the other hand, we develop products and services complying with the rationale of low carbon economy. Koç Holding, Group companies and Vehbi Koç Foundation have continued their contributions to social development in the year 2013. They have carried out activities in education, health, culture and arts, environment and many other fields, influencing the lives of hundreds of thousands of people for the better. “Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation” Project, which we started in 2006 to raise awareness about the importance of technical and vocational education has forged a model for the collaboration of public-private sector and hence has been praised globally. While 8 Group Companies established 29 laborataries, 7 education centers, 1 vocational high school and 1 vocational college in 5 sectors, as of 2013, we have successfully completed the project and passed it on to the Turkish business world through Corporate Volunteers Association, for it to reach an even wider area of influence. The greatest reward for us is to know that we have contributed in the recognition of the value of vocational education and in the accomplishments of our students. In the year 2013, we are glad to have had a term when we maintained our success in the fields of economic performance as well as sustainability and responded to the expectations of our stakeholders. We will continue our growth in the direction the spirit of our times points us to, in the coming terms as well. I would like to express our gratitude to all stakeholders -particularly to our employees, customers, investors, suppliers and business partnerswho have made this performance possible. Mustafa V. Koç Koç Holding A.Ş. Chairman 2 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Message From the CEO Dear Stakeholders, 2013 proved to be a successful period for us thanks to Koç Group companies reinforcing not only our economic success through strong growth but also improving our environmental and social sustainability performance. The farsighted management culture we have pursued from the very first day of our establishment that grasps the spirit of our times and generates value for our community has played a significant role in our success today. As far as Koç Holding and Group companies are concerned, responsibility means harmonizing social development and corporate goals in line with the spirit of our times. We find the essence of this understanding in our late founder Vehbi Koç’s words that go beyond the period he lived in, “I live and prosper with my country”. Apart from Koç Group that boasts the most prestigious and successful organizations in the sectors it operates, we firmly believe in the fact that this understanding happens to be the most valuable heritage we are trusted with. Aware of the responsibility that comes with this respectable heritage and led by a view going beyond the times they live in, all managers of Koç Holding and Group companies are therefore focused on achieving sustainability goals. During the reporting period, the studies undertaken by our Group companies in line with our strategic plans proved to be successful. As a result of the efficiency practices we have emphasized, our Group companies managed to reduce their total energy consumption by 3.06 million GJ and their total greenhouse gas emission went down by 208.2 thousand CO 2e. In line with the same understanding, we recycled 12.6 million m³ of water and ensured that 30.2% of the total water demand is met through recycled water. Preventing any negative impact on biodiversity in the areas we operate is an indispensible priority for all our Group companies. In addition to their activities for environmental protection, our group companies also planted 55,944 saplings, hence continuing our traditional efforts for reforestation in 2013. Developing product and service options with reduced environmental and social impact is one of the main responsibilities of businesses to create a sustainable future, therefore facilitating responsible consumption habits in consumers and scaling positive impact. From raw material supplies to after sale processes, suitable practices for eliminating environmental and social risks are pursued throughout the product life cycle to reach that aim. Having invested TL 677 million in R&D in 2013, our group companies sought to increase the added value for the products and services they provide and strived to minimize the environmental impact of those products and services while also aiming to eliminate social risks by undertaking training and inspection studies within the value chain. What is more, these practices of ours also created a positive influence over the competitive power of the products and services we develop. Directing its resources to the areas it could create the highest benefit for the community, Koç Group has never paused a single second to take responsibility to ensure further social development in the light of its corporate values. “Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter for the Nation” Project, which we completed in 2013, and “For My Country” Project, which periodically focuses on different social problems, are the best examples for this approach of ours. The fact that 27,114 Koç Group employees and 17,705 people from various stakeholder groups lent their support for the social project studies performed by Koç Holding and Group companies show how much our efforts for social development are adopted in our entire impact area, especially by our employees. On a global scale, we are living in the age of transformation marked by discussions regarding the role of business world while social expectations and needs reshape. As Koç Group, we monitor this transformation carefully and structure our long-term strategies accordingly. In that respect, we aim to make the year of 2014 a period during which we develop our priorities and strategies regarding social, environmental and economic issues in line with the spirit of our times. Like in all times of change we have been through for the last 88 years, we fully believe that we will emerge from this period stronger than ever thanks to our open-minded thinking, ability to come up with creative solutions and our will to do nothing short of our very best. For their continued support and trust they have held in us, we would like to express our gratitude to all our stakeholdersespecially to our employees, shareholders, suppliers, dealers and customers, who will lead us to future success like they have always done in the past. Turgay Durak Koç Holding A.Ş. CEO KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 3 Koç Group in 2013 KOÇ GROUP, THE LARGEST INDUSTRY AND SERVICES CONGLOMERATE OF TURKEY, CARRIED IT'S PROGRESS IN 2013. ACCORDING TO İSTANBUL CHAMBER OF INDUSTRY’S TURKEY’S TOP 500 INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES 2012 LISTING, FIVE OF THE TOP TEN COMPANIES ARE KOÇ GROUP COMPANIES. Consumer Energy Automotive Durables Finance Other Main Companies Main Companies Main Companies Main Companies Main Companies Ford Otosan* Arçelik* Tat* Tüpraş* Yapı Kredi Bankası* Tofaş* Arçelik-LG Klima Düzey Aygaz* Yapı Kredi Leasing* TürkTraktör* Koçtaş Opet Yapı Kredi Yatırım Ortaklığı* Otokar* International Alliances Setur AES Entek Yapı Kredi Koray* LG Electronics Setur Marinaları Aygaz Doğal Gaz Otokoç Otomotiv Yapı Kredi Faktoring Mares* Akpa Yapı Kredi International Alliances Divan Yapı Kredi Portföy Yönetimi Demir Export Ford Motor Co. Koçfinans KoçSistem Fiat Auto S.p.A Bilkom International Alliances Case New Holland International Alliances RMK Marine AES Corporation UniCredit International Alliances B&Q Kagome Sumitomo * Listed Companies 57 10% OF Numner of Facilities Certified with OHSAS 18001 27,114 TURKEY'S TOTAL EXPORT Number of Employees Volunteering for Koç Group has generated a combined financial Social Projects revenue equivalent to 65 8% Number of Facilities Certified 226 with ISO 14001 TL million OF TURKEY'S NATIONAL INCOME Environmetal Protection Expenditures and Investments 243 Number of Charitable, Sponsorships and Other Social Projects 55,944 Saplings Planted for Reforestation 4 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 ONE OF THE WORLD'S LARGEST 250 companies In 23 countries 80,996 employees 48,298 person x hours environmental trainings provided to employees World's Largest Values (TL Million) 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Change % 217 th Company Consolidated Revenues 66,182 65,666 1 in Fortune Global 500 List Koç Holding is still the Gross Profit 7,006 6,589 6 only Turkish corporation listed in Fotune 500. Operating Profit 3,727 3,811 -2 Koç Holding is entitled as “World's Most Profit Before Tax 3,055 3,778 -19 Admired Companies’’ in energy sector Tax Income / Expenditure 945 -34 2,885 in Fortune's 2013 rankings. Net Income 4,000 3,744 7 Minority Interest 1,321 1,420 -7 World's 614th largest R&D investor Equity Holders on the Parent 2,680 2,324 15 Total Assets 58,790 48,688 21 Koç Holding was listed among the world’s top companies by R&D investment according to the Total Equity 26,191 24,261 8 “EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard” for Shareholders' Equity 18,035 16,286 11 8 consecutive years. Of the 5 Turkish companies on the list, 2 are Koç Group Companies. Koç Holding was one of the three Turkish compaKOÇ GROUP COMPANIES TOTAL TOTAL NUMBER OF R&D STAFF nies to make it to the Boston Consulting R&D EXPENDITURES IN KOÇ GROUP COMPANIES Group’s (BCG) “2013 BCG 100: (TL MILLION) Rising Stars’’ list. 2013 677 AVERAGE ANNUAL 2013 3,397 INCREASE IN INCREASE IN NUMBER Four of the top ten companies in Turkish ExporOF R&D EMPLO2012 570 TOTAL R&D 2012 3,258 ters’ Assembly’s “Top 1,000 Exporters YEES BETWEEN 2011 503 EXPENDITURES 2011 2,744 of Turkey” listing in 2012 are Koç Group 2010-2013 BETWEEN Companies. 2010 381 21% 2010-2013 2010 2,385 42% Koç Holding’s “For My Country Project–Donate Your Status” social media application received two awards CO2 in “The Best Corporate Social Responsibility Campaign” and “The Best Campaign Regading Disabled 30.2% 3.06 208.2 People” categories at the Farmaskop National MILLION GJ BİN TON Health Communication Awards. Percentage of Recycled Total Energy Total GHG Water in Total Water Usage Saved Emission Reduction Koç Holding was named as “The Most Admired Company” in Capital’s ‘2013 Survey of The Most Admired Companies In Turkey’ KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 5 Governance at Koç “Being the best at all times is our indispensable goal. Our Founder Vehbi Koç “ Corporate Governance at Koç Report is submitted every year in Annual duties and responsibilities in a healthy Report for our stakeholders’ informatiand efficient manner. Shaped by Koç Group principles such as on. Of our Group Companies traded on integrity, respectability, ethical behavior, the stock exchange, Arçelik, Aygaz, Audit Committee compliance with laws and regulations, Otokar, Tofaş, TürkTraktör, Tüpraş our corporate governance model form the and Yapı Kredi Bank receive corporate The Audit Committee is responsible for backbone of the effective and robust magovernance ratings at regular intervals, the functioning and effectiveness of the nagement structures of Koç Holding and and as a consequence of high grades processes and systems such as the acall the Group Companies. Based on our received, they are traded on the Corporate counting system, public disclosure of the founder Vehbi Koç’s visionary persepectiGovernance Index. financial data, independent auditing and ve, having a strong corporate governance internal control of the partnership. The structure was adopted by Koç Group as Board of Directors selection of an audit company takes place a management approach long before the under the Audit Committee, responsible concept reached its current value today The structure of Board of Directors at for auditing the audit company at every in the business world. Koç Holding has Koç Holding adheres to the Corporate stage of the auditing process that begins thus been one of the first institutions to Governance Principles set forth by CMB. with the preparation of independent audit undertake pioneering initiatives to reach Koç Holding has several internationally contracts. The Committee is comprised of high standards of corporate governance. acclaimed professionals on its board of 3 independent members in total. Koç Holding anticipates the future for the directors as independent members, and sectors they operate as well as for the has been one of the pioneering Turkish Corporate Governance Committee development of administrative skills. For companies in this regard. None of the instance, Koç Holding is one of the first Board members have executive role. The Corporate Governance Committee is Turkish companies that adopted various Currently, in the sequel of our appliresponsible for monitoring the Comgovernance principles such as having cations to CMB, 5 out of the 15 Board pany’s compliance with the Corporate independent members on the board, Members, are acknowledged as indeGovernance Principles, reviewing the correlating the remuneration of the senior pendent members under the the CMB reasons put forward for not implemenmanagement with sustainable financial principles. Additionally, 2 other members ting certain principles and for making and operational performances. Exhibicomply with all independence criteria as recommendations to the Board of Directing a transparent, fair, responsible and per Income Tax Law except for Turkish tors concerning improvement measures. accountable management approach, and residence criteria and duration requireWith the independent Board member setting out compliance with regulatory rules ments. Koç Holding’s Board of Directors serving as the chairman, the Committee for the organizational structure, policies Chairmanship and CEO positions are is comprised of 2 members. and processes are amongst the principles carried out by different individuals. that Koç Holding and Group Companies are Nomination and Remuneration required to adhere to at all times. For Board Membership positions of Koç Committee Holding, well-qualified individuals equKoç Holding and Group Companies have ipped with superior level of knowledge Established for nominating candidates to duly adopted the “Corporate Governance and skills with experience in particular the Board of Directors and fulfilling the Principles” issued by the Capital Market sectors are selected. The resumes of determined duties regarding remuneBoard (CMB), implementing the principthe Board members are released to the rations of the members of the Board of les to a large extent, and continuously public on the corporate website and the Directors as well as senior managers, the enhancing their level of implementation. Annual Report. Committees are present Nomination and Remuneration CommitThe Corporate Governance Compliance to ensure that the Board performs its tee is comprised of 2 members in total 6 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Koç Holding Board of Directors AUDIT CORPORATE NOMINATION AND RISK MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CEO Audit CFO Banking and Durable Energy Automotive Defense Industry, Tourism, Human Corporate ComChief Legal Secretary Group Insurance Goods Group Group Other Automotive Food and Resources munications and Advisor General Group Group and Information Retail Group External Affairs Technologies Group including an independent member who You can find detailed information on the Strategic Planning also serves as the chairman. establishment of the Board of Directors and the Committees, their working prinKoç Holding Board of Directors manages Risk Management Committee ciples and member composition on the and represents the Company by way of fincorporate website www.koc.com.tr. ding the balance between risk, growth and Risk Management Committee is establisprofit via strategic decisions and overseeing hed to work on an early diagnosis of the Sustainability Management at Koç its long-term interestswith its rational and risks that may put the existence, devecautious understanding of risk managelopment and continuity of the company Koç Group’s sustainability management. Our Board of Directors defines Koç at stake and taking necessary measures ment takes as reference its corporate Holding’s specific targets, specifies human regarding the risks detected and conducgovernance structure, business ethics and financial resources need and audits ting studies regarding risk management. and social responsibility culture, as well the performance of the management. Including the independent member as the UN Global Compact signed in serving as the chairman, the Committee 2006. The Group Companies are obliged At strategic meetings organized once in is comprised of 2 members in total. to abide by 10 principles set forth by every four years, Koç Holding Board of the said initiative, stated under pillars of Directors monitors Koç Group’s financial Executive Committee working conditions, human rights, the performance for 3-month periods in Composed of Board members who are environment, and anti-corruption, as comparison with the budget and follow non-executive, the Executive Committee well as the policies and strategies set the developments in strategic issues, deis established to increase the efficiency forth by Koç Holding, over all operational veloping suggestions. During the period of the works of the Board of Directors, geographies. Koç Holding and the Group of year-end performance evaluation, not ensuring efficiency for the coordination Companies are reporting the performanonly the financial and operational indicabetween the Board and the administrative ce in these areas, conducting continuous tors but also the materialization level of structure, the investments and business improvement-based works. the targetsto realize the Company’s stradevelopments in the areas favorable to tegies are measured in order to provide the strategic goals determined. input for performance and rewarding. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 7 Koç Holding Employees Risk Management at the Company and Holding levels. ronmental Council, established upon Human rights, primarily the principle the participation of the Group CompaKoç Holding Board of Directors gives utof freedom of assembly, are secured; nies, is involved in activities concerning most importance to Risk Management discrimination, child labor, forced and the implementation of relevant policies and Reporting. Works on risk analysis compulsory labor are prevented within and strategies as well as their spread and management of Koç Holding are the framework of the Group Companies among the Companies. With respect conducted under the leadership of the under the policies and procedures to Koç Group Environmental Policy and Presidency of Finance, in cooperation as per the national legislations and Visions, environmental issues are addwith the other Presidencies. By means international conventions, particularly ressed within the target scope of each of meeting and reporting activities carthe relevant provisions under UN Global Group Company. Environmental audits ried out periodically, all potential risks Compact. Group Companies expect are carried out at specific intervals to be encountered by Koç Holding are from their suppliers and business and the assignment of environmental inquired and evaluated under the main partners to meet similar operational targets to companies’ senior managers, titles of financial risks, operational risks, standards and carry out follow-ups to further emphasize the importance atlegal risks, and are subjected to compmeet the aforesaid conditions within tached to the management of environrehensive and detailed assessment. the scope of their field of impact. mental issues. Under Group Companies, human Management of Social and resources policies are managed by Sustainability Performance Economic Issues expert units whereby bodies are Management constituted with the representation Taking human resources as the most of employees, primarily in the field of Maintaining corporate sustainability at important form of capital, Koç Group occupational health and safety. Koç Group Companies is considered as Companies provide employees with the main target of Koç Holding. Toward safe and fair workplaces where human Koç Holding Code of Ethics and such goal, the managerial approaches dignity remain at the forefront; human Business Conduct binds all Group developed in the respective areas of rights are maintained; the professional Companies and regulates the relations social, economic, and environmental development of employees is supporof the employees with the customers, responsibilities, are monitored on an ted, and equal opportunities for their government, shareholders, competitors, objective methodology basis through development are provided. Human resuppliers, agents, authorized dealers Koç Group Sustainability Performance sources policies and strategies set forth and services. Within this framework, Assessment and Reporting System by Koç Holding are shaped and followed under all Group Companies, Code of since 2010. The system is continuously by the Group Companies through custoConduct Boards have been established improved thanks to the user and expert mizations made in accordance with the to check against the violations of rules feedback received at the end of every characteristics of the sectors they are and to ensure compliance. reporting period. The general qualities operating in. Under personnel reguof the system as well as the upgrads in lations published by the Companies, Management of Environmental processes are conveyed to the Group principles with respect to issues like Issues employees through the workshops social rights of the employees, working that take place at the beginning of conditions, occupational health and saKoç Group has generated an Environevery reporting period. Handbooks and fety are specified, managed by the sysmental Policy, Environmental Vision and informative documents are prepared tems and procedures established, and Climate Change Strategy to provide so that the system is used efficiently in the implementation as well as results guidance for all the Group Companies terms of its content and cognitive base. of performance attained are monitored regarding environmental issues. EnviThe Group employees are provided with 8 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 7 84 Number of Companies Listed in Aygaz's LPG Cylinder ISE Corporate Governance Index Customers Loyalty Score direct access to expert support during The inquiries made to the Department is informed via press meetings and data compilation processes for perforof Investor Relations are answered verstatements, and our press releases are mance assessment in order to increase bally, in writing or via email depending published concurrently on the corporate data security. on the method preferred for making the website and the corporate social media inquiry. The inquiries are predominantly accounts. Our Stakeholders about the operations of the companies, their shareholding status as well as Our stakeholders convey Koç HolIn line with its governance principles plans for the future. You may access to ding their demands of individual and and sustainability management, Koç the data provided in meetings attended corporate support, sponsorship and Holding is in constant and constructive by executives from the following link: scholarship. Those demands are communication with its stakeholders. http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-reevaluated according to their respecThe stakeholders of Koç Holding and lations tive areas by Koç Holding Corporate Group Companies are identified based Communication Directorate and Vehbi on impact assessments. Because of In 2013, Department of Investor Koç Foundation and are addressed the structure of its affiliations, Koç Relations attended 23 roadshow and in accordance with their future plans. Holding does not establish direct conferences inside and outside Turkey Concerning these issues, the corporate relationship with customer, agents and and came in contact with over 600 websites and e-mail addresses of Koç etc. However, through its shareholders, current and potential investors. Through Holding and Vehbi Koç Foundation, as Koç Holding deals with a broad range of organizing about 30 meetings, the Dewell as gc@koc.com.tr are be used for stakeholders, companies, employees, partment had one-to-one contact with communication. dealers, agents, customers, NGOs and analysts and the shareholders were public institutions. informed more regarding the recent Our employees are regularly kept developments. informed through announcements and The frequency of stakeholder engagevarious organizations. In addition to ment depends on need and forms of Koç Holding and its subsidiaries comthat, our intranet, which is accessible to engagement. In addition, project-based prising approximately 90% of its net our Group employees, covers important partnerships, one-way and two-way active value are publicly traded; thus announcements, changes in manageinformation provision and feedback they attribute an utmost importance to ment and press releases. To increase methods, mutual discussions and simitransparency, equality and continuous communication with the employees, lar practices take place depending on communication. The share performance an in-house monthly magazine named the need for the processes of stakeholof Group companies relative to Borsa “Bizden Haberler” News from Usis der engagement. İstanbul and its peers as well as the issued on a regular basis. timely and equal communication over The main principle in identifying corpointernet and investor presentations play Customers of Koç Group companies are rate stakeholders to develop collaboraa fundamental role for performance able to share their views, suggestions tion is to comply with the principles of assessment and remuneration of Koç and complaints regarding the products honesty, respect, ethical conduct, and Group executives. and services with the related departlaws and regulatory codes. Moreover, ments through the call centres of the the value added and multiplier effects, Stakeholders are regularly invited to companies as well as via telephone, proactivity and creativity dimensions as participate in the meetings concerning e-mail and websites. The issues custowell as sustainability are also among them or are informed through our intmers mainly contact are composed of the principles for the cooperation deveranet and electronic media. The public their views, suggestions and complaints loped with stakeholders. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 9 Tüpraş İzmit Refinery regarding products and services. The competitor brands are included in the KoçSistem gauges the customers’ issues the customers have mentioned Survey. The results of the survey which general perception via online survey are then forwarded to the call centres, is held through approximately 45,115 method used within the company. PR, HR and Corporate Communication face-to-face interviews in 51 provinces KoçSistem functions under the Quality departments of the related companies are incorporated in the business perforManagement System and is accessible to be duly addressed. mance goals. from the corporate website to receive customer satisfaction comments or Koç Holding Chairman, CEO and In the customer satisfaction survey held complaints. In the 2013 Customer Sasenior managers participate in “Anadolu among 4,930 LPG cylinder customers tisfaction Evaluation, KoçSistem scored Buluşmaları” (Anatolian Rendezvous), in 34 provinces, the loyalty score of the 80 points, and maintained its perfordealers’ meetings held to bring Group Aygaz LPG cylinder customers increamance score compared to last year. company dealers from different regions sed by 6 points and reached 84 points. together and enable them to produce This score was shown to be 9 points In Customer Satisfaction in Index for ideas and exchange their views. As higher than the loyalty index of the Turkey conducted by Quality Associapart of these meetings, the dealers sector. In the customer satisfaction surtion, Opet ranked first for the 8th conare informed regarding the current vey conducted for the auto-gas sector secutive year in Fuel Sector category. developments in the Group and mutual among 3,193 people from 30 provinces “Journey to Excellence” customer satisexchange of views is encouraged. in 2013, Aygaz scored 74 points and faction improvement studies, launched the loyalty score of the Aygaz auto-gas to ensure the continuity of the bright On the grounds of the importance of customers turned out to be 4 points success, define not only a way of doing company-dealer-customer relationship, higher than the sector loyalty index. business that determines customer Koç Holding monitors dealers’ satisfacAygaz has been the sector leader since relations but also a strategy to bring tion to the companies they are affiliated 2003 when the surveys began to be performance in the areas of economy, with. Dealer Satisfaction Survey, tenth held for the LPG cylinder and auto-gas society and environment to perfectiof which was carried out in 2013 by an sectors. Aygaz, Mogaz and Lipetgaz are on. Moreover, OPET Ambassadors of independent research company, covers listed among the winner brands in LPG Perfection supervise the program and the 6,700 dealers operating in 81 Distributors Cylinder category of the give feedback to the company regarding provinces of Turkey. Just like customer 2013 Customer Satisfaction Index of OPET’s social, environmental and satisfaction, the improvement goals set Turkey (TMME). economical performance. for dealer satisfaction are reflected on the performance goals of the compaIn the customer loyalty index survey Tat achieved to be customers’ most nies’ management. held in 2013, Arçelik brand enjoyed favorite brand in the canned food, sau84% and Beko brand enjoyed 85% ce and tomato paste category of 2013 Periodic satisfaction surveys play an performance, scoring above sector and Customer Satisfaction Index of Turkey important role in setting development Turkey’s average. In the air conditioner (TMME), conducted by Turkish Quality and improvement goals regarding cuscategory, Arçelik and Beko maintained Association (KalDer) and the internatitomers. The Customer Satisfaction Surtheir position and scored 90 points. In onal research institution, KA Reseach. vey, held regularly since 2003, covers the ‘LCD/Plasma Television’ category, Tat is also included in the scope of 22 different sectors and is considered Arçelik and Beko enjoyed 83% and TURQUALİTY®support program that as the widest scoped final consumer 80% customer loyalty, respectively. aims for the reinforcement of Turkish survey conducted. 22 brands owned brands in the international arena. by 12 Koç Group companies and 125 10 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 TürkTraktör Factory The production process and product Koç Holding is in active communicaquality of SEK Süt Company that tion with NGOs and public institutions operates under the roof of Tat, have in an effort to develop solutions for been audited by Provincial Directorates social problems. Koç Holding’s CSR of Agriculture under the leadership Coordination Office hold meetings with of Ministry of Food, Agriculture and NGOs operating in the fields of educaLivestock. SEK Süt officially registered tion, health, environment, culture and that its production takes place under the arts, share ideas and experiences at hygience conditions in compliance with conferences and workshops as well as UN norms and instructions and is being developing cooperation with them. monitored in a transparent manner. Koç Holding is in cooperation with TürkTraktör conducts customer satisnational and international universities faction surveys for the products of New and NGOs for social, environmental and Holland and CASE IH brands preseneconomical issues and related areas of ted in Turkey. The survey, conducted development. In parallel with these, Koç between 2011 and 2013 and for which Holding is an active member of Turkish 45,000 customers were interviewed, is Industry and Business Association, considered to be the largest survey of International Investors’ Association, its sector. In order to increase customer Turkish Confederation of Employer satisfaction and maintain customer Associations, Metal Industrialists loyalty, Voice of Customer (VOC) ComUnion, Investor Relations Associations mission was established for the brands of Turkey, Foreign Trade Association of New Holland and CASE IH in 2012. of Turkey, Association for Corporate Final users are welcomed to Customer Communication, International CompeQuality Assessment (CQA) studies tition Research Institute, Private Sector undertaken by the VOC team. Volunteers Foundation, Turkish Quality Association, Business World and Through “Transaction Experience in a Sustainable Development Foundation, Branch” Research conducted by the Family Health and Planning Foundation, quality team on customers, Yapı Kredi PERYÖN, İstanbul Foundation for Cultumonitors the quality of service on a dare and Arts, Global Compact Turkey and ily basis and shares it with the related many other NGOs and are present in bodies. In 2013, over 350,000 custotheir Board of Directors. In addition, Koç mers participated in the research via Holding is an active member of chamautomatic interactive voice response. bers of commerce and industry, and In addition to that, various researches exporters unions of related business are conducted to evaluate the quality of segments that Group Companies opeproducts and service, and the experate in, and Sector Councils of Union of rience at the service channels. Within Chambers and Commodity Exchanges this scope, the customer satisfaction of of Turkey (TOBB). about 20,000 customers is monitored annually. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 11 Human Rights at Koç “I hope that countries and people will build closer relationships with each other and generations after us will be living peacefully in a prosperous world. Our Founder Vehbi Koç “ For Koç Group companies, some international conventions and does suppliers to show the same sensitivity values are independent from time not allow for human rights violation at in relevant matters. Koç Group does and space. Promoting human dignity workplaces. Disseminating the impornot practice any discrimination based is the most important among these tance we attach to human rights as a on language, ethnicity, gender, politiuniversal values. Accordingly, Koç Group throughout our value chain is cal view, philosophical view, religion, Group companies have, since their another significant priority for us. We denomination or any such matter in establishment, adopted the protection strive to spread practices aimed at business processes and relations and and promotion of human rights as promoting human rights by raising the respects such diversities. As far as an essential principle and they have awareness of all our stakeholders, business processes are concerned, supported business processes, as particularly our employees, about there are no unequal applications necessitated by the time, with cutting human rights. In accordance with whether direct or indirect, related edge policies and leading practices, our sensitivity and the importance to biological factors in the execution internalizing the spirit of our times. As we attach to this matter, there are of employment agreements or the a consequence of this understanding, absolutely no child workers employed constitution, implementation and terKoç Group respects the human rights and there is no practice of forced mination of relevant conditions unless specified by national legislation and labor in Koç Group. We expect our it is necessitated by reasons relating Declaration on Equality at Work On January 15th, 2013, Our Chairman of the Board, Mr. Mustafa V. Koç, has signed on behalf of Koç Group, the “Declaration on Equality at Work”. The decleration was prepared by the Equality at Work Platform, formed under the leadership of the Turkish Ministry of Family and Social Policies and in collaboration with World Economic Forum, is the most comprehensive program focusing on reducing gender gap in Turkey . Accordingly, we have made a commitment to voluntarily adapt to the following principles aimed at eliminating gender-based discrimination and to take the lead in the dissemination of these principles throughout our country: 1We respect human rights. We treat all employees equally. 2We ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of female and male employees without any discrimination based on gender. 3We specifically support female participation in labor force. 4We define the criteria on equal opportunities for women and men under all our Human Resources policies. 5We apply and uphold an Equal Pay for Equal Work policy. 6We establish the mechanisms required to ensure equal access to career opportunities. 7We create and monitor training policies, giving particular consideration to female participation in trainings. 8We create working environments and practices to maintain work and family life balance. 9We communicate internally and externally any news on our “equal opportunity” schemes and achievements. 10We will promote this declaration across our eco-system (business partners, suppliers). 11We will establish a leadership committee within our Company to monitor the items covered by the declaration. 12 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 209,687 59,806 person x hours person x hours OHS Training Provided to OHS Training Provided to the the Group Employees Contractors' Employees to the nature of the work such as Occupational Health and ment and dissemination proposals, business hazard, employee safety Safety at Koç ensuring the determination of high and legal obligations. occupational safety standards At Koç Group, we place great importhrough the appropriation of good Matters related to human rights and tance in our employees' health and practices by other Group companies, labor standards are included among safety and in constantly developing are among the basic functions of the primary objectives of Group comand improving the physical qualities of the Board. The Occupational Health panies in order to enhance the ownerthe work environment. The Occupaand Safety Coordination Board holds ship of the companies on these issues. tional Health and Safety Coordination regular meetings and evaluates In line with these objectives, best Board, of which all Group companies amended regulations, examples of practices are first extended to Group are members, aims at monitoring and good practices, hazard reports and companies. Koç Holding offers consulcontinuously improving the occupastatistics in detail. Within this scope, tancy services and trainings to Group tional health and safety practices at in the year 2013, meetings, seminars companies and Group companies workplaces. and trainings in the field of Occupatiparticipate in study groups, trainings onal Health and Safety have increaand seminars held by NGOs on these Reviewing practices throughout the singly continued at Koç Group. matters, which are included within Group regularly to propose developthe task scope of the Coordinator of Industrial Relations organized under the Human Resources Directorate. Number of Active We support the importance we attach Number of to universal human rights and its Employee Total Number practices with our principle of “acting of Active OHS Representatives OHS Committees in accordance with the principles Committee Working in OHS specified in the United Nations Global Group Companies Committees Members Compact and being an example of corporate citizenship to our employeArçelik 11 17 171 es, dealers, suppliers and authorized service centers” included in the article Aygaz 13 31 76 3.8.2 of the Koç Group Code of ConFord Otosan 4 5 62 duct. As a requirement of this principKoçSistem 3 17 34 le, written commitments are obtained from suppliers at the onset of our Opet 6 17 90 business relationship and compliance Otokar 1 6 13 with this issue is closely monitored. Otokoç 26 26 208 Tat 9 31 97 Tofaş 9 9 95 Tüpraş 10 18 78 TürkTraktör 2 6 30 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 13 Aygaz Gebze Facility Labor Union Rights at Koç Among the 82* facilities owned by In 2013, 55,584 Group employees Group companies covered in this and 31,745 contractor employees The protection of peace at work is a report, 57 are certified with OHSAS were respectively given 209,687 primary focus for Koç Group. A conti18001 “Occupational Health and person x hours and 59,806 person nuous and constructive social dialog is Safety Management System.” As x hours of Occupational Health understood to be the main constituent of 2013, 69.5% of our facilities are and Safety training, amounting to of industrial relations. Koç Group exhicertified. 269,493 person x hours in total. bits the level of importance it places in relations with labor unions through the The health and safety of the emploOccupational hazard statistics are kept regulations it gets involved in national yees of Group companies are assured at Group workplaces and data such as and international platforms and volunthrough various practices. Each Group number of lost days, accident frequency tary initiatives. The Industrial Relations Company forms a standalone Occuand severity are collected twice a year, Coordination Board holds periodic pational Health and Safety Committee. consolidated centrally and kept track meetings to develop a sustainable and By this means, company practices are of in comparison with data from the constructive industrial relations culture periodically reviewed and employee related periods of previous years. Stawithin the Group. representation is maintained in occutistical movements are compared with pational health and safety processes. total working hour data and reasons for Koç Group respects freedom of Regular occupational health and safety increases and decreases are evaluated. unionization and collective bargaining trainings are provided; workplace of employees. During the reporting doctors, occupational health and safety Health data and health reports indicaperiod, the rate of unionization reached professionals and, when required, additing the recruit is suitable for the work, 61%. Over 43,000 employees from tional medical personnel are employed also required by legal regulations, are 6 different sectors, working in over at our workplaces; external services are requested by all Group companies 30 workplaces within the body of procured when required. during the recruitment of employees. In the Group are unionized. In these addition, the provisions of OHS regulaworkplaces, collective agreements Within the scope of these practices, tions are perfectly implemented within are concluded following negotiations trainings and risk assessment activities the scope of the collective agreements with authorized unions (Turkish Metal about related regulations are realized, signed between the Group companies Workers Union, Petrol-İş Union, appropriate measures are taken, and labor unions. There are special Tek-Gıda Workers’ Union, Seafarers' technologies and usages are revised in examinations and periodic health screUnion of Turkey, Dok Gemi-İş Union, accordance with the results across the ening practices for different job definiBanking and Insurance Workers' Group. Group employees and contractor tions befitting the work done within the Union). Regulatory provisions relating firm employees are provided with body of the Group. Also, routine health to working life in matters such as trainings in related processes. screenings, training practices about occupational health and safety and medical issues to inform employees and human rights are included in collective their families and community oriented agreements alongside normative health themed projects are realized provisions regarding salaries and throughout the Group. similar benefits. Collective bargaining * Yapı Kredi’s operational facilities are not included in the calculation scope. 14 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 is conducted on the basis of company Employees Covered objectives involving factors such as by Collective Agreements occupational safety, human rights and working life. Together with these practices, monitoring is also implemented for determining violation of labor union rights in supply processes. Employees Koç Group employees can be elected Not Covered for the local and central managing by Collective Labor Employees bodies in employee and employer Covered by Agreement organizations and become members of Collective Labor their professional associations (such as %39 Agreement chamber of medicine, bar association, %61 chambers of engineers and architects). In 2013, 1,167 Koç Group employees took office in employee unions and 7 employees took office in employer unions. Some of our employees contribute to employment, national economy and social life by serving at Provincial Employment Committees, Chambers of Commerce and Industry and various NGOs. Koç Group contributes continually to the development and strengthening of relations with domestic and overseas unions and to the establishment of lasting social dialogue. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 15 Work Environment at Koç “Our most valuable asset is our human resources. Our Founder Vehbi Koç “ As a group we believe that a successful ensuring the constant improvement of future is attained with successful empemployees and at increasing their motiWithin the context of the “Human loyees. Koç Group aims to become the vation, productivity and satisfaction. As Resources Process Improvement most admirable and favored institution a result of these practices, we maintain Project” started in the year 2013, the in Turkey, which creates high added sustainably our understanding of “purcontents of consultancy services and trainings offered to Group companies, value for sustainable growth by catcsuing our activities as a participatory relating to the established areas of hing the spirit of time, where the most organization where mutual respect and improvement, were revised. Working successful professionals in their fields trust prevail and diversity is valued” in groups, constituted for the improveare employed and all stakeholders are which we place great importance. ment of practices in these areas and proud to be a part of the activities. the dissemination of best practices, By the end of 2013, 257 senior exehave started their meetings and Human resources processes are cutives were employed in the Turkey “Good Practices Day” was organized. managed throughout the Group with operations of our companies covered in The constitution of an integrated and the support of systems proven to be the report. 16 of these executives were shared data flow structure has been efficient. This body of practices aims at expats while 241 were Turkish citizens. made of for the purpose of contributing to the improvement of Group companies. The improvement of the formed structure is planned to be continued in subsequent terms. Employee demographics of Group companies within the scope of the report for 2013: Employee Breakdown by Gender Employee Breakdown by Category 53,229 Male 40,848 Blue Collar 17,279 Female 29,660 White Collar Employee Breakdown by Contract Employee Breakdown by Employment Type 2,091 Fixed Term 508 Part-Time 68,417 Indefinite Term 70,000 Full-Time Employee Breakdown by Age Intern Student Breakdown for 2013 2,931 Older then 50 3,243 College / University 45,022 Between 30-50 2,470 High School 22,555 Younger than 30 16 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 70,508 5,713 Total Number of Employees in Total Number of Intern Reporting Companies Students In the workplaces of Group companies, Code of Conduct Boards exist in all Recruitment certain general procedures relating to Group companies to audit breaches and employees’ social rights and working to ensure compliance. Koç Group HR Drawing on Group objectives and conditions, their duties and responDirectorate is responsible throughout principles, the primary criteria considesibilities, disciplinary rules and labor the Group for the management of the red in the recruitment process for the contracts are regulated through perCode of Conduct. If a case of violation incorporation of the most competent sonnel regulations. These regulations of the Code of Conduct is encountered professionals in their fields, are the are communicated to employees of Koç in the course of periodical audits, the competences we determine as a Group Group companies upon their recruitcase is reported to senior management as well as the level of knowledge and ment and are a part of all employees’ and preventive measures are taken. experience required by the relevant labor contracts. Personnel regulations The results are also conveyed to the position. As stated by the Labor Act, are thereby specialized for the appropAudit Group and Human Resources there is no discrimination during the riate sector, company and workplace Directorate for the data to be collected recruitment process; individuals suitaband put into practice. Regulations are in a centralized archive. le for the nature of business are hired updated when necessary in accordance through an evaluation of their compewith legal amendments, labor legislatiFor detailed information regarding our tences and everyone is provided with on and needs. Code of Conduct please visit http:// equal opportunities throughout their www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/visiworking life. For detailed information The Code of Ethics and Business on-and-values. regarding recruitment processes please Conduct, which involves human rights visit http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/ issues such as the prohibition of child Koç@Insan platform enables all our human-resources. workers, discrimination and forced employees to access the systems labor and is adopted by all companies aimed at the implementation of HR poKoçAkademi and Training in Group within Koç Group, defines the social licies under a single roof. Through this Companies and ethical rules to which employees of platform human resources policies and all levels are subject. Employees are expractices are shared transparently. Koç Group supports the importance pected to act in accordance with these placed on the continuous improverules. Every Group company employee ment of employees through practices Minimum Notice Periods is expected to read and sign the Code operating in integration with systeof Conduct upon their recruitment. matic human resources processes. One of our basic principles is to Employees can also obtain a copy on As a result of this understanding, all inform our employees reasonably in intranet and internet pages. Labor companies within the Group make use advance in cases of new assignLegislation Trainings are organized, of Koç Akademi, which is a platform of ments, downsizing or workplace where matters included in Koç Group training, development and sharing, in shut-downs within the outlines Code of Ethics and Personnel Regulatiaddition to training and development prescribed by law in order to avoid ons are shared with the main personnel practices specific to their fields of work. negative impacts of such changes, responsible for their dissemination if any, as much as possible. throughout Group companies. The On this platform where the development scope and content of these trainings planning processes of Group employees realized by the Coordinate of Industrial are managed, areas of need are deterRelations are intended to be broadened mined and development plans are forin the year 2014. med by drawing primarily on resources such as various evaluations, objectives KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 17 Tüpraş İzmit Refinery Total Training Hours by Category in all fields the Group operates in, according For detailed information regarding 2013 (person x hours) to their contribution to the achievement the supplementary benefits offered of corporate objectives and the level of to Koç Group employees please 1,228,055 Blue Collar responsibility. The job performed and the visit http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/ responsibilities assumed by the employee about/human-resources/rights-offe776,671 White Collar are crucial in the determination of comred-to-koc-group-employees pensation levels. Also, a premium system and employee and manager requests. focused on long-termed results, aiming The fixed salaries of Koç Group top exeFollowing these practices development for the awarding of consistency and cutives are determined in compliance activities are carried out. These activities outstanding success is implemented. with international standards and legal can be short-term trainings as well as Outstanding Success and Distinctive Asobligations, considering macroeconolong-termed programs. Within the whole signment Awards are given out to reward mic market data, current wages poliprocess, interviews are carried out to the annual performances of employees. cies, the size and long-term objectives monitor employee development throuof the company and individual positions. ghout the year and to evaluate it at the The salaries and other financial beneBonuses of our top executives are end of the year. Subsequent to year-end fits of union member employees are calculated in accordance with the basis evaluation interviews, planning interspecified in the collective agreements premium, company performance and views for the following year are realized. signed following collective bargaining individual performance. The activities conducted with relevant unions. of Group companies in matters such as Koç Group Compensation System occupational health and safety, energy, Generally across the Group, a bonus water, emission, waste, material At Koç Group, in accordance with a fair amount equal to four months’ salary efficiency and environmentalist product and competitive policy and the objective in total is payable on a monthly basis development also constitute a part of to reward and sustain success with high and a benefit package is implemented performance evaluations and perforperformance standards, compensations in addition to the gross salaries of the mance based compensation systems are realized through the Compensaemployees. Together with the bonus and for top executives. Koç Holding is one tion Management System. Within the the benefit package, standard entry-level of the few Turkish companies linking compass of the system, elementarily, monthly wage generally applied within compensation of top executives with wage market, current wage structure the Group is approximately 48% higher financial and operational performance. and ability to pay, wage policy, individual than the monthly gross amount of legal performance and labor scale parameters minimum wage. In most Group workpOur employees’ performances are evaluare evaluated. In addition, competitive laces where collective agreements are ated within the Koç Group Performance salary levels are sustained within comin place, the salary paid to new recruits Management System. The essential pany resources by means of annual salary is higher than the minimum wage as purposes of this practice are the dissebenchmarking studies. Gender does not required by the collective agreements. mination of identified objectives through have any effect on compensation levels. Therefore, the salaries paid by Group all management levels, the objective companies are significantly higher than management of employee performanLabor scales determined as a result of the legal minimum salary, considece within the framework of common job evaluations constitute the basis of ring the effect of bonuses and benefit principles and the enhancement of the compensation management system. packages and the minimum entry wages performance levels. Within the process of job evaluation, determined by collective agreements. an international system is used, which enables the relative ordering of all jobs in 18 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 341,215 240,152 Number of Employee Number of Suggestions Suggestions Received in 2013 Implemented Performance Management System This practice enables our employees to up, managers who might take charge allows the determination of evaluation contribute significantly to the effective at this level are predetermined and their criteria for employee objectives set realization of our operational objectives. development is promoted. every year with their participation and their rate of success at the end of the The Corporate Coaching Program is In 2013, 341,215 suggestions period, the investigation of causes carried out as part of the LiderSensin were provided by Group employees contributing positively or negatively to Talent Development and Management within the scope of this report, target achievement, the determination Program. Within the scope of this and 240,152 of them were put of the necessary course of action to program, future leader candidates are into practice. 275,215 of these compensate for negative deviations and provided with corporate one-on-one suggestions were put forward by providing feedback to employees. In this coaching and group coaching services. Tofaş employees. context, all white-collar personnel are In order to generalize the coaching subject to annual performance evaluatiapproach, internal coaches are trained at on. Over 3,000 mid-level managers and Leader Development Programs Group companies. Our internal coaches top executives received performance coach employees from various compaevaluation in 2013. Koç Group Leader Development nies one-on-one and contribute to their Program, whose primary objective is development. Employee Engagement Survey to generate and maintain a common management and leadership culture Most Successful Koç Employees This survey, carried out annually since at Koç Group, creates a learning and 2011, serves to measure Group emplocooperation environment for managers The Most Successful Koç Employees yees’ engagement and satisfaction and of Group companies attending the progRewarding System, in practice since to analyze factors affecting engagement. ram, through the sharing of knowledge 2003, was created with the aim of Within the scope of 2013 Survey, 46,290 and experience. 549 managers took recognizing and appreciating the achiequestionnaires were filled out by our part in the trainings in 2013. A total of vements of employees, and determining employees and the ratio of completing 5,673 managers across the Group have and sharing the best practices in the the questionnaires was 86%. Employee attended the trainings, which have been Group. In 2013, 10 projects won the engagement objectives are determined organized since 2002. first place and 93 employees who took and improvement activities are pursued in part in these projects were rewarded accordance with application results. Leadership Potential Evaluation Proas part of the program which evaluates cess and LiderSensin (You Are the white-collar and blue-collar projects Suggestion Systems Leader) Talent Management Program under the five categories of “Making a Difference”, “Cooperation”, “Customer Employee suggestions are considered to In our Group companies, potential Satisfaction”, “Creative Innovations” be of primary importance for continuous employees for positions of all levels and “Adding Value to Life”. A total of development and improvement across are selected through a competence 51 companies and 693 projects have Koç Group. Within this understanding, based evaluation process. Successful been nominated and 635 employees feedbacks provided by our employees employees who have high leadership have been rewarded through the Most are evaluated by Group companies competences are identified through the Successful Koç Employees system by through suggestion systems and put Evaluation Center practice and they join the end of 2013. into practice. Employees who suggest a special talent development program. successful proposals are rewarded In this way, Koç Group senior manageaccording to specified procedures. ment positions are effectively backed KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 19 In 2013 the total number of the participants in the organizations held by the Group Companies is as follows: 27,114 17,705 44,819 Voluntary Employees Voluntary Participants Total Number of Participants Pension Foundation has 53,277 active Projects which were awarded the top prizes at the Most Successful Koç and 308 retired members. Employees System in 2013 Yapı Kredi supports secondary finanWhite Collar Blue Collar cial guarantees for its employees at their retirement and has been contribuMaking AYGAZ TÜPRAŞ ting to Group Individual Retirement Plan a Difference Bringing Transformists Toget26F-1 Extinguishment of Oven to create an alternative opportunity for her With Customers in Digital Environment its employees, since 2006. Creative FORD OTOSAN OTOKAR Professional and Personal Life Innovations ‘Realise’ Real Time Calibration Glass Scratch Removal Balance at Koç Improvement Platform At Koç Group we care for our employees’ professional and personal life Customer TOFAŞ FIAT ARÇELİK Trusted Advisor Mobile balance and carry out practices which Satisfaction Plastic Stacking Kit Application will support this balance positively. 45-hour work system is in effect at Koç Group workplaces within legal limits, Cooperation AYGAZ TOFAŞ and employees are given the opporAygaz Aytemiz Supply and Mounting Line Standard Time tunity to have annual paid leaves for Storage Cooperation Improvements and WO Studies longer durations than foreseen by the law. Human resources departments of Adding Value KOÇ ÜNİVERSİTESİ FORD OTOSAN Group companies comply with modern to Life One Child One Thousand Ford Otosan Handicap Free human resources policies and act with Hopes Theater Club an approach that protects employees’ professional and business life balance. Koç Ailem (My Family) Program Koç Holding Retirement Pension Employee Volunteerism Foundation KoçAilem (My Family) program, proKoç Group companies support social vides Koç Group employees with the Koç Holding Retirement Pension Founresponsibility practices at the Group opportunity to benefit from goods and dation was established on November level, such as “Vocational Education: services offered by Group companies 1st, 1967 in order to provide Koç Group A Crucial Matter for the Nation”, “No and others, as well as extra advantages employees with a supplementary social Barriers for My Country” and “Koç through periodical campaigns. Moresecurity and support in addition to the Sports Festival” through the voluntary over, the program aims at increasing governmental social security system. The participation of their employees. And on employee satisfaction and engagement foundation offers its members full paya corporate level, they pursue CSR projewithin the Group and developing a ment of balance, retirement pay, health cts and contribute to social development common Group identity through the insurance and financial assistance serviand environmental protection through social activities and social responsibility ces and supports them for a comfortable various activities they realize in the fields projects put into practice. KoçAilem and peaceful period of retirement. As of of education, culture, art and sports, on Program has about 93,000 members. the end of 2013, Koç Holding Retirement the basis of employee volunteerism. 20 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Koç Group Emergency Search and Rescue Team Aygaz employees who continue to get Koç Group Emergency Search and Rescue Team together at out-of-office activities with “My Social Activity Club”, which pursues Turkey is situated on one of the most active earthquake zones in the world. The past its activities on a voluntary basis, have earthquakes have caused substantial losses of life and property. It is an unavoiattended activities such as theater dable fact that such natural disasters will also be experienced in the future. Hence, plays, concerts and gastronomy classes necessary precautions must be taken without any delay. A substantial step in these in 2013. precautions is the constitution of life saving coalitions. The Search and Rescue Team established under the umbrella of Koç Group subsequent to Gölcük Earthquake in The Aygaz–Opet Turkish Music Choir, 1999, has been continuously working since Van Earthquake in 2011. As of the end of initiated in 2004 with the participation 2013, it is comprised of a 495 people team ready to act upon potential natural disasters. of Aygaz and Opet employees, with the aim of bringing together employees Team leaders, who came together in the year 2011, formed the Koç Group Emergency keen on Classical Turkish Music and Procedure at the end of two years of work; determined the standards for the teams’ creating opportunities for them to enequipment, vehicles and apparel and supplied missing items. Taking into account that gage in their hobbies, has expanded in the search and rescue teams, composed of volunteers from 8 companies affiliated time with the participation of employees with the Group, will be representing Koç Group in disaster areas; studies for the stanfrom other Koç Energy Group and Koç dardization of record keeping, patterns of behavior and trainings were started. Holding companies, employee relatives and dealers. Aygaz–Opet Turkish Music At the “Koç Group Emergency Search and Rescue Teams Coordination Meeting”, Choir which undertakes the mission of realized during the reporting period, the activities of teams in the year 2013 were presenting the audiences with Turkish revised, objectives for 2014 were set and it was decided that all teams should Classical Music remaining faithful to its come together to form the Koç Group Search and Rescue Team. Together with the original, also contributes to the devemeeting, the opening of the training area, built by Koç Holding Search and Rescue lopment of cooperation and team spirit volunteers for the trainings of Group Search and Rescue volunteers, was realized. amongst employees. Koç Information Technologies Arçelik employees continued to work working during disasters, and they have Group have continued their contribution for their “White Fish Playroom Project,” shared their knowledge and experience to the projects organized by the Green which aims at building special playroon this subject. Also, a fully equipped Information Platform. In 2013, the “Maoms in hospitals to improve the morale search and rescue vehicle was acquired rine Clean-up” project suggested by and motivation of children being treated in order for Arçelik Search & Rescue a KoçSistem employee for the “You for cancer. In 2013, hospitals were Teams to mobilize within the shortest Suggest for the Environment” project visited and several toys and books were time in the case of a possible disaster. was actualized by the diver team of donated for two playrooms and a library. volunteering employees. A carbon Within the scope of World Environment meter application was developed on Search and rescue team members Day, Aygaz collaborated with Turkish Facebook for the platform with the in the Bolu, Çerkezköy and Eskişehir Marine Environment Protection Assovoluntary supports of employees. campuses of Arçelik have attended ciation (Turmepa) to support the Coast Thanks to employees’ participation, education and exercise studies for Clean-up Initiative with its employees. diverse activities took place in social emergency situations provided by the The activity started with teamwork clubs such as scuba-diving and chess Civil Defense Units in their province, and training in Burgazada, Istanbul clubs during the year. Fire Department officials and NGOs and went on with coast cleaning. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 21 VKV Ford Otosan Culture and Community Center Opet has added the Traffic Detectives raries in schools, technological material organized leagues and continued its Project to other Turkey-wide projects support, aid campaigns for children, resports trainings practices during the year. such as the Clean Toilet Campaign, ading activities for the visually impaired, Green Road Project, Exemplary Village donation practices and senior home In Arçelik campuses, there is a fitness Project and Respect for History Project, visits with the voluntary participation of center, tennis court, basketball court and which are sustained with the voluntary 2,602 employees. soccer field available for all employees. participation of employees. Opet empEmployees benefit from outdoor and inloyees have continued their voluntary Koç Employees and Sports door sports facilities, and they participate participation in the activities of Social in activities such as skiing and bowling Activity Clubs during the year. Koç Group companies encourage tournaments off campus. their employees to engage in sports by Tofaş employees who joined the forming social clubs, organizing sports In Aygaz Headquarters, there is a fully Eurasia Marathon in 2013 with “Adım activities and providing sporting opportuequipped fitness center where emploAdım” team to provide the Spinal Cord nities, with the objective of contributing yees can train with an instructor. There Paralytics Association of Turkey with to the physical and spiritual development are facilities where employees can play battery-operated wheelchairs, have also of personnel, developing the sports soccer, volleyball, table tennis and so continued their participation in corporate culture of employees and supporting forth in other locations. Every year, culture clubs. Hearing impaired employetheir professional-personal life balance. sports tournaments are organized in line es have participated in several organiApart from opportunities and activities with employee interests. zations, while volunteering employees provided at the level of companies, Koç participated in sign language trainings Sports Festival, which has been orgaFord Otosan employees have access to and contributed to the strengthening of nized annually in May and June since the sports facilities at Vehbi Koç Foundain-house communication. 1989, contributes to the popularization tion Cultural and Social Life Center and of Group culture and aims at bringing at the plant guesthouse, and they particiTürkTraktör employees, who particitogether families and employees from all pate in various sports activities. pated voluntarily in the kaizen system companies in a common event. that aims to reduce and nullify losses In Koç Information Technologies through continuous improvements, Within the scope of the 24th festival Group Çamlıca Business Center, there is pursue continuous improvement works organized in 2013, over 3,600 Group a sports hall available for employees and as part of the Quality Circle practice. employees from 11 different branches at Bilkom company there is a gymnasium Through the newly constituted Volunteer came together in Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, room. Group employees participate in Instructors practice, employees provide Bursa and Adana. At the end of the five social clubs for sailing, diving and similar voluntary trainings in various fields such weeks long competitions, the top three sports, and they receive trainings. as the environment, occupational safety, teams received cups and awards, as orientation and World Class Manufactuwell as the teams and sportsmen who Within the body of Opet, there are ring for their co-workers and contribute were granted the Fair Play Award, in their basketball, swimming, tennis, sailing, to their professional development. respective branches. Koç Group Sports volleyball, soccer, bowling, outdoor and Club Association, which was established extreme sports teams actively partiYapı Kredi Volunteers Platform, in 2012 in order to extend the sporting cipated by employees. In 2013, Opet which continued its activities within the opportunities offered to Group employeBasketball Team became champion in framework of 11 main projects in the es, continued its activities in 2013. The the Business League and Swimming year 2013, has realized volunteering association realized various sports events Team players won 8 gold, 3 silver and 3 practices such as the foundation of libdevoted to employees and their families, bronze medals at various organizations. 22 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Aygaz Gebze Facility Otokar offers all its employees sports While all Tüpraş refineries have fitness facilities such as basketball courts, centers and swimming pools, some refisoccer fields, gyms and tennis courts. neries also have indoor sports facilities, Volleyball, soccer, basketball, bowling basketball and tennis courts, soccer fieland athletics competitions are organized ds, runways and squash facilities. Social within the company and employees Activities Clubs continue their activities training at the tennis, diving, skiing and during the year and organizations such sailing clubs are encouraged in their as Bowling and Streetball Tournaments sportive activities. among refineries are realized. At the Taşdelen Campus of Tat Gıda, In the year 2013, 2,271 employees, there is a fitness center that is open to 86% of the workforce, have participated all the employees. “Dragon Boat Rowing in the traditional TürkTraktör Sports Team,” made up of Tat Gıda employees, Festival conducted in 16 branches for competes in international tournaments. the last 11 years. Competitions in the fields of basketball, soccer, volleyball, The Sports Activities Club, formed by table tennis, chess, dart, table soccer, Tofaş employees on a voluntary basis, checker, badminton and billiard are organizes nearly 50 events yearly, realized as part of the festival organized and teams in 9 sports branches carry by committee members determined on on their activities. Tournaments are a voluntary basis. Besides the festival, organized in branches such as tennis, employees are provided with sporting backgammon, mini golf, table tennis, opportunities such as an indoor sports fabowling, table soccer, go-cart, dart, cility, outdoor soccer field and recreational chess, athletics, volleyball, basketball areas with pool and table soccer tables. and soccer. Every year, more than one thousand employees participate in Yapı Kredi provides its employees with interdepartmental soccer and bowling sporting opportunities at sports facilities tournaments. in Yapı Kredi Plaza and at the Banking Base in Çayırova, as well as through Yapı Employees have access to the fitness Kredi Sports Club. The club, active in 12 center, basketball and volleyball courts sports branches, continued its organizathat belong to Tofaş Sports Club, and tions outside Istanbul, which had started there are also two tennis courts and a in 2012, in Izmir, Adana, Ankara and basketball court in the social facilities. Samsun in the year 2013. The “internal Tofaş Sports Club opens swimming, sponsorship” project, started in 2005 to basketball and soccer summer schools promote the sportive success of emplofor employees’ children, hence, providing yees and to encourage them, continued sporting opportunities for children as in 2013. In this regard, 7 employees well. The club arranges motorcycling, received support in 6 sports branches tennis, chess and diving trainings and and they won 21 gold, 11 silver and 7 organizes skiing and diving trips for bronze medals at various organizations employees. during the year. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 23 Environmentally-Friendly Practices at Koç “Another fundamental principle that we have pioneered and which is non-nego“ tiable for us is fulfilling our responsibilities to both this and future generations. Our Founder Vehbi Koç Today the business world is expected issues of environmental management work on reducing these impacts by to take responsibility to meet the needs are determined by the policies designed developing environmentally-friendly and expectations of society through to be compatible with the international products. developing integrated solutions to environmental management principles, social, economic and environmental standards and initiatives, starting with • Carry out educational activities to problems. Featuring the most well-esthe United Nations Global Compact. increase knowledge and awareness tablished industrial and service sector All the companies affiliated with Koç on environmental protection among companies in Turkey, Koç Holding Holding implement environmental large segments of society, embraces the spirit of our times by management in a similar approach. particularly employees, customers, undertaking policies and actions to The main principles pursued for that dealers, suppliers, contractors and eliminate sustainability risks, especially purpose are stated on the Koç Group other operational stakeholders. the environmental impact stemming Environmental Vision and Mission, from companies’ operations in supply, Koç Group Environmental Policy and The organization of environmental maproduction, and the processes of Koç Group Climate Change Strategy nagement starts with Koç Holding and product and service. Koç Holding and documents. Group companies also take extends to the operational centers of Group companies aim to turn risks into the expectations and needs of their own the Group companies. Various bodies opportunities by solving environmental sectors into account in order to develop have been established at Group level problems with creative and innovative environmental policies and strategies. in an effort to ensure the guidance and solutions through the practices they For more detailed information regarding administration of this large organizatipursue with a perspective that brings Koç Holding’s environmental manaon according to a participatory approthe priorities of sustainability to the gement approach, please visit the ach. The highest decision making body forefront. In line with this approach, corporate social responsibility page on of environmental management is Koç Koç Holding and Group companies have www.koc.com.tr Group Environmental Council, compobrought environmental sensitivity to the sed of senior managers responsible for foreground since they were established The environmental management the issues of environment, energy and and have taken part in joint initiatives activities undertaken by Koç Holding sustainability at Group companies. The with public agencies, professional orand Group companies cover three main main duties of the Council are to deganizations, NGOs and all other related areas. All Group companies, termine long-term strategies regarding parties, both local and international, for environmental management, to formuthe sake of promoting the environmen• Aim to keep environmental impacts late action plans for their execution, to tal sensitivity in the business world and created by their activities such as share examples of best practices and society at large. energy consumption, water usage, implementations, to carry out activities emission and production of waste with the aim to comply fully with the Environmental Management under control; increase recycling; amended environmental regulations, protect biodiversity; and work on to organize educational activities to Strategies and policies established improvements to realize these goals inform environmental experts about at Koç Holding level account for the in accordance with “the best global developments, and develop conduct of environmental manageexisting practices”. environmental management systems ment at Group level. In addition to • Monitor environmental impacts at Group level. the environmental regulations of the created by manufactured goods and countries Koç Group companies operate services for their whole life-cycle, Koç Holding believes in the importance in, the necessary operating conditions from their design and planning stage of developing creative and innovative of Group companies regarding the until the end of their economic life; solutions besides implementing best 24 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 65 226 TL Million Number of Facilities with ISO Expenditure and Investment 14001 Certification Amount Ensuring Reduction in Environmental Impact practices in order to improve environthe units responsible for environmental System Standard is the methodology mental performance. Therefore, Koç management are to ensure prompt widely used by Group companies. Holding’s R&D activities are coordinated compliance with changing management Out of the 82* facilities owned by by Koç Group Technology and Innovation systems and legal regulations with an the Group companies, 65 operate Council. Established upon participation eye on minimizing the environmenwith ISO 14001 certification and the of senior managers responsible for the tal impact stemming from company scope of certification in 2013 was issues regarding technology, innovation, operations. 79%. In the reporting period, Arçelik, R&D at Group companies, the main duty Aygaz, Ford Otosan, Tat, Tofaş, of the Council is to determine Group Group companies use quantitative Tüpraş, TürkTraktör completed the companies’ long-term strategies, goals performance indicators to monitor goals documentation requirements for ISO and action plans in these areas. determined on company basis and 50001 Energy Management System evaluate their environmental manageStandard. Aygaz and TürkTraktör Energy Efficiency Working Group is ment performances. Apart from this, became the first companies to acquire founded with the participation of energy there are key performance indicators this certification in their sectors. managers from Group companies. It is determined by the Environmental Council a management body aiming to create and followed to evaluate Group level The operations of all the related Koç synergy around a culture of energy performance. The Environmental Council Group companies are in line with the EU efficiency throughout the whole Group prepares annual assessment reports REACH Regulation and these compaby drawing up plans for improvement and the Audit Group carries out periodic nies work on projects to ensure that by its expert sub-committees, sharing audits on policy and performance basis their suppliers also show compliance and mainstreaming best practices and with the support of the Environmental with the regulation. Apart from that, the developing joint projects. Council. The reports and audit results Group companies comply with many are submitted to the company’s senior sectoral, local and international stanThe companies that compose Koç management by the Koç Holding CEO. dards that regulate labeling practices Group vary in size and operate in very Group companies’ environmental policies and environmental impact levels of different sectors. Therefore, environand performances also go through petheir products. mental goals and performance evaluriodic internal and independent auditing ation processes are mainly based on processes. Development areas identified Koç Group companies work to estabGroup companies’ activities. Strategic as a result of Group and company lish an environmental risk manageplans established at Group level are level audits are enhanced on the basis ment approach covering all phases of transformed into performance goals on of best practices. Most of the Group the value chain from supply to producompany basis and are extended to the companies in the reporting scope make ction, logistics to product and service whole organization starting from the the data regarding their environmental consumption. Thus, environmental company’s senior management. Comperformances public through corporate policies followed by the suppliers are pany environmental units undertake the responsibility and sustainability reports. as important as those followed by task of implementing the defined goals Group companies. Therefore, Group on company basis. Moreover, there are Widely recognized system standards companies expect their suppliers and energy management units organized are used to establish Group companies’ business partners that make an imporwithin Group companies with critical environmental management structures. tant part of their activities to adopt energy consumption levels or over a Periodical external audits ensure the the same environmental management certain operational size. The duties of reliability of the system. ISO 14001 approach as Koç Group. Environmen* Yapı Kredi’s operational facilities are not included in the calculation scope. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 25 Tat Production Line tal management standards are included in supplier audits and suppliers are offered plans according to the necessities of opportunities for improvement. In the reporting period, 13% of the active suppliers of the sectors they operate in. Group companies are auditedwith respect to environmental standards, and an environmental training of 22,175 person x hours was provided for the staff of suppliers. Due to diversification of its results an effective solution to the climate Activities to increase the awareness of employees, business partners and various change depends on the cooperation of segments of society about environmental protection account for a big part of the all related actors. Koç Group acts on environmentally-friendly practices carried out by Koç Group companies. In the this awareness by assuming a leading context of these studies, trainings are prioritized along with environmental projects role in collective action platforms and developed in diverse areas. The activities conducted to raise environmental awareconducting internal studies, in an ness in the wider public target at large segments of society starting with the local attempt to draw society’s attention to community. the issue and contribute to common solutions in cooperation with related parties. Levent Çakıroğlu, Koç Holding Environmental Trainings in 2013 Durable Goods Group President and Arçelik CEO, is one of the founders of the Turkish Climate Platform, of which Trainings Trainings for Koç Group company Aygaz is also for Group Contractors’ Trainings for a member. Çakıroğlu has been the Employees Employees Society in General President of the platform since 2011, Participants 12,439 17,064 18,962 representing the Turkish business Hours of Training world as well as Koç Group and Arçelik (person x hours) 48,298 30,425 42,016 at international platforms such as World Climate Summit that took place in Durban in 2011 and in Doha in 2012. Koç Group companies allocate signifiClimate Change and Emission In 2013, Fatih Özkadı, Environmental cant amounts of financial resources for Management Council President, represented Koç environmental management annually Group in World Climate Summit held in in an effort to improve environmental The phenomenon of climate change, Warsaw. performance. In this context, in 2013 widely recognized as the most imporKoç Group companies spent TL 226 tant environmental problem today, is Aygaz and Tüpraş signed the Energy million in total TL 65.6 million of which managed through an approach based Efficiency in Buildings Manifesto prewas spent to environmental manaon risk and opportunity assessment pared by Turkish Business Council for gement, operation and training costs like in other elements of environmental Sustainable Development Association while the environmental investment management. This approach stems in an attempt to reduce the impact of activities to improve environmental from Koç Holding and extends to climate change by enhancing energy performance account for the remaining Group companies. Koç Group Climate efficiency in company buildings. In this TL 160.4 million. Big part of the TL Change Strategy is established as a context, Aygaz provided its employees 677 million R&D expenditure made by consequence of the SWOT analysis with informative trainings, prepared Group companies throughout the year realized by Koç Group companies and the energy inventory of its company was used on studies to eliminate the forms the basis for climate change buildings at 4 locations and obtained environmental impact of products. management. In light of this strategy, building ID cards this year. Group companies establish action 26 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 208.2 Thousand Tons CO2e Greenhouse Gas Reduction Tüpraş, on the hand, started energy IPCC Guidelines and continued to mal integration project implemented in survey studies in a pilot building follow the ISO 14064-1 certification the crude oil unit of Kırıkkale Refinery chosen this year. The areas open for practice launched in 2011. Arçelik, helped to reduce GHG emission by energy performance improvement Ford Otosan, Tofaş, TürkTraktör 11,145 tons of CO 2e. were determined and efficiency was and Opet received validation for their achieved. The aim is to pursue energy 2012 GHG calculations in 2013. ID documentation in all Tüpraş buildings in the upcoming years. On the As a result of the improvement other hand, Tüpraş is a member of the activities carried out in 2013, the GHG EUROGIA 2020 initiative, established emissions of the Group companies with the aim to develop low-carbon were reduced by 208.2 thousand tons technologies through innovative soluof CO 2e.Thus, the total sum of GHG tions, and participates in the studies emission reduction achieved since carried out by World Energy Council 2009 reached 2 million tons of CO 2e. Turkish National Committee and Energy Efficiency Association. As a result of the energy efficiency projects carried out in 2013, Arçelik Koç Holding not only views climate reduced its GHG emission by 8.620 change as a threat to natural life tons of CO 2e in total, corresponding but also as a grave risk capable of to 2,305 tons of CO 2e direct GHG severely impacting our social and emission and 6,315 tons of CO 2e economic life. Having said that, new indirect GHG emission. In the same production and organizational needs period, Tat reduced its GHG emission arising from the phenomenon of cliby 1,338 tons of CO 2e due to process mate change and necessary financial improvement, automation, insulation tools to support these needs also and utilization of efficiency-increasing create significant opportunities for equipment at its SEK Süt, Karacabey the companies. The companies that and Mustafakemalpaşa Plants. commit to be a part of the solution through their ways of doing business Tüpraş achieved over 180 thouand their next-generation products sand tons of CO 2e reduction in GHG and services continue their existence emission thanks to the 40 efficiency and development in the future. For projects implemented at 4 different that reason, Koç Group regards comrefineries in 2013. In this context, an bating climate change as an important annual reduction of 12,446 tons of area for its investments and activities. CO 2e in GHG emission was achieved as a result of the improvements made Group companies conduct studies for to reduce the steam consumption measuring and reducing emissions in of various units at Izmit Refinery; an line with the Climate Change Strateannual reduction of 23,469 tons of gic Plan. All the companies covered CO 2e in GHG emission was achieved by the report carried out studies for thanks to the new gas turbine project calculating emission on the basis of at Izmir Refinery. In addition, the therKOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 27 TürkTaktör Factory Efficiency at Koç Protecting the Quality of the Air In line with the Koç Group EnvironKoç Group companies operate in accordance with the parameters and quality valumental Policy and Vision, the Group es specified in emission permits issued by the Ministry of Environment and Urban companies conduct efficiency studies Planning. The emission values are measured in line with continuous or periodic focused on energy efficiency, resource sampling, using methods specified on the basis of various parameters such as SOx, consumption, waste management, NOx, VOC and PM. Accredited institutions pursuant to legal regulations carry out perecovery and recycling with an attempt riodic independent audits. Furthermore, these values are periodically monitored by to improve their environmental perforthe Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning and the Provincial Environment and mance. Urban Planning Directorates. The measurement values calculated in 2013 are lower than the emission limits specified for the concerned companies and parameters. In 2013 Koç Group companies reduced their energy needs by 3.06 million Group companies conduct improvement studies regarding related parameters in GJ with the efficiency projects they order to further improve air quality in the facility areas. For instance, Ford Otosan realized. reduces its organic and particulate matter emissions by conducting studies to improve the efficiency of its combustion systems and using closed-circuit water pools Clean water is one of the most imporin paint booths. At Arçelik’s facilities, the amount of flue gas is reduced with the tant resources used in the operations of help of process modernization studies and studies aimed at increasing combustion Koç Group companies. The efficient use efficiency in addition to gas treatment and dust holding systems. of clean water resources, which has become even more important than ever Tüpraş reduces its flue gas emissions significantly by preferring low-emission fuel because of the increase in population types, implementing practices to enhance combustion efficiency, preferring low and climate change, is the common NOx burners, using leak prevention systems and carrying out the flare gas recovery practice. Actively participating in the Industrial VOC Control Project conducted by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning, Tüpraş aims to reduce its VOC Reduction Achieved in emissions even further thanks to the floating roof practices in fuel tanks and the Energy Consumption waste water balancing practice started in 2013. (million GJ) 2009 2.30 2010 3.35 2011 3.37 2012 5.44 2013 3.06 28 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 3.06 30.2% Million GJ Total Energy Saved Percentage of Recycled Water in Total Water Usage goal of all the Group companies. Group In 2013 Group companies’ total fresh Koç Group Environmental Policy stipucompanies aim to reduce clean water water resource consumption went lates that all Group companies should withdrawal by increasing efficiency in down by 1% to 29.1 million m³. In the reduce the waste produced as a result production, recovery and recycling, same period, thanks to recycling and of their operations and recycle at a rate and to improve water management reuse of the clean water withdrawn, as high as possible. Accordingly, 39.9% performance through practices such as 12.6 million m³ of water was used for of the 751.4 thousand tons of waste in diversifying the resources and achieving production once again; hence 30.2% total, comprising 315 thousand tons of higher quality in waste water discharge of the need for water was met with hazardous and 436.4 thousand tons of while decreasing the total amount. recycled water. non-hazardous waste, were recycled by Group companies in 2013. The waste that is not possible to recycle Total Water Withdrawal by Source (m³) is disposed according to the methods in line with environmental regulations, management standards and the type of waste. Surface water 18,811,261 Efficiency Practices of Group Underground water 7,755,542 Companies Municipal water 2,536,873 In 2013 Arçelik initiated 105 energy Other resources 28,372 efficiency projects and saved 84,351 GJ of energy that corresponds to more Rainwater harvested 1,040 than 12 million kWh of electricity and more than 1 million Sm³ of natural gas. During this period, 119,867 m³ of water was saved in total thanks to the practices Arçelik followed. Among these were the utilization of dry coolers Waste Water Disposal in the cogeneration unit of the Washing Group companies reduce their fresh water consumption by recycling waste water Machine Plant, improvements made produced as a consequence of their activities. The waste water which cannot be in paintshop processes and recovery recovered undergoes chemical and biological treatment processes depending on practices, the use of advanced treatment its pollution values. Once waste water is treated with proper modern technologies technologies such as ultrafiltration and at specific units according to its pollution values and has attained the quality norreverse osmosis in order to obtain pure ms specified in the discharge permits issued by public organizations, it is discharged water from waste water and rainwater. either to the receiving environments specified in the same environmental permits or Thanks to similar practices, 26,832 m³ into the municipal waste water systems. The quality parameters of waste water are of water was saved at the Refrigerator continuously monitored and improvement studies are conducted. A higher quality and Compressor Plants; 10,669 m³ of of waste water is attained beyond the norms specified in the permits in an effort to water was saved at the Cooking Applianavoid any negative impacts on the living species in the natural receiving environment ces Plant; 942 m³ of water was saved at or on biodiversity properties. In 2013, 18.6 million m³ of waste water arising from the Dishwasher Plant; 900 m³ of water Group companies’ operations was processed in waste water treatment units and was saved at the Electronics Plant. As a discharged after ensuring its compliance with suitable standards. result of the projects implemented at the KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 29 7,118 Tons Total Amount of Waste Recycled Within Koç Group Recycling Project Washing Machine Plant during the year, In 2013, Tofaş executed 121 energy BIODIVERSITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL the amount of paint mud was reduced efficiency projects, achieving 72,614 GJ DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS by 34%, the amount of powder coating in energy savings. In the reporting periwastes by 23.3% and the amount of od, Tofaş made a transition to solvent-free Koç Group companies monitor their scrap metal plates by 13% compared to cleaning products in paint processes to reenvironmental impact in a multithe year before. With the transition to oil duce its volatile organic carbon emissions. dimensional fashion through risk change and pulverization system in the “One-Bell” paint technology began to be assessment and precaution activities Dishwasher Plant, degreasing bathrooms used in all colours with specifically formuliconducted in the context of environwere removed and the need for water zed paint at water-based paint stations. mental management systems, and conditioning and electrical and chemical formulate protection and improvement consumption was avoided. In 2013, Tüpraş initiated 40 energy plans. The aim of these activities is to efficiency projects at 4 refineries, avoid having any negative impact on Aygaz aimed to reduce and dispose of achieving energy savings of over 2.8 the natural sites, forests or wetland the solid waste created as a result of million GJ. areas located on or near Group its activities in a more efficient manner companies’ operational sites as well through 23 projects implemented in the Yapı Kredi implemented the Cascade as to prevent any negative impact reporting period. In this context, the system at the Banking Base in 2012 on the living organisms inhabiting improvement of the paint guns at the seeking to improve efficiency in campus these sites. The negative impacts of Isparta Filling Facility led to a reduction lighting and ventilation systems. In supplied chemical materials on the of waste paint mud by 45% compared 2013, 6,911 GJ of energy was saved environment and biodiversity are also to the year before, and 4.6 tons of paint as a result of the transition to LED techmanaged in compliance with REACH were saved annually. The wastewater nology in lighting fittings at Yapı Kredi Regulation. None of the operational recovery project realized at the Yarımca Plaza and other similar practices. areas of Group Companies are locaFilling Facility helped to anticipate ted on protected natural, historical annual water savings of 7,500 m³. sites, special environmental preserKoç Group Recycling Project ves or RAMSAR sites as specified by In the reporting period, Ford Otosan the law or international agreements. Launched in 2010, the Koç Group saved 955,839 kWh on electricity by There are no areas or water resourRecycling Project aims to create increasing efficiency of electric motors of ces that have suffered a significant an awareness of recycling among pumps, improving the lighting systems impact in terms of biodiversity value the employees, ensure the estaband using sensors for lighting control. or population of species as a result of lishment of a common standard for the recycling of paper, glass, Group companies’ operations. Otokar realized water savings of 1,040 metal and plastic wastes and m³ in 2013 by obtaining water through increase the total sum of the A 104.5 km² plot within Arçelik Cothe rainwater recovery project impleoking Appliances Plant site is taken waste collected. The project mented in the trailer production building under protection as a green area. went on during the reporting periand utilizing it in the sealing tests. The wetland on the 5.4-acre plot od as well. As part of this project, the Group companies collected inside Ford Otosan Gölcük Plant site, Tat saved 15,886 GJ on energy as a which is located on a bird migration 4,052 tons of paper, 806 tons result of inverter and insulation pracroute, has a biodiversity value and of plastic, 1,966 tons of metal tices, use of more efficient equipment is therefore under protection by the and 294 tons of glass waste for and studies such as improvement of air company. An 8.6-acre plot created on recycling in 2013. conditioning and cooling water systems. a nearby site as a result of a settling 30 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Opet Green Road Project that occurred after an earthquake The Mountain Nut production started as gift to be planted. In the scope of and rehabilitated through reforestaby planting 100 Bolu Mountain Nut this practice performed by employee tion in cooperation with the TEMA trees on a protected land of 4.1 volunteerism, 1,055 saplings were Foundation is also protected by the km² located at the Arçelik Cooking planted in 2013. company. Appliances Plant site in 2012, in an effort to increase the production of Tüpraş General Directorate and the Reforestation projects are among Koç Bolu Mountain Nuts facing extinction Izmit Refinery Environmental Club Group companies’ traditional practibecause of germination difficulties, developed the Smiling Nature, Happy ces to improve the environment and continued in the reporting period. Schools project, through which the are maintained within the framework Additionally, 8 bulbous plant taxons seeds collected from nature are of the sustainability performance regarded as a rare or endemic plant grown into saplings at the Refinery’s evaluation system and the environfor the region taken under protection greenhouse and planted at school mental management policy. While the by the company are still grown. gardens. As part of the project, 70 Group companies carry out annual saplings were planted at Karamürsel reforestation projects attended also In 2013, nearly 300 trees were Vocational High School and 282 by their employees, the sensitivity of planted in the framework of the saplings at TEV İnanç Türkeş Private the companies is kept alive through Reforestation Festival organized by High School in 2013 by the TEMA the periodically organized reforestaAygaz Eskişehir Filling Facility with Foundation Kocaeli Branch, volunteer tion campaigns held at Group level. the participation of its employees. As students and members of the EnviTEMA Foundation cooperates as a result of these practices, an area of ronmental Club. a project partner in reforestation 6,000 m² has been reforested. In the projects conducted at both Group and same period, Otokar planted 3,600 Yapı Kredi planted 250 saplings in company levels. Thousands of sapsaplings. 2013 thanks to the credit product it lings are annually planted thanks to developed for a green building Project projects realized in an effort to start As part of the Green Road Project thereby planting one sapling for every new forests or rehabilitate damaged conducted since 2004, Opet planted customer in Manisa Salih Gökköy forestlands. As reforestation practices 44.688 saplings at 32 stations in Memorial Forest with the help of the have to comply with physical possibi2013. Thus, over 590 thousand TEMA Foundation. lities and legal permissions, the numplants have been planted according ber of trees planted changes from to the climate and soil conditions of Number of Saplings year to year. Nevertheless, Group the region at 696 stations and treeless Planted companies are expected to maintain areas specified by municipalities so far. their sensitivity and take advantage 2009 65,000 of reforestation project opportunities. Tüpraş has been producing saplings 2010 42,747 In this context, the Group companies in Kırıkkale Refinery in the scope planted 55,944 saplings in 2013. of We Produce the Oxygen We 2011 89,140 The pace of projects has accelerated Consume , a campaign conducted 2012 50,043 with For My Country Forests Project by Tüpraş since 2008. Under the realized in 2008, as a result of which project, a sapling is planted for each 2013 55,944 the total number of trees planted in guest accommodating in Kırıkkale nature has reached approximately 1.5 Refinery Residential; NGOs and officimillion in the last 6 years. al institutions are also given saplings KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 31 Tofaş Assembly Line Group companies try to comply with has dropped by 1%. A similar trend OPERATIONAL ENTRY AND the norms specified by the Business has been caught in refrigerators and DECOMMISSIONING PRACTICES Council for Sustainable Development, dishwashers, reducing the energy CECED and other similar local, sectoral consumption level per product by Koç Group companies pursue preestabished procedures during the and international NGOs about the 1.6% and 2.2% respectively. Energy process of opening or decommissienvironmental qualities of products acconsumption of A and higher class oning operational sites. Many comcording to their sectors, and to support cooking appliances produced in 2013 panies guide these practices through initiatives realized in this regard. The has shown a decrease of 3.3 million checklists. The main principles for all development of environmentally-friendly kWh in comparison to last year while Group companies are to refrain from products and services on the one hand the emission they produce has been causing any negative impact on the boosts Koç Group companies’ comreduced approximately by 1,600 tons existing environmental, social and petitive power and on the one hand, of CO 2e. The model GEBM 34001 X economic value by conducting impact creates a sustainable business model produced in this period has become the evaluation studies during the opening that supports the reduction of consumptileast energy consuming product of its of an operational site; and when the on-related environmental impacts through class with an A-45% level as well as time comes to exit an operational the potential of scaling produced by sales becoming the most silent product with site, to go beyond preventing the activities. For instance, our consumers a 41 dBA noise level. In 2013, the prodecommissioning from having any saved over 2.3 million GJ of energy by duction of tumble dryers included less environmental impact, especially preferring environmentally-friendly proC and B class heat pump products and on biodiversity, and to leave the site ducts and services offered by Arçelik, featured more A class products. Thus, after restoring the natural features Aygaz and Koç Information Technothe average energy need of products to its original state. In addition to the logies Group in 2013. has decreased by 10.5%. environmental impact, social and economic impacts are taken into conArçelik presented the most sustainable In the television product group last year, sideration during the operational entry products to its customers in their own 52% of the product portfolio was comand decommissioning processes and segments as a result of its investments posed of LED TVs, which are known for an effort is made to eliminate any and R&D studies. In 2013 Arçelik their sustainable qualities. This rate incnegative ones. The type of practices to be implemented depends on the allocated TL 35.9 million budgets for reased to 88% in 2013. Moreover, A++ nature of the sector. these practices in an attempt to develop production level has been reached for environmentally-friendly products and the first time in television production, Arçelik consumers saved over 148 milwhich achieves 30% of energy savings Environmentally-Friendly lion GJ of energy by preferring products in comparison to A+ level, thanks to the Products at Koç that minimize resource consumption. improvements made during the year. As a result of these changes, the share Koç Group companies aim to reduce The energy consumption need of the of A++, A+ and A group products in the environmental impact in the overall washing machines produced in 2013 the general product portfolio rose from of product life-cycles through R&D and decreased by 23,565 GJ compared to 20% in 2012 to 76% in 2013. This investment studies. The main aim of the product portfolio of 2012. In additranformation of the portfolio is also these studies is to provide the most tion, general energy consumption per reflected on product energy needs. The environmentally-friendly product and product has been reduced by 2.15%, total energy need of TV products has service options for consumers in their as a result of which power consumption been reduced by 43%. per product has dropped by 4.5% and segments and to foster the developnatural gas consumption per product ment of responsible buying behaviours. 32 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Otokar Arçelik products stand out not only and the models Beko DL1243APW, Manufactured by Ford Otosan, Ecowith their energy consumption values DL1243APW and DW603 in the 60 cm torq® Euro6 motor family significantly but also with other environmental product category for the efficiency they reduces the NOx values of exhaust qualities. The R&D studies have led demonstrated in their washing, drying gases through the SCR system, and PM to the production of the most efficient and energy performances. Moreover, values of exhaust gases through the compressor of the world and the first the model BlombergDWT 25500 won DPF system. Ecotorq® Euro6 motors no frost refrigerator with A+++ -%30 the “Très Bon” award with its washing produce 80 gr less NOx emission and energy efficiency. The studies have also performance from Protégez-Vous, the 1.6 gr less PM emission on average created the EverFreshPlus technology test magazine published in Canada. in an hour, compared to their Euro5 that extends the span of keeping food versions. fresh to 30 days. In built-in products, As a result of the projects carried out in the most silent refrigerator of the world 2013, there were noticeable improveIn the reporting period, Otokar upghas been produced by reducing the ments in the packaging materials of raded to the Euro VI exhaust emission noise level to 26 dBA through the new drying products. Thus, the amounts level in the Vectio and Territo vehicle fan system designed by Arçelik. of cardboard packaging and wooden group and started to manufacture the packaging were reduced by 37.6% and first vehicles of this kind. Turkey's first Water consumption values were 38.1% respectively. On the other hand, electric bus Doruk Electra has succesimproved and brought to a more improvements in product design led fully completed road tests. Electra not competitive level in the 60 cm and 45 to a reduction of 404 tons of plastic only stands out with its zero level of cm dishwasher entry-level products and 155 tons of metal use. The new exhaust emission but also with its very Those projects implemented in the design of TV packagings reduced the low noise level. 45 cm segment produced models use of cardboard and styrofoam per with a water consumption level of 11 product between 9 27% and between Tüpraş carries out its biofuel generatiliters among entry-level products. The 33 42% respectively. In this period, the on project with the aim to produce third micro filter cleaning system, which is total weight of products went down by generation biofuel based on the use of the first and one of its kinds globally, 659 tons due to the improvements made microalgae produced in a CO2 environhas been developed and filter cleaning in the use of materials, and logistics load ment instead of the use of agricultural period has been extended by 80%. for TVs was enhanced by 19-37%, which products. Thus the goal is to eliminate Thanks to the glass protection quality reduced GHG emissions resulting from the environmental impact resulting from developed, glass protection level of logistics by the same rate. the product life cycle and agricultural products has increased by 20 times. production. While the CO2 emission The tests carried out in the German Aygaz Autogas product, launched for value of the end product is similar to TUV LGA Laboratories identified the first time in 2009 and the formula those of known fossil fuels, the CO 2 Arçelik products with the highest of which was enhanced in 2012, enabgas consumed during the production of glass protection performance thanks les autogas consumers to consume microalgae is the CO 2 found in nature. to this quality. Another study made it 2.66% less fuel at a fixed speed of Consequently, the consumption of the possible to reduce the use of rubber 90 km/h. Apart from the economic final product will not be a new source of in dishwashers by 7.6 tons annually. performance, the product therefore CO2 emission but will be a neutralizing In 2013, WHICH, the most prestigious also ensures reduced CO2 and HC factor thanks to the process of using independent test magazine of the UK, emissions. Thanks to the use of Aygaz the emission found in nature. gave 5 different “BestBuy” awards to products, 826,823 GJ of energy was the models Beko DSFS 1531 W and DS saved in 2013 in total. 1054 S in the 45 cm product category, KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 33 Ford Otosan Gölcük Factory Pond Area Projects for Developing Society’s 2013 Environmental Awards Environmental Awareness Koç Group companies enjoyed the appreciation of various institutions for their environmental practices and products and won various awards in 2013 as in the Koç Group companies carry out seveprevious years. ral projects and engage in fundraising and sponsorship activities with the In 2013, Arçelik received Turkey Carbon Disclosure Leader Award in the frapurpose of developing environmental mework of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) conducted by Sabancı University awareness in society at large besides Corporate Governance Forum. Washing Machine, Electric Motors and Tumble Dryer reducing the environmental impacts Plants obtained the “Platinium” Certificate, the highest level according to “Energy of their products and activities to the Efficient Green Factories” evaluation. Çerkezköy Electric Motors Plant and Bolu minimum. In this framework, Group Cooking Appliances Plant received the Most Energy Efficient Product Award in the companies implemented 28 social Energy Efficiency in Industry Awards SENVER-13 category, given by the Ministry of responsibility projects and realized 15 Energy and Natural Resources General Directorate of Renewable Energy. fundraising and sponsorship activities Aygaz Diyarbakır Filling Facility and Eskişehir Filling Facility ranked as the first and in 2013. the second respectively on a city basis in the “Clean Industry” competition organized by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning. Arçelik successully carried out the In the reporting period, Ford Otosan was given 3 awards in the 3 different cate“Small Hands Which Bring Waste gories of the Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO) Environment Awards: Pads on the Back to Life” project and “Soil and Press Lines Energy Savings Project received the first prize in Energy Efficiency PraLeaf” painting competition. ctices category; Dry-Type Sheet Metal Cleaning Project received the second prize in Environmentally-friendly Practices category; Environmentally-friendly Production In 2013, Arçelik Cooking Appliances System received the third prize in Environmental Management and Social ResponPlant organized the 5 th “Soil and Leaf” sibility category. Moreover, Ford Otosan received the Ford Europe Environmental painting competition, participated by Leadership Award with its Dry-Type Sheet Metal Cleaning Project. Ford Otosan Ko123 students from 12 schools, in cocaeli Plant was nominated for the Turkish Healthy Cities Association’s Environmental operation with the TEMA Foundation Facilities Award by the Municipality of Gölcük and received the award. and Environment Association. “Small While KoçSistem was included among the National Champions in the European Hands Which Bring Waste Back to Business Awards’ Environmental and Corporate Sustainability category, Otokar Life” project competition was held for came first in the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning’s Cleanest Plant the second time in 2013 with the aim competition in 2013. of raising students’ awareness about Opet ranked third among 3,300 nominees from 50 countries as the “Company of retrieving recyclable materials and the Year” in the 10th International Stevie Awards’ Energy category, and received an wastes back in the recycle chain. In award with its “Clean Toilet” campaign in Health, Safety and Environment Program the competition, students combined of the Year category. wastes or unusable materials with Tüpraş was awarded the first prize for Izmir Refinery in the Best Environmental their creativity, producing beautiful Practices category of the Turkish Healthy Cities Association’s Environmental Faciexamples of how waste materials lities Awards in addition tothe second prize in the Corporate Social Responsibility could be reused. for the Environment category in the competition held by Aegean Region Chamber of Industry. In the same period, Tüpraş Batman Refinery won the Cleanest Aygaz “The Coast Clean-up Initiative ” Industrial Plant Award in the competition held by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning. On World Environment Day, the TURMEPA Association and Aygaz 34 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 KoçSistem Clean Up the Sea Project organized the Coast Clean-up Club gave Environment and Energy Yapı Kredi Transforms Plastic Wastes Initiative, participated also by Aygaz Savings training to 155 students at Into Wheelchairs employees. 57.5 kg of plastic, 86.5 3 different schools in Arifiye and kg of metal, 19.5 kg of paper and 15 Sapanca. In 2013, Yapı Kredi participated kg of glass were collected, amounting in the campaign organized by the to 178.5 kg of waste in total. In 2013, Happy Wastes and Environmental Spinal Cord Paralytics Association, Aygaz also supported the “Earth Trainings from Tüpraş supporting the collection of plastic Hour” event initiated by WWF in an bottle caps. As part of the campaign, attempt to reduce carbon emissions For the Happy Wastes Project, orga2.2 tons of plastic were collected and prevent global climate change. nized by Tüpraş İzmir Refinery for and recycled. The profit was used for the development of waste managewheelchair donations. During the year, Green Information Platform Carbon ment and recycling habits among the Yapı Kredi also supported WWF Earth Counter pre-school and elementary school Hour campaign. students, their teachers, families and Green Information Platform is manaAliağa community in general, 492 ged by KoçSistem with the purpose students at 4 elementary schools reof developing awareness about green ceived environmental training in 2013. IT practices and reduction of GHG The aim of the project was to collect emissions. In 2013, in the context of 22 tons of waste in total from the this platform, a carbon calculating initiation of the project until 2013 and software was made available for it has been achieved successfully. followers on the platform’s social media pages with the participation of In 2013, Tüpraş Batman Refinery employees. Developed with the help Nature Club volunteers have organized of KoçSistem employees and used by environmental awareness-raising trainearly 500 followers, the software nings in 70 schools, reaching 10,000 enables individuals to calculate the students. Moreover, 900 students total amount of GHG emission they were provided with environmental traicreate in a year. In the period, KoçSisnings in Izmit and Batman Refineries. tem also supported the Earth Hour movement initiated by WWF and the waste What is Your Advice to Protect the collection campaign organized by the Environment? DenizTemiz Association. 35 kg of waste were taken out of the sea at the end of The composition competition titled the waste collection event attended by “What is Your Advice to Protect the KoçSistem employees as well. Environment?” was organized by TürkTraktör with the participation Environmental Training from Otokar to of employees’ children between 7-14 Students years of age. Successful participants were declared on World Environment In the framework of World EnvironDay and were given their awards at ment Day, Otokar employees who are TürkTraktör Summer Fest. members of the Ekokar Environmental KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 35 Ethical Values “Our principle is to be fair in all our relationships, to act in good faith and understanding to ensure mutual benefit and to comply with the law and ethical rules. Our Founder Vehbi Koç “ As the biggest taxpayer in Turkey, ac• Company results are monitored by that company employees can submit countability and transparency are crucial conducting analytical reviews with the their allegations directly and free of any values for the Koç Group. For this reason, Koç e-Audit software. influence. Koç Group companies adhere strictly to • Employees working in the Finance and the laws in the countries where it operaAccounting departments of the Group For any possibility of corruption in the tes, as well as to the standards required companies are provided with Group companies, the manager of the by international trade. All Koç Group applications such as the Audit Portal concerned department informs the comcompanies regard the fulfillment of their and Koç e-Audit software to increase pany’s General Manager on the situation. legal obligations and maximization of betheir knowledge on regulations, best The General Manager then immediately nefit for their stakeholders as a corporate practices and Koç Group principles. informs the business Unit Presidency responsibility. In order to carry out this • The audits and reviews conducted and the Audit Group Presidency that they responsibility, an evergreen and efficient routinely by independent audit com report to at Koç Holding. The results of control mechanism has been maintained. panies give Group companies the corruption review are conveyed to the In addition to the preventive approach for an outside perspective regarding concerned senior management. the procedures created within the scope international auditing and risk In the process of researching suspicion of control system, specific targeted audits management standards. of corruption, the following issues are of are conducted against the risk of all types • Our companies with global partners utmost importance: of misconduct in Group companies. benefit from and implement not • Clarifying the issue as soon as possible, only our Group’s principles, but • Maintaining confidentiality, The audit processes are managed by also the knowledge and experience • Following the necessary legal process, the Koç Holding Audit Group Presidency of foreign partners in terms of codes • Informing public authorities or sta and reporting directly to the Koç Holding of ethics. These ethical principles are keholders, if necessary. Chairman. A significant number of Group implemented in all business processes companies also has their own internal and relationships. In order to enhance efficiency in fraud auditing function. In compliance with audits, Koç Holding currently employs International Auditing Standards, Koç In fighting bribery and corruption, we take 2 auditors exclusively certified in fraud Holding and Group companies’ internal “Koç Group Code of Ethics and Business auditing (CFE-Certified Fraud Examiner). audit departments essentially perform Conduct” as reference, published on our Besides, in order for them to possess a five basic auditing processes that are corporate website both in Turkish and globally acknowledged know-how, audiRisk Management Auditing, Process AuEnglish and shared with all our stakeholtors are supported for their CIA (Certified diting, Financial Statements Auditing, Reders. New recruits are informed on this Internal Auditor) Certification. The Koç gulations and Compliance Auditing, code of conduct. Implementation of the Holding Audit Group Presidency currently and Fraud Auditing. Within these five Code of Conduct and the supervision of employs 7 CIA certified auditors. basic auditing processes, efficiency and compliance process with the codes are sufficiency of internal audit systems are managed by the Ethical Behavior Boards As a matter of Group companies Ethical evaluated and areas for improvement are formed separately within Group compaConduct Rules, Koç Holding and Group identified. nies and within Koç Holding. companies do not hold political opinions or form moral or material relationships In addition to the audit processes, other In 2013, all audits conducted by Koç with political persons or institutions, on processes that are implemented throuHolding and Company Internal Audit the local or international levels. Except for ghout the Koç Group, for the purpose of Teams included audits related to corrupcommercial and social responsibility propreventing fraud are: tion. Behavior that is deemed suspicious jects, Koç Group companies do not hold a is reported to the Koç Holding Audit communication with the public authorities Team managers by contacting them via of the countries in which they operate. their direct lines. The goal is to ensure 36 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 RISK MANAGEMENT FROUD PROCESS AUDIT REGULATIONS FINANCIAL AND COMPLIANCE STATEMENTS Business Ethics in the Supply Chain • Advertisements' legality and The supplier chain auditing procedure of compliance with regulations, Koç Group acts with respect to human Aygaz serves as a model for the supplier • The ability to prove the accuracy rights that are set in national legislation chain auditing practices of other Koç of descriptions, claims or visual and international agreements and does Group companies. During their visits to depictions, which are used in not allow their violation. Koç Group suppliers, Aygaz examines the working marketing communications, works towards extending the courses environment and infrastructure of the • Avoiding detraction, unfair utilization of of conduct pertinent to human rights to supplier company, the compliance commercial credit and imitation, the employees, suppliers, customers, with legislations and regulations, the • Respect for individual rights. services, distributors and contributing to recruitment of child labor, the prevention the development of this awareness. of forced labor, the occupational health Due to its ability to provide a universal and and safety norms and the compliance measurable environment for dialogue, the Koç Group companies are also sharing with the legal working hours. utilization of digital media in communicathe ethical values they are devoted to, tions with both internal and external stawith their value chains and providing supResponsible Advertising and Marketing keholders is given importance throughout port to the diffusion thereof. To that end, the Koç Group. Extending the use of digital Arçelik and Ford Otosan suppliers were Having high rates of market shares inside media within the Group is a set goal and is provided ethical training for 595 person x and outside Turkey, Koç Group companies incorporated into the Koç Corporate Identity hours. In addition, Ford Otosan, Arçelik present their products and services to a Guidebook in order to define the basic prinand Otokoç suppliers were provided wide range of consumers and customers. ciples for maintaining a specific quality and training on social issues for 2,037 person Hence, advertising and other marketing standard. Koç Group aims to extend the use x hours. communication tools, as well as their of social media in the Group companies. proper and correct use, are extremely The number of active suppliers of the important for Koç Group companies. Group Product Information companies within the reporting scope is companies aim for social development 10,087. The rate of supply chain audits and increase in awareness through brand Providing the most accurate, up-toincreased 5% and reached 13%, and communication and sponsorship activities, date and reliable information possible 8% of these suppliers were subjected to hence for increase in corporate reputation. to our consumers concerning products supply chain audits in relation to human These activities are realized based on 4 is a primary area of responsibility rights questions. Although auditing metintegral values of Koç Brand, which are based on ethical approaches of all hods differ according to the sector where Leadership, Optimism, Solidarity and Value Koç Group companies. The Group the company is positioned, as well as the Generation. In this regard, our Group acts companies provide goods and services goods and services supplied; working in accordance with the ICC (International to larger numbers of consumer conditions provided to the suppliers’ Chamber of Commerce) Principles of groups in different sectors and hence employees, any condition that might Advertising Practice and the Advertising product notifications are prepared with influence the product quality, as well Self-Regulatory Board’s guidelines when a scope and diligence far beyond legal as the company’s pattern of managing engaging in advertising and promotional obligations. In line with the sectoral environmental impacts are amongst the activities. requirements, all companies deliver issues attended to in audits. Koç Group their product information to their companies are planning to persist with These principles are essentially made up consumers via different methods. their audits in the supply chain at an of the following issues: Differing according to product types; ever-increasing pace. • Ethical compliance, product contents, usage instructions • Integrity, as well as environmental impacts are • Social responsibility, included in the product information. • Truthfulness (not being misleading), KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 37 Vocational Education: A Crucial Matter For The Nation Launched in 2006 by Koç Group in cooperaof “Corporate-Volunteer Association” (ÖSGD). process was to prioritize female students. tion with the Ministry of Education and Vehbi When the program was taken over by ÖSGD, In order to encourage girls’ participation in Koç Foundation within the scope of the “The it started to be implemented in 7 provinces vocational education, when two applicants Collaboration for Development of Vocational and involved 30 companies, 55 schools and with the same qualities applied for the Training Protocol”, “Vocational Education: more than 300 volunteers. During the 2013scholarship, female students were preferred A Crucial Matter for the Nation” Project 2015 periods, the program is intended to be over male students. The project therefore (MLMM) was completed in 2013. more widespread to include 44 companies, contributed to resolving one of Turkey’s main 221 new volunteers and 10 provinces in total. education problems, “school-age girls not Seeking to create awareness in society as to being sent to the school”. the essential part vocational education plays In an effort to disseminate the experience for Turkish economy; the project has focused and results from the MLMM Project all over Vocational High School Coaches on paving the way for cooperation between Turkey, “Partnership for Quality in Vocational private and public sectors, and has helped Education Project” was launched in collaThe greatest transformations triggered by forming a qualified workforce by encouraging boration with the Education Reform Initiative the project were realized as a result of the young people to take up vocational educatiin 2010. The goal was to come up with Vocational High School Coaches program on. What makes the project unique among propositions to enhance quality in vocational established by the volunteering Koç Group many social projects undertaken so far is the education, and many of the propositions employees and dealers. Providing their supfact that it has established a sustainable codeveloped by this fruitful collaboration has port in many areas, the coaches proved to be operation model between private and public been materialized. one of the unique features of MLMM. Supsectors as well as NGOs on sector-specific porting the students receiving scholarships and national levels. Components of the Project throughout their education life, Vocational High School Coaches (MLK) were selected Many studies have been implemented to The activities implemented within the scope from 20 companies affiliated with Koç Group make this exemplary practice, which has of the “Vocational Education: A Crucial and Migros. 579 volunteering MLKs from 76 taken on the name “School – Workplace Matter for the Nation” project for 7 years and provinces helped selecting those who would Partnership Model”, more widespread along modelled under the title “School-Workplace receive scholarships; monitoring and evaluwith its many components including scholarCooperation Model” are depicted below: ating the students’ personal development, ships, curriculum, laboratories, internships, academic performance; monitoring and supvocational high school coaching, vocational Scholarship Support porting internship, employment processes as education and employment. Speaking well as taking initiatives for the development on a corporate level, “School-Workplace MLMM Project sought to provide “interof the selected school capacities throughout Partnership Model” has turned into an nship-supported vocational high school the project period. integrated part of investments made by Koç scholarships” for at least one vocational Group companies in vocational education high school in every province of Turkey for 7 In 2012 Koç Holding passed the manageand their human resources policies. As a years. The goal was to reach 8,000 students ment of the Vocational High School Coaches result of various micro projects developed in total by ensuring that the system covered program onto “Corporate-Volunteer Associain that respect, 8 Koç Group companies in additional 2,000 students annually for four tion” (ÖSGD). ÖSGD has therefore managed 5 sectors established 29 laboratories, 7 years from the schools selected in cooperatito reach 2,900 new students through 529 education centres, 1 vocational high school on with the Ministry of Education. Applicativolunteers from 44 ÖSGD member compaand 1 vocational school. ons were received over a website developed nies in the first 2 years of the program. specifically for the management of MLMM Devised within the scope of the MLMM and the students to receive scholarships Priority for Internships and Employment Project to make the model more widesprewere selected by Koç Group employees and ad in the private sector, “Vocational High school administrations according to criteria Koç Group companies provided internship School Coaches Program” was taken over by such as students’ interest in the job, their opportunities for students in line with needs business world in 2012 under the leadership needs and occupational talents. The criterion analysis and potential of the businesses and taken into most consideration in the selection the schools partnered. Those who got scho38 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 MLMM Project Voluteers larships also benefited from various activities their success. Two viral contests were e-bulletins were issued to share the best such as modules devised for their personal designed within the scope of the project. practices achieved with our stakeholders development, trips organized to companies Initiated in 2009, “Show Your Vocation” within the scope of the project. Moreover, and plants, participation opportunities in contest reached 202,000 people while letters were sent to 1,000 opinion leaders seminars and cultural activities. Moreover, “High Schools Compete in Vocation” contest annually so that public opinion could put to Koç Group companies also prioritize the reached 426,000 people and overall 7,800 work in favour of the project. recruitment of the students that have enjoyed students participated in those two contests. scholarships and internships once they have What is more, 5 different project contests Collaborations graduated from school. were organized with the participation of 1,118 vocational high school students. MLMM Project was designed from its Micro Projects very start to guide different collaborations The project contests sought to help students for reaching its main goal. In line with this Within the scope of the MLMM Project, micboost their confidence, internalize citizenship vision, Koç Group undertook many studies to ro projects were designed to meet specific responsibilities, acquire skills for project achieve cooperation with many actors on a needs of the sectors Koç Group companies development, creative thinking, working number of levels for 7 years. Thanks to the operate in. The most tangible outcome of in teams and taking initiative. The two cooperation established with the Youth for those projects was the laboratories estabwinning projects, “My School at Authorized Habitat Association, the students receiving lished. Opened to increase the capacity of Service Shop” and “Training 3D CMM and MLMM scholarships also received lessons the vocational high schools and to enhance Metallurgical Examination Technicians,” within the scope of the Association’s “Those overall educational quality, the laboratories were adopted by companies participating in Who Know How to Use a Computer Teach It enable students to learn about current school-workplace partnerships and thereby to Those Who Don’t” project. In addition to technologies. Another outcome from those became widespread. that, MLMM taught students in 21 schools micro projects has been the contribution about entrepreneurship and helped them made to vocational education curriculum, Communication Campaigns experience what running a business means which will make a true difference thanks to by establishing online companies by coopeits long-term impact. New departments were The secret to the success of MLMM rating with Junior Achievement Association. also opened in line with the sector needs. Project lies in communication campaigns In a different cooperation with the Turkish All those studies seek to train the qualified and activities organized to create awareness Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion workforce the sector needs, ensure that the implemented on a stakeholder basis and (TEMA), 1,700 students from MLMM schools students acquire at school the experience strategic way. Many communication activities received environmental education and and knowledge they will need when they were organized to make the project popular developed awareness about efficient use of begin to work, and produce a cooperative and raise public awareness regarding the natural resources. What is more, in an effort model for schools and workplaces. As a reimportance of vocational education. to determine what actions should be taken to sult of the micro projects undertaken, 8 Koç ensure transformation on a policy level and Group companies in 5 sectors established A series of frequent press meetings were to encourage related stakeholders to act, 29 laboratories, 7 education centres, 1 vocaheld within the scope of the communication “Partnership for Quality in Vocational Edutional high school and 1 vocational school. campaigns to discuss problems faced by cation” project, which was originally initiated In addition to that, over 400 school teachers vocational education, ways to solve those by Koç Holding together with the Education received additional training. problems and the results of the MLMM Reform Initiative (ERG), was undertaken. Project. In an effort to increase interest in Another critical collaboration started within Contests vocational high schools, mass media adverthe framework of MLMM Project was the one tisement campaigns were initiated including with the Corporate Volunteer Association Many contests were organized during “There are Plenty of Jobs for Me”, “It works (ÖSGD). Consequently Vocational High School MLMM Project with the participation of if I educate” in 2008 and 2009 and “Every Coaches Program, one of the MLMM Project thousands of students to support vocational Job Needs an Expert in Charge ” in 2012. parts making the greatest change, has becoand personal development of the students Social media campaigns were also organime more widespread in the business world. and create awareness in society regarding zed and reached 35 million people, and 21 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 39 Fotoğraf: Gürcan Öztürk İstanbul Fiat Laboratory Project Results tions to develop projects for vocational high electric home appliances technical services schools. Hence the interest shown in and branch. The curriculum for the laboratories Initiated in 2006 and outgrew the bounthe support lent by the private sector for was restructured in cooperation with the daries of Koç Holding in 2013 to go on in similar partnerships were revitalized. Ministry of Education and the teachers were new channels in the future, MLMM Project trained at Arçelik Academy. In 2013, 331 has achieved many results for the country In 2013, a film and a book about the 7-year students and 57 teachers in total benefited thanks to the efforts shown by students, adventure of the project, titled “Our Storyfrom these trainings at 8 schools. their teachers, Ministry of Education, coacthe Story of a Generation in Vocational hes and all the project volunteers. Education” were completed and released As part of the program, the students are for the public. The statements made by the given the opportunity to do internship at When one evaluates the various outcomes students, teachers, school administrators Arçelik authorized service shops and those of the project so far, the total number of and vocational high school coaches that successful students who wish to go on to students from 264 schools and in 81 participated in the project along with the work at Arçelik or its authorized service provinces that enjoyed active scholarships publications mentioning the results of the shops are certified and recruited. The between 2006 and 2013 amounted to project could be seen on www.mlmm.com.tr. first group of students graduated from the 8,118 in total, which also means that the schools in İstanbul and Diyarbakır while Arquality of life for tens of thousands of Koç Group Exemplary School-Workplaçelik recruited 18 of them at its authorized people was improved when the families of ce Cooperation Practices service shops. Arçelik has thus managed the students are taken into consideration. to launch a sector-specific model for Despite the traditionally low number of Within the scope of the MLMM Project, establishing and continuing a direct relation female students at Industry Vocational High micro projects were designed to meet between education and employment. Schools, 44 percent of those that received specific needs in various areas. The goal scholarships in MLMM Project were female for these studies has been to train the Arçelik employees, authorized sellers and students. The project helped increase the qualified workforce required by the sector, service shops support MLMM Project. total number of vocational high school ensure that the students are equipped Arçelik has taken on the responsibility for students by 68% between 2006-2010 with the experience and knowledge they 26 schools within the scope of the project. while the ratio of vocational high schools to will need by the time they have graduated Composed of 28 volunteering Arçelik staff, general high schools rose from 36.2% to and have begun to work, and establish a “Vocational High School Coaches” support 46%. Partnerships started with NGOs led sustainable school-workplace cooperation personal development of the students, to provision of environmental, entrepremodel. In that respect, some of the projects prepare them for the business life and set neurship and computer literacy trainings to developed are depicted below: role models for them. 1,283 students on 2,461 students on scholarship. 579 Koç scholarships have been selected in total Group employees have volunteered so far to Arçelik Electrical Home Appliances since the start of the project. take part in the program and the Vocational Technical Training Program High School Coaches Program was passed My School at Authorized Service Shop on to ÖSGD so that 44 new companies outHaving developed the Electrical Home side Koç Group could take up the program Appliances Technical Service Program to Implemented by Otokoç in 2009 to enable as well. reinforce the relationship between vocavocational education students to get familiar tional training and employment, Arçelik with current technologies, develop their Composed of parts such as scholarships, seeks to train technical workforce familiar skills and help them turn into self-confident curriculum, laboratories, internships, with the latest developments in electrical individuals with free minds, My School at personal and professional development and home appliances industry as well as with Authorized Service Shop Project reached 5 recruitment, “School-Workplace Partnernew technologies. 8 Arçelik Laboratoprovinces with voluntary support from 20 ship Model” provided feedback for the ries were set up within the scope of the company employees in 2013. Since its start strategies and policies developed by public program in 6 provinces and the laboratories in 2009, the project has reached 1,180 sector organizations. Apart from that, other were equipped with measuring devices and students in total. incentives were provided for other organizaequipment based on new technologies in 40 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Diyarbakır Arçelik Electrical Home Appliances Laboratory International Awards and for Vocational Education: 2009: Received the Silver Medal in “Public Relations Category” of the Magellan Awards organized by the League of American Communication Professionals (LACP) 2010: Won The Sabre Award in the “Corporate Social Responsibility” category of the 2009 Europe Sabre Awards organized by Holmes Group 2010: Selected as the “Second Best Social Responsibility Program in Europe” in the “Companies / Organization” category of The International Business Awards organized by Stevie Awards. 2011: Won the “European Award” in the “Large Corporations” category of the “European Employee Volunteering 2011 Program” organized by the Business in the Community and promoted by the European Commission. 2012: Selected by the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Youth Employment Forum as Best Practice for Supporting Youth Employment in Europe . 2013: “Corporate Social Responsibility Communication Award of the Year” conferred to “Vocational High Schools Compete in their Profession” Online Competition, within the framework of the “European Digital Communication Awards 2012” organized by Berlin-based Quadriga University. National Awards 2006: “Corporate Social Responsibility Award” given by Active Academy in the International Finance Summit 2009: Selected as “The Most Successful Public Relations Project” in the Burç College Communication Awards 2009: Selected as “The Most Successful Volunteer Project” in the Awards from the Heart organized by the Association of Private Sector Volunteers (ÖSGD) 2011: Won the award for Turkey in the “Large Corporations” category of the “European Employee Volunteering Awards” organized by the KSSD and ÖSGD. 2013: Won the Golden Mixx Award for Social Marketing in the Turkey category with “High Schools Compete in their Profession” of the Mixx (Marketing and Interactive Excellence) Awardsan international competition for digital creativity and interactive marketing. 2013: High Schools Compete in Their Profession Project won 3 top prizes in the MediaCat Felis Awards in the following three categories: Target Audience Children and Teenagers (aged 5-18); Corporate Image, and Information, Charity Organizations; Public Health and Safety/ Public Awareness Messages. 2013: High Schools Compete in Their Profession Project won the top prize in the Target Audience – Community Commitment Category of the DP Awards organized by the Direct Marketing PR Specialists Association. Fiat Laboratories vided by Tofaş Academy for vocational high time, but also this high school is a disabschool teachers for the last 7 years. led-friendly facility and provides education Undertaken by Tofaş to create a workforce for the disabled. capable of handling new technologies, Fiat Kocaeli University VKV Ford Otosan GölcükLaboratories are available in 11 vocational Ihsaniye Automotive Vocational High School MEGEP from Tüpraş high schools located in 9 provinces all over Turkey. Apart from specialized school Students who study at KOU VKV Ford OtoFormed within the framework of the Tüpraş teachers, Tofaş managers too work at Fiat san Gölcük-İhsaniye Automative Vocation Technical Education Program, Project for Laboratories and 806 students and teachers High Schoolin accordance with education Strengthening Vocational Education and benefited from them in 2013. Out of 242 standards and vocational criteria will be able Training Project (MEGEP) includes a protocol students that graduated from Fiat Laborato work in the fields of design, production, signed with the Ministry of Education in 2007 tories in 2013, 70 of them began to work marketing and sales services. This project to train qualified workforce for the Refinery directly at Fiat authorized service shops. is of vital importance because not onlyappand Process branches under the Chemistry Meanwhile so far 600 school teachers have lied vocational education concept is being Technology Area. As part of the MEGEP, participated in the in-service trainings proimplemented in higher education for the first vocational high school students of 11th and KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 41 Fotoğraf: Gürcan Öztürk Bursa TürkTraktör Agricultural Machinery Laboratory 12th grades have regularly visited İzmit, İzmir, MARMARA REGION Kırıkkale and Batman refineries and received Bursa Balıkesir technical trainings regarding the refineries. 1 Arçelik Laboratory 2 Schools 1 Fiat Laboratory 7 MLKs All of the participant students of the project 1 TürkTraktör Agricultural Bilecik enjoyed the opportunity to do an internship at Machinery Laboratory 2 Schools the refineries and they will have priority at job İstanbul 5 MLKs applications. 28 Schools Bursa 92 MLKs 11 Schools 2 Ford Laboratories 32 MLKs Within the scope of MLMM, Tüpraş 3 Arçelik Laboratories 3 Fiat Laboratories Çanakkale refineries have taken on responsibilities for 1 School 15 schools since 2007. 149 students have Kocaeli 1 MLK 17 Schools Edirne graduated thanks to scholarships provided 43 MLKs 1 School by İzmit Refinery while that number is 188 1 Ford Laboratory 1 MLK for İzmir Refinery, 168 for Kırıkkale Refinery 1 Ford Otosan Vocational College 1 Fiat Laboratory Kırklareli and 58 for Batman Refinery. 1 Tüpraş Refinery 1 School Laboratory 3 MLKs TürkTraktör Agricultural Machinery 1 Yapı Kredi Vocational High School Tekirdağ Laboratories 2 Schools Sakarya 5 Schools 5 MLKs Established in Ankara, Amasya, Şanlıurfa 10 MLKs Yalova and Bursa, “TürkTraktör Agricultural Mac1 Otokar Education Center 1 School hinery Laboratories” seek to enhance the 3 MLKs quality of vocational education for agricultural machinery, contribute to meeting the need AEGEAN REGION for highly qualified and well-trained staff Afyon Kütahya for the sector and raise awareness among 1 School 1 School 3 MLKs 3 MLKs farmers about the use of agricultural tools Aydın Manisa safely. In 2013, the laboratories began to 2 Schools 2 Schools provide training for 32 teachers, over 300 6 MLKs 2 MLKs students and 750 farmers. Graduation Denizli Muğla tests were given for the students of Ankara, 2 Schools 2 Schools 8 MLKs 3 MLKs Amasya, Şanlıurfa and Bursa TürkTraktör İzmir Uşak Agricultural Machinery Laboratories and 15 Schools 1 School those who passed the tests received cer42 MLKs 3 MLKs 1 Arçelik Laboratory tificates. For the MLMM students a 2 days 1 Otokoç Education Center training and trip program was also organized 1 Fiat Laboratory at the company. Meanwhile 3 students from 1 Tüpraş Refinery Laboratory Ankara TürkTraktör Agricultural Machinery Laboratory have begun to work at TürkTraktör. MEDITERRANEAN REGION Scholarship support from Aygaz Adana Burdur Kahramanmaraş 3 Schools 1 School 1 School 9 MLKs 3 MLKs 5 MLKs To support MLMM, Aygaz plants in Gebze, 1 Otokoç Education Center Hatay Mersin Diyarbakır and Samsun have provided scho1 Fiat Laboratory 3 Schools 3 Schools larships for 25 students. The project will go on Antalya 6 MLKs 7 MLKs 6 Schools Isparta Osmaniye with new students selected every four years to 18 MLKs 1 School 1 School receive scholarships until the day they graduate. 1 Fiat Laboratory 3 MLKs 4 MLKs 42 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Fotoğraf: Gürcan Öztürk Ford Otosan Karamürsel 3D CMM Measurement Laboratory BLACK SEA REGION EAST ANATOLIA REGION Amasya Bartın Düzce Ordu Tokat Adıyaman Kilis 1 School 2 Schools 2 Schools 1 School 1 School 2 Schools 1 School 2 MLKs 5 MLKs 4 MLKs 1 MLK 1 MLK 4 MLKs 4 MLKs 1 TürkTraktör Bayburt Giresun Rize Trabzon Batman Mardin Agricultural 1 School 3 Schools 2 Schools 3 Schools 3 Schools 2 Schools Machinery 1 MLK 5 MLKs 2 MLKs 6 MLKs 7 MLKs 5 MLKs Laboratory 1 Arçelik 1 Tüpraş Refinery Bolu Gümüşhane Samsun Siirt Artvin 2 Schools 1 School 7 Schools Laboratory Laboratory 1 School 1 School 4 MLKs 2 MLKs 16 MLKs Zonguldak Diyarbakır 2 MLKs 1 MLK 1 Otokoç 1 School 3 Schools Çorum Karabük Şanlıurfa 1 School 1 School Education Center 2 MLKs 10 MLKs 3 Schools 2 MLKs 1 MLK 1 Fiat 1 Arçelik Laboratory 4 MLKs Laboratory 1 Fiat Laboratory Kastamonu Şırnak 2 Schools Sinop Gaziantep 1 School 2 MLKs 1 School 1 School 3 MLKs 1 MLK 1 MLK SOUTHEAST ANATOLIA REGION Ardahan Iğdır 1 School 3 Schools 2 MLKs 4 MLKs Bingöl Kars 1 School 1 School 1 MLK 3 MLKs Bitlis Malatya 1 School 2 Schools 1 MLK 5 MLKs Elazığ Muş 2 Schools 1 School 6 MLKs 2 MLKs Erzincan Tunceli 2 Schools 1 School 4 MLKs 2 MLKs CETRAL ANATOLIA REGION Erzurum Van 3 Schools 1 School Aksaray Eskişehir Kırıkkale Nevşehir 7 MLKs 3 MLKs 1 School 5 Schools 4 Schools 8 Schools 3 MLKs 10 MLKs 13 MLKs 9 MLKs Hakkari 1 Ford Cargo Technical 1 Tüpraş Refinery 1 Schools Ankara Niğde 2 MLKs 16 Schools Education Center Laboratory 1 School 44 MLKs 1 Otokoç Education Center Kırşehir 3 MLKs 1 Ford Laboratory Karaman 1 School Sivas 1 Arçelik Laboratory 1 School 2 MLKs 2 Schools 1 Fiat Laboratory 2 MLKs Konya 5 MLKs 1 TürkTraktör Agricultural Kayseri 3 Schools Machinery Laboratory Yozgat 1 School 5 MLKs 1 School Cited from the book Our Story: Story of a Çankırı 3 MLKs 1 Otokoç Education Center 4 MLKs Generation in Vocational Education 1 School 3 MLKs * The abreviation MLK refers to Vocational High School Coach KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 43 Social Development At Koç “I live and prosper with my country. Our Founder Vehbi Koç “ Internalizing the spirit of our times how and qualified human resources for Social development investments and perceiving the expectations of the solving social problems. They develop society and responding them adequately long term projects by matching the by Koç Group companies by are at the basis of the work performance areas where social needs concentrate subject (%) and corporate reputation of Koç Group. with the resources they own, and aim to In this context, Koç Group aims to be a part of the solution. contribute to the social development in its regions of operation by supporting For My Country the enhancement of prosperity and creativity. Started in the year 2006 by Koç Holding, “For My Country” is based Koç Holding strengthens the awareness on the idea of disseminating the idea on social responsibility and ensures this of responsible citizenship. The aim of awareness is institutionally cultivated “For My Country” Project is to develop throughout the Group with international a participatory attitude among Koç initiatives such as the United Nations Group employees, dealers and suppliers Global Compact. Koç Holding has shatowards the solution of social problems. ped the social responsibility understanWithin the scope of “For My Country” ding inherited from its founder Vehbi Koç Project, which focuses on a different Education 39% in accordance with the spirit of our times social need every two years, 387 local and sustains it through the synergy creaprojects supporting local developCulture and Arts 21% ted by Group companies as a whole. ment were implemented in the years Sports 14% 2006-2007. In the years 2008-2009, The mission of Koç Group and com1,084,000 trees were planted in 7 For Environment 18% panies is to create a happier and more My Country Forests across the country Health 8% prosperous Turkey for future generaand 18,000 children were provided with tions. To this end, Group companies environmental education. seeked solutions to social problems and (UNDP), in the years 2012-2014. This allocated resources for various projects With the 2010-2011 practice, 103,000 project aims to create social awarein the areas of health, education, culture people were reached through the volunness about disability through a holistic and arts and environment in 2013. Embtary and regular blood donor campaign approach characterized by the saying racing our founder Vehbi Koç’s words aimed at raising awareness and 83,579 “No Barriers for My Country.” A total “I live and prosper with my country” units of blood were donated to the of 78,373 people have been reached as a fundamental principle, Koç Group Turkish Red Crescent. Koç Group has with the educations offered in 34 Koç plays an active role in the progress of realized, with these figures, the largest Group companies and in 24 cities that the country with the social responsibility blood reserve donation to the Turkish volunteered to participate through our projects it originates and contributes to. Red Crescent ever made by a company. For My Country Ambassador distributors, between May 2012 and December Koç Promotes Solutions for Social Within the scope of “For My Country”, 2013. In the context of the “Right Problems the “No Barriers for My Country” ProjeApproach to Disability” trainings, 357 ct was initiated in cooperation with the volunteer trainers have been trained, Koç Holding and Group companies Alternative Life Foundation (AYDER) and and 1,534 trainings have been orgamobilize their strenghts such as knowUnited Nations Development Program nized. In addition to this, 64 different 44 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Arçelik Athletics and Running Team studies have been realized to make No Barriers Theatre Club, consisted of employees completed sign language our companies, distributors and stores disabled employees at Ford Otosan training and received certificates. With “Disabled Friendly”. As part of the played “Ferhad ile Şirin” on stage for 6 the support provided to Library of Turproject, while the legal responsibilities times in 4 different cities and reached key for the Visually Disabled Associatiof employing disabled personnel were 1,575 viewers. on, a book reading and reduction room followed, products and services devoted was established. In order to contribute to the disabled were also developed. Otokar employees have continued their to the physical development of the stuIn addition, our companies realized 39 voluntary teaching activities within the dents, equipment was donated to Izmit social responsibility practices in support “No Barriers for My Country” Project District Governorate Special Training of the project, in cooperation with NGOs and donated office supplies to the DreApplication Center, which provides as well as public institutions. ams Academy Project being implemeneducation to 40 autistic children in 8 ted by AYDER for children with limited classes. Moreover, central camera sysIn 2013, our Group Companies alleviopportunities. Otokar employees have tem was established in order to observe ated the physical conditions in where also continued donating battery-operahyperactivity. they operate and many of the comted wheelchairs and hearing instrupanies such as Ford Otosan, Arçelik, ments to disabled citizens in need. In 2013, within the scope of For My Opet, Beko, Koçtaş and Divan added Country Project, Yapı Kredi launched the provision of “Being Disabled-FriendIn cooperation with Kocaeli Governorathe “Yapı Kredi Bank B Type For ly” to their procedures for their new te, Kocaeli Municipality and Kocaeli City My Country Variable Growth Fund” dealers and shops to be opened Council, Tüpraş realized a project that in collaboration with Koç Holding and aims to upbring public personnel who Vehbi Koç Foundation. Yapı Kredi As part of the project, Arçelik and Yapı know and use sign language, in order Bank aims to donate the income from Kredi, supported the audible library for to increase the life quality of hearing fund sales to For My Country projects the visually impaired in cooperation impaired citizens. As a result of the proconducted within Koç Holding. This with Bogazici University Technology and ject, 300 civil servants and 12 Tüpraş donation is planned to be used for Education Center for the Visually Impasocial responsibility studies specific ired. In addition, Arçelik drew attention to the project. to “No Barriers for My Country” Project For Companies with its voluntary team of 300 people at My Country included Beside these practices, Koç Holding, Ambassadors in the project in collaboration with Tohum Autism the 35th Istanbul Euroasia Marathon. 2006 81 43 Foundation , has started to work Aygaz offered a forwarding service on the training of trainers working 2007 81 30 through its call center whereby the at Beylikdüzü Special Education and safety information in cases such as gas 2008 81 22 Work Practice Center serving within leak can be listened to. A total of 6,000 2009 81 * the body of Istanbul Provincial Direparticipants, in 8 cities visited as part ctorate for National Education and to of Aygaz Summer Festival activities, 2010 121 49 realize Inclusive Education Activities were provided with awareness raising 2011 135 46 in 20 schools located in Beylikdüzü. presentations. 2012 116 34 2013 125 34 *Companies were not included in the 2009 practice. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 45 Ford Otosan Handicap Free Theatre Club Developing into a corporate volunteevery year, in addition to the major tion in 2013, is expected to be compering program through years, For My investments realized by Vehbi Koç leted in September 2014. When the Country project has received UNDP Foundation in this field. second phase, which comprises Koç Special Award in the 11th Golden University Health Sciences Campus Compass Awards in 2012, organized Vehbi Koç Foundation and Education and Research Hospital, by Turkish Public Relations Associatiis completed, Vehbi Koç Foundation on. In 2013, the highly attractive social Koç University Health Sciences Campus will launch a worldwide health complex media campaign of the project “Dowith the Health Sciences Campus nate Your Message” was awarded the The first phase of the Koç Universitycomprising private hospital services first place in “Best Campaign for the School of Medicine Health Sciences devoted to oncology and pediatrics. Disabled” and “Best Public Informing/ Campus, which was under construcAwareness Campaign” categories of Farmaskop 2013 National Health Communication Awards. VEHBİ KOÇ FOUNDATION Preventing Violence Against Women Since its establishment, Vehbi Koç Foundation (VKV) has worked to set an example Education Program for the best in the fields of education, health and culture through its programs and centers of excellence. In 2013, Vehbi Koç Foundation continued to make a difference Üsküdar Police Department and Koç in society through the programs it runs from its headquarters as well as through its Holding collaborated in 2013 and affiliated institutions. initiated a training program in order to VKV INSTITUTIONS strengthen the knowledge and skills of Education police officers about the protection of The Koç School (High School 1988, Elementary School 1998) women victims of violence. The pilot Koç University (1993) study for the “Preventing Violence Model School Project (Planned to be opened in 2015) Against Women Training Program”, which was prepared with the support Health of the Humanist Bureau, was compleSemahat Arsel Nursing, Education and Research Center (SANERC, 1992) ted with the trainings provided in 2013 VKV American Hospital (1995) and activities for the dissemination of Koç University School of Nursing (1999) the project are planned to be realized Koç University School of Medicine (2010) in 2014. Health Sciences Campus (First phase is planned to be completed in 2014) Culture Koç Provides Support for Health Sadberk Hanım Museum (1980) Vehbi Koç and Ankara Research Center (VEKAM, 1994) Health is one of the primary areas of Suna-İnan Kıraç Research Institute for Mediterranean Civilizations (AKMED, 1996) social responsibility for Koç Group. Antalya Kaleiçi Museum (2000) With reference to Vehbi Koç’s words, Koç University Research Center for Anatolian Civilization (RCAC, 2005) “If you don’t have health, you don’t ARTER (2010) have anything”, Group companies Contemporary Art Museum (Planned to completed in 2016) contribute to improving the infrastructure of our country’s health services For more information on VKV institutions and 2013 activities, you can visit their with the projects they implement websites at www.vkv.org.tr 46 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Vehbi Koç Commemoration and Awards Ceremony The Nursing Fund special playrooms in the oncology serviVehbi Koç Award ces of hospitals to improve the morale The Nursing Fund utilizes significant and motivation of children being treated resources every year to contribute to Harvard University Chair of the for cancer. The first playrooms were the development of the nursing profesDepartment of Genetics and opened at Marmara University Educasion and to improve the health of the Complex Diseases Prof. Dr. Gökhan tion and Research University Pediatrics society. Every year, the fund supports Hotamıșlıgil was deemed worthy, Division in 2011, and at Süreyyapaşa 10 projects and provides scholarship for for his pioneering work in the field Hospital Pediatrics Division in 2012. In up to 100 nursing students. In the year of healthcare, of the Vehbi Koç the year 2013, hospitals were visited 2013, Koç Holding has decided to make Award, which is given by Vehbi Koç and toys and books collected over the a donation to Vehbi Koç Foundation Foundation in the fields of culture, time were donated for two playrooms Nursing Fund for the scholarship of 50 education and healthcare, every and a library. more nursing students, to celebrate the year in turn, to encourage individuals 50th working year of Semahat Arsel. and institutions contributing to the Aygaz Supports Diabetic Children enhancement of the quality of life. Semahat Arsel Nursing Education and The Diabetic Children’s Camp, orgaResearch Center (SANERC) Prof. Dr. Hotamıșlıgil, who receinized by the Association of Diabetic ved the title of professorship from Children and Adolescents supported Established under Vehbi Koç FounHarvard University at the age of by Aygaz for the last 9 years, brought dation and instigated with the Koç 41, was the first Turk to receive the together Turkey’s diabetic children for University School of Nursing in 2004, American Diabetes Association’s the 21st time in Gebze. The project, SANERC provides education and conOutstanding Scientific Achievement realized with the participation of more sulting services; conducts and supports Award in 2007. than 100 diabetic children in 2013, has researches that contribute to the dehosted 1,600 children to this day. The velopment of nursing; composes study camp, which helps diabetic children Koç University School of Nursing books and guide books for educational have fun and form new friendships whi(KUHYO) purposes and publishes the “Education le teaching them how to live self-suffiand Research in Nursing Magazine,” ciently, is one of the first health camps Koç University School of Nursing was which is distributed free of charge. devoted to children in Turkey. established in 1998 to offer a four-year Accredited at an international level by undergraduate program. In the 2012the American Nurses Credentialing Aygaz “Safe Motherhood Project” 1013 school year, the School of Nursing Center, SANERC organized 13 course graduated 22 of its 125 students. 70 of programs attended by 224 people and Aygaz has been supporting the “Safe KUHYO graduates, whose total number 20 seminars attended by 470 people Motherhood Project” conducted by the has reached 245, either have completed within the framework of Education Turkish Family Health and Planning or still continue their graduate studies, Programs in 2013. Foundation (TAPV) since 2006. Aygaz while 13 have completed their doctorate. has extended the scope of the project Koç Companies Support Health in 2013 to support the “Women’s Health Education Program” in order White Fish Playrooms to increase the health awareness and quality of life of families with limited inThe White Fish Playrooms project, come and education. Within the scope conducted by Arçelik, aims at building of the project 2,321 women registered KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 47 Opet Clean Toilet Campaign for the trainings offered in 19 provinces Koç Supports Education Council of International Schools (ECIS) and 1,837 women received participatiand the National Association for College on certificates. In total, 4,500 women Assuring a sustainable economic deveAdmission Counseling (NACAC). In the were reached since the beginning of the lopment and an increase in the level of year 2013, The Koç School senior stuproject. prosperity can be made possible through dents were the most successful term in creating education opportunities that the school’s history. Besides impressive Blood Donation from Koç Information will provide young generations with the college admission rates, students who Technologies Group, Otokar and Ford necessary equipment to forge a knowlewill represent the school at prestigious Otosan dge society. However, providing quality, universities all around the world won accessibility and equal opportunity in scholarships worth more than a million For the 2013 Red Crescent Blood Doeducation requires large amounts of US dollars annually. 3 students out of nation Project, Ford Otosan employees financial resources. In addition to public the 169 who took the Transition to Higdonated 309 units, Otokar employees resources, the private sector also needs her Education Examination (YGS) were 164 units and Koç Information to take responsibility for this important ranked in the first thousand. Technologies Group employees issue. Acting with this awareness, Koç 67 units of blood. 80 Ford Otosan Group companies are amongst the esSupport Seminar for Koç Elementary employees donated an organ to Gölcük sential sponsors of many projects in the and Secondary Schools State Hospital. Beside, Otokar donated field of education. Vehbi Koç Foundation, a respiratory machine and a monitor since its establishment, has been proviThe “Hand in Hand With 17 Schools to Sakarya Education and Research ding young people with education grants Summer Seminar”, one of the most Hospital’s recently established intensive and has been presenting exemplary important links in the development care unit, and 300 white canes to Six models to the society with its education program, which was started with the Points Association for the Blind. institutions that are considered to be objective of promoting the continuous centers of excellence. enhancement of education standards in Opet Clean Toilet Campaign 17 elementary and secondary schools Education Scholarships established by Vehbi Koç Foundation and Opet has continued the “Clean Toilet Koç Group and is carried out by the Koç Campaign”, started at the toilets of its Vehbi Koç Foundation supports talented School since 2002, was organized this stations, for 13 years without interruptiyouth who are economically disadvantayear as well. About 50 Koç Elementary on. The campaign aims at popularizing ged with the objective of contributing to and Secondary School teachers and adtoilet cleaning and hygiene throughout the equality of opportunity in education. ministrators coming from various provinTurkey. In 2013, training teams visited Vehbi Koç Foundation, which reached ces of Turkey attended the improvement many cities and provided cleanliness out to over 45,000 students through and sharing seminars held for four days and hygiene trainings for over 7,5 milscholarship programs to this day, has on June 25-28, 2013 and were lodged lion people. The project was extended provided scholarships for 3,071 stuat the Koç School dormitories. overseas, to provide Clean Toilet and dents in the 2013-2014 education term th Hygiene Training for 4,800 teachers through its main headquarters. 20 Anniversary of Koç University and students at the Turkish schools in Saudi Arabia and for 750 students and The Koç School Koç University, which celebrated the 60 teachers in Macedonia. 20th anniversary of its establishment in The Koç School, which celebrated the 2013, contributes to the development of 25th anniversary of its establishment science in Turkey and in the world with in 2013, is a member of the European its 22 undergraduate, 31 graduate and 48 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Yapı Kredi Culture Center RemDans/Tuğçe Tuna 16 doctorate programs. Koç University, education scholarships for many sucTofaş Sponsors Education which prioritizes an interdisciplinary, cessful students. broad-based education and research In 2013, Tofaş supported the “Solar approach, aims at bringing in the best Creative Children’s Association Cars” project realized by Koç University faculty members at world standards to Teachers’ Day Celebration students and offered R&D trainings at the university. Koç University was ranked Uludağ University. Tofaş also offered 31st in the Times Higher Education Under Creative Children’s Association has scholarship opportunities for students 50 Universities ranking and the Asian Unibeen organizing activities in various of the Italian High School in 2013. versities ranking, and 20th in the BRICS & cultural and public spaces with the parEmerging Economies ranking. ticipation of volunteer teachers, in order Tüpraş April 23 rd Children’s Festival in to develop children’s creative capacities Batman “Anatolia is Reading” Project since 2003. Bilkom has offered gifts to the teachers volunteering at the activity April 23rd Batman Children’s Festival, Within the scope of “Anatolia is Reaorganized on Teachers’ Day in 2013. which started out as one of the actividing” Project realized in 2011 in order ties of the Umbrella Movement – 100 to respond to the demands of books Ford Otosan Supports Education Smiling Projects developed by Batman Vehbi Koç Foundation received, each Refinery volunteers in 2008, became year, 20-book sets chosen among 100 In 2013, Ford Otosan participated in an independent project in 2009. The essential works are sent to the libraries seminars at various universities while project, which brings together Batman of elementary and secondary schools. providing financial support for the uniGovernorship, Provincial and District versities. The financial support provided Directorates for National Education, VKV book sets were sent to 229 schofor the EMT Case Analysis Competition school managers and teachers, NGOs, ols in Hakkâri in 2011 and to all seconwhich was organized for the 8 th time Tüpraş employees and their families, dary education institutes in Van in order across Turkey and Northern Cyprus aims at transforming the National to alleviate the difficulties in educational (TRNC), for Koç University Racing Sovereignty and Children’s Day into institutions aftter Van Earthquake. In Team (KURT) and Yıldız Technical an enjoyable experience for children 2013, book sets are sent to all the University AE2 project team are worth in Batman. Tüpraş April 23rd Batman secondary schools and 200 elementary to be mentioned in this regard. Ford Children’s Festival has hosted 14,500 schools in Şırnak. Otosan employees took part in OIB 2nd children in 6 years, with the support of Project Market and Design Competiti670 volunteers in total. Koç Companies Support Education on jury, and participated in the TOSB Conference as speakers. Ford Otosan Tüpraş Supports Educational Volunteers Koç University Anatolia Scholarhips also donated educational materials to (TEGV) educational institutions and universiThe Anatolia Scholarship program, a ties located around its facilities during The “Firefly Company Sponsorship” social responsibility initiative of Koç the year. started by Tüpraş in 2008, in collaUniversity, aims for talented and needy boration with Educational Volunteers students to receive education at Koç Otokar Donates Books and Toys Foundation of Turkey (TEGV), continued University. Within the scope of this in 2013. Children met with Firefly mobiprogram, Group companies such as Otokar donated books and toys to le education units in Erzincan, Samsun, Arçelik, Aygaz, Ford Otosan, OPET, students in 4 elementary schools in the Bursa, Mersin, Diyarbakır and Şanlıurfa Otokar, Otokoç, Tat, Tofaş, Tüpraş, Sakarya region through the “Book and and 130 education volunteers gave Türk Traktör and Yapı Kredi provide Toy Money” Project. support to the process whereby 13,450 children were reached in 2013. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 49 13th International Istanbul Biennial Education Scholarships from Tüpraş Yapı Kredi-AÇEV Collaboration cuments about Ankara for the benefit of researchers. VEKAM started publishing “Anatolia Scholarship Program,” one In 2013, Yapı Kredi Banking Academy peer-reviewed “Ankara Studies Journal” of the social responsibility initiatives of started an education program in collaabout Ankara and its surroundings, on Koç University, aims for talented and boration with AÇEV, devoted to women the 90th year of the proclamation of the financially disadvantaged students to in Diyarbakır who could not complete Republic and the declaration of Ankara received education at Koç University 6 their primary education. The program as capital. students from Sivas, Batman, Bursa, aims at reaching 300 women with İzmir, Osmaniye ve Malatya continue different levels of education through International Sevgi Gönül Byzantine their education at Koç University with programs under the four headings of Studies Symposium Tüpraş scholarships. In addition, basic literacy, advanced literacy and Tüpraş continues to support Koç access to information, simple computer In memory of Sevgi Gönül, who did University Social Sciences Scholarship usage and financial literacy. Yapı Kredi significant work to popularize scientific Program of High Achievement 6 employees will participate in the project research about the Byzantine period doctoral students from Archeology and as volunteer educators alongside proin Turkey and for the society to claim History of Art, International Relations fessional educators. Byzantine cultural heritage, Vehbi and Psychology receive Tüpraş Koç Foundation and Koç University scholarship support. Support for Art and Cultural Research Center (RCAC) organized the Heritage at Koç “International Sevgi Gönül Byzantine Tat and TürkTraktör Support Anatolia Studies Symposium” held for the third Scholarship In line with its belief that one of the most time in June 24-27, 2013. Within the important factors in the development context of the symposium, “Stories Tat and TürkTraktör give scholarship from the Hidden Harbor: Shipwrecks of societies is creativity, Koç Group has support to successful students within of Yenikapı” was exhibited at Istanbul been supporting culture and art activities the scope of Koç University Anatolia Museum of Archeology and “Artain an effort to contribute to the cultural Scholarship Program. For this Program, monoff: Picturing Byzantine Istanbul, development of the society as well as to TürkTraktör, supports 2 successful 1930-1947” at RCAC. help cultivate creative generations. Koç students during their 5-year education Group has been allocating funds from its period. “Traces of Ancient Ages” Exhibition resources in order to sustain and develop our cultural values and arts, to promote in Celebration of the 25 th Year of I Read I Play Sadberk Hanım Museum Archeology them in national and international arenas Department “I Read I Play” project, which has been and to encourage artists. Through several realized by Yapı Kredi with the collaboprojects conducted in 2013, Koç Holding, Sadberk Hanım Museum, founded for ration of TEGV since 2006, continued in Group companies and Vehbi Koç Foundacreating a living and producing culture 2013. The project’s mission is to help tion continued raising awareness in the and education center in accordanchildren of primary education develop fields of art and culture. ce with modern museology, owns reading habits, have extensive vocabucollections of Ottoman era woman’s lary, understand and interpret what they Vehbi Koç and Ankara Research Center (VEKAM) clothing, textile and art products, Iznik read and listen to. The project, which pottery and archeological findings. The is continued in 10 Education Parks and collection of the Archeology DepartVEKAM was put into service to do 44 Learning Units of TEGV across Turment, which is celebrating the 25th academic research on Ankara and to key, aims at reaching 131,000 children anniversary of its establishment in compile all kinds of information and doby the end of 2015. 2013, includes almost 7,000 artifacts, 50 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Fotoğraf: Murat Germen © VKV ARTER Space for Art which allow the chronological viewing of implemented in order to popularize the material cultural assets of civilizaKoç Contemporary Art Museum museum and exhibition culture, incretions who inhabited Anatolia from the ase the number of visitors and extend Late Neolithic Age until the end of the The most significant art project for the age range. 4,000 people benefiByzantine era. the future by Vehbi Koç Foundation ted from the guided tours organized is the establishment of a modern art in exhibition spaces. The education The Book “Traditional Copperware, museum, which can be easily reacprograms intended for children and the Semahat & Nusret Arsel Collection” hed from central Istanbul and will be youth, with the support of Koç Holding perceived both as a culture center and the collaboration of İKSV and PACE Semahat and Nusret Arsel traditional and a “quality recreation space”. The Kids Arts Center, enabled the creative copperware collection, most of which is museum, which will be located in participation of 3,000 children this year. being exhibited since 2007 at Ankara Dolapdere region at walking distance Vineyard House affiliated with Vehbi to the center of town, will be home Istanbul Biennial has become the most Koç and Ankara Research Center, incluto Vehbi Koç Foundation Modern Art attractive and well known abroad, des 289 brass and bronze instruments Collection. The museum is planned among art activities organized in Turkey made of copper and copper alloys in to be opened in September 2016. today. The contributions made to the several workshops in Istanbul, the BalBiennial are also made to the brand of kans and Anatolia under the Ottoman Istanbul. Koç Holding will continue its International Istanbul Biennial reign, between the 18th and 20th centusupports for the Istanbul Biennial to ries. The book, which was prepared in thrive and endure. Koç Holding has become the sponsor of Turkish and English by Prof. Dr. Sümer International Istanbul Biennial organized Atasoy, covers 170 pieces with different International Nasreddin Hoca Caricature by Istanbul Foundation for Culture and functions, forms and decorations selecCompetition and Symposium Arts (İKSV) for ten years between 2007 ted from this collection. and 2016. Through this sponsorship, Koç Holding has been the main Koç Holding aims to raise awareness ARTER sponsor of the International Nasreddin regarding contemporary art especially Hoca Caricature Competition organized among the youth, to introduce contem7 exhibitions realized in 2013 by VKV, by the Cartoonist Association since porary art to those who have not met it which owns a modern art collection of 2008, with the objective of supporting yet and to keep the interest in contemnearly 900 works, through the modern the social development of various art porary art alive. The 13th of the Istanbul art space ARTER, established in 2010 branches and the successful repreBiennial was held under the title “Mom, at Beyoğlu in order to support new cresentation of our country in different am I a barbarian?” between September ations and form a platform where they areas abroad. Turkish cartoonists were 14 and October 20, 2013, with the can be exhibited, were visited by over awarded the big prize many times at works of 88 artists and artist groups 100,000 viewers during the year. the competition that is organized since from all around the world. 1974 and is open to all cartoonists around the world. The 13th International Istanbul Biennial, made available freely for everyone with the support of Koç Holding, was visited by around 350,000 people, setting a record. Within the scope of the biennial sponsorship, various projects were KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 51 Bilkom History Comes to Life in 3D Support for Art from Koç David Pierre Guetta, an electronic Ağaoğlu was granted the Yapı Kredi Companies music phenomenon, realized at Istanbul Special Award. Küçükçiftlik Park on May 4 th. Sevgi Gönül Theater Days Yapı Kredi Cultural Activities, Arts and Support for Arts from Tofaş Publishing In 2013, Aygaz continued its support for Koç University Sevgi Gönül Theater Tofaş Anatolian Cars Museum, opened Yapı Kredi Cultural Activities, Arts and Days, which it has been supporting in 2012 by Tofaş in a restored old silk Publishing published 2,179,320 books, since 2006. 10 plays were staged in workshop in Umurbey neighborhood of with 252 first and 563 repeated editithe 12th Sevgi Gönül Theater Days. Bursa, is still in service. Tofaş has also ons in various categories, in 2013. In provided support for Teksem Theater addition, YKY has achieved a significant Aygaz Library Club composed of disabled actors, Ansuccess by publishing its 4,011th book takya Civilizations Chorus, IKSV Venice and organized a total of 14 exhibitions The “Aygaz Library” Project, which Biennale Pavilion of Turkey, the concerts in 2013. Aygaz has been pursuing since 1996, of Turkish Youth Philharmonic Orchestra was initiated in order to recapture the and Meating Balat Exhibition which was Support for Cultural Heritage from historical and cultural richness of our a parallel event IKSV Biennial. Koç Companies geography and convey them to future generations. Within the scope of the Young Musicians on World Stages Having the pride and responsibility of project, 13 works were brought into living in one of the richest geographies our art-culture life. In 2013, “Traces “Young Musicians on World Stages” proof history and cultural heritage in the of Ancient Ages” was added to Aygaz ject, started by Güher & Süher Pekinel world, Koç Group companies support Library which is comprised of books in sisters in 2010, aims at providing the archeology and studies devoted to the diverse areas ranging from history to talented youth, elected by a competent protection of cultural heritage. archeology. The book presents detailed committee including Pekinel sisters, with information about the pieces included an education by well-known and respeSupport for Ancient Sagalassos City, in the exhibition which was organized cted pedagogues and musicians. Since Van Castle and Maydos Kilisetepe for the occasion of the 25th anniversary 2013, Tüpraş has been supporting Excavations of Sadberk Hanım Museum Archeology young talents with life long scholarships Department. and will be maintaining its support for 3 Aygaz has been supporting Ancient more years. Sagalassos City Excavation and RestoApril 23 rd Support from Ford Otosan ration Project since 2005, Van Castle 17 th Yapı Kredi Afife Theater Awards Excavations since 2010 and Maydos Ford Otosan provided financial support Kilisetepe Excavations since 2012. The for the organization of the April 23rd Turkey’s most lasting and prestigious aim of the project, which reunites the International Children’s Festival and theater award Yapı Kredi Afife Theater ancient Sagalassos city situated at the Education and Entertainment Fair held at Awards was organized for the 17th time foot of Toros Mountains is to restore the İzmit International Exhibition Center by the in 2013. The activity started with the Upper Agora structures and transform Municipality of Kocaeli, on April 19-23. announcement of the candidates to be it into an open air museum. When the awarded in 15 categories, and came to restoration works are completed, Upper David Guetta Concert from Opet an end with the award ceremony, which Agora will achieve urban integrity and brought together prominent names become an authentic antic city center. Opet was the main sponsor for the from the art and business world. Adalet Also with the support of Aygaz, the concert of French DJ and producer most comprehensive works within the 52 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Yapı Kredi Çatalhöyük Excavations context of the mound excavations at Tofaş Supports Archeology Koç Fest Van Castle, conducted in collaboration with the Ministry of Culture and Tofaş has continued its support for the In order to create a festival devoted Tourism and Istanbul University in excavations at Küçükyalı Archeology to students and traditionalize it, Koç 2013, continued in the southern parts Park and Pamukkale Hieropolis, in Holding and Group companies initiated of Van Citadel called Old Van City and 2013. the Koç Fest in 2006, and they visited the street texture of an impressive Sel28 cities and organized 72 festivals in jukian-Ottoman city was uncovered in Aktüel Archeology Magazine 8 years. With the belief that sports incthis area. The excavations, conducted rease the quality of life in a society, Koç by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism In 2013, Tüpraş has continued its Holding has been the main sponsor of with the support of Aygaz, at Maydos publication sponsorship for Aktüel Arcthe “University Sports Games” in 2009, Kilisetepe Mound, situated in the middle heology Magazine, which aims to pass organized by the Turkish University of Eceabat district in Çanakkale proon the traces of all the cultures who Sports Federation. Since then, the most vince, are performed by the Çanakkale thrived on Anatolian territories to future prestigious intercollege sports activity Onsekiz Mart University team. generations truthfully. and Turkey’s most broadly participated sports event was named “Koç Fest History Comes to Life in 3D Anatolian Civilizations Series University Games” and it became an essential part of the festival. With this Bilkom has developed a smartphone The third book in a ten-book series with initiative, Koç Fest became the greatest and tablet application, which opens the theme of Anatolian Civilization reyouth festival in Turkey bringing togetan ancient space to three dimensional alized in collaboration with Yapı Kredi her sports, music and entertainment. experience during the tour for the Cultural Activities, Arts and Publishing, Koç Fest annually hosts over 22,000 first time in the world, with its project “Hittites: An Anatolian Empire” has met athletes in 46 branches, coming from “History Comes to Life in 3D”. The first its readers, after “Urartu: Transforma185 universities, since 2009. Every stage of the iVisit Anatolia application tion in the East” and “Phrygians: In the year, a fragment of the succeeding was actualized in Bergama. Land of Midas, In the Shadows of Moteams and athletes represent Turkey in numents”. The publication sponsorship international events with the support of Çatalhöyük Excavations of the book, which recounts the story of Koç Holding. Koç Fest visited 6 univerthe Hittites, was assumed by Tüpraş. sities in 2013 and the great final was Yapı Kredi has been supporting the realized in Adana Çukurova University, archeological excavations at Çatalhöyük, Koç Supports Sports with the participation of approximately the first and most important archeologi5,000 students. cal discovery from the Neolithic Age in Koç Group believes in the contribution Anatolia, since 1997. In the year 2013, of sports in both individual and social 2020 Olympics Istanbul Candidate City the excavations were continued with an development. With this awareness, our Sponsorship international team consisting of 120 arcGroup supports projects that promote heologists from 22 countries. One of the sports in every segment of the society, Koç Holding was among the sponsors significant discoveries unearthed during beginning with its own employees. supporting İstanbul as a candidate this year’s excavations was a piece of city for 2020 Olympic and Paralympic very fine textured linen clothing. Games. We believed, as a corporation, that Istanbul was the right city for 2020 Olympics and continued our works in KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 53 Koç Fest collaboration with all Group companies Partner of 2014 FIBA Basketball World Otokar Supports Handicap Free Life to make Istanbul the Olympic Games Cup organized in Spain. It continues its host city. The candidate city application basketball investments as the Global The Enabled Sports Festival was process emphasized the need for privaPartner of 2014 Women’s World Chamorganized at Sakarya Atatürk Gymnath te sector investments in sports and athpionship to be hosted by Turkey. sium on May 14 , with Otokar as its letes in Turkey, and the subject came main sponsor. About 2,000 disabled into prominence for all Koç Group. Grundig–Bundesliga Official children and youth, studying at special Technology Partner disabled education centers in Sakarya, Koç Companies Support Sports Bolu, Düzce and Kocaeli, participated Grundig is the “Official Technology the activity in various sport branches. Aygaz Supports Sports Partner” of the German Football League Otokar also undertook, through AYDER, Bundesliga since 2011. As part of this the participant accommodation and Aygaz, with its Mogaz brand, became cooperation, Grundig supports Bundestransportation sponsorship for the a sponsor of Beşiktaş Gymnastics liga and Bundesliga 2 broadcasts that Turkish Swimming Championship of the Club Handball Team for two seasons are followed globally. Enabled Academy Sports Club. in 2013-2014 and 2014-2015. Aygaz also supports Koç University RAMS Ford Otosan Sailing Cup and Internal Fiatball American Football Team since 2007. Soccer Tournament The team became the champion of Fiatball tournament was realized with Turkish American Football 2nd League Ford Otosan continued its traditional the participation of 150 athletes from in the 2012-2013 season and joined support for sailing cup races in 2013. teams of Tofaş Basketball Schools and the first league. Aygaz also participated The 8th Open Ford Otosan Cup Sailing Basketball Volunteers Project. During in Koç Sports Fest in 2013 with 223 Race was organized by İzmit Sailing the tournament, children developed life employees in several branches. Club, with the sponsorship of Ford skills such as teamwork and communiOtosan. A total of 40 sailors from 8 cation while experiencing the tournaBasketball Sponsorships from Beko sailing clubs in Kocaeli region participament excitement. ted in the event. Ford Otosan ensured Beko started its basketball sponsorthe participation of the Seaming Silents Tofaş Supports Disabled Athletes ships by naming after the Turkish Team, consisting of disabled emploBasketball League in 2006, and carried yees, in Ford Otosan Internal Soccer Bursa Sports Club for the Visually Impaits investments to the international Tournament, organized for the 15th time ired was provided with sports material level in parallel with its “global brand” in 2013, with the aim of raising awaresupport and Galatasaray Unstoppable vision. Subsequent to its sponsorships ness about disabled sports. Lions Wheelchair Basketball Team was of the German, Russian, Lithuanian and given one Ducato to be used for the Italian leagues, it became the official Koç Information Technologies Group transportation of the disabled. supporter of FA Cup, the oldest cup Joins Marathons in the world and the most important Tüpraş Supports Batman Sports Club tournament of English football, for the Koç IT Group participated in two diffe2012-2013 and 2013-2014 seasons. rent marathons in 2013. 35th InternatiIn 2013, Tüpraş continued its support Beko also became the Presenting onal Vodafone Marathon was participait gives since 1995 for Batman Tüpraş ted by 31 and Runtalya Marathon by 12 Sports Club and its support it gives Koç IT Group employees. since 2007 for Batman Disabled Sports Club Association. At Tüpraşspor 54 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Footboll Club, which provides only infrastructure services, 80 young people between the age of 8-19 had the opportunity to do sports as of 2013. Yapı Kredi Supports Turkish Sports In 2012, Yapı Kredi became the Official Bank of UEFA Champions League in Turkey, which continued in 2013. Also, for the occasion of Koç Holding’s sponsorship for Istanbul’s candidacy at 2020 Olympics, Yapı Kredi was among the institutions that supported Turkey’s candidacy in the best possible way. Activities Held Within the Scope of the Global Compact Serving as a board member of the United Nations Global Compact Turkey Local Network, Koç Holding continued its support for studies aiming at the dissemination and institutionalization of the Global Compact in our country in the year 2013. Koç Holding, which shares its best practice examples at international conferences, participated with a presentation in the panel Women’s Empowerment and the Post-2015 Development Agenda: Achieving Equality in the Workplace, Marketplace and Community organized jointly by the UN Global Compact, UN Women, International Finance Corporation (IFC) and International Trade Centre (ITC) as part of 2013 Leaders’ Summit in New York, on September 18-20. KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 55 GRI Index Profile Response Disclosures Reference Page Notes Level 1.1 Message From the Chairman 2 Full Message From the CEO 3 1.2 Message From the CEO 3 Full Sustainability Management at Koç 7 Climate Change and Emission Management 26-27 2.1 Contact Inside back cover Full 2.2 Koç Group in 2013 4 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/sectors Full http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/list-of-brands 2.3 Koç Group in 2013 4-5 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/list-of-kocFull group-companies Governance at Koç 6-7 2.4 Contact Inside back cover Full 2.5 Koç Group in 2013 4-5 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/ Full international-network-of-koc-group 2.6 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/corporate Full -overview-and-governance/shareholder-structure 2.7 Koç Group in 2013 4-5 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/activity-fields/ Full international-network-of-koc-group http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/ corporate-overview-and-governance 2.8 Koç Group in 2013 4-5 Full 2.9 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/ Full material-disclosures 2.10 Koç Group in 2013 4-5 Full 2013 Environmental Awards 34 Vocational Education: 41 A Crucial Matter for the Nation 3.1 About the Report 1 Full 3.2 About the Report 1 Full 3.3 About the Report 1 Full 3.4 Contact Inside back cover Full 3.5 About the Report 1 Koç Holding A.Ş. when considered solely as a Ful Sustainability Management at Koç 7 conglomerate, has no significant impact in terms of GRI Sustainability Performance Management 8 performance indicators compared to its subsidiaries. Our Stakeholders 9-10 So in this reporting engagement we intend to demostrate the impact that Koç Group creates including its subsidiaries. We include our subsidiaries’ performances to our reporting engagements. Beside the 10 principles of UNGC, Koç Holding Sustainability Performance Evaluation and Reporting System creates the basis of reporting content which is found on material sustainability issues for totality of Koç Group. During the process of establishing the System, material issues for Koç Group were determined by Koç Holding employees in consultation with subsidiaries’ experts and external expertise; reconsidered and revised if necessary in the begining of every reporting engaement. Koç Group materiality is created with respect to form a Group level consolidated materiality coverage,in the most comprehensive way possible. Sector specific issues are disclosed subsidiaries’ own reporting engagements. Koç Holding publishes CSR reports in order to communicate with its key stakeholders who are 56 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Profile Response Disclosures Reference Page Notes Level identified within the strategic communication planning processes. To this end, as intended audience for CSR reporting practice, Koç Holding targets all person and entities identified as key stakeholder groups namely employees, customers, shareholders, investors, professional organizations, civil society organizations. 3.6 About the Report 1 Full 3.7 About the Report 1 Full 3.8 About the Report 1 Full 3.9 Sustainability Management at Koç 7 In performance measurement, Koç Holding and Group Full companies use reliable and standardized system and information technology infrastructure. All the measurement parameters used in this report were provided by methodologies accepted in field and methods set by GRI performance indicators were abided. 3.10 About the Report 1 Full Sustainability Management at Koç 6-8 3.11 About the Report 1 Full 3.12 GRI Index 56-60 Full 3.13 Disclaimer Inside back cover Full 4.1 Governance at Koç 6-8 Full 4.2 Governance at Koç 6-8 Full 4.3 Governance at Koç 6-8 Full 4.4 Governance at Koç 6-8, 9-10 Full Occupational Health and Safety at Koç 13-14 Employee Engagement Survey 19 Suggestion Systems 19 4.5 Governance at Koç 6-8 Full Koç Group Compensation System 18-19 4.6 Koç Holding Annual Report 2013 127, 213 Full 4.7 Governance at Koç 6-8 Full Koç Holding Annual Report 2013 126-129 4.8 Governance at Koç 6-9 http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/vision-and-values Full 4.9 Governance at Koç 6-7 Full Koç Holding Annual Report 2013 126-129 4.10 Governance at Koç 6-7 Full Koç Group Compensation System 18-19 4.11 The Global Compact Inside Front Cover Full Governance at Koç 6-7 Climate Change and Emission Management 26-27 Koç Holding Annual Report 2013 132-133 4.12 The Global Compact Inside Front Cover Full Sustainability Management at Koç 6-8 Climate Change and Emission Management 26-27 4.13 Our Stakeholders 9-11 Full 4.14 Our Stakeholders 9-11 Koç Holding identifies employees, customers, Full shareholders, investors, professional organizations, civil society organizations as key stakeholder groups. 4.15 Our Stakeholders 9-11 Full 4.16 Our Stakeholders 9-11 Full 4.17 Our Stakeholders 9-11 Full KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 57 Disclosures on Management Approach Profile Response Disclosures Reference Page Notes Level DMA EC Environmental Trainings (p.5); Governance at Koç Full (p.6-9); Work Environment (p.16); KoçAkademi and Training in Group Companies (p.17); Koç Group Compensation System (p.18); Koç Holding Retirement Pension Foundation (p.20); Environmental Management (p.24-26); Climate Change and Emission Management (p.26-27); Environmentally-Friendly Products at Koç (p.32-33); Vehbi Koç Foundation (p.46); Koç Provides Support for Health (p.48-49); Koç Supports Education (p.51-53); MLMM (p.38-40); Koç Holding Annual Report 2013 (p.14, 161, 187) DMA EN Governance at Koç (p.6-8); Management Full of Environmental Issues (p.8); Environmentally Friendly Practices at Koç (p.24); Environmental Management (p.24-26); Climate change and Emission Management (p.26-27); Koç Group Recycling Project (p.30); Efficiency at Koç (p.28-30); Biodiversity And Environmental Development Projects (p.30-31); Environmentally-Friendly Products at Koç (p.32-33) DMA LA Sustainability Management at Koç (p.6-8); Full Management of Social and Economic Issues (p.8); Human Rights at Koç (p.12-13); Occupational Health and Safety at Koç (p.13-14); Labor Union Rights at Koç (p.14-15); Minimum Notice Periods (p.17); Work Environment at Koç (p.16-17); KoçAkademi and Trainings in Group Companies (p.17-18); Koç Group Compensation System (p.18-19); Leader Development Programs (p.19); Koç Holding Retirement Pension Foundation (p.20) DMA HR Sustainability Management at Koç (p.6-8); Full Management of Social and Economic Issues (p.8); Human Rights at Koç (p.12-13); Labor Union Rights at Koç (p.14-15); Work Environment at Koç (p.16-17); Operational Entry And Decommissioning Practices (p.32); Business Ethics in the Supply Chain (p.37) DMA SO Governance at Koç (p.6-8); Sustainability Full Management at Koç (p.7); Operational Entry And Decommissioning Practices (p.32); Ethical Values at Koç (p.36-37) http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/vision-and-values http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/ corporate-overview-and-governance/strategic-principles http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/investor-relations/ corporate-overview-and-governance/strategicprinciples/main-competitive-advantages DMA PR Governance at Koç (p.6-8); Sustainability Full Management at Koç (p.7); Our Stakeholders (p.9-11); Ethical Values at Koç (p.36-37); Responsible Advertising and Marketing (p.37); Product Information (p.37); http://www.koc.com.tr/en-us/about/vision-and-values 58 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Performance Disclosures Performance Response Disclosures Reference Page Notes Level EC1 Koç Group in 2013 4-5 Partial Koç Holding Annual Report 2013 14 EC2 Climate Change and 26-27 Partial Emission Management EC3 Koç Holding Retirement 20 Partial Pension Foundation EC4 Koç Holding Annual Report 2013 14, 161, 181, Full 183, 187, 191 EC5 Koç Group Compensation System 18-19 Full EC7 Work Environment at Koç 16 Partial EC8 Social Development at Koç 44-55 Full EC9 Intern Student Breakdown for 2013 16 Partial KoçAkademi and Trainings 17-18 in Group Companies Environmentally Friendly Products at Koç 32-33 Environmental Trainings in 2013 26 Vocational Education: 38-43 A Crucial Matter for the Nation EN2 Efficiency at Koç 28-30 Partial EN5 Message From the CEO 3 Full Efficiency at Koç 28-30 EN6 Environmentally 32-33 Full Friendly Products at Koç EN8 Efficiency at Koç 29 Full EN10 Efficiency at Koç 29 Full EN11 Biodiversity and Environmental 30-31 Full Development Projects EN13 Biodiversity and Environmental 30-31 Full Development Projects EN14 Biodiversity and Environmental 30-31 Partial Development Projects EN18 Climate Change and 26-27 Full Emission Management EN20 Protecting the Quality of the Air 28 Partial EN21 Waste Water Disposal 29 Full EN22 Efficiency at Koç 29 Disposal methods are determined depending on waste Partial management regulations, directives and implemented environmental management standards of government agencies and the category and type of waste. Koç Group Recycling Project 30 EN26 Environmentally 32-33 Full Friendly Products at Koç EN30 Environmental Management 26 Full LA1 Work Environment at Koç 16 Koç Holding activities and projects carried out only Full in Turkey no regional breakdown is cited. LA4 Labor Union Rights at Koç 14-15 Full KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 59 Performance Response Disclosures Reference Page Notes Level LA5 Minimum Notice Periods 17 Full LA6 Occupational Health and Safety at Koç 13-14 Full LA8 Occupational Health and Safety at Koç 13-14 Full LA9 Occupational Health and Safety at Koç 13-14 Partial LA10 KoçAkademi and Trainings 17-18 Partial in Group Companies LA11 KoçAkademi and Trainings 17-18 Full in Group Companies Minimum Notice Periods 17 Leader Development Programs 19 Koç Holding Retirement 20 Pension Foundation LA12 Koç Group Compensation System 18 Full LA14 Koç Group Compensation System 18 Any personal property of employees can not be the Full reason of different treatment, like all processes of Koç Group companies, in remuneration process. For this reason, as long as they perform the same job, all Group employees are paid equal wages. Equality of women and men wages may vary only in seniority status, overtime, performance bonus and similar payment cases. HR2 Business Ethics in Supply Chain 37 No human rights case in supply chain has been Full recorded during the reporting period. HR4 No discrimination case has been recorded during Full the reporting period. HR5 Labor Union Rights at Koç 14-15 Full HR6 Human Rights at Koç 12-13 Full HR7 Human Rights at Koç 12-13 Full SO1 Operational Entry And 32 Partial Decommissioning Practices Vocational Education: 38-43 A Crucial Matter for the Nation Project Social Development at Koç 44 SO2 Ethical Values at Koç 36-37 Partial SO3 Ethical Values at Koç 36-37 Partial SO4 Ethical Values at Koç 36-37 Full SO6 Ethical Values at Koç 36-37 Relevant contribution to political parties, politicians Full and related institutions is zero. PR3 Ethical Values at Koç 37 Full PR5 Our Stakeholders 9-11 Full PR6 Responsible Advertising and Marketing 37 Full 60 KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Disclaimer This Report has been prepared by This Report is prepared for inforfaith and based on sources believed Koç Holding A.Ş. (“Koç” or “Koç Holmation purposes only and it is not to be reliable. However, this does not ding” or “Koç Group”) in the context intended to form the basis of any constitute a representation, guaranof United Nations Global Compact investment decision. It does not tee, warranty or undertaking of any Initiative which Koç adhered to on constitute or form part of an offer to nature on Koç Group. March 30, 2006. sell or issue, or a solicitation of an offer to purchase or subscribe for, Accordingly, none of Koç Group or All information and opinions contaany securities or other interests in the their respective advisors, directors or ined in this Report which does not Koç Group and no legal relations shall employees shall be liable for any dipurport to be comprehensive, have be created by its issue. rect, indirect or consequential loss or been provided to by Koç Group and damage suffered by any person as a have not been independently verified All information contained in this Reresults of relying on any statement in for this purposes. port and associated documents were or omission from this Report or in any believed to be accurate for the time other information or communications period it covers, expressed in good in connection with the Report. Contact Koç Holding Communications Oya Ünlü Kızıl Koç Holding Director of Corporate Communications and External Affairs Koç Holding A.Ş. Nakkaştepe Azizbey Sok. No:1 Kuzguncuk 34674 İstanbul T: +90 (216) 531 02 87 F: +90 (216) 343 15 37 iletisim@koc.com.tr Consultant Kıymet-i Harbiye info@kiymetiharbiye.com KOÇ GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 www.koc.com.tr This report has been published using 100% recycled paper. No trees were harmed during its production.
