Responsible Retailing Report 2013 Responsible retailing. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 1 In this year’s report Welcome Responsible retailing at Ahold: Behind our a summary strategic priorities Introduction 2 Our governance structure 56 Company profile 3 Awards and rankings 2013 57 Welcome to Ahold’s 2013 Responsible Retailing Report. Group financial highlights 4 Scope of reporting 58 Do take a look around this interactive PDF to find information Highlights by segment 5 Reporting process 61 Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO 6 CO2 conversion factors 61 about our responsible retailing strategy, targets, priority areas, Responsible retailing scorecard 8 Data revisions 62 case studies and much more… Reshaping Retail: our strategic framework 10 Global Reporting Initiative 63 Our promises 11 Global Compact 68 Stakeholder engagement 12 External assurance report 69 Tackling the material issues 13 Responsible retailing strategy 15 Healthy living 16 Community well-being 18 Other information Our people 20 Glossary 71 Responsible products 22 Contact us 73 Care for the environment 24 Cautionary notice 73 Go online to learn more about how our strategy is coming to life… Priority areas: performance ahold.com during 2013 Healthy living 27 Community well-being 31 Our people 35 Responsible products 40 Care for the environment 48 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 2 Introduction Responsible Being responsible is integral to our business. We support the health and well-being of our customers and communities. Associates throughout the business are engaged in putting our strategy into retailing practice, and we support them in leading healthier, more sustainable lives, too. We endeavor to source our products responsibly and manage our environmental impact. at Ahold: In this section, you’ll read an overview of our responsible retailing strategy, and some of the key stories that relate to each of our priority areas. a summary In this section: Introduction 2 Our promises 11 Company profile 3 Stakeholder engagement 12 Group financial highlights 4 Tackling the material issues 13 Highlights by segment 5 Responsible retailing strategy 15 Message from Dick Boer, Healthy living 16 Ahold CEO 6 Community well-being 18 Responsible retailing Our people 20 scorecard 8 Responsible products 22 Reshaping Retail: our strategic framework 10 Care for the environment 24 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 3 Company profile 3,131 We are Ahold… We are an international retailing group based in the Netherlands, with strong local consumer brands in Europe and the United States. Operating supermarkets and selling great food has been our core business for over a century. We also offer other formats and channels to serve the needs of today’s customer. We are building a true omni‑channel Stores serving customers offering, so that our customers can shop whenever and wherever is most convenient for them. We are able to provide customers with good value, a relevant assortment and an enjoyable shopping experience because of our people. We have great associates who love what they do and are good at it. The relationships they build with our customers are an important part of why they keep coming back to shop with us. 9% Increase on our Dow Jones Sustainability Index score versus 2012, scoring only 20 million three points lower than the sector leader Cardholders enrolled in our loyalty programs 222,000 €1 billion Over Online sales Associates Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 4 Group financial highlights We delivered stable Total returns to shareholders through share buyback programs and dividend payments €2.5bn financial performance (2012: €0.7bn) Proceeds from the sale of ICA €1.2bn (including dividend) in a challenging Agreement reached to sell Ahold’s Slovakian business environment... Net sales1 € million Free cash flow1 € million €32.6bn 32,682 32,615 €1.1bn 1,109 1,029 1,051 30,098 925 29,353 845 27,715 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Underlying operating income1 Dividend per common share € million (2013 includes proposed dividend) € Underlying operating margin (2012 as restated1: 4.3%) Income from continuing operations per common share (basic) €1.4bn 1,412 €0.47 0.47 4.2% 0.44 (2012 as restated1: €0.84) 1,377 1,379 0.40 1,376 €0.79 1,367 0.29 0.23 As part of our dividend policy we adjust income from continuing operations for significant non-recurring items. Adjusted income from continuing operations per share was €0.79 in 2013 (2012 as restated1: €0.89). 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Including restatements, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Ahold’s 2013 Annual Report for an explanation of the restatements. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 5 Highlights by segment The Netherlands Ahold USA Czech Republic The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany Net sales Underlying operating income Net sales Underlying operating income Net sales Underlying operating income €11,494 million €619 million €19,676 million €801 million €1,445 million €30 million +4.0% growth 5.4% Uoperating nderlying margin +1.1% gcurrency  rowth in local 4.1% Uoperating  nderlying margin –1.5% gcurrency rowth in local 2.1% Uoperating nderlying margin 35.3% 42.7% 60.3% 55.3% 4.4% 2.0% Contribution Contribution* Contribution Contribution* Contribution Contribution* * Before Corporate Center costs * Before Corporate Center costs * Before Corporate Center costs Stores Pick-up points Stores Pick-up points Stores 2,056 17 767 120 284 Associates Associates Associates 94,000 117,000 10,000 Our brands 1 Our brands Our brands 1 As of January 1, 2014, the albert.nl brand is part of Albert Heijn’s online offering at www.ah.nl Joint ventures Stake Net sales Our brands Ahold holds 49% of the shares in the joint venture 49% €3,432 million JMR, and shares equal voting power on JMR’s board of directors with Jerónimo Martins, SGPS, S.A. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 6 Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO Responsible retailing Dear stakeholders, Meeting our responsibilities to stakeholders Our Reshaping Retail strategy is helping us to meet As a major retailer, we want to take our responsibility towards all of those whose lives are affected by is becoming more our customers’ expectations, to offer them a better assortment every day, while also building our vision our business – they each play a unique and vital of the food retailer of the future. Our goal is to be role. Our customers are extremely important to able to bring our customers great value and high us – they’re the reason we go to work and are important than ever quality, fresh products along with the convenience of passionate about what we do. They’re becoming shopping in whatever way they choose – and to do more aware of environmental and social issues, it in a responsible way so we can continue to earn and, above all, they want to put a good meal on the the trust of our customers and other stakeholders. table for their families – which is why we’re striving As a food retailer with a huge reach, we see real opportunities to to provide them with healthy, safe, responsible products at an affordable price and with a great make a difference to the well-being of our customers, communities Global trends, material issues shopping experience. We continually do our best and associates. Because of this, responsible retailing is becoming to keep our promise to associates to be a better more important than ever. Not just for Ahold, but for place to work. Globally, Ahold and its brands the world in general. We are in a position to make employ around 222,000 people. Every time a new sure that we, as a retailer, stay relevant in the world supermarket opens in the U.S. or Europe, we create we live and work in. We see macro-trends – people over 100 jobs, bringing positive economic impact living longer, for example, but also increasing cases to the communities around our stores. In 2013, we of lifestyle-related diseases and health issues, such reached agreements with labor unions on both as diabetes related to obesity – and we believe sides of the Atlantic, reinforcing job security and Watch the CEO year in review that we have a vital role to play in helping people good working conditions. video on www.ahold.com live long and healthy lives. As a food retailer with We also recognize the importance of the role we a huge reach, we see real opportunities to make play in terms of our suppliers and our communities. a difference to the well-being of our customers, We believe in strengthening the food industry communities and associates. We also want to play overall, and we do this through partnerships with an active and responsible role when it comes to our others in the food retail sector, governments and supply chain and the environment. NGOs. In 2013, I took on the role of co-chair Ahold’s responsible retailing strategy is built around of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) because these topics because they matter to us. That is why I believe that by working together, retailers and we defined five priority areas in 2010: healthy living, manufacturers can have a greater positive impact. community well-being, our people, responsible We support the CGF’s resolution to achieve zero products and care for the environment. You can net deforestation by 2020 by sourcing commodities find out more about our priority areas and why they like soy and palm oil more sustainably, and to move are material to Ahold in the Tackling the material to HFC-free refrigeration systems in new stores from issues section. 2015. We have also made good progress on the three health and wellness resolutions developed by the CGF – more on that in the Healthy living section. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 7 Message from Dick Boer, Ahold CEO (continued) We are proud to serve so many stakeholders – but But numbers against targets are only half the story. Looking to the future their differing agendas and requirements also bring Across all our businesses, we have many examples Of course, responsible retailing is always about challenges. We try to balance our stakeholders’ of our efforts to be a responsible retailer and a long-term sustainability. Many of the targets we set needs as much as possible, and work with them to better neighbor. I strongly believe that children find solutions that are beneficial to all. We remain are key here – if we can teach them to live more in 2010 have now been met or will expire at the end of 2015. So it’s time to start thinking about the future Our goal is to be able to committed to the principles of the UN Global healthily, it builds a more sustainable future. – about our next steps towards 2020. During the bring our customers great Compact, and this report includes an update of our A couple of examples: in the Czech Republic, Albert performance against these principles. ran a Smurfs campaign for a little over a month; reporting year, we kicked off a process to define our value and high quality, fresh strategy for the next six years. In 2014, we will further the Smurfs figures were only featured on products develop our strategy, and I look forward to sharing products along with the meeting our healthy-eating criteria. I’m pleased Key responsible retailing results to say that Albert is the first to bring a range of our plans for the future at a later date. convenience of shopping in If you take a look at our Responsible retailing healthy products for children to the Czech market. Finally, after looking to the future, I’d like to take whatever way they choose – scorecard, you’ll see the progress that we’ve In the U.S., the retail divisions are hosting regular a look back at the past year – and specifically at and to do it in a responsible made on our targets in 2013. I am pleased with Healthy Kids Summits to promote proper nutrition the people whose hard work and commitment our progress on healthy living: 24.3% of product and exercise among our youngest customers. I’m enabled us to make progress on our responsible way so we can continue to sales met healthy criteria, and we educated particularly proud that the Ahold USA divisions retailing strategy. Together with my colleagues on earn the trust of our over 800,000 children in healthy living globally. received a national Neighborhood Health the Executive Committee, I’d like to thank especially Although we haven’t yet met our target on social Improvement award from the Food Marketing the 222,000 associates who work to put our customers and other compliance, I am extremely proud of the progress Institute for the program. In the Netherlands, priority areas into practice so that we can offer stakeholders. we have made. At the end of 2013, 78% of our the lighting at almost all our distribution centers healthy, safe, sustainable products to our customers, production sites in high-risk countries had been was replaced with energy-efficient LED lighting contribute to community well-being, and care for audited on social compliance. – projected to save us over eight million kWh the environment. They strive to make Ahold and all per year and thus reducing our impact on the its businesses better places to shop, better places to environment. Albert Heijn’s project to make its over work, and better neighbors – every day. 10,000 own-brand products more sustainable continued to make progress. And our company 222,000 health and well-being programs on both sides of Dick Boer Our Reshaping Retail strategy the Atlantic encouraged thousands of our associates Chief Executive Officer is helping us to meet our to eat more healthily and take exercise during the February 26, 2014 past year. customers’ expectations, to associates employed by Ahold and its offer them a better assortment brands globally 800,000 every day, while also building Over our vision of the food retailer of the future. children educated in healthy living globally Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 8 Responsible retailing scorecard Making Healthy living Community well-being progress Ambition: Make healthy living choices easy Ambition: Contribute to the well-being on our targets Target / commitment Progress Status of our communities Commitment Progress This overview of the five priority areas in our Increase the sale of 24.3% Measure and report on 1,243 healthy products to at least the number of stores responsible retailing strategy shows our progress 25% of total food sales by healthy products participating in at least stores participated in national events against our Group-wide targets and 2015 across the Group one national community well-being event commitments. In the case of specific targets, we Report on customers’ 67% show our status according to the key below; in perception of Ahold’s of our businesses are Measure and report on Over €54 million businesses as leading perceived to be the first or our donations donated the case of ongoing commitments, we report on healthy retailers second healthy retailer in the metric specified1. their region Measure and report Over €23 million on food donations to of food donated food banks For more detail on our progress during the reporting year, see the Priority areas: Measure and report on Over 800,000 the number of children children educated performance during 2013 section. educated as part of our healthy living programs Key: completed on track behind Slovakia is excluded from data. See Data revisions section for further information. 1 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 9 Responsible retailing scorecard (continued) Responsible products Care for the Our people environment Ambition: Ambition: Ambition: Provide a better place to work, and support our Source our products – including their Reduce our environmental footprint associates in living healthy and sustainable lives packaging – with respect for people, animals and the environment Commitment Progress Target / commitment Progress Status Target / commitment Progress Status Report on our progress on 67% Ensure that 80% of our Europe: Reduce CO2 per square 16.8% associate engagement of associates feel engaged own-brand food suppliers 93% suppliers certified meter of sales area by reduction are certified against GFSI20% in our operations U.S.: Report on our progress on Over 27,000 recognized standards 81% sales certified by 2015 against our associate participation in associates took part in healthy by 2012 2008 baseline healthy living programs living programs Ensure that 100% of our Europe: Report on the percentage 1-2% own-brand suppliers 66% suppliers audited of food waste compared Report on our See Our people in high-risk countries to total food sales of total food sales wasted progress on rolling out sustainability programs section for details are audited on social U.S.: compliance by 2012 36% suppliers audited Reduce the amount of 293 million disposable bags at the bags reduced at our Source 100% of the six Coffee: 79% checkout in the United U.S. businesses critical commodities for Tea: 85% States by one billion bags own-brand products in Cocoa: 35% by 2015 accordance with industry Palm oil: 100% certified certification standards Soy: 0% Eliminate landfill as a 17% disposal method by 2020 landfill globally by 2015 Seafood: 25% Map the environmental Our businesses made an Ensure that all businesses Communication policies footprint of 50% of our ownanalysis of their own-brand have implemented a in place brand suppliers and their assortment to identify communication policy to supply chains by 2015 potential risks encourage customers to reduce, re-use and recycle Report on the number 582 by 2013 of products reviewed products reviewed against our 4R packaging guidelines Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 10 Reshaping Retail: our strategic framework How are we reshaping Our strategy to reshape retail is helping us to communities in which we operate. Without being meet the changing needs of consumers today, a responsible retailer, we cannot fulfill our promise and accelerate the growth of our company in the to get better every day, and we cannot create and retail at Ahold? future. We have a shared vision for the future and enable the growth of our company that we need a common set of values across all our businesses. to succeed. We have a successful business model, strong Being responsible is therefore integral to our brands, and we are getting better every day through business. We support the health and wellthe realization of our shared promises. Our strategy Our Reshaping Retail framework defines our strategic ambitions, to reshape retail outlines our clear ambition to grow being of our customers and communities. Associates throughout the business are engaged in how we operate and what we want to be as a company. and be competitive in years to come. putting our strategy into practice, and we support One of the six key pillars of our Reshaping Retail them in leading healthier, more sustainable strategy is “responsible retailing.” However, being lives, too. We endeavor to source our products a responsible retailer underpins all elements of responsibly and look after the environment we our strategy. It is the foundation on which our operate in. Our five priority areas – healthy living, three promises are built: to be a better place to community well-being, our people, responsible shop for our customers, a better place to work products, and care for the environment – give for our associates, and a better neighbor for the structure to our efforts. We have a robust business model, we are keeping and we have the ambition to drive Our approach to this report built on strong local brands… our promises… performance and go for growth. Our business model In 2010, we set a series of targets to 2015 for our priority areas, which we have now been reporting Ahold is becoming Creating growth: on for three years. In this section of the report, Responsible retailing at Ahold: a summary, you TAL a better place to shop, Increasing customer loyalty can read an overview of the context behind each API H AL TE C ROWT A G W LOW E a better place to work, Broadening our offering priority area, plus some of our stories from the TO LOC NE BASE and a better neighbor. Expanding geographic reach reporting year. In the sections that follow, you OST can read a detailed breakdown of our targets, RC Enabling growth: progress, results and data for each priority area. EN Better In some cases, we refer to video content on our E ID R O place to shop Simplicity website, www.ahold.com, where you can watch D R IV L E S G T N AN GO SA W T IC A L TR DS examples of our responsible retailing strategy D S BR Responsible retailing H B U IL M ER Better coming to life online. CONS U every day People performance Better Better place to work neighbor Our values Our vision Putting the customer first; Doing what’s right; Loving what we do; Better choice. Better value. Better life. Every day. Making ideas happen; Getting better every day Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 11 Our promises Our promises are helping us drive success, perform better and create greater value. Better place to shop All three of our promises are interlinked – we need satisfied associates and a connection with the wider world our business impacts in order to build strong relationships with our customers. As retailers, our relationship with customers has always been at the center of everything we do. But in Better today’s world, being a good retailer is also about creating a every day working environment where associates can be at their best and about ensuring we are always deeply connected with our communities. Better Better Our promises are to be a better place to shop, a better place to work neighbor place to work and a better neighbor everywhere we operate. These promises define how we will get better every day for our customers, our associates and our communities. Our promises run across all our businesses, but are applied locally at each of our banners according to their needs To see our promises come and priorities. to life, watch our video case studies on www.ahold.com Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 12 Stakeholder engagement Recognizing our Our stakeholders include our customers, associates, company culture, and carry out annual associate suppliers, communities (including governments, engagement surveys. In 2013, we aligned our NGOs, academic / research institutes, and industry surveys across Ahold, with over 170,000 associates stakeholders’ needs bodies), and shareholders. We engage and participating globally. cooperate with our stakeholders in order both to gain insight into their expectations, and to share our Suppliers progress with them. This enables us to better meet their needs over time. As an organization, we have The opportunity for collaboration with our suppliers As an international retailing group operating businesses that are deeply identified five main stakeholder groups: is ever increasing. We engage with our suppliers in rooted in their local communities, we have a wide range of stakeholders several ways, aiming to strengthen and improve the who impact or are impacted by our businesses in various ways. Customers relationships we have with them. We hold supplier events to discuss various important topics, including Our customers are central to our business. company strategy, sustainability, supplier diversity, We are committed to offering our customers and food safety, with them. We work through healthy choices and providing them with products the Albert Heijn Foundation in Africa to improve that are made with respect for people, animals the livelihoods of Albert Heijn’s African fruit and and the environment. In addition, we aim to vegetable suppliers, their families and communities, offer competitive prices combined with high as well as to secure our long-term supply chain. product quality and a great shopping experience. We regularly ask our customers what they think of Communities our stores, assortment and service, including their perception of Ahold’s brands as being healthy The communities surrounding our stores are very retailers. We receive feedback via third-party important to us – they represent a serving area of surveys, proprietary tracking studies and consumer more than 70 million people. Our companies are panels as well as directly from customers in stores. committed to being active and engaged members of their communities. We do this through initiatives, events and charitable contributions that help to Associates improve the communities and neighborhoods in Extraordinary associates are at the heart of our which we operate. success. Their hard work and dedication to customers help set us apart. We are committed Shareholders to making sure our companies continue to be an even better place to work, every day. We strive to Our shareholders are crucial to our business; they create workplaces built on fairness and mutual put their trust in us by investing in the business respect everywhere we operate. We maintain financially. They monitor our company closely and strong businesses to drive stable jobs and provide challenge us on our strategy and how we manage opportunities for great careers. We respect and the business. We meet with investors on a regular protect the rights of associates; we are committed to basis, including socially responsible investment the principles of equal employment opportunities, (SRI) analysts, and work to broaden the investment freedom of association, and respecting the legal community’s understanding of our company by rights to collective bargaining everywhere we do providing accurate and timely information on business. We strive to maintain an open and honest Ahold’s performance and prospects. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 13 Tackling the material issues Rising to the challenges we see Climate change, obesity, animal welfare, product integrity, aging populations – these are some of the challenges that we, and our stakeholders, see in the world around us. Our priority areas in our current responsible retailing strategy are based on a number of key issues that are the most material for Ahold and its stakeholders... The importance of health Contributing to our communities Equally, healthy and fit associates are generally Over the past few years, as part of organized more engaged, more productive, and better efforts to increase union membership, certain labor We recognize the social and financial impact of There is increasing food insecurity, and many ambassadors for Ahold and its brands. groups have worked hard to share their perspective lifestyle-related diseases (such as diabetes related to people in our markets are relying on community Supporting our associates to do this enables on union representation – and our businesses – obesity), and there is pressure on the food industry support and food donations to make ends meet. them to increase their own well-being, too. with employees of Ahold companies and other to take action on public health – both physical In Washington D.C., for instance, more than 15% audiences in Europe and the U.S. We respect their and social. At the same time, there is increasing of residents are food insecure1. In part due to the right to do so. However, at times, these groups customer interest in healthy products. As a food ongoing difficult economic climate, the pressure Labor relations have used incomplete or misleading information retailer with a huge reach, we have the opportunity on government spending means that businesses Most employees at Ahold businesses are to make their points. In these instances we set the to make a real difference to people’s health and are expected to – and need to – play a greater role represented by unions or are covered by some form record straight and, where appropriate, share well-being. That’s why our healthy living programs when it comes to the community. This is why we of collective bargaining agreement. In the U.S., our perspective to make sure that employees at focus on making it easier for customers to choose make donations – both financial and in products nearly 80,000 Ahold employees – or 66.1% of all our companies have the facts they need to make healthy products, and offering in-store assistance – to food banks and charities that fit our strategic employees in the U.S. businesses – are members fully-informed decisions. Where employees have to customers about leading a healthy lifestyle. objectives on both continents. We also aim to of unions. This is 10 times greater than the rate chosen union representation, Ahold companies We include children and our own associates, as play a social role, bringing together people in the of union membership at U.S. companies overall. work cooperatively with those unions. In operations these are two groups we can make a big impact on. communities in which we operate. Over 99% of our Netherlands-based employees where employees are non-union, our businesses are covered by collective bargaining agreements have been open and transparent in conveying (“CAOs”). their preference to continue working directly Workforce well-being with employees. For more information, visit In 2013, Ahold USA divisions reached new Without our associates, Ahold’s businesses www.ahold.com. collective bargaining agreements with unions that simply cannot operate. Diversity and inclusion represent approximately 64,000 employees – or are increasingly important both to us and our about 80% of union-represented employees at stakeholders, and research has shown that a diverse Ahold USA companies. These contracts were workforce is good for business. reached without any strike or other work stoppage. 1 Capital Area Food Bank Fact Sheet Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 14 Tackling the material issues (continued) Sustainable, available, traceable Animal welfare Trust in the food industry is declining, while interest in Animal welfare is attracting increased attention from food provenance is rapidly rising. Many companies NGOs and customers. We aim to improve living are now producing tools to provide greater conditions for animals, while also delivering safe, transparency in their supply chain. Ahold continues high-quality products. We respect local regulations to work hard to map its own-brand suppliers (and on animal welfare and often implement even stricter where our products are made) at the last stage of controls. For more information on Albert Heijn’s production, so that we can ensure we’re offering work on improving the poultry industry and Ahold trusted products and optimally managing our supply USA’s efforts to make their pork products more chain. There is also increasing recognition of the link sustainable, see the Responsible products section. between sustainability and long-term availability – only by sourcing our products responsibly and with respect for people, animals and the environment An environmental imperative can we ensure that we maintain a healthy, Doing what’s right for the environment – including environmentally and animal-friendly supply chain for reducing energy usage and CO2 emissions – is no future generations. longer a “nice to have”; it is part of our license to operate. More and more attention is being paid to the waste stream in the food industry (both food and Product integrity other waste, such as packaging), whether this waste In 2013, many European retailers were faced with happens at supplier, retailer or customer level. As of the fact that they sold horse meat while the product 2011, 1.3 billion tons of food (about one third of the label stated beef. This triggered a lot of questions global food production) are lost or wasted annually. from our stakeholders and caused a lack of trust Loss and wastage occurs along all steps in the in the food industry. At Ahold, we believe that food supply chain. In low-income countries, most there is no excuse for this. Customers need to have loss occurs during production, while in developed confidence that the information they read on a countries much food is wasted at the consumption product label is correct. We are therefore working stage2. It is part of the role of the retailer to do to strengthen the industry standards. At the end of as much as possible to reduce waste in our own February 2014, the Global Food Safety Initiative operations, but also to facilitate a decrease in food (GFSI) developed an approach against food waste at supplier and customer level where possible. fraud, to be implemented in the GFSI-recognized Moreover, we support community hunger relief standards. Suppliers will have to add this to their efforts through food banks. food safety systems to gain certification. At Ahold, we require our suppliers to have GFSI certification and are encouraging uptake of GFSI in the U.S. For more information about GFSI, see the Responsible products section. 2 Gustavson, Jenny; Cederberg, Christel; Sonesson, Ulf; van Otterdijk, Robert; Meybeck, Alexandre (2011). Global Food Losses and Food Waste. FAO. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 15 Responsible retailing strategy Looking to the future Significant progress has been made against our As part of the process, we conducted a thorough 2015 targets, but the world is changing and so are materiality analysis of the topics that are relevant the responsible retailing risks and opportunities to the food retail industry. Materiality is the point we face as a business. In addition, as many of the at which a topic becomes relevant both in the Ahold has a long history of responsible retailing. In 2010, Ahold defined targets we set in 2010 have now been met, or will context of stakeholders’ interest and Ahold’s run out by 2015, the past year was the right time to business. This allowed us to identify priorities its 2011 – 2015 responsible retailing strategy, including qualitative and take the next step in our journey to start developing and stakeholder expectations for our strategy. quantitative targets. In 2012, Ahold launched its “better every day” our vision for responsible retailing. We conducted this analysis in 2013, and in 2014 we will assess the possibilities of further embedding promises and embedded responsible retailing in all three promises with We are now in the process of developing a responsible retailing into the Ahold organization a focus on “better neighbor.” responsible retailing strategy to 2020 that takes into as an integral part of day-to-day decision making account the current and emerging sustainabilityand governance. In 2014, we will publish our new, related risks and opportunities that are relevant updated responsible retailing strategy. for Ahold and its stakeholders. The strategy will provide a framework for responsible retailing that enables a clear vision at global, continental and brand level that can be tailored to the needs of local stakeholders within our markets. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 16 Healthy living Healthy living Our ambitions are to make healthy living choices easy, and to be recognized as a leading healthy retailer in all our markets. More on our strategic progress in the Priority areas: performance during 2013 section of this report on page 27 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 17 Healthy living (continued) Why does it matter? Food plays an integral part in health and well-being. Our industry has made affordable food available for many people. As a result, globally we are able to feed more people, hunger has decreased, people are healthier for longer, and life expectancy has increased. To see more of Bob and At the same time, various challenges and Lisa’s story, watch a video opportunities have arisen. Globally, we see on www.ahold.com an aging population. Non-communicable diseases (NCDs), including lifestyle-related illnesses such as diabetes1, are the leading cause of death. Many of these illnesses are related to being overweight or obese, having a poor diet and lacking physical exercise. In the U.S., 63% of adults are overweight or obese, while in Europe, over 50% of adults are overweight or obese2. However, awareness about food and health I changed the way I Rising to the “Lose to Win” challenge at Ahold USA is growing, and our customers are increasingly eat and think about The “Lose to Win” wellness challenge, which took place Bob Moore was one of the customers who took part in the over 12 weeks in 2013, was a collaboration between challenge: “I’d been struggling with my weight for 30 years, interested in buying and eating healthy food. food, and have a Martin’s in-store nutritionist, a local hospital, and a and I was starting to suffer health issues as I got older. I saw As a food retailer with a huge reach, we have more energy as a local gym in the Giant Carlisle market area. The focus of the challenge was on healthier eating, exercise, stress the ‘Lose to Win’ challenge advertised, and decided to try a new approach. The first big change was really reading the chance to make a real difference to result. Now that the management, and overall well-being. 20 participants the labels on foods – choosing more fruits, vegetables and people’s health, especially in relation to program’s over, I’m took part. proteins, and eating food closer to the source.” By the end of the program, Bob had lost 70 pounds (32 kilograms) nutrition, by making it easier for our customers continuing to watch Martin’s in-store nutritionist Lisa Coleman said: “The grocery store is the perfect place to provide nutrition education at and his blood sugar level had gone down over 30 points – reducing his risk of diabetes. “I changed the way I eat to make informed food choices. what I eat, going to the point of choice where families are making decisions and think about food, and have more energy as a result. about what they’re going to eat. We encourage participants Now that the program’s over, I’m continuing to watch what the gym, cycling… to incorporate fruits and vegetables into their diet, replace I eat, going to the gym, cycling… I’ve even got my family salt with herbs and spices, and make their meals healthier. involved – my mother, father-in-law and granddaughters 1 NCHS Data Brief No. 82 January 2012; Bob Moore National Diabetes Fact Sheet 2011 Each program is designed to increase customer loyalty and ask me questions about nutrition! I want to thank Lisa and Martin’s customer impact the health of our communities – I’m really proud that 2 Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index; World Health Organization Martin’s for guiding me through this journey that’s been a we are offering in-store nutrition programs supported by major lifestyle change.” Ahold USA.” Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 18 Community well-being Community well-being Our ambition is to contribute to the well-being of our communities. More on our strategic progress in the Priority areas: performance during 2013 section of this report on page 31 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 19 Community well-being (continued) Why does it matter? Healthy Kids Summits contribute to childhood well-being One of the key objectives of Ahold USA and its retail Several of the summits have incorporated hands-on Trends within the communities we operate in are diverse, divisions is improving the quality of life for children activities and exercise to get kids involved right there throughout the communities we serve. Ahold USA’s on the spot. Each summit features an interactive panel local, and rapidly changing. Unemployment rates, divisions host Healthy Kids Summits several times per year discussion; panelists have included local pediatricians, especially among young people, are high. Due to to educate children about leading a healthy lifestyle. school lunch administrators, elected officials, health nonprofits focused on youths, athletes, and our own in-store globalization and migration, the ethnic composition of Each free event is open to local communities and has been held both within the produce section of our nutritionists. In 2013, a total of seven Healthy Kids Summits many European countries and the U.S. is changing, which stores, and at local athletic facilities and health centers. were held throughout the U.S. divisions with more than 1,200 kids, parents and community leaders attending. requires a different approach to meet the changing needs The main focus of the summits is to make sure children are getting the nutrition and exercise their bodies need as they In 2013, Ahold USA’s Healthy Kids Summit received a national Neighborhood Health Improvement award from of our (potential) customers. The number of one-person continue to grow both physically and mentally. It’s also an the Food Marketing Institute for their leadership in engaging households is growing, leading to potential feelings of opportunity for parents, teachers and the community to address the issue of childhood obesity by learning how to families with nutrition and exercise information. isolation. In addition, millions of households in our markets live healthier lifestyles. are supported by food banks every year. All of these trends have implications for Ahold. Living in a clean, safe and social community; having a job and access to healthy, nutritious food – these are all basic human Over 800,000 needs. Ahold supports these needs with over 3,000 stores children globally and a serving area of almost 70 million people. With educated in 222,000 associates, Ahold is a significant employer. Our healthy living business therefore plays a central role in the communities it serves. We have a great opportunity to connect people in communities – with each other and with the food they eat. And this connection starts with children. As the customers and citizens of the future, it is important to educate children in leading a healthy and sustainable lifestyle, something we gladly contribute to. It’s better for society and it’s more sustainable for our business. We also have an opportunity to be a better neighbor by supporting food banks and other community needs. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 20 Our people Our people Our ambitions are to provide a better place to work, and to support our associates in living healthy lives and driving sustainability. More on our strategic progress in the Priority areas: performance during 2013 section of this report on page 35 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 21 Our people (continued) Why does it matter? Albert Heijn associate eats himself fit! Bas Kaper is store manager for Albert Heijn’s store Having lost 12 kilograms, his next goal was to keep up his Our people are our most important asset. in Schagen, with a long history at the company. new lifestyle for the next year in order to be able to run the Engagement with local communities is something that he famous 16-kilometer “Dam tot Damloop” – an annual It is their hard work and commitment that values highly about Albert Heijn. running race from Amsterdam to Zaandam. He joined drives Ahold to reshape retail. It is therefore A year ago, he registered for the “Eet & Beweeg Je Fit” a sports club and was able to pay for his subscription via Ahold’s Fit & Fun program. crucial that we engage with them. Engaged, program – part of Ahold’s “Fit & Fun” initiative in the Netherlands, aiming to encourage associates to get fit A year later, Bas is not only 17 kilograms lighter; he is also satisfied associates are known to perform through diet and exercise. Over the course of 12 weeks, sharing his experiences with colleagues via Facebook and better. he kept a diary of what he ate, monitored the number of calories burned via a simple online system, and had contact the company newsletter. In his store, he helped one of his associates who was ready to give up smoking, lose weight with a sports coach and fitness specialist about his progress. and get fitter. We are committed to providing our 222,000 associates a better place to work. Ahold companies provide stable jobs at our strong businesses, where A year ago I could associates can expect good working not even have conditions, fairness and mutual respect, dreamed of running opportunities for career development, the Dam tot Damloop. recognition for good performance from their Bas Kaper managers, and respect for their rights. Albert Heijn Store Manager Equally, healthy associates who feel supported with well-being and sustainability programs are more likely to feel good about working for our businesses, and this has a positive effect on the service we offer to customers. For more information, visit www.ahold.com. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 22 Responsible products Responsible products We source our products – including the packaging of those products – with respect for people, animals and the environment. More on our strategic progress in the Priority areas: performance during 2013 section of this report on page 40 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 23 Responsible products (continued) Why does it matter? Towards sustainable products at Albert Heijn Globally, there is increasing interest among many We feel responsible for all products in our stores. of our stakeholders in topics like animal welfare, Albert Heijn has created a dedicated value chain for fresh fruit and vegetables The primary focus of our sustainability policy at Albert Heijn is our over 10,000 own-brand products. For these product safety, food fraud, social accountability, built on long-term partnerships in which transparency, trust and sharing products, we have been taking additional steps toward sustainability since 2009. We periodically map out the most deforestation and overpopulation. As a retailer selling knowledge are key. We are proud to work with Albert Heijn on their relevant sustainability issues across our product categories. millions of products every year, we have a role to 2010 commitment to make the fresh fruit and We examine all categories and look at the raw materials, vegetable chain more sustainable. packaging and production process. play in the supply chain of our products. Part of Eel By 2015, all our own-brand products at Albert Heijn should Irénke Meekma responsible retailing is therefore about sourcing our Albert Heijn replaced Managing Director Bakker have taken at least one step on the sustainability ladder. own-brand products with respect for people, animals endangered European eel with sustainable Barendrecht In many cases, this requires cooperation throughout the value chain. We strive to create long-term relationships with and the environment. We believe this is the right thing alternative “Zuiderling” eel our suppliers and the farmers behind them. For example, from Madagascar. to do, and is crucial for the long-term sustainability we have been working with one of our fruit and vegetable suppliers, Bakker Barendrecht, for over 50 years. of our company. Responsible sourcing includes These long-term partnerships increase transparency in the chain, and help suppliers improve the overall safety and managing potential risks related to the suppliers and quality of our products. Together with our partners, we communities from whom we source, and the natural 2011 continuously look for opportunities to make our products safer, healthier and more sustainable, step by step. resources on which we depend. Seafood We understand the issues that customers, NGOs Albert Heijn signed an agreement with the World Wildlife Fund to increase the and other stakeholders raise with us about our 2012 sustainability of the entire own-brand seafood assortment, so that all seafood will products and our supply chains. Many of these issues be MSC / ASC certified by 2015. Paper and pulp cannot be solved by Ahold alone, and need a more Albert Heijn signed an agreement holistic, often industry-wide approach. We therefore with the World Wildlife Fund to source wood and pulp only from responsibly work with organizations including the Sustainability managed origins in all own-brand Consortium, Consumer Goods Forum, Food products containing these commodities 2013 by the end of 2015. Marketing Institute and EuroCommerce, and NGOs including the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), New Fruit and vegetables Together with Wageningen University, England Aquarium and Shedd Aquarium, on issues, Albert Heijn developed a benchmark such as deforestation, packaging, and animal for sustainable cultivation of fruit and vegetables. Cucumbers, cauliflowers, welfare. We believe we can have a much tomatoes, leeks and strawberries grown broader impact by making supply chain in the Netherlands are now cultivated in accordance with this benchmark. improvements that are relevant for the whole (food) industry. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 24 Care for the environment Care for the environment Our ambition is to reduce our environmental footprint. More on our strategic progress in the Priority areas: performance during 2013 section of this report on page 48 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 25 Care for the environment (continued) Why does it matter? Reducing our impact on the environment in stores Climate change continues to be an important global concern. At the same time, 122 leak detectors fitted to 262 waste is becoming an ever more important refrigeration systems in stores in the Netherlands 8% fitted with heat pumps to issue – and one that customers are the U.S. in 2013, making a total of 613 use waste heat for energy increasingly recognizing. fuel efficiency improvement since 2010, through innovative Playing a role in caring for the environment transport technologies is part of our license to operate – it is no longer a “nice to have”; it is fully embedded in our customers’ expectations of us. But there is also a financial imperative – running our operations more efficiently from an 26 km of coolers covered with environmental perspective is good for the bottom line, too. >380 refrigerator doors in our stores in the Netherlands As a food retailer in the middle of the value mln kg of organic waste separated chain, our reach is further than just our own for compost, livestock, operations. When it comes to food waste, energy or fermentation since 2008 for instance, it can occur at many points in its lifecycle: from the crops left in the field, to the waste at manufacturer level, to unsold 334 sky lights fitted to roofs product in our stores, to the food that of our stores in the U.S. to harvest daylight customers throw away. >8,000 solar panels fitted on the >45,000 293 mln plastic bags saved in lights switched into roofs of our stores in the U.S. LED lighting in the U.S. our stores in the U.S. to generate energy in 2013 since 2011 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 26 Priority areas: Our five priority areas are material to our business, relevant to our stakeholders, and offer opportunities for the biggest positive impact. In this section, you can read about our progress on our targets in performance these areas, short examples of initiatives that took place during the reporting year, and supporting data. during 2013 In this section: Healthy living 27 Community well-being 31 Our people 35 Responsible products 40 Care for the environment 48 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 27 Priority areas: performance during 2013 Healthy living CGF Health and Providing clear Our progress on our targets Wellness Resolutions We work with the Consumer Goods Forum product information To emphasize and increase the sales of healthy We're committed (CGF) to lead the industry. In 2013, Ahold products, we set the following target: contributed to the first edition of the Health Compared to 30 years ago, people are eating to setting and Wellness Resolutions Progress Report less fruits, vegetables and fiber, and more salt, sugar and fat. Since 1970, food portions Increase the sale of healthy products measurable targets, published by the CGF on the three resolutions that the members of the group agreed to. (as defined by criteria from leading have increased in size and now exceed national health authorities) to at least 25% of total reporting on these We are committed to setting measurable targets, reporting on these transparently, and nutrition guidelines. These factors have resulted food sales by 2015 across the Group transparently, and holding ourselves accountable. The report in rising obesity rates and an increase in lifestylerelated diseases. Eating healthily is an important holding ourselves showed that 100% of respondents have established policies and activated programs factor in reducing obesity levels and minimizing In 2013, sales of healthy products made up accountable. on at least one of the resolutions; 70% the risk of NCDs, but food labeling is often 24.3% of our total food sales – an increase of have established policies and activated 0.3% compared to 2012. The number of products programs on all three resolutions; 93% considered confusing. have communicated publicly about their with a healthy logo or shelf tag decreased to Dick Boer CEO health and wellness initiatives; and 53% Clear product information helps our customers 8,743 in 2013 (2012: 8,966). However, despite have communicated their initiatives as to make informed choices. To make it easier for this our sales increased slightly due to our efforts part of a CEO statement / annual report our customers to choose healthy products, we in making our healthy products more attractive to Read the full Health and to shareholders. have developed healthy-choice logos and shelf Wellness Resolutions here our customers. tags. Products featuring these logos and shelf tags comply with strict criteria that are developed by leading health authorities. The criteria are New policy for available on our company websites, accessible via light products www.ahold.com. In the Netherlands, Albert Heijn developed a policy for “light” products to make packaging labels clearer to customers. Under the new policy, Sales of healthy products Number of healthy products instead of reducing just one nutrient 48 percentage of total sales by 30%, products can only be termed “light” if they have 30% fewer calories 24.0 24.3 8,966 overall than their regular equivalents. 22.3 8,742 8,743 In 2013, 48 own-brand light products 20.6 met this criterion. All Albert Heijn ownbrand light products will comply with 18.4 this policy in 2014. Albert Heijn also has policies in place for reducing salt, fat and certain additives. products with reduced salt and fat 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 content across the assortment Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 28 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Healthy living Front-of-pack nutritional information Ahold USA implemented a “Front of Pack” labeling initiative to provide Over 5,500 gluten-free products in the assortment in 2013 clear guidance on nutritional attributes of foods, such as energy and other important dietary components, for many of its ownGluten-free labeling brand products. In the Netherlands, The Ahold USA divisions launched easy-to-spot shelf labels Albert Heijn will have energy for their range of gluten-free products in 2012. This makes information on all own brands and it easier for customers who have celiac disease – or those packaged products by the end simply wishing to follow a gluten-free diet for personal of 2015. reasons – to choose suitable products. In 2013, the number of gluten-free products in the assortment increased to 5,658 from 4,800 in 2012. Smurf mania promoting healthy products To see more From August 21 through about the Smurfs September 24, 2013, Smurf campaign, watch mania erupted in Albert stores in a video on the Czech Republic. Smurf figures www.ahold.com were featured on 42 own-brand products, such as Albert Quality juices, sunflower seed bread and multigrain biscuits; cheese, turkey and chicken ham; corn crisps and fruit bars. All the products were evaluated using the strict “I know what I eat” healthy criteria. Albert is the first to bring a range of healthy products for children to the Czech market, and the Smurfs assortment will be in stores until at least end 2014. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 29 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Healthy living Passport to Nutrition expanded Offering in-store assistance Our progress on our targets First introduced in 2010 and developed with the help of in-store nutritionists, Passport to Making choices about which products to buy can We have a metric in place which measures how Nutrition is a fun, interactive, web-based be difficult, especially when there are many factors we are doing in helping our customers make program that makes healthy eating exciting for kids while providing to take into account: for instance, product quality, healthy choices: the necessary tools to educate number of calories, ingredients, price, on nutrition both at home and at and convenience. All Ahold brands try to assist Report on customers’ perception school. Ahold USA and its retail customers in making informed healthy choices. of Ahold’s businesses as leading divisions updated and expanded healthy retailers the Passport to Nutrition program In-store in 2013: geared to nutritionists children aged 8-12, Customer perception as the free Passport Our in-store assistance to Nutrition kit a leading healthy retailer takes different forms. features 30 student Position Albert Heijn 1 2 3 Number 3 4 5 Three Ahold USA divisions have in-store nutritionists, who helped Over workbooks and a teacher guide that provide lessons to inspire kids to make small changes for better health, Albert Number 4 2,411 customers to follow a balanced diet through individual consultations. 250,000 including how to build a balanced plate using the new MyPlate guidelines, how to read food labels and understand Giant Carlisle Number 1 At the end of 2013, there were 10 nutritionists, up children reached portion sizes. A total of almost 9,000 Passport to Nutrition kits were distributed to from six in 2012. educators, scout leaders, parents and others Giant Landover Number 1 since its re-launch, and over 250,000 children were reached. Stop & Shop New England Number 2 Stop & Shop Healthy inspiration Number 2 New York Metro We also provide free magazines to our customers, which include 1 The research is conducted by market research group GfK Panel Services healthy recipes and inspirational tips. In the Netherlands, Customer Benelux in theperception scores Netherlands, by g82 are in Czech based Republic, onSIRS, Inc. and by Albert Heijn distributes almost five million free copies in the United States. research by independent market research of Allerhande per year. In the spring of 2013, agencies that conduct surveys of both our brands a special vegetable edition of Allerhande was issued to promote healthy meals and and our main competitors in the regions in which snacks. In the U.S., Ahold USA’s divisions we operate. In the Netherlands and Belgium, distribute one million copies of the Healthy this is GfK Panel Services Benelux; in the Czech Ideas magazine per quarter. The U.S. Republic, this is g82; and in the United States, divisions also publish the Kid Healthy Ideas this is SIRS, Inc. magazine on a quarterly basis to encourage children to lead a healthy lifestyle. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 30 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Healthy living The data percentage of total food sales1 2013 20123 2011 2010 20092 Sales of Ahold USA 24.8 24.5 24.1 22.3 17.3 healthy products The Netherlands Czech Republic 25.5 11.4 25.3 9.6 21.5 9.0 20.5 2.4 23.0 0.0 Total 24.3 24.0 22.3 20.6 18.2 1 Sales of healthy products at Ahold USA include the sale of labeled national brands. The sales data for the Netherlands and Czech Republic does not include national brands, as there was no uniform national labeling system. 2 2009 data has not been audited. 3 2012 healthy living sales have been re-stated as value added tax was incorrectly added in Q3 and Q4 data. The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of Ahold USA 1 6,643 7,126 7,008 NR NR healthy products The Netherlands Czech Republic 1,564 536 1,381 459 1,301 433 1,214 509 800 4 Total 8,743 8,966 8,742 NR NR 1 2009–2010 data for Ahold USA has not been reported due to duplication of products among the different divisions. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 31 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Community well-being Flood response Charitable Meeting community needs Our progress on our targets In the Czech Republic, heavy rains Vendor Partnership caused widespread flooding in June 2013 marked the second year of Ahold With over 3,000 stores and a serving area In order to meet community needs, we have 2013, leading to several regions USA’s “Our Family Foundation” and of almost 70 million people, Ahold has a committed to: being declared to be in a state of the Charitable Vendor Partnership. real opportunity to play a role in increasing emergency. In total, Albert had to Thanks to the support of our partners, M  easure and report on the number close five stores in the northwestern well-being in the communities we serve. part of the country temporarily. the Foundation donated almost Knowing and meeting the needs of the of stores participating in at least one $13 million in 2013 – a recordIn Prague, where many Albert stores neighborhoods surrounding our stores – whether community well-being event per year operate, the damage was extensive, breaking amount. These monies are funding cancer research and pediatric through community events or through donations – but several stores in the city were Measure and report on our donations cancer hospitals, local Children’s kept open with a limited assortment. can make a real difference to those communities. As a result of tremendous efforts by Miracle Network Hospitals, grassroots Forging good relationships with the members of In 2013, 1,243 of our supermarkets were programs that support children’s health the teams at Albert, even while their and nutrition, and programs to alleviate our communities also improves our reputation as involved in national community well-being own lives and families were affected by child hunger by reaching more food a retailer and makes us a better neighbor. events. We donated almost €55 million to a the flooding, they were able to open 90 days of giving insecure children with healthy meals range of causes focusing on helping children all the stores with a full assortment In celebration of the Giant Carlisle throughout our U.S. operating areas. By communities, we refer to the people in within a few days. Albert also gave division’s 90th anniversary in 2013, and building healthy communities. This adds support to the Red Cross, which was Special donations were also made the areas directly surrounding our stores. the division expanded on its “Living this year to One Fund Boston to aid up to over €220 million over the past five years. leading the emergency response Different stores have different reach – from the Here, Giving Here” community support victims of the Boston Marathon and Our total donations fell in 2013 due to exchange efforts. The company donated bottled program with 90 days of giving. In the Washington, D.C. Navy Yard tragedies. smallest to-go stores to the largest superstores. water, dry food and detergent to help rate differences. For Ahold USA, donations spirit of being a better neighbor, stores The size of our community reach is also different in those affected. included money from customers, suppliers and conducted at least one random act of Europe compared to the United States. kindness throughout the summer and associates as well as directly from the company; into early fall. These acts focused on we also use “Our Family Foundation” to support helping eradicate hunger, improving important local causes to strengthen the fabric of the lives of children, or building healthy our communities. communities. They included hosting an event to distribute free school supplies to Contributions and donations children, providing water donations to € thousand local firemen and women, raising more than $3,000 to rebuild a local park 56,219 54,544 destroyed by arson, donating supplies to a homeless shelter, and handing out © Oranje Fonds, Bart Homburg healthy snacks at the grand re-opening 41,003 of a park. A total of $81,000 was also 33,305 39,332 Royal donation donated to nine regional food bank Ahold made a donation of €125,000 partners towards ongoing hunger to the Oranje Fonds’ program to give relief efforts. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 opportunities to young people, in the presence of Queen Máxima, patroness of the Oranje Fonds. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 32 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Community well-being Recognition for Fighting hunger Our progress on our targets hunger relief in the U.S. While many people in the areas where we operate To support people who have difficulty in accessing In November 2013, Ahold have access to affordable, nutritious food, some food, and to reduce food waste from unsold USA and its divisions were still do not. The number of people making use of products, we have committed to: recognized by the U.S. food banks is rising in the communities we serve. Environmental Protection At the same time, food waste is an increasingly Measure and report on food donations Agency (EPA) for food to food banks donations equivalent to hot topic. more than 12 million meals in 2012. EPA has also We have an opportunity to help fight hunger In 2013, we donated over €23 million worth of recognized Ahold USA for by making food donations to support our local products to food banks – an increase of 8.1% its efforts to reduce food communities. We also have a responsibility compared to 2012. Over waste. “The Food Recovery to minimize food waste – not only from an Challenge benefits families environmental perspective but also from a in need, helps grocers Value of food donated to food banks 8,500 reduce costs, supplies financial one. We therefore donate safe, leftover € thousand badly needed donations food from our distribution centers and stores to to organizations like the regional food banks. Ahold USA 21,378 Central Pennsylvania Food kilograms of food donated The Netherlands 1,497 Bank, and helps to create through Albert's “Food Czech Republic 199 green jobs,” EPA regional Helps” initiative administrator Shawn Garvin said. National Food Collection in the Czech Republic In November 2013, 100 grocery stores across the Czech Republic, including 25 Albert compact hypers, hosted National Food Collection events. National Food Collection is a pilot project from the “Food helps” initiative organized by Business for Society, a professional platform of companies with the aim to share and spread sustainable Food bank and responsible practices. The aim is to create discussion support in and find solutions to food shortage on the one hand, and food waste on the other. In stores, customers were able the Netherlands to buy food and directly donate it to help people in need In the Netherlands, Albert in the community. Afterwards, the donated food was sent Heijn makes regular to food banks, where it is distributed to those in need – donations to local food Albert donated 8,606 kilograms of food through the events. banks from its distribution centers – in 2013, this was over 800,000 products. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 33 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Community well-being Recess Snack Week Educating children at Dutch schools In May 2013, Albert Heijn’s annual “Ik To see Childhood obesity and malnutrition are eet het beter” (I eat better) campaign more about Ik eet increasing health issues. We have an kicked off in the Netherlands with “Ik eet het beter”, het various initiatives to encourage children beter opportunity to play a leading role in educating watch a video on to lead a healthy lifestyle. A total of www.ahold.com children about healthy eating and how to lead a 347,233 children took part overall. healthy lifestyle. New for the 2013 program, one week in September was “Recess Snack Week” for almost 250,000 elementary Our progress on our targets Ondersteund door het school students. Albert Heijn provided Voedingscentrum healthy snacks for the new school year To do this, we have committed to: for the first four days of the week, and Fighting Child Hunger grants challenged students to come up with  easure and report on the number of M In 2013, Ahold USA launched a new three-year initiative to their own healthy snack on the fifth day. children educated as part of our healthy distribute $9 million in Fighting Child Hunger grants from its living programs “Our Family Foundation.” It aims to alleviate child hunger Healthy cookery competition by reaching more food insecure children with healthy meals. Albert’s Healthy 5 program in the Czech Republic launched As part of this initiative, grants were awarded to 21 regional a new cookery competition called “Golden Coins in the In 2013, we educated over 800,000 children food banks served by Ahold USA’s Stop & Shop New Kitchen” in February 2013. The competition was designed globally on healthy living – an increase of 53% England, Stop & Shop New York Metro and Giant Landover for primary school pupils and children aged 11 and older compared to 2012. divisions. These grants target communities with significant from children’s homes. Golden Coins in the Kitchen was the need to provide healthy meals to children through child care, first in a series of talent shows organized by Healthy 5, aiming after school, mobile pantries and summer programs, as to raise children’s interest in healthy food and the preparation Number of children educated well as other innovative approaches. Among the recipients of simple meals using healthy ingredients. 513 children took in healthy living was Long Island Cares, Inc. – The Harry Chapin Food Bank part in the competition during 2013. in the Stop & Shop New York Metro division. With their 804,842 Fighting Child Hunger grant, the organization has been able to expand its Kids Café program to provide more nutritious 527,283 meals and snacks to children who have no safe after-school 233,451 389,264 environment. The grant has provided Long Island Cares with 337,177 much-needed kitchen equipment and other supplies to now Cash for schools serve meals, instead of only snacks. For the 2012-2013 school year, $9 mln 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Ahold USA’s four retail divisions donated $7.5 million to more than 7,000 schools through its “A+ School Rewards” program, which allows local schools to earn cash for technology, scholarships, school in Fighting Child Hunger Grants distributed in programs, field trips, playgrounds, and other three-year initiative educational needs. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 34 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Community well-being The data € thousand 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Contributions Ahold USA 50,592 52,181 37,098 36,283 30,961 and donations1 The Netherlands Czech Republic 3,255 697 3,262 776 3,085 820 2,089 960 1,890 454 Total 54,544 56,219 41,003 39,332 33,305 1 Including food bank donations. The data € thousand 2013 2012 Value of food donated Ahold USA 21,378 19,492 to food banks The Netherlands Czech Republic 1,497 199 1,781 72 Total 23,074 21,345 The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of Ahold USA 310,369 56,562 29,537 31,871 30,157 children educated The Netherlands Czech Republic 347,233 147,240 374,283 96,438 305,139 54,588 297,306 8,000 200,000 3,294 in healthy living1 Total 804,842 527,283 389,264 337,177 233,451 1 All businesses have web-based programs that include estimates of the number of children educated based on the number of downloads of the program. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 35 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Our people Engaging our associates Our progress on our targets Our businesses, if combined, would represent To do this, we committed to: one of the world’s largest employers. Report on our progress on Globally, Ahold and its brands employ around associate engagement Career development and talent monitoring tool 222,000 people, with almost 22,000 of During the reporting year, we rolled out a new performance management our associates working at Ahold companies for In 2013, all of our businesses conducted one system across the entire Ahold Group. The tool facilitates career development 67% 20 years or more. Every time a new supermarket for our associates, and enables them to focus on their talents so they can consistently aligned associate engagement survey opens in the U.S. or Europe, we create over 100 reach their full potential. that reached all 222,000 of our associates. jobs, bringing positive economic impact to the of associates The purpose of the survey was to measure communities around our stores. engaged engagement against multiple dimensions, Our people are our most important asset. It is including our Group-wide “better every day” their hard work and commitment that drives promises, and how we can improve in the future Ahold to succeed in reshaping retail. It’s therefore by sharing and acting on these results. crucial that we engage with them. Engaged, Globally, 170,640 associates participated in our satisfied associates are known to perform better. engagement survey, with an overall engagement We therefore seek out and value feedback rate of 67%. Across the company, we distributed from associates. posters to stores and distribution centers showing the main results of the survey, including the three highest scoring questions and the three lowest scoring questions. Associates participated in a process to create action plans across stores, distribution centers and support office departments globally. Potential points for improvement came out of the surveys, including working on development opportunities for our associates. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 36 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Our people Learning and Providing a better Providing good working conditions working go hand-in-hand place to work Healthy associates are likely to have more energy, have lower absenteeism, and are likely to be Around 1,500 young We constantly strive to be a better place to work better able to meet our strategic objectives. people are following for our associates. We aim to create workplaces Albert Heijn's vocational We therefore encourage our associates to lead learning program, built on fairness, respect and safety, and we value healthier lifestyles by putting in place healthy available at four different diversity at all levels in the organization. Just as living programs. levels. Another 1,500 importantly, we encourage our associates to lead young people are taking healthier, more sustainable lifestyles the opportunity to develop Creating opportunities to develop themselves in an internship Managers at Ahold endeavor to understand at Albert Heijn. Wajongers Respecting each other the career interests of their associates, and offer target reached Ahold’s global Code of Conduct reflects our constructive advice and feedback. We offer Free homework classes In March 2013, Albert commitment to workplaces characterized by training and education to promote growth and An Albert Heijn store in Amsterdam has been offering Heijn reached its target mutual respect, equal opportunities, and freedom to employ at least one career development. free homework classes for its associates since late 2011 to “Wajonger” (young To see more about from discrimination and harassment. Local tollsupport young people in successfully completing their school our homework person with a disability) free ethics helplines are available for associates Supporting our associates work alongside having a part-time job. Following the success classes and Ahold’s in all company-owned to report any concerns about possible violations of the pilot, the number of participating stores rose to 19 academies, watch stores in the Netherlands. Ahold's managers strive to coach and support in 2013, and from January 2014 no less than 25 stores in our videos on of the Code or improper behavior, and Ahold At the end of the reporting their associates to make our businesses better Amsterdam are offering homework help. www.ahold.com year, there were over 600 companies commit to investigating such reports places to work. Associates are also potential Wajongers active. and taking appropriate action. ambassadors for responsible retailing. They are We respect associates’ legal rights, including the ones who are directly talking to the customers, the rights of associates to bargain collectively, colleagues and communities where they Helping operations and standards regarding freedom of association work. So it’s important that we involve them in managers become outlined in the United Nations Global Compact. sustainability programs in our stores, distribution better leaders For information about Ahold’s relations with labor centers and offices, too. Ahold’s academies help district and store managers gain the knowledge unions, see the Tackling the material issues section. they need to be better leaders. Recognizing performance In 2013, European operations A diverse workforce is important for Ahold companies to create successful teams, and we We aim to create an environment where managers participated in our U.S. performance is measured, recognized and academies to stimulate the exchange implement programs that support inclusion. of best practices across the continents, We work to foster an environment where all encouraged, so that our associates are able to and knowledge was shared among all three programs in the associates can demonstrate their abilities, skills perform to the best of their abilities and meet U.S., the Netherlands and the Czech Republic. Close to 200 and experiences. their potential. district and store managers went through these leadership training programs during the year. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 37 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Our people Energy saving Our progress on our targets at work In the Czech Republic, In order to provide a better place to work, Albert introduced an we committed to: energy-saving information campaign, called “At  eport on our progress on associate R work as at home,” to participation in healthy living programs encourage all associates to save energy and Report on our progress on rolling out decrease CO2 emissions. sustainability programs At stores, distribution centers and the support office, posters inform During 2013, over 27,000 participants across associates of “Albert’s all our businesses took part in healthy living energy 10 commandments” with rules and examples. Running to fight cancer programs. In the Netherlands, this is via the These include turning off In October 2013, Ahold associates in the Netherlands Fit & Fun program (see case study), and in the lights (saving stores a participated in the Amsterdam Marathon to raise money the U.S. via the Healthy Ideas for Associates potential CZK 2,000 a for the VUmc Cancer Center Amsterdam (CCA). program. We continued to make progress month) and closing doors The participants were sponsored by their families and friends on our sustainability programs for associates, on coolers (saving stores and raised a total of €5,979. Around 65 of Albert Heijn’s a potential CZK 3,000 supplier partners also generously sponsored the marathon, including the Green Captains program in the a month). collectively donating over €50,000. In total, Ahold presented U.S. and the energy saving at work program in a check for €57,349 to the VUmc CCA to support the battle the Czech Republic. against cancer. Associate Volunteer Program Ahold USA launched an Associate Volunteer Program in March 2013, distributing grants that support eligible hunger relief programs based on associate volunteerism. By the Green Captains program simple act of volunteering, either individually or as a team, At the Ahold USA divisions, the Green Captains program continued to champion associates can help a food bank / affiliate organization and drive responsible retailing activities at store level. The contributions of our receive a grant from the Our Family Foundation to fight child store associates were among the factors that led to recognition by the U.S. hunger. Donations of $150 for 10 hours of voluntary service Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for our efforts to donate consumable food and are made directly to the regional food bank partner. In 2013, reduce food waste. The Green Captains program is continuously refreshed to ensure more than 200 associates participated in the Associate responsible retailing is part of our daily operations. Volunteer Program. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 38 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Our people The data thousands 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of employees Ahold USA1 117 121 117 116 113 The Netherlands2 94 93 89 84 80 Czech Republic and Slovakia 11 11 12 12 13 Total 222 225 218 213 206 1 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and the Ahold USA support organization. 2 Includes Albert Heijn, Etos, Gall & Gall, bol.com and the European support offices. The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Percentage of workforce Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time by contract type1 Ahold USA2 The Netherlands3 28 13 72 87 28 13 72 87 29 14 71 86 30 14 70 86 30 16 70 84 Czech Republic4 53 47 68 32 67 33 74 26 73 27 1 Contract type based on local definition. 2 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and Ahold USA support organization. 3 Includes Albert Heijn, Etos and Gall & Gall. 4 2008–2012 figures include Slovakia. The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Percentage of workforce Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male by gender Ahold USA1 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 The Netherlands2 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 Czech Republic3 81 19 81 19 80 20 80 20 80 20 1 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and Ahold USA support organization. 2 Includes Albert Heijn, Etos and Gall & Gall. 3 2008–2012 figures include Slovakia. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 39 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Our people The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Percentage of <19 20> 30> 40> 29 39 49 50+ <19 20> 30> 40> 29 39 49 50+ <19 20> 30> 40> 29 39 49 50+ <19 20> 30> 40> 29 39 49 50+ <19 20> 30> 40> 29 39 49 50+ workforce by age Ahold USA1 12 29 13 16 30 16 28 13 16 27 14 28 13 17 28 16 26 13 18 27 17 25 14 18 26 The Netherlands2 56 23 6 8 7 57 22 7 8 6 57 21 8 8 6 58 20 8 8 6 58 19 8 9 6 Czech Republic3 1 23 30 25 21 7 28 25 21 19 1 23 30 24 22 1 23 30 24 22 1 23 29 24 23 1 Ahold USA comprises four retail divisions – Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and Ahold USA support organization. 2 Includes Albert Heijn, Etos and Gall & Gall. 3 2008–2012 figures include Slovakia. The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Composition of Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Ahold’s leadership Executive Committee 2 5 0 4 0 4 1 4 1 4 Supervisory Board 2 5 2 6 2 6 3 5 3 5 Total 4 10 2 10 2 10 4 9 4 9 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 40 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products Working with Understanding Our progress on our targets local produce suppliers our supply chain To ensure food safety, we have set the following Ahold USA has longAt Ahold, we believe it is important to understand global target: standing relationships with our supply chain in order to ensure our own-brand local produce suppliers in Ensure that 80% of our own-brand food the communities they serve. products are safe, and are produced with respect As part of this relationship, for people, animals and the environment. suppliers are certified against Global in 2013 Ahold USA trained Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) recognized 114 local produce suppliers Understanding our supply chain is a complex standards by 2012 and 33 general suppliers task, as we sell a wide range of own-brand to promote continuous products in which thousands of suppliers and awareness, and to reinforce related production sites are involved. At the end At the end of 2013, 93% of our own-brand food our expectation, of suppliers in Europe had been certified against compliance with GFSIof 2013, we estimated that almost 100% of our recognized standards. last-stage production sites had been mapped. a GFSI-recognized standard – an increase of By this, we mean the last stage in our supply chain 9% compared to 2012. In the U.S., 81% of our where our own-brand products are manufactured own-brand food sales came from suppliers that 114 or produced. had been certified against a GFSI-recognized standard – an increase of 11% compared to 2012. Ensuring product safety Food and non-food safety is critically important to Ahold. We therefore require our food suppliers to comply with standards beyond those that are legally local produce required. Our food suppliers are expected to be suppliers trained Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certified. For our Food safety (GFSI) non-food suppliers, we take a different, risk-based percentage of own-brand food suppliers GFSI certified approach. For suppliers of high-risk products, we require a third-party audit or certification. For suppliers of lowand medium-risk products, we request safety assurance in the form of product 93% 81% European U.S. laboratory tests and product inspection reports businesses businesses confirming legal compliance and specific additional Ahold safety requirements. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 41 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products Improving social compliance Our progress on our targets At the end of 2013, for Europe, 66% of our laststage production sites in high-risk countries had The International Labour Organization (ILO) To make sure our products are produced been audited against BSCI or equivalent standards conventions set out international requirements with respect for people, we have set the – an increase of 18% compared to 2012. For the relating to child labor, forced labor, discrimination, following target: U.S., 36% of our last-stage production sites in compensation, working hours, and other high-risk countries had been audited against BSCI labor conditions.  nsure that 100% of our own-brand E or equivalent standards – an increase of 14% suppliers in high-risk countries are compared to 2012. As an international retailer, we play a role in audited on social compliance by 2012 improving working conditions in the supply chain Many suppliers comply with social standards that of our products. We therefore have Standards are not BSCI-compliant; Ahold considers these to of Engagement in place for all our suppliers, In order to meet this target, the production sites of be an interim step. When taking into account these which are publicly available on our website, these suppliers are required to undergo a social social compliance standards, the percentage of www.ahold.com. In addition, we require our audit according to the Business Social Compliance last-stage production sites that have been audited own-brand suppliers in high-risk countries1, to Initiative (BSCI) or an equivalent standard is 82% for Europe (up 21% compared to 2012) be audited on social compliance to ensure developed on the basis of the ILO conventions. and 74% for the U.S. (up 13% compared to 2012). Albert Heijn Foundation acceptable working conditions. If breaches in the BSCI’s code of conduct are The Albert Heijn Foundation aims to 1 The classification of a high-risk country is based on the Human reported by an auditor, we require an improvement Social compliance percentage of suppliers in improve the livelihoods of, and Development Index of the United Nations and the Corruption program from the supplier, and trade with that high-risk countries audited on social compliance relationships with, Albert Heijn’s Perceptions Index of Transparency International. supplier may be suspended until the issues are African fruit and vegetable remedied, depending on the severity suppliers, their families and communities. of the breaches. The Foundation’s focus For more is on improving social information, For more information on BSCI, including their code 82% and labor conditions at of conduct against which suppliers are audited, visit read the 74% our supplier sites, as well www.bsci-intl.org as investing funds in local AH Foundation 66% projects in education, Report (in Dutch) housing and medical care. Currently, 13 suppliers from six countries, making up 35% 36% of the volume of fruit and vegetables we source from Africa, are involved in the Foundation. In 2014 and 2015, we intend to expand the program with new suppliers in existing and new African countries. European businesses U.S. businesses Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 42 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products Percentage of own-brand sales Focusing on critical commodities Our progress on our targets with certified commodities In improving the sustainability of our own-brand products, we pay particular attention to six critical To ensure that the critical commodities we use commodities, namely: coffee, tea, cocoa, soy, palm oil, and seafood. in our own-brand products are produced with These are basic ingredients or generic products that potentially have an adverse impact on several respect for people, animals and the environment, 79% 85% we have set the following target: Coffee Tea sustainability issues at the beginning of the supply chain, including deforestation, soil erosion, poor labor conditions, loss of natural habitats, degradation of water quality, agro-chemical use, pesticide use and Source 100% of the six critical loss of biodiversity. commodities for own-brand products Standards we accept (as well as their equivalents) for each critical commodity include those shown in the in accordance with industry certification following table: standards by 2015 Rainforest 35% 0% UTZ Certified Fairtrade Alliance MSC ASC RSPO RTRS Cocoa Soy At the end of 2013, 79% coffee, 85% tea, 35% Coffee X X X cocoa, 0% soy, 0% palm oil, and 25% seafood Tea X X X were sourced according to accepted industry certification standards. All percentages are based Cocoa X X X on sales of our own brands. Soy X Palm oil X When taking into account seafood standards other than Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) 100% 0% Certifeld Segregated Seafood X X and Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC), the palm oil palm oil percentage of sustainable seafood sales is 33% for Europe (up 15% compared to 2012) and 48% Ahold is a member of the Roundtable for Currently, therefore, 100% of our estimated for the U.S. (up 25% compared to 2012). Ahold is Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). While in the past, palm oil use (in 2013, 4,000 tons) is offset using implementing the Global Seafood Sustainability we have offset all palm oil used in our ownGreenPalm certificates. brand products through purchasing GreenPalm Initiative (GSSI) to increase transparency among the variety of seafood certification programs for 25%1 Ahold is a member of the Round Table on Seafood certificates, we are now trying to encourage wild and farmed seafood products. Responsible Soy (RTRS), which supports the our suppliers to move to segregated certified responsible production and trade of soy. In the sustainable palm oil so that we can be assured that Netherlands, the supply chains of animal-derived the certified oil is actually used in our products. products have agreed on a transition plan 1 W  hen taking into account seafood standards other than MSC This effort is not yet reflected in this report, as we towards certified sustainable soy, so that all the soy and ASC, the percentage of cerfified seafood sales rises to 39%. cannot yet directly link the amount of segregated for our own-brand products in the Netherlands will palm oil to products with 100% accuracy. be sustainable by 2015. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 43 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products Certified coffee and tea in the “Over the last seven years, U.S. the Rainforest Alliance has The Ahold USA divisions been working with tea farmers are the first retailers in the large and small to improve their social and environmental U.S. to offer own-brand management practices. We’re teas featuring the Rainforest thrilled that Ahold USA has Alliance certified seal. become a leader in sustainable They are also pioneering tea sourcing among retailers in in the country to offer UTZ the U.S. with its own brands.” Certified coffee in their ownAlex Morgan, sr. brand product ranges. manager sustainable agriculture, Rainforest Alliance “We are excited to welcome Ahold USA as part of the UTZ Certified coffee program. With the commitment of Ahold USA, UTZ Certified reaches a new milestone, endorsing the sustainability efforts Deforestation resolution of this quality supermarket chain in the U.S., and creating opportunities Ahold supports the Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF) for coffee producers worldwide to resolution on deforestation. The farming of commodities better market their product and like soy and palm oil, and the production of paper, can improve their livelihoods.” result in deforestation. By sourcing these commodities and Juliette Caulkins, managing director business development products more sustainably, the members of the board of Americas, UTZ Certified sustainability program the CGF pledged to work together to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 44 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products Animal welfare Analyzing risks to ensure Our progress on our targets agreement on chicken more sustainable products To ensure more sustainable products, we set the In the Netherlands, Albert following target: Heijn’s meat range carries In addition to the critical commodities, in 2013 we (where applicable) the reviewed our own-brand products for the social, Map the environmental footprint “Beter Leven” (better environmental and animal welfare risks involved in of 50% of our own-brand suppliers life) label from the their production. and their supply chains by 2015 Dierenbescherming (Dutch animal welfare society) denoting how animalWhen this target was set, we were looking at friendly the meat is, by using ways to map the footprint of our suppliers in a three-star system. In 2012, concerns were raised about detail. We have recognized that we can have the way regular chicken is a greater impact if we focus on so-called “hot produced. In 2013, all links spots” linked not only to environmental but also in the poultry chain, from to social and animal welfare issues. We therefore farmers to supermarkets, no longer report on this target. Instead, our U.S. reached an agreement to and European businesses made an analysis of improve animal welfare and living conditions for all their own-brand assortment in order to identify regular chickens that are the potential risks linked to environmental, social sold in Dutch supermarkets, and animal-welfare issues in our own-brand including Albert Heijn. product supply chain. This analysis helps to For more information, visit set policies and improve the sustainability for the Albert Heijn website. those products. At Ahold, we are concerned about the wellbeing of the animals involved in the production Towards sustainable pork products of our products. At a minimum, we require local Ahold USA conducted a review of the issue of gestation crates laws and regulations concerning the treatment versus open-pen housing for pregnant sows over the course of animals to be met, and we are working with of several months during the reporting year. Ahold USA the industry to raise the level of animal welfare encourages its suppliers to move from the daily use of gestation crates to open housing by 2022. The timeframe will vary from above what is legally required. farm to farm. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 45 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products Improving packaging kkReduce: our first priority is to reduce the weight Our progress on our targets and volume of packaging without negatively sustainability affecting the quality of the product. It also We therefore committed to: Packaging is a key component of our own-brand includes reducing food waste by developing Report on the number of products and fulfils several functions, one of which packaging that increases shelf life and avoids products reviewed against our is to deliver the products in optimal condition to losses during transport. 4R packaging guidelines our customers, while reducing waste in the supply kkRe-use: our second priority is to make our chain and improving shelf life. packaging re-usable, re-fillable or re-closable, During the reporting year, we reviewed 582 We want to minimize the environmental impact where possible, to reduce waste. products against these guidelines. of our own-brand packaging throughout its kkRecycle: our third priority is to use recycled entire lifecycle – from raw material to disposal material in packaging as much as possible, – without harming the protective function of the as well as to make it easier to recycle the packaging. In 2012, we therefore developed a packaging used. This includes using singleglobal approach with guidelines for sustainable material packaging instead of multiple own-brand packaging, which includes a materials, or ensuring that materials are easy packaging improvement program for each to separate. business. Starting in 2013, new and updated ownbrand products are measured against our “4R” kkRenew: finally, we use renewable and certifiedpackaging guidelines: sustainable materials where possible, such as Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC) certified Making packaging lighter paper, when recycled materials are not feasible In 2013, Ahold USA’s Own Brands Sourcing team worked or available. with their supplier partner, Clement Pappas, to reduce the packaging of their own-brand range of juices. In accordance with the 4R packaging guidelines, the products were made lighter by 12% across the bottle and cap. The new packaging began being phased in from September 2013 onward. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 46 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products The data percentage of own-brand food suppliers GFSI certified 2013 2012 Food safety (GFSI) U.S. businesses1 European businesses2 81 93 70 84 1 For our U.S. businesses, the percentage is calculated as a percentage of sales. 2 For our European businesses, the percentage is calculated as a percentage of suppliers. The data percentage of suppliers in high-risk countries audited on social compliance 20131 2012 Social compliance U.S. businesses 36 22 European businesses 66 48 1 When taking into account social standards other than BSCI, equivalent or recently expired programs, the percentage of suppliers that have been audited rises to 74% for our U.S. businesses and 82% for our European businesses. The data percentage of sales certified against industry standards1 2013 2012 Critical commodities Coffee Tea 79 85 83 82 Cocoa 35 32 Palm oil 0 0 Soy 0 0 Seafood2 25 14 1 The percentage of each critical commodity that is sustainably sourced is the percentage of sales that have been certified based on key products within selected categories in the Netherlands, Czech Republic and Ahold USA. See Reporting process for the list of key products and associated categories. 2 When taking into account seafood standards other than Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC), the percentage of certified seafood sales rises to 39%. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 47 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Responsible products The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of FairtradeAhold USA1 272 251 160 NR NR certified products at The Netherlands Czech Republic 134 12 127 4 141 0 96 0 67 0 year-end Total 418 382 301 NR NR 1 2009–2010 data for Ahold USA has not been reported due to duplication of products among the different divisions. The data 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Number of certified Ahold USA 1 4,333 3,821 2,916 NR NR organic products at The Netherlands Czech Republic 500 284 526 262 447 299 407 332 304 462 year-end Total 5,117 4,609 3,662 NR NR 1 2009–2010 data for Ahold USA has not been reported due to duplication of products among the different divisions. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 48 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Care for the environment LEED-ing the way Reducing CO2 emissions Our progress on our targets Ahold USA continues to lead the way among grocery retailers in building greener Climate change remains an important global We have therefore set the following target in stores, with a total of 60 of its retail division issue. As an international retailer, we not only relation to our energy consumption: stores that have Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification. have a responsibility for our own operations, Awarded by the U.S. Green Building but there is also an opportunity to encourage Reduce CO2 per square meter of sales Council (USGBC), the nationally accepted customers and suppliers to play their part. area by 20% in our operations by 2015 benchmark for the design, construction, Reducing our CO2 emissions is good for the against our 2008 baseline and operation of high-performance green environment as well as having financial benefits buildings, Ahold USA has more LEED37 certified stores than any grocer in the for our company. Using less energy results in lower United States. At the end of 2013, we have achieved a 16.8% operational costs. reduction in CO2 emissions at Ahold businesses since 2008 – 159,000 metric tons. stores in the U.S. have solar panels Solar energy CO2 emissions At the end of 2013, 37 of our stores in the U.S. have solar panels to generate kg per sq. m. of sales area renewable solar energy and reduce regular electricity usage from fossil fuels, up from 30 in 2012. Ahold USA 514 The Netherlands 281 LED lighting at distribution centers Czech Republic 553 During the reporting year, the lighting at almost all our distribution centers (DCs) in the Netherlands (excluding the Zaandam DC) was replaced with LED lighting. This saved almost one million kWh in 2013, and is expected to save around eight million kWh per year going forward. At Ahold Cooling, heating and lighting USA, LED lighting both inside and outside the stores is in 8 Electricity efficiency the process of being implemented. Electricity consumption is the biggest contributor kWh per sq. m. of sales area to our CO2 emissions, forming 52% of our total 900 emissions. Reducing our electricity consumption million kWh per year expected 700 to be saved at our distribution is one of the main drivers in reducing our CO2 centers in the Netherlands by emissions. In 2013, our electricity consumption 500 using LED lighting was 644 kWh per square meter – a decrease of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2.3% compared to 2012. Ahold USA The Netherlands Czech Republic Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 49 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Care for the environment Improving our refrigeration systems Refrigerant leakage Fuel To manage our refrigerant leakage, we take both preventive and Refrigerant leakage contributes to approximately Fuel consumption contributes to approximately diagnostic measures. Albert Heijn is piloting trans-critical systems, 26% of our total CO2 emissions. In 2013, our 11% of our total CO2 emissions. Fuel consumption using CO2 as a natural alternative refrigerant substance. There are currently three stores piloting these systems in the Netherlands. leakage was 11.3% – an increase of 0.1% is influenced by the distance traveled by, and the compared to 2012, due to some significant efficiency of, our delivery trucks. We therefore Ahold USA has installed single-loop systems in six new stores in unforeseen leaks in the U.S. use sophisticated tools to plan our daily store 2013 to prevent refrigerant leakage, which decreases the amount of substance used from an average of 3,500 pounds into an deliveries. This includes both the routes our trucks Refrigerant leakage average of 1,500 pounds. Our U.S. stores are also installing leak take and the load factor of the trucks. In 2013, our detectors to identify leaks as quickly as possible, and plan to pilot percentage of high GWP substances average fuel consumption was 4.7 liters per 1,000 a trans-critical system in 2014. Ahold USA is also looking for more 14.3 products sold – equal to 2012. environmentally friendly solutions for the refrigerants used in the 13.6 12.9 currently installed systems. 12.5 Fuel consumption 11.2 11.3 liters per 1,000 products sold 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 5.1 4.9 5.1 4.9 4.7 4.7 Healthy Homes Program saves energy Gas In collaboration with Next Step Living, the Stop & Shop New Gas consumption contributes to approximately England division set up information stands in 88 stores, 10% of our total CO2 emissions. We use gas which resulted in over 8,000 customers signing up for the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Healthy Homes Program. This free program helps families in for heating our stores and distribution centers. Massachusetts reduce energy usage at home, provides free In 2013, our gas consumption was 23.1 cubic products to help families save money, and includes a whole meters per square meter – an increase of 6.0% house energy assessment and health and safety inspection compared to 2012, due to the cold weather of the home. conditions during the reporting year. Integrated cooling, freezing Truck-fleet Gas consumption and heating system innovations cubic meters per sq. m. of sales area In the Netherlands, new and remodeled In the Netherlands, the 24.1 24.6 Albert Heijn stores are fitted with an integrated truck fleet used for making 23.8 23.3 23.1 21.8 cooling, freezing and heating system, which deliveries has energymeans that no gas is needed in these stores efficient engines and at all. The system uses CO2 as a refrigerant aerodynamic skirts. In the substance for freezing. It also uses waste heat case of some journeys, produced during the refrigeration cycle to heat electric trucks are used. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the store. At the end of 2013, the system was in place at 262 stores (2012: 222 stores). Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 50 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Care for the environment Meat donations to U.S. food banks Reducing waste Plastic bags In 2012, Ahold USA’s divisions set up a Consumable Food Taskforce Reducing plastic bag usage is one of the best to redirect unsold, consumable food to regional food bank partners It is estimated that about one third of the total to help fight hunger. Giant Carlisle stores piloted the “Meat the ways in which we can encourage customers to global food production is wasted. At the same Needs” program to donate much-needed frozen meat. Using the waste less plastic. In all our European brands, findings from this pilot, they conducted a thorough analysis of the cost time, many people do not have access to we have eliminated free disposable bags at of the unsold product, mileage and labor. In its first year, the Meat affordable, nutritious food. We therefore have the checkout. the Needs program at Giant Carlisle cost an estimated $200,000. an opportunity to try to reduce waste from two By comparison, that investment translated into a $15 million donation perspectives – caring for the environment and in meat. At the end of 2013, all four divisions now participate in the contributing to the community. Our progress on our targets “Meat the Needs” program, with regional food banks receiving meat donations on a weekly basis. In 2013, they donated more than Food waste For Ahold USA, we have set the following target: $28 million in food products from stores that would have otherwise been thrown away. Food waste is an inevitable side effect of our business, and we strive to produce as little food R  educe the amount of disposable To see more about our meat donation program, waste as possible. However, there is always a bags at the checkout in the United States watch a video on www.ahold.com by one billion bags by 2015 >$28 mln balance to be struck between product availability, shelf life and changing customer demand. Although the impact that supermarkets themselves In 2013, the Ahold USA divisions reduced the donated in food products from have on waste in the supply chain is limited, number of disposable bags by 293 million bags stores that would have otherwise we recognize the role we can play in helping compared to the 2011 baseline. been thrown away in 2013 our customers save money and reduce their environmental impact. Good for food waste, Total waste by type waistlines and wallets Our progress on our targets percentage of total waste During the reporting year, Albert Heijn worked together with the Voedingscentrum (Dutch food In 2012 we, developed a Group metric to center) to find a solution to the issue of food waste measure food waste, and we continued to during cooking. As a result, during one week in improve the accuracy of this measurement in February 2014, customers buying own-brand pasta 2013. Our total food waste was between 1 and or rice from Albert Heijn were given a free measuring cup to make it easier to prepare and eat the right 2% of total sales in 2013. amount of pasta or rice. Albert Heijn distributed 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 one million measuring cups during the campaign, Organic Metal enabling customers to cook more efficiently for their Cardboard Plastic wallets, their waistlines, and their waste levels. Wood Other Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 51 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Care for the environment 758 Managing Customer communications Landfill our water During the reporting year, we focused on The waste we produce needs to be disposed of, and consumption customer communications about reducing waste. we strive to do this in as environmentally friendly a way In the areas where we operate as possible. The methods we use to dispose of our stores, water availability is not waste are re-using, recycling, recovering, fermenting, yet a big concern. However, we expect water to become Our progress on our targets composting, incinerating and sending our waste to stores were part of the organic a more important issue in the landfill facilities. Landfill is the most harmful waste recycling program at the end of 2013 future. In addition, water is an To encourage our customers to reduce their own disposal method for the environment. important topic for some of our waste production, we have set the following target: suppliers. We have therefore Ensure that all businesses have included water as an indicator in implemented a communication policy to Our progress on our targets our risk analysis for responsible products, and have identified encourage customers to reduce, re-use We therefore set the following target: hotspots in our supply chain for and recycle by 2013 water usage. Eliminate landfill as a disposal Waste recycling programs In addition to our efforts in our supply chains and method by 2020 Ahold USA has taken further steps in 2013 to better separate different types of waste, enabling them to send the various waste streams to different disposal facilities. At the Albert Heijn launched our own operations, our businesses’ packaging end of 2013, 758 stores were part of the organic recycling program. The “Single In 2013, 58% of our waste was re-used, recycled, the Voedingscentrum's guide policies and food waste reduction programs Stream Recycling” program for aluminum cans, glass bottles and jars, plastic bottles for customers, containing tips include communication initiatives to our customers or recovered, while 17% went to landfill. We have and containers, and mixed papers is now in place at 17 Giant Carlisle stores, 30 Giant on how to conserve food and to help them to reduce their environmental impact. reduced the amount of waste going to landfill by Landover stores, three Stop & Shop New England stores, and two Stop & Shop New York reduce waste. In 2013, all our businesses executed initiatives 2% compared to 2012. Metro stores. The intention is to roll out the program to all stores in 2014. The entire Stop & Shop New England division has rolled out a wax cardboard recycling program, which under these programs. In the Netherlands and is also being piloted at the Giant Carlisle division. Czech Republic, these focused on reducing food Total waste by disposal method waste, while in the U.S. these focused on reducing percentage of total waste Waste separation the use of plastic bags and returning used plastic in the Czech Republic bags to our stores for recycling. In the Czech Republic, Albert participates in the “Responsible Company” project that seeks to promote corporate responsibility when it comes to waste separation. In 2012, Albert supported the take-back and recycling of 4,073 tons of packaging waste. Through operating and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 servicing 2,691 containers for waste paper, Re-used, recycled or recovered waste Incinerated waste glass, plastic and beverage cartons, as well Fermented waste Landfill waste as 19 collection points for metal packaging, Albert made waste separation possible for over Compost waste 132,000 customers. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 52 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Care for the environment The data Volume Efficiency CO2 emissions 1,2,3 2013 2012 2011 2010 (thousands of metric tons) 2009 2008 2013 2012 2011 2010 (kg per sq. m. of sales area) 20094 2008 Ahold USA 1,520 1,501 1,569 1,622 1,592 1,569 514 511 547 580 587 600 The Netherlands 310 314 322 345 427 389 281 295 311 340 420 419 Czech Republic 216 231 219 236 256 247 553 594 568 614 602 553 Total 2,046 2,046 2,110 2,203 2,275 2,205 460 466 492 525 548 553 1 CO2 emissions comprise electricity, leakage of refrigerant substances, gas, fuel and district heating. Given the limited impact of district heating, we do not report on this separately. 2 Since the consumption of all elements is not measured in CO2 kilograms, conversion factors are used. Historical data are corrected for the change in conversion factor. See CO2 conversion factors section for more details on the methodology applied. 3 372 GWh of the electricity consumed have a zero conversion factor, as green energy certificates were purchased in 2013 for this quantity. 4 The 2009 efficiency measures are adjusted to a 52-week period in order to be consistent with 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. This applies to all tables with an efficiency per square meter of sales area. The data Volume Efficiency Electricity consumption 2013 2012 2011 2010 (millions of kWh) 2009 2008 2013 2012 2011 2010 (kWh per sq. m. of sales area) 2009 2008 Ahold USA 2,083 2,110 2,109 2,128 2,083 2,133 705 719 736 761 768 816 The Netherlands 562 551 553 544 552 500 508 518 534 535 544 539 Czech Republic 223 234 242 236 262 256 570 600 626 615 614 573 Total 2,868 2,895 2,904 2,908 2,897 2,889 644 659 677 693 697 724 The data Volume Efficiency Leakage of refrigerant (metric tons) (as percentage of total refrigerants) substances1 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Ahold USA 166 160 182 204 179 171 12.9 12.2 14.2 16.0 14.7 14.3 The Netherlands 22 24 23 27 27 22 5.8 6.6 6.9 8.3 9.0 7.7 Czech Republic 11 14 9 11 13 11 11.3 13.8 9.6 11.8 13.8 11.1 Total 199 198 214 243 219 205 11.3 11.2 12.5 14.3 13.6 12.9 1 Refrigerants measured include CFCs, HCFCs and HFCs. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 53 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Care for the environment The data Volume Efficiency Fuel consumption 2013 2012 2011 2010 (thousands of liters) 2009 2008 2013 2012 2011 (liters per 1,000 products sold) 2010 2009 2008 Ahold USA 48,392 49,350 51,024 49,588 46,368 45,242 6.0 6.2 6.4 6.5 6.2 6.5 The Netherlands 24,241 24,620 26,019 27,266 25,799 24,186 3.6 3.6 3.9 4.1 4.0 4.1 Czech Republic 6,133 6,162 6,471 6,411 6,122 6,260 2.9 2.8 2.9 3.0 2.8 3.1 Total 78,766 80,132 83,514 83,265 78,289 75,688 4.7 4.7 4.9 5.1 4.9 5.1 The data Volume Efficiency Natural gas consumption 2013 2012 2011 2010 (thousands of cubic meters) 2009 2008 2013 2012 2011 (cubic meters per sq. m. of sales area) 2010 2009 2008 Ahold USA 78,134 70,446 73,790 69,963 71,552 65,420 26.4 24.0 25.7 25.0 26.4 25.0 The Netherlands 20,054 20,403 20,903 24,220 23,809 24,129 18.1 19.2 20.2 23.8 23.4 26.0 Czech Republic 4,694 4,883 5,080 5,676 6,892 6,419 12.0 12.5 13.2 14.8 16.2 14.4 Total 102,882 95,732 99,773 99,859 102,255 95,968 23.1 21.8 23.3 23.8 24.6 24.1 The data Volume Efficiency Waste production 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (millions of kg) 2013 2012 2011 2010 (kg per sq. m. of sales area) 2009 Ahold USA 424 430 420 428 390 144 146 147 153 144 The Netherlands 125 118 118 118 117 113 111 114 117 115 Czech Republic 33 35 36 35 36 89 89 94 92 85 Total 582 583 574 581 543 131 133 134 139 131 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 54 Priority areas: performance during 2013 (continued) Care for the environment The data Ahold USA The Netherlands Czech Republic Total Waste by type percentage of waste 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Organic 13 9 7 6 5 28 27 27 27 28 8 18 20 20 20 16 13 12 11 11 Cardboard 45 44 45 44 47 54 56 55 55 54 42 42 41 41 40 45 46 47 47 49 Wood 6 6 6 5 6 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 5 5 4 4 4 Metal 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Plastic 1 1 1 1 1 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 1 1 Other 35 40 41 44 41 15 14 15 15 15 46 36 35 35 36 32 34 35 37 35 Total waste 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 The data Ahold USA The Netherlands Czech Republic Total Waste by disposal method percentage of waste 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Re-used, recycled or recovered waste 59 56 57 54 58 57 60 61 58 57 45 46 44 44 43 58 57 57 54 57 Fermented waste 0 0 0 0 0 28 27 27 27 28 5 4 3 3 0 6 6 6 6 6 Compost waste 5 4 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 6 7 8 8 8 4 3 2 2 1 Incinerated waste 16 16 29 29 32 15 13 12 15 15 7 11 11 11 12 15 15 24 25 27 Landfill waste 20 24 12 15 9 0 0 0 0 0 37 32 34 34 37 17 19 11 13 9 Total waste 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 The data Volume Efficiency (millions of liters) (liters per sq. m. of sales area) Water consumption 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Ahold USA 3,623 3,459 3,139 3,252 3,363 1,226 1,179 1,095 1,163 1,240 The Netherlands 467 442 465 456 483 422 415 448 449 476 Czech Republic 310 NR NR NR NR 793 NR NR NR NR Total 4,400 NR NR NR NR 988 NR NR NR NR Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 55 Behind our Responsible retailing at Ahold is managed at all levels of the organization. Find out more about our governance structure in this section, as well as some of the recognition we’ve received from strategic priorities external third parties for our efforts in responsible retailing. In this section: Our governance structure 56 Awards and rankings 2013 57 Scope of reporting 58 Reporting process 61 CO2 conversion factors 61 Data revisions 62 Global Reporting Initiative 63 Global Compact 68 External assurance report 69 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 56 Our governance structure The governance of Ahold’s responsible retailing (RR) activities applies to all Ahold’s financially consolidated operations in both Europe and the United Supervisory Board States, as defined in our Scope of reporting. RR at Ahold is managed at all levels of the organization, from a designated Executive Committee (ExCo) member to individual leads for each priority area at each of our businesses. Executive Committee Within the ExCo, Chief Corporate Governance Counsel (CCGC) Lodewijk Dick Boer Jeff Carr James McCann Sander van der Laan Hijmans van den Bergh is responsible for RR and Product Integrity (PI), including President and Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer, their strategy, ambitions and targets. The Vice President Responsible Retailing Chief Executive Officer; Chief Financial Officer; and Chief Operating Officer, Ahold Netherlands and (VP RR) oversees Ahold’s Group-wide RR strategy, which is implemented in the Chairman of the Member of the Ahold USA; Member of the Chief Executive Officer, businesses. The VP RR is also responsible for reporting on progress against Management Board Management Board Management Board Albert Heijn Ahold’s RR strategy internally and externally, for engaging external stakeholders on Ahold’s RR strategy and for monitoring RR-related trends and managing RRrelated issues and risks. The Vice President Product Integrity (VP PI) is responsible for product safety and our responsible products activities. Within our businesses, the CEO / General Manager / Division President is responsible for meeting the targets and for accurate reporting. The reporting process is managed by our finance function both globally and continentally; at each level (global, continental and brand), we have designated reporting leads. Lodewijk Hijmans Hanneke Faber Abbe Luersman Each continent and business has an employee with overall responsibility for van den Bergh Chief Commerical Officer Chief Human RR and an employee responsible for each priority area. Ahold governs RR Executive Vice President Resources Officer at a Group level via its RR Steering Committee. This committee meets four and Chief Corporate times a year to review progress against the targets, to review any proposed Governance Counsel; Member revisions to the strategy, including new or modified targets, and to provide of the Management Board recommendations to the ExCo. It is chaired by the CCGC, and includes the VP RR, VP PI, continental and brand leads, and commercial representatives. In addition, in 2013 Ahold has strengthened its governance of product safety and responsibility by introducing a Product Integrity Steering Committee. This committee meets twice yearly to review product-related policies, and to provide recommendations to the ExCo. It is chaired by the CCGC, and includes the VP PI, VP RR, continental and brand leads, and commercial representatives. Responsible Retailing Steering Committee Chief Corporate Vice President Vice President Continental and U.S. commercial European Governance Responsible Product Integrity brand responsible representative commercial Counsel – chair Retailing retailing leads representative Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 57 Awards and rankings 2013 kkAhold scored an average of 74 (out of 100) in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index’s World rating – a 9% increase on our 2012 score and only three points lower than the sector leader kkAhold highlighted as “Green Cooling Leader” by Environmental Investigation Agency for efforts in reducing refrigerant leakage, phasing our harmful HFCs and covering cooling cabinets kkAhold in the Netherlands recognized as “Top Employer 2013” for the fifth consecutive year by the Corporate Research Foundation (CRF) Institute kkAhold in the Netherlands ranked eighth in Top 100 Best Employers by Effectory and Intermediair kkAlbert Heijn named most popular employer for part-time work, according to research by the Intelligence Group kkAlbert Heijn won “Rank a Brand” Supermarket Award for being the most sustainable supermarket in the Netherlands kkAlbert Heijn’s XL format ranked most popular among Dutch customers according to GfK’s Summer Report kkAlbert in the Czech Republic ranked third in the responsible retailer category of the 10th edition of the TOP Responsible Company competition by “Business for Society” organization kkAt Ahold USA, 27 women honored as Progressive Grocer’s 2013 “Top Women in Grocery” kkAhold USA named among top supplier diversity programs for women by Professional Woman’s Magazine kkAhold USA recognized by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for outstanding contributions to the EPA’s s Food Recovery Challenge kkGiant Carlisle division awarded Simply the Best award by Harrisburg magazine for the 15th year in a row Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 58 Scope of reporting Included in reporting Excluded due to non-materiality Excluded due to accurate or complete data not being available This 2013 report covers Ahold’s responsible When reporting on our targets, the inclusion (or retailing (RR) strategy, practices and performance exclusion) of specific businesses is based on a during the period from December 31, 2012 to materiality assessment of the companies, with December 29, 2013. all excluded companies (per reported account) producing less than 2% of Ahold’s total sales. Ahold reports progress on the targets it has set for each of its five RR priority areas: healthy living, community well-being, our people, responsible The RR reporting structure follows the segment consolidation that is also applied in the Annual Healthy living products, and care for the environment. Report. The reported segments are Ahold USA The standards that are used follow the Global (Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New Increase the sale of healthy Report on customers’ Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.0, including relevant England and Stop & Shop New York Metro), the products to at least 25% perception of Ahold’s aspects of the food processing sector supplement) Netherlands (Albert Heijn, Etos, Gall & Gall, of total food sales by businesses as leading protocol, and Ahold qualifies for application level albert.nl, bol.com and Ahold Coffee Company) 2015 across the Group healthy retailers B+ according to GRI indicators. Ahold has been and Czech Republic (Albert). publishing RR Reports since 1998, and has been Ahold USA From an operational scope perspective, the RR (excluding Peapod) doing so annually since 2007. Report includes the following parts of the business: The scope of the 2013 report has been kkAll stores, irrespective of whether the stores are determined based on Ahold’s RR priority areas Peapod owned by Ahold or franchised and the principles of materiality and completeness. Our priority areas were selected on the basis of kkAhold-owned distribution centers; all their relevance to Ahold’s business model, to its transportation from distribution centers to stores, Albert Heijn stakeholders, and to those areas where Ahold can irrespective of whether they are owned by Ahold make a meaningful difference. The sustainability or outsourced issues that are covered are based on ongoing The scope of this RR Report excludes: Etos interaction with our businesses, stakeholders, and involvement in international associations kkDirect store deliveries, business travel and offices, and roundtables. due to their limited materiality to our overall performance in our care for the environment Gall & Gall The RR reporting scope excludes results from priority area Ahold’s joint venture with JMR. The shareholders’ agreement is that Ahold does not have unilateral kkOutsourced distribution centers, which do not decision-making authority over JMR, including qualify for inclusion according to the GRI criteria albert.nl decisions on the strategic, financial and operational of control, influence and impact direction of the companies. JMR delivers its own report, including references to their corporate and In 2013, we reviewed the materiality and relevance bol.com social responsibility strategies and policies. of each of our priority areas for each of our businesses (see tables following). The scope of Information relating to our RR strategy and reporting follows this assessment. our progress against its targets is reviewed for Ahold Coffee Company significance and materiality from an economic, environmental, and social perspective. The report features information that is material in relation to Albert, Czech Republic our total revenue, environmental footprint, and in terms of social impact and sustainability issues. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 59 Scope of reporting (continued) Included in reporting Excluded due to non-materiality Excluded due to accurate or complete data not being available Community Our people well-being Measure and report on the Measure and Report on number of stores report on the our progress Report on our participating Measure and number of children Report on on associate progress on in at least one Measure and report on food educated as part our progress participation rolling out community wellreport on donations to of our healthy on associate in healthy sustainability being event our donations food banks living programs engagement living programs programs Ahold USA Ahold USA (excluding Peapod) (excluding Peapod) Peapod Peapod Albert Heijn Albert Heijn Etos Etos Gall & Gall Gall & Gall albert.nl albert.nl bol.com bol.com Ahold Ahold Coffee Company Coffee Company Albert, Albert, Czech Republic Czech Republic Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 60 Scope of reporting (continued) Included in reporting Excluded due to non-materiality Excluded due to accurate or complete data not being available Responsible products Care for the environment Source Ensure that 100% of the Ensure that all Ensure that 100% of our six critical Map the Reduce CO2 Reduce the businesses have 80% of our own-brand commodities environmental per square amount of implemented a own-brand suppliers for own-brand footprint of Report on meter of disposable communication food suppliers in high-risk products in 50% of our the number sales area by Report on the bags at the policy to are certified countries accordance own-brand of products 20% in our percentage checkout in the Eliminate encourage against GFSI are audited with industry suppliers reviewed operations by of food waste United States landfill as customers to recognized on social certification and their against our 2015 against compared to by one billion a disposal reduce, re-use standards compliance standards supply chains 4R packaging our 2008 total food bags by method and recycle by 2012 by 2012 by 2015 by 2015 guidelines baseline sales 2015 by 2020 by 2013 Ahold USA Ahold USA (excluding Peapod) (excluding Peapod) Peapod Peapod Albert Heijn Albert Heijn Etos Etos Gall & Gall Gall & Gall albert.nl albert.nl bol.com bol.com Ahold Ahold Coffee Company Coffee Company Albert, Albert, Czech Republic Czech Republic Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 61 Reporting process CO2 conversion factors Ahold’s 2013 RR Report was reviewed by Responsible products Care for the environment The total CO2 emission calculation is the sum of the our recently appointed external auditor CO2 emissions of fuel, electricity, district heating, PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. All data provided is for production sites that have In relation to our CO2 reduction target, the gas and leakage of refrigerant substances. Since the (“PwC”). Our RR Reports between 2009 and been mapped as part of the process of mapping majority of the data reflect actual consumption. consumption of those elements is not measured in 2012 were reviewed by our former external auditor our own-brand supply chain. GFSI percentages are Where possible, this is an automated process, CO2 kilograms, conversion factors from other units Deloitte Accountants B.V. No external review was reported as a percentage of sales for Ahold USA, but in some cases, such as gas, fuel, district of measurement are applied. performed of Ahold’s 2008 Report. and as a percentage of suppliers for our European heating, electricity and water consumption, they businesses. For all own-brand products, 100% are a combination of actual consumption and For electricity, each country has its own conversion The following conditions per priority area apply to completeness and accuracy cannot be guaranteed extrapolation based on sample stores. In other factor, which is updated each year. The sources of the data in this report. due to the manual data gathering process. cases, where actuals and extrapolations could not the electricity conversion factors are the International be applied, best estimates were used. To report on Energy Agency for Europe and the Environmental In critical commodities, the percentage of sales Protection Agency for the United States. Each year, leakage of refrigerant substances, waste types and Healthy living of each commodity in our own-brand products waste disposal methods, data has been provided by the 2008 baseline year is re-calculated using the that is sustainably sourced is based on the key latest electricity CO2 conversion factors. Sources for Ahold measures sales of healthy products as a third-party service providers, which was only partly product categories for which these commodities are conversion factors are from the 2013 Defra report. percentage of the total food sales. The decision audited. Food waste data includes extrapolations relevant. The product categories included are: to exclude non-food sales was taken to avoid from one division to the total Ahold USA data. kkSources for converting fuel and gas: July distortion from category changes that have no kkcoffee: all coffee 2012 Guidelines for Defra Greenhouse Gas influence on Ahold’s performance as a healthy Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and kktea: black tea, green tea and red bush tea retailer. For the healthy sales and product data, Handboek CO2 prestatieladder 2.1. 100% completeness and accuracy cannot be kkcocoa: guaranteed due to the manual data gathering kkSources for converting electricity: International – chocolate bars, tablets and candies Energy Agency (IEA), 2009, and Environmental process. The percentage of healthy sales in 2009 was reviewed by our former external auditors. – seasonal products: Easter, Christmas Protection Agency (EPA) eGrid2012, version 1.0. 2012 healthy living sales have been re-stated as and Sinterklaas kkSource for converting refrigerant substances: value added tax was incorrectly included in Q3 Climate Change 2007 – The Physical Science – bakery: chocolate muffins and Q4 data. Basis, Contribution of Working Group I kkseafood: fresh and frozen seafood to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel Climate Change (IPCC). Community well-being kkpalm oil: reporting on segregated palm oil is excluded from the baseline review, as we currently 100% completeness on the contributions and cannot directly link the amount of segregated donations cannot be guaranteed due to the manual palm oil to products with 100% accuracy data gathering process. kksoy: reporting on certified soy is excluded from the baseline review, as we cannot directly link the amount of certified soy in our products’ supply chains with 100% completeness Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 62 Data revisions The historic CO2 data have been adjusted based on the updated conversion factors as mentioned in the previous section. The following table shows the impact of the changes. CO2 emissions 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 thousands of metric tons Before After Impact Before After Impact Before After Impact Before After Impact Before After Impact Ahold USA 1,584 1,501 –5% 1,653 1,569 –5% 1,708 1,622 –5% 1,682 1,592 –5% 1,661 1,569 –6% The Netherlands 287 314 9% 294 322 10% 316 345 9% 391 427 9% 356 389 9% Czech Republic 208 231 11% 195 219 12% 211 236 12% 229 256 12% 221 247 12% Total Group 2,079 2,046 –2% 2,142 2,110 –1% 2,235 2,203 –1% 2,302 2,275 –1% 2,238 2,205 –1% 2012 healthy living sales have been re-stated as value added tax was incorrectly included in Q3 and Q4 data. Healthy living percentage of total food sales Before After Impact Ahold USA 24.5 24.5 0.0 The Netherlands 26.3 25.3 –1.0 Czech Republic 9.6 9.6 0.0 Total 24.3 24.0 –0.3 In November 2013, Ahold reached an agreement to sell our business in Slovakia, where we formerly operated 24 stores. In this report, we have considered Slovakia to be a discontinued operation, and have not included it in our reported figures. We have performed an impact analysis of the contribution of Slovakia to our figures, and concluded that for all indicators the impact of Slovakia is below 2% of our total business. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 63 Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a global, multi-stakeholder network of business professionals, representatives from labor organizations, investors, accountants and others, who work together to develop an internationally accepted standard for sustainability reporting. Ahold has been reporting according to GRI guidelines since 2006, because they are recognized as the most representative reporting standard for sustainability issues. The guidelines recognize issues relating to environmental and social priorities, the running of the business and the products sold. Ahold’s RR Report includes a selection of indicators that are the most relevant and material to our priority areas, and therefore to our business and stakeholders. We have also benchmarked these indicators against our peers and competitors. Every year, we review the indicators selected, and we are continually working to improve our data collection processes. The GRI framework outlines several levels of reporting compliance, depending on a company’s capabilities and ambitions. A summary of our compliance is included in the GRI cross-reference table below. In 2013, we reported according to the GRI G3.0 Guidelines (including relevant aspects of the food processing sector supplement), complying with level B. Our RR Report 2013 has been reviewed by Ahold’s external auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which has provided limited assurance. This has enabled us to achieve application level B+ again this year. GRI indicator Included Page 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Yes 6-7 1.2 Yes 6-7, 10-11, AR1 (17-32, 62-67) 2. Organizational profile 2.1 Yes Title page, 73 2.2 Yes 5 2.3 Yes 3, 5, AR (2-15) 2.4 Yes 73 2.5 Yes 5, AR(2-15) 2.6 Yes AR (116-117) 2.7 Yes 3, 5, AR (5) 2.8 Yes 38-39, AR (2-15, 33-47, 76, 79-156) 2.9 Yes AR (116-117, 79-156) 2.10 Yes 57 1 AR refers to Ahold’s 2013 Annual Report Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 64 Global Reporting Initiative (continued) GRI indicator Included Page 3. Report parameters Report profile 3.1 Yes 58 3.2 Yes 58 www.ahold.com/CR-Reports 3.3 Yes 58 3.4 Yes 73 Report scope and boundary 3.5 Yes 10-11,12, 58-60, 61 3.6 Yes 58-60, 61 3.7 Yes 58-60, 61 3.8 Yes 58-60, 61 3.9 Yes 61 3.10 Yes 61, 62 3.11 Yes 58-60, 61, 62 GRI content index 3.12 Yes 63-67, 68 Assurance 3.13 Yes 61, 63-67, 68,69 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Yes AR (49-52, 53-57) 4.2 Yes AR (49-52, 53-57, 58-61) 4.3 Yes Ahold does not have a unitary board. It is governed based on a two-tier model. 4.4 Yes 73, AR (54-55, 182-183) www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation 4.5 Yes AR (53-57, 68-71) 4.6 Yes AR (53-57) 4.7 Yes AR (49-52, 53-57) 4.8 Yes AR (62-67) www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation 4.9 Yes 56, AR (53-57, 58-61, 62-67) 4.10 Yes AR (68-71) Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 65 Global Reporting Initiative (continued) GRI indicator Included Page 4. Governance, commitments and engagement (continued) Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Yes AR (62-67) 4.12 Yes 12-14 4.13 Yes 12-14, 40-45 www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Yes 12 4.15 Yes 12 4.16 Yes 12 4.17 Yes 6-7, 10-11, 12-15 Economic performance indicators Management approach Yes 18-19, 31-33, 56 to economic responsibility AR (5, 16-32, 62-67, 74-78, 79-156) Economic performance EC1 Yes 31, AR (74-78) EC2 Yes 48-51, AR (62-67) EC3 Yes AR (121-130) EC4 Yes No significant financial assistance received from government. Market presence EC6 Partially www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Indirect economic impacts EC9 Yes 31-33, 40-45 Environmental performance indicators Management approach on Yes 10-11, 20-21, 24-25, 35-37, 48-51, 56, 69 environmental responsibility www.ahold.com/Care-environment Energy EN3 Yes 53 EN4 Yes 52 EN5 Yes 48-51, 52, 53 EN6 Yes 48-51 EN7 Partially 48-51 Water EN8 Yes 54 EN9 Yes We do not currently operate in water-stressed areas. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 66 Global Reporting Initiative (continued) GRI indicator Included Page Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Yes 52 EN18 Yes 48-51 EN19 Partially 52 EN22 Yes 53-54 Products and services EN26 Partially 40-45, 48-51 Transport EN29 Partially 48-51, 53 Social performance indicators: Management approach on labor Yes 35-37, AR (62-67) Labor practices and decent work and work responsibility www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Employment LA1 Yes 38 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Yes 38-39, AR (49-52) Social performance indicators: Management approach on Yes 22-23, 40-45, 56 www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Human rights human rights responsibility Investment and procurement practices HR1 Partially 22-23, 40-45 HR2 Partially 22-23, 40-45, 46-47 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Yes 40-45, AR (62-67) www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Child labor HR6 Yes 40-45, AR (62-67) www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Yes 40-45, AR (62-67) www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Social performance indicators: Society Management approach on Yes 16-17, 18-19 ,27-29, 31-33, 56, AR (62-67, 79-156) societal responsibility www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Community FP4 Yes 27-29, 30, 31-33, 34 SO3 Partially www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation SO5 Yes 12-14, 27-29, 40-45 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 67 Global Reporting Initiative (continued) GRI indicator Included Page Social performance indicators: Management approach on Yes 22-23, 40-45, 56 Product responsibility product responsibility www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Privacy-policy Customer health and safety PR1 Yes 40-45, 48-51 FP5 Yes 40-45 FP6 Partially 27-29, 30 FP7 Partially 27-29, 30 Product and service labeling PR3 Partially 12, 40-45, 47, 48-51 FP8 Partially 27-29 12, 16-17, 27-29 Marketing communications PR6 Partially www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Sourcing performance indicators Management approach on sourcing Yes 22-23, 40-45 www.ahold.com/Responsible-products Across all aspects of sourcing FP1 Partially 40-45 www.ahold.com/Responsible-products FP2 Partially 40-45, 47 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 68 Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Ahold’s own principles align with those of the Global Compact, and we have been striving for high standards against these principles for some time. We signed the Global Compact in 2010, and continue to report on our own operations and strategies in relation to these principles annually. Global Compact principles Issue areas Global Compact principles Page Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 20-21, 22-23, 35-37, 40-45 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human abuses. 20-21, 22-23, 35-37, 40-45 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Labor Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 20-21, 22-23, 35-37, 40-45 to collective bargaining. www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 20-21, 22-23, 35-37, 40-45 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 22-23, 40-45 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 20-21, 35-37 www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation www.ahold.com/Stakeholders Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 24-25, 48-51 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 22-23, 24-25, 40-45, 48-51 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 24-25, 48-51 Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. www.ahold.com/Corp-gov/Documentation Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 69 External assurance report To: the Management Board of The Ahold reporting criteria kkReviewing the systems and processes for data gathering, internal controls and processing Koninklijke Ahold N.V. Ahold developed its reporting criteria on the basis of of other information, such as the aggregation the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative process of data to the information as presented in (GRI) as disclosed on pages 58 – 61, Scope of the Responsible Retailing Report Report on the Responsible reporting and Reporting process. These reporting Retailing Report criteria contain certain inherent limitations which kkReviewing internal and external documentation may influence the reliability of the information. to determine whether the information The Responsible Retailing Report does not cover presented in the Responsible Retailing Report is Our conclusion the information for all entities of Ahold as the substantiated adequately Our engagement consisted of review procedures. Responsible Retailing Report only includes data kkAssessing the consistency of the Responsible For a correct understanding of our conclusion you from the entities disclosed on page 58-60, Scope Retailing Report and the information in the Annual have to read our complete assurance report. of reporting. We consider the reporting criteria to Report 2013 be relevant and appropriate for our examination. Based on our review procedures, we conclude that kkReviewing the application level according to the nothing has come to our attention that would cause G3 Guidelines of GRI us to believe that the Responsible Retailing Report The basis for our conclusion 2013, in all material respects, does not provide a We believe that the evidence obtained from our We planned and performed our work in reliable and adequate presentation of the policy of review is sufficient and appropriate to provide a accordance with Dutch law, including Standard Koninklijke Ahold N.V. for sustainable development, basis for our conclusion. 3410N “Assurance engagements relating to or of the activities, events and performance of the sustainability reports.” organization relating to sustainable development Our responsibilities and the responsibilities during the reporting year, in accordance with the Review procedures focus on obtaining limited of the board of management Ahold reporting criteria. assurance, which does not require exhaustive gathering of evidence as in audit engagements. The Management Board of Ahold is responsible for Consequently, a review engagement provides less the preparation of the Responsible Retailing Report What we have reviewed assurance than an audit. in accordance with the Ahold reporting criteria. We have reviewed the content of the Responsible Our most important review procedures were: We are responsible for providing an assurance Retailing Report of Koninklijke Ahold N.V., Zaandam report on the Responsible Retailing Report, based (“Ahold”) in which Ahold renders account of the kkPerforming an external environment analysis and on our review procedures. performance related to sustainability in 2013. obtaining insight into the branch, relevant social issues, relevant laws and regulations and the We do not provide any assurance on the characteristics of the organization Amsterdam, February 26, 2014 assumptions and feasibility of prospective PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. information, such as targets, expectations kkAssessing the acceptability of the reporting and ambitions, included in the Responsible policies and consistent application of this, such as P. van Mierlo RA Retailing Report. assessment of the outcomes of the stakeholder dialogue and the process for determining the material subjects, the reasonableness of estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Responsible Retailing Report Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 70 Other information In this section: Glossary 71 Contact us 73 Cautionary notice 73 Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 71 Glossary ASC CO2 of total sales. In contrast to shrink, this food waste internationally accepted Food and Agriculture Aquaculture Stewardship Council. Carbon dioxide. A greenhouse gas. percentage excludes theft, food bank donations, Organization (FAO) Guidelines for Seafood A certification program with a consumer label for cash shortages and other product losses. Eco-labeling. Composting sustainable aquaculture. A process in which organic waste – including food FSC GWP Audit program waste – decomposes naturally, resulting in a product Forest Stewardship Council. FSC is an independent, Global-warming potential. A measure of how much A program to evaluate supplier compliance against rich in minerals that can be used for gardening and non-governmental, non-profit organization a given mass of greenhouse gas is estimated to a set of a specific requirements (a standard). farming as a soil conditioner. established to promote the responsible contribute to global warming. It is a relative scale management of the world’s forests. which compares the gas in question to that of the Biodiversity DC same mass of carbon dioxide (whose GWP is by The diversity of plant and animal life in a particular Distribution center. GFSI convention equal to 1). habitat, or in the world in general. Global Food Safety Initiative. A CGF activity that Dierenbescherming enables continuous improvement of food safety HCFC Brand Dutch animal welfare society. management across the supply chain, through Hydrochlorofluorocarbon. A powerful greenhouse For a list of Ahold’s brands, see the Our brands and District heating benchmarking, collaboration and harmonization of gas that has an ozone-depleting effect; may be how we operate section of the Annual Report. Centrally generated heat distributed for residential food safety certification programs. used as cooling element in refrigerants. BSCI and commercial heating requirements such as Global Compact HFC Business Social Compliance Initiative. A nonwater heating and space heating. The United Nations Global Compact is an Hydrofluorocarbon. A greenhouse gas that may be profit organization, supporting more than 1,000 EPA initiative for businesses committed to aligning used as a cooling element in refrigerants. international companies in the process of Environmental Protection Agency. The agency that their operations and strategies with 10 universally monitoring and improving working conditions IEA coordinates U.S. programs aimed at reducing accepted principles in the areas of human rights, in the global supply chain through its own International Energy Agency. An intergovernmental pollution and protecting the environment. labor, environment and anti-corruption. auditing program. organization that acts as energy policy advisor EuroCommerce Greenhouse gases to 28 member countries in their effort to ensure Carbon footprint A representative body for the retail, wholesale and Gases such as carbon dioxide or methane, which reliable, affordable, and clean energy. The total set of greenhouse gas emissions international trade sectors in Europe. potentially contribute to climate change. caused directly and indirectly by an individual, ILO organization, event or product. A carbon footprint Fairtrade GreenPalm certificates International Labour Organization. A United is measured by undertaking a greenhouse gas A certification program with a consumer label Certificates purchased by manufacturers Nations agency dealing with labor issues, emissions assessment. that contributes to sustainable development by and retailers to support RSPO-certified palm particularly international labor standards and offering better trading conditions to disadvantaged oil producers. decent work for all. CFC producers (often in countries in developing nations), Chlorofluorocarbon. A powerful greenhouse gas GRI Incineration and by protecting their rights. that has an ozone-depleting effect; may be used as Global Reporting Initiative. An international, multiThe burning of trash and garbage. cooling element in refrigerants. Fermentation stakeholder initiative that provides a standard for IEA A process in which organic waste is converted into environmental and social sustainability reporting. CGF International Energy Agency. An autonomous bio-gas. Leftovers can be recovered as fertilizer. Consumer Goods Forum. An independent, global, Group intergovernmental organization working on energy parity-based platform focused on improving FMI All brands that are in scope of this report as defined research, forecasts, publications and statistics non-competitive collaboration. It brings together Food Marketing Institute. The trade association for in the Scope of reporting section of this report. on four focus areas: energy security, economic the CEOs and senior management of over 400 the U.S. retail industry. development, environmental awareness, and GSSI retailers, manufacturers, service providers and engagement worldwide. Food waste Global Seafood Sustainability Initiative. A global other stakeholders from the consumer goods sector The food component of shrink (stores and initiative that aims to assess the compliance across 70 countries. warehouses), which is discarded, as a percentage of seafood sustainability programs against Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 72 Glossary (continued) kWh National brand RR USGBC Kilowatt hour. This is a unit of energy. The brand name of a product that is distributed Responsible retailing. A pillar of the Reshaping Retail United States Green Building Council. A private, Energy delivered by electric utilities is expressed and nationally under a brand name owned by the at Ahold strategy. membership-based non-profit organization that charged for in kWh. Kilowatt hour is the product of producer or distributor. promotes sustainability in how buildings are RSPO power in kilowatts multiplied by time in hours. designed, built, and operated. USGBC is best NGO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. A global, known for its development of the LEED green Landfill Non-governmental organization. multi-stakeholder initiative concerned with building rating systems . Final placement of waste in or on the land in a the production of sustainable palm oil via its NCDs controlled way according to sanitary, environmental certification program. USDA Non-communicable diseases. A medical protection and other safety requirements. United States Department of Agriculture. condition or chronic disease, which by definition RTRS Last-stage of production sites is non-infectious and non-transmissible among Round Table on Responsible Soy. A global, multiUTZ Certified The suppliers at the stage in our supply chain where people. Such diseases may result from genetic or stakeholder initiative concerned with the production A certification program with a consumer label for our products are manufactured or produced. lifestyle factors. of responsible soy via its certification program. responsibly produced and sourced coffee, tea and cocoa, which aims to achieve sustainable LED NCHS Shrink agricultural supply chains. Light-emitting diode. LEDs produce more light per National Center for Health Statistics. A principal All product losses in our stores as a percentage of watt than incandescent bulbs. agency of the U.S. Federal Statistical System which total sales. This includes all forms of losses such Voedingscentrum provides information to guide actions and policies as theft, food bank donations, stock differences, Dutch food center. The authority providing Dutch LEED to improve health. expired products, markdowns, unsalable consumers with evidence-based and independent Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. discontinued items, damages and cash shortages. information about choosing healthy, safe and more LEED consists of a suite of rating systems for NR sustainable food. the design, construction and operation of Not reported. SRI high-performance green buildings, homes Socially responsible investment. Any investment WNF / WWF Organic product and neighborhoods. strategy which seeks to consider both financial The Dutch branch of the World Wildlife Fund. Agricultural product produced by organic return and social good. An independent conservation organization, whose Materiality farming methods and certified as such by an mission is to stop the degradation of the earth’s The point at which a topic becomes relevant both independent organization. Stakeholders natural environment and to build a future in which in the context of a company’s business and its All the groups that participate in the economic life of Own brand humans live in harmony with nature. stakeholders’ interests. the company (employees, customers, suppliers and Own-brand products include store brands, exclusive shareholders), who monitor the company (unions and Zero waste MSC brands and non-branded products, including fruit NGOs) or who are more or less directly influenced Zero waste means designing and managing Marine Stewardship Council. A certification and vegetables, meat, seafood and dairy. by it (society, local government and others). products and processes to systematically avoid program with a consumer label for well managed, Rainforest Alliance and eliminate the volume and toxicity of waste sustainable fishing. Sustainable development A certification program with a consumer label that and materials, conserve and recover all resources, “Development that meets the needs of the MWh aims to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable and not burn or bury them. Implementing zero present without compromising the ability of future Megawatt hour. This is a unit of energy. livelihoods by transforming land-use practices, waste will eliminate all discharges to land, water or generations to meet their own needs.” Bruntland business practices and consumer behavior. air that are a threat to planetary, human, animal MyPlate Commission, Our Common Future, 1987. or plant health. Business and communities that Nutrition guide published by the U.S. Department of REAP TSC achieve over 90% diversion of waste from landfills Agriculture, depicting a place setting with a plate Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme. The Sustainability Consortium. A global platform and incinerators are considered to be successful in and glass divided into five food groups. It replaced REAP is part of EuroCommerce and provides a that drives scientific research and collaboration achieving zero waste. the previous MyPyramid guide in 2011. basis for the retail sector to stimulate innovation and to develop global science-based measurement environmental action across the European Union. and reporting systems and standards for more sustainable products and processes. Responsible retailing Priority areas: Behind our at Ahold: a summary performance during 2013 strategic priorities Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2013 73 Contact us Cautionary notice In order to help us get better every day – especially This Responsible Retailing Report (RR Report) Accordingly, this RR Report is subject to this notice, in terms of responsible retailing and being a better contains forward-looking statements, which do and it is qualified by the assumptions, qualifications neighbor – we invite dialogue with our stakeholders. not refer to historical facts but refer to expectations and the risk factors detailed in Ahold’s public filings We therefore welcome your feedback on this based on management’s current views and and other disclosures. Readers are cautioned not Responsible Retailing Report and on our responsible assumptions and involve known and unknown risks to place undue reliance on these forward-looking retailing strategy and targets in general. and uncertainties that could cause actual results, statements, which speak only as of the date of this performance or events to differ materially from RR Report. Ahold does not assume any obligation Please contact: those included in such statements. These forwardto update any public information or forwardResponsible Retailing team looking statements include, but are not limited looking statement in this RR Report to reflect events Ahold to, statements as to Ahold’s strategic framework, or circumstances after the date of this RR Report, P.O. Box 3000 promises, stakeholder engagement, healthy living, except as may be required by applicable laws. 1500 HA Zaandam community well-being, associates, responsible Outside the Netherlands, Ahold presents itself The Netherlands products and the environment. These forwardunder the name of “Royal Ahold” or simply looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties Telephone: +31 88 659 5100 “Ahold.” For the reader’s convenience, “Ahold” and other factors that could cause actual results Email: responsible.retailing@ahold.com or “the company” is also used throughout this to differ materially from future results expressed or RR Report. The company’s registered name is You can also find details of specific members of the implied by the forward-looking statements. “Koninklijke Ahold N.V.” The main responsible Responsible Retailing and Product Integrity teams at Many of these risks and uncertainties relate to retailing principles and commitments as discussed Ahold on our website, www.ahold.com. factors that are beyond Ahold’s ability to control in this RR Report imply obligations to perform to the or estimate precisely, including but not limited best of one’s ability and do not imply obligations to to, Ahold’s ability to successfully implement and guarantee a certain result. complete its plans and strategies and to meet Certain products and services named in this report its targets, the benefits from Ahold’s plans and feature trademarks owned by Koninklijke Ahold strategies being less than anticipated, the effect of N.V., its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. general economic or political conditions, the actions Copyright © 2014 Koninklijke Ahold N.V. of competitors and other third parties, increases or All rights reserved. changes in competition, Ahold’s ability to retain and attract employees who are integral to the success of the business, and other factors discussed in Ahold’s Annual Report 2013 and this RR Report.
