CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Sustainability Report 2013 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 2 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CEO STATEMENT I only joined Hartmann recently, 1 January 2014, and it was a consider2013, we reduced our CO2 emissions by close to 4%, in strong pursuit able pleasure to join a company with more than 10 years’ commitment of the goal we set last year of a 25% reduction by 2020. to sustainability and social responsibility. In many aspects Hartmann has been a pioneer within these fields, and you clearly sense that the values Our new eco-friendly product imagic2® was rolled out in large scale in underpinning this commitment are firmly embedded in our business 2013. With its lower weight and new design, the product compresses and that Hartmann fully embraces the UN Global Compact and its better when stacked, resulting in reduced transport and storage needs. principles. Using less raw material, imagic2® reduces the overall environmental emissions. Our sustainability profile is an identity-setting feature that contributes to Hartmann’s platform as the leading supplier of sustainable mouldedOver the last years we have boosted our safety performance, year fibre egg packaging. Over the years we have leveraged this platform in by year reducing the number of work-related accidents. This is a very multiple ways by continuously adding new initiatives, and 2013 was no positive achievement, highly regarded by all Hartmann’s stakeholders. exception. Our efforts in this area have greatly helped to install a safety culture we are proud of today. Much to our regret, therefore, we have had to During the year, all our European factories were certified under the report a smaller than expected reduction in accidents in 2013, falling Forest Stewardship Council rules (FSC) allowing us to introduce FSCshort of our target. To ensure a better result going forward, we will certified products. The FSC mark is our customers’ guarantee that the take corrective action with focus on campaigns, training and behaviour. product is subject to a responsible use of trees as the basic raw material. Hartmann has come a long way since we Another significant element of our product offering is CO2 neutral first signed the UN Global Compact, and products, which we launched in some of our markets in 2013. CO2 with remarkable results to show. We will neutrality has set a new standard for environmentally oriented busicontinue along that path in 2014, taking nesses and consumers, further enhancing our sustainability profile. steps to further reinforce our profile. On the climate front we continued the positive development from previous years. Our focus in this area is of the highest importance and Ulrik Kolding Hartvig we are constantly seeking new ways of reducing our climate impact. In CEO In Hartmann we have a long-standing tradition of being first movers when it comes to environmental and social issues. An unambiguous commitment ensures the necessary focus on sustainability in all major decisions and investments. We believe this to be at the core of the stable and sustainable development Hartmann is experiencing these years. See page 6 for an overview of our initiatives in 2013. 2 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Finland Production Production and sales Sales Denmark Denmark England Poland Germany Germany Canada France Hungary USA Switzerland Croatia Italy Serbia USA USA USA Israel Hartmann at a glance Hartmann is the leading manufacturer of moulded-fibre egg packaging Customers and one of the world’s largest manufacturers of machinery for proHartmann sells egg packaging to manufacturers, distributors and to reducing moulded-fibre packaging. Hartmann’s market position can be tail chains, which are increasingly seeking Hartmann’s expertise in the ascribed to its strong technology know-how and extensive experience marketing of eggs. Hartmann’s technology and related services are sold of production of moulded fibre since 1936. to manufacturers of moulded-fibre packaging. Hartman has more than 1,500 customers in 50 countries, and most of these customers have Sustainability long-standing relations with Hartmann. Sustainability and environmental considerations are integral elements of Hartmann’s business model and strategy. All of Hartmann’s products Organisation are based on recycled paper; a renewable, CO2-neutral and biodegradHartmann has about 1,500 employees, and its head office is situated in able resource. Hartmann works closely with its customers to support Gentofte, Denmark. Production takes place at Hartmann’s own factothe need for sustainable products in the retail trade, and the company ries. Four of these factories are located in Europe, one is located in Iswas the first manufacturer to offer both FSC-certified and CO2-neurael and one in Canada. The group has sales offices in twelve countries. tral retail packaging. The Hartmann share Markets Hartmann’s shares have been listed on NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen Hartmann’s egg packaging is sold globally. The group’s principal markets A/S since 1982. The company has one share class, and each share consist of Europe and North America, where Hartmann has strong carries one vote. Interested parties can receive financial reports and market positions. Hartmann is the market leader in Europe and has company announcements by subscribing to Hartmann’s news service a small share of the North American market. Hartmann’s technology, at investor.hartmann-packaging.com. including machinery and services, is also sold globally outside its key markets. 3 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 4 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Sustainability timeline Hartmann receives EU Award for Hartmann signs the UN Caring for Systematic labour rights ­Environmental & Sustainable Management Climate agreement assessments completed First Group Environmental Launch of group sustainability 22% energy reduction European sites Report published principles achieved since 2007 FSC certified 1995 1998 2000 2002 2003 2006 2007 2008 2011 2012 2013 Hartmann joins “Choose fibre. Save Nature®” Third-party verification UN Global Compact ­marketing campaign launched of climate calculations First production site certified Hartmann site certified acc. to SA 8000 Anti-corruption programme acc. to ISO14001 e­ nvironmental Social Accountability standard introduced management standard Corporate memberships Danish Council for Sustainable Development (RBE) The Confederation of Danish Industry – Network for Sustainable Development UN Global Compact UN Global Compact – Caring for Climate European Moulded Fibre Association (EMFA) Green Industry Platform (www.greenindustryplatform.org) 4 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 5 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Highlights Outlook 2013 2014 • FSC® certification completed • Further progress on climate target • imagic2® large scale roll-out of newly • Anti-corruption training for sales staff launched eco-efficient product • Safety culture further strengthened • Progress on climate target • Climate calculations expanded with more scope 3 data and third-party verified • More CO2 neutral products • Safety improvements implemented and new target set 5 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 6 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement PROGRESS INITIATIVES Click on each progress initiative below to read more The below colours are used in the report to identify each sustainability theme. For a description of each of the ten principles, see Appendix 1. HUMAN RIGHTS • LABOUR RIGHTS • ENVIRONMENT • ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERVIEW OF 2013 PROGRESS ACTIVITIES RELATED TO EACH GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 PROGRESS INITIATIVE Safety efforts and progress X X Close-down of manufacturing facility in Finland X X X Local volunteer work X X New group policy on gender equality X Climate protection X X X Climate calculations third-party verified X X X CO2-neutral products X X X FSC certification completed X X X EcoDesign – Imagic X 2® X X Transport optimising X X Anti-corruption training X Hartmann Croatia wins the Golden Kuna award X X X X X X X X X X 6 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 7 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Relative business impact of Global Compact themes Our suppliers and customers are mainly located in Europe and North America, with few suppliers in high-risk countries. All suppliers are required to respect and support our commitment to the ten UN Global Compact principles1. Business relevance of Global Compact themes Global Compact theme Environment Labour Rights Human Rights Anti-corruption Business relevance At Hartmann, our main focus lies on reducing CO2 emissions by respecific and have increased in recent years. In Hartmann we take reducing energy consumption at our production sites. Life Cycle Assesssponsibility throughout our sphere of influence and we continuously ments2 show that this is typically our most significant environmental hold ourselves to the highest standards in this area. impact. Due to increased international focus on corruption and the legal develThe European and international framework and expectations for comopment in the field, Hartmann has increasingly focused on this Global panies within the fields of human and labour rights have become more Compact theme in the recent years. 1) See Appendix 1 for an overview of the UN Global Compact’s ten sustainability principles and Hartmann’s commitment to these. 2) Source: European Moulded Fibre Association, and numerous internal LCAs. 7 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 8 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement HUMAN RIGHTS Human and labour rights on site level are managed with the Hartmann STEP® Human management model. For an overview of the model, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. d S A FE T YF I RS T. Safety efforts and progress With an intense focus on health and safety in the past years the internal learning curve has been steep. During 2013 this focus was not relaxed and the positive trends from the previous years continued. Our groupwide standards3 from 2011 continued to be harmonized across the organisation through structured knowledge sharing activities. This led to further investments in safety equipment with still more investments set based on the more telling value LTI-FR4 instead of the number of planned for 2014 where special attention will be paid to the printing accidents. The target is a 40% LTI-FR reduction from 2013 to 2014, areas at Hartmann’s factories. keeping in mind our long-term target of zero accidents. A safe and healthy physical working environment cannot stand alone Close-down of manufacturing facility in Finland without a strong safety culture. This is underpinned by observations In 2013 it was decided to close down Hartmann’s manufacturing fathat a sub-optimal safety behaviour is often a decisive factor when an cility in Varkaus, Finland, and the closure was completed by the end accident occurs. Therefore, a number of activities were implemented of the year. The reason was to ensure the sustainable and profitable during the year to further strengthen the safety culture. Still, this is a long-term growth in the European business. This strategic decision lengthy process, which requires intense and continuous efforts. Our aims at increasing overall competitiveness and optimising the European safety culture enjoys a high priority in Hartmann and our improveproduction network through complexity reduction and efficiency imment efforts are planned to continue with undiminished strength in provements. the years to come. The close-down entailed 41 redundancies. Progress on the occurrence of accidents is shown in the graph. Despite a 14% further decrease in the number of accidents compared Varkaus, being a relatively small town, a closure of this kind naturally with 2012, the target was not met. A new target for 2014 has been has an impact on the community besides the large consequences for accident statistics Index (2010 = 100) 100 80 60 ”The safety target for 2014 is a 40% 40 LTI-FR reduction from 2013 to 2014” 20 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Accidents LTI-FR 3) For more information about the standards see sustainability report from 2012 4) LTI-FR = Lost time injury frequency rate 8 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 9 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement the people made redundant. Through the process, Hartmann engaged • Employees were offered training by MPS Enterprises5 to help prewith employee representatives to negotiate the outcome of the popare them to find alternative employment. The training revolved tential close down and explore alternatives. around the following topics: Hartmann has assumed a wide social responsibility in connection with • Market knowledge the close-down, following applicable rules and regulations. In addition • CVs and introduction letters the company has taken extensive voluntary measures to ensure a • Job search process smooth process and to mitigate negative local impacts. Some of these • Interview training measures are: • Guidance about alternative employment, re-education, retirement, etc. • Employees were granted payment for a number of extra months after closure to allow them more time to adjust to the loss of their • The employees were assisted in their search for new employment. jobs and to find alternative employment. Also Hartmann strived to be flexible around the redundancy terms depending on the needs of the individual employee. • Employees were granted extra months with occupational health care service to allow them to continue their normal lives as undis• Cooperation with local environmental competences around the turbed as possible during the months with extra pay. The insurance physical closedown of the facility in order to withdraw from the allows the employees to see a private doctor in the event of disease premises under good environmental conditions. and thereby have a better or a faster treatment. LOCAL VOLUNTEER WORK The local community is an explicit priority in Hartmann’s social responsibility commitment, wherever we are present. Hartmann-Hungary employees expressed this through a voluntary social involvement when they did outdoor repair work in a local kindergarten in need of their assistance. Benches, tables and climbing toys were renewed much to the delight of the 170 children. “We encourage our staff to get involved in volunteer projects and provide assistance in our community where we are present for more than 20 years,” says Managing Director, Attila Vincze. 5) www.mps.fi 9 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 10 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement LABOUR RIGHTS Human rights and labour rights on site level are managed with the As part of this Hartmann has specified a number of focus areas to Hartmann STEP® Human management model. For an overview of this further ensure a balanced gender distribution at its other managerial model, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. levels. The focus areas include: In 2011 and 2012 we carried out an extensive review of our local pro• To require that internal and external recruiters select qualified repcesses and standards to ensure that we have a high level of social reresentatives of both genders as candidates for vacancies; sponsibility and that we comply with our principles as well as applicable international standards. The benefits of this review and the exchange • To ensure a transparent recruitment process based on a systemof best practice between our sites continued in 2013, where our focus atic assessment of the skills and profiles of potential employees and has remained on these issues. managers with a view to ensuring diversity in the group of candidates for vacancies; Looking beyond the social conditions applicable for Hartmann’s employees there is a broader responsibility related to the companies’ • To continuously work on detailed evaluation and development tools, supply chain and ensuring that suppliers meet Hartmann’s ethical deincluding annual and semi-annual performance reviews, to increase mands. Since 2011, the systematic evaluation of Hartmann’s suppliers transparency and objectivity in the assessment of employees’ and has been conducted with new comprehensive tools, including an audit managers’ performance for the purpose of identifying and further scheme6. These tools have been applied in the organisation, now allowdeveloping talent; ing Hartmann to better use its supply chain influence to address the social responsibility in its value chain. The implementation process has • To create a framework for the career development of the individual also lifted the internal competences related to the evaluation of social employee or manager through networking. conditions. With the aim of achieving a balanced gender distribution in the HartNew group targets and policy on gender equality mann board, the Board of Directors set a target for raising the share of Despite significant progress in recent years, women are outnumbered the underrepresented gender to a minimum of 40%, out of the general by men in leadership positions in the European corporate sector, and assembly elected, by 1 January 2017. This does not in any way alter the this has been the focus of intense public debate initiated by the Eurofact that board members are elected by the general assembly based on pean Commission at EU level and in a number of Member States. On 1 their individual competences and contribution to the board’s collective April 2013 a new law about the underrepresented gender in managecompetences and profile as well as the quality in the board work. ment and boards came into effect in Denmark. Hartmann seeks diversity and gender equality when it comes to recruiting new employees for all levels in the company. On this background Hartmann has introduced a policy to increase the number of the underrepresented gender at the company’s other managerial levels, defined as the Executive Committee and managers reporting to the Executive Committee. “Our relationships with suppliers are based on detailed contracts but the most important element is trust. This trust is ascertainable through close co-operation and through auditing relevant supplier aspects. Making both sides’ expectations clear early in the evaluation process is a benefit for both the supplier and for Hartmann” Edit Kovács, Audit and System manager 6) For more info about the tools see the 2011 Hartmann COP report 10 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 11 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ENVIRONMENTAL The site level environmental impacts are managed with the Hartmann CLIMATE PROTECTION STEP® Environment management model. For an overview of the modA minus becomes a plus – for the environment ! el, see www.hartmann-packaging.com. In light of the ever growing strain on world resources, the global challenge is to do more with less. In this context the choice of biobased and ISO 14000 certificates for environmental management were mainrecycled raw materials, such as moulded-fibre, means that more prodtained or renewed in 2013 for all our European production sites. ucts and value can be derived from the same resources. In Hartmann the commitment to do more with less is also applicable in the area of climate protection, which has resulted in significant energy efficiency improvements over the past six years. Since the formulation of the group climate emission target last year this commitment has become more energy savings Reduction in CO2-e % % % 25 25 100 100 20 20 95 95 15 15 90 90 10 10 85 85 5 5 80 80 0 0 75 75 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2012 2011 20122013 2014 2013 2015 2014 2016 2015 2017 2016 2018 2019 2018 2017 2020* 2019 2020* * Target = 25% by 2020 Since 2012 the focus changes from energy efficiency to climate protection % climate emissions% climate emissions 100 100 11 95 95 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 12 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement clear and the journey towards the target has begun. During 2013 Hartmann reduced its relative CO2-e emissions by 3.75% as a result of adCARING FOR CLIMATE: ditional energy efficiency improvments in our manufacturing processes. Hartmann endorsed the United Nation’s “Caring for Climate” charter in 2007. The basis for the targeted 25% reduction by 2020 is the CO2-e emissions from energy consumption at our factories (electricity and drying Launched by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in 2007, energy) relative to the product quantities sold. “Caring for Climate” is the initiative by UN Global Compact, the UN Environment Programme and the secretariat of the UN The continued progress on the climate target requires significant Framework Convention on Climate Change aimed at advancing changes and innovation. The focus areas remain within the following: the role of business in addressing climate change. It provides a framework for business leaders to advance practical solutions • Investments in new process technology and help shape public policy as well as public attitudes. • Improvement and optimisation of existing equipment • Product development Read more at www.caringforclimate.org • Waste reduction • Replacement of fossil energy by renewable energy WE SUPPORT 12 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 13 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CLIMATE CALCULATIONS The verification gives credibility to Hartmann’s climate calculations and third-party verified is an assurance that calculations are complete and in compliance with In 2013 again, Hartmann’s corporate CO2 accounting scopes 1, 2 and parthe standards. With this verification, calculations can be used externally tially scope 3 were completed in accordance with the GHG Protocol7 and towards customers and for claiming climate neutral products, see the the figures were third-party verified by the external company Climate next chapter. Partner. The accounting for scope 3 was expanded compared with the previous years. Hartmann’s methodology for calculating product The verification statement is in appendix 2. carbon footprints according to PAS20508 was also verified. Climate Partner: „As a leading Business Solution Provider within climate protection we fight global warming together with our clients.“ For more information see www.climatepartner.com 7) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol is the most widely accepted international standard for accounting for corporate greenhouse gas emissions. 8) PAS2050 was developed by the British Standards (BSI) and came into effect in October 2008 and was revised in October 2011. Being the first widely acknowledged standard for product carbon footprints, this standard has been applied by many companies worldwide. 13 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 14 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement CO2 neutral products for climate As is true for many of Hartmann’s environmental initiatives, also this conscious customers concept has a positive social aspect. In this case it benefits the local During the year Hartmann further strengthened its position as the community where the reforestation takes place. leading supplier of environmentally friendly moulded-fibre packaging solutions through the active marketing of climate neutral products – a Before introducing the concept of CO2 neutral products, Hartmann concept, which was developed in 2011. completed a thorough consumer segmentation study in selected countries. The study revealed a generally positive view on the conThe concept is targeted at customers who prioritise sustainable solucept and a grading of the consumer segments with the highest affinity tions and who may in turn benefit from conveying the green message towards this concept. This study allows us to target our sustainability to environmentally conscious consumers. The consumers can see all offering towards customers where it will have the highest effect and to details about the underlying project by entering a certification code convey to our B2B customers that sustainability is a priority for their from the logo on Climate Partner’s website. consumers. Hartmann claims CO2 neutrality first of all by reducing emissions and See more about the CO2 neutral concept and find a marketing brosecondly by compensating remaining emissions from production and chure at www.hartmann-packaging.com – Egg Marketing – Sustainability. transportation of the neutral products. This compensation adds a premium on carbon emissions from the neutral products, which further increases the company’s incentive to reduce life cycle climate emissions. Compensation is provided by supporting a reforestation project, which takes place in eastern Mozambique and which is certified to the highest standards to ensure the promised output. Reforestation is a perfect match to the company’s products, which are made from recycled paper which ultimately comes from trees. 7) A CO2 neutral product does not emit any net CO2 emissions and therefore does not contribute to climate change. 14 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 15 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement FSC CERTIFICATION COMPLETED Any use of virgin paper in Hartmann’s products, such as paper labels, is FSC is a global not-for-profit organisation dedicated to the promotion FSC certified. This means that the paper originates from well managed of responsible forest management worldwide. The FSC facilitates the forests that follow the best social and environmental practices. These development of standards, ensures monitoring of certified operations forests are guaranteed to protect biodiversity, indigenous peoples’ and protects the FSC trademark so consumers can choose products rights, workers’ rights as well as other areas of significant environmenthat come from well managed forests. tal or cultural importance. Certifying forests according to FSC helps both local communities and society at large to enjoy long-term benefits The fibre raw material for Hartmann’s products originates from reof managing forests in a responsible way. sponsible sources and we want to help our customers communicate this to the consumers. Therefore, in 2013, all of Hartmann’s European See our FSC marketing brochure at www.hartmann-packaging.com – production sites were Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) certified, alEgg Marketing – Sustainability. lowing our customers the possibility to display the FSC logo on the packaging of their products. FSC is a recognised and highly credible Learn more about FSC at www.fsc.org organisation whose logo signifies the responsible use of wood fibres. Hartmann’s moulded-fibre products are primarily made from recycled paper such as old newspapers or magazines. FSC acknowledges that recycling paper products contributes to protecting the world’s forests. 15 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 16 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement EcoDesign10 – imagic2® a succes Transport improvements a reality During 2013 the newest eco-friendly product – imagic was rolled 2® Hartmann has successfully implemented a project to streamline our out in large scale. Hartmann’s customers have taken well to imagic2® transport processes and increase transport efficiency with the enviwhich has already become a big seller. Compared with its predecessor, ronmental benefits that follow. it has a reduced weight and due to its special design, imagic2® products can be compressed better when stacked, resulting in significantly As a result we now have uniform agreements in place with forwarders reduced transport and storage needs. The result is a product which in Europe whose terms and conditions have been structured so as to consumes less raw material and reduces the overall environmental better support the need for efficient and low impact transportation. emissions. For example, the new structure, which involves both suppliers and customers, has the benefit of better utilisation of truck loads. Innovation and the introduction of new sustainable technologies are a clear priority and during the year Hartmann participated in a government funded project for Green Business Models, which continues into 2014. 10) Product design and development, which addresses the environmental impacts from the product 16 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 17 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption training In 2013 key Hartmann employees, including but not limited to procureRefraining from corruption and bribery has been a firm principle in ment personnel, completed the anti-corruption training programme. Hartmann since before we signed the UN Global Compact. In recent This programme ensures a common understanding of Hartmann’s years the legislative and business focus on the issue has increased, and policy and practices as well as a commitment to comply with it. The on this background we identified a need to take further precautionary programme consists of an e-learning module, a test of the employees’ measures to actively enforce the anti-corruption principle. New antiunderstanding of the issues and a document, which the employee must corruption measures have been implemented in Hartmann over the sign, stating that they have understood and will adhere to the policy. past years, also acting as a help to employees who may face this issue when carrying out their jobs. Some employee groups are still to complete the training programme, and this will take place early 2014. 17 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 18 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement LOCAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT Hartmann Croatia wins the Golden The award is given by the Croatian Chamber of Economy, who nomiKuna award nates companies that have reached the highest business results and In September 2013, Hartmann Croatia received the Golden Kuna contributed to the Croatian economy. award as the most successful mid-size company in 2012, on account of its improvements and initiatives within health and safety and produc“We have reached a lot, but the most important is that we keep up tion. Also their positive contributions to the local society were taken momentum when it comes to health and safety,” says Goran Grotić into account. This was the sixth time Hartmann Croatia received the Production Director, Croatia. award. 18 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 19 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement APPENDIX 1. HARTMANN GROUP COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES The original wording of the ten UN Global Compact principles can be found at www.unglobalcompact.org HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Hartmann will make an effort to promote the conditions outlined in Principle no. 3: each of the human rights principles in companies that are part of the Freedom of association and value chain to which the Group belongs. the right to collective bargaining Hartmann recognizes the right of its employees to be members of a Principle no. 1: trade union and to negotiate pay and working conditions collectively. Human rights – support & respect The Group further recognizes the right to organize and collective Hartmann will support and respect the protection of internationally bargaining in companies forming part of the value chain to which the proclaimed human rights. Hartmann’s commitment includes, but is not Group belongs. limited to, the following: Principle no. 4: Hartmann will endeavor to secure the well-being of employees and Rejection of forced labour their families by means of relevant local initiatives, practices and proHartmann will support the elimination of all forms of forced and comcedures that are in keeping with local traditions, conditions and needs. pulsory labour and does not accept the use of forced labour – neither inside the Group nor in companies forming part of the value chain to Hartmann will endeavor to secure fair wages by means of a wages which the Group belongs. policy, which is consistent with the situation prevailing in other local industrial companies, and which enables the Group to attract and retain Principle no. 5: qualified employees. The effective abolition of child labour Hartmann will not employ persons below the minimum age and the Hartmann will endeavor to secure health and safety in the workplace, Group will apply preventive procedures and practices accordingly. The by means of cleaner technologies, procedures and practices as well as Group will make an effort to promote that similar procedures and by the development of competences and efforts to change attitudes practices are applied by companies forming part of the value chain to among the employees. which the Group belongs. Hartmann will endeavor to secure good relations to the local comPrinciple no. 6: munity by means of active participation in social and business-related Non-discrimination activities at local level and by setting a good example to others. Hartmann will endeavor to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures Principle no. 2: and practices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitment Human rights – abuses or dismissal, career development, training and education, or the grantHartmann will make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. ing of staff benefits. Hartmann will endeavor to promote non-discrimination and equal opportunities for employees in companies forming part of the value chain to which the Group belongs. 19 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 20 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Hartmann will endeavor to protect, respect and safeguard environPrinciple no. 10: mental values by means of the systematic and proactive integration of Refraining from bribery and corruption environmental considerations in its daily business activities, by the deHartmann will work against corruption in all its forms, including extorvelopment of environmentally friendly production methods and prodtion and bribery. ucts, by training its employees in environmental issues, and by influencing the stakeholders in the value chain to which the Group belongs. It will do this by means of openness towards relevant business partners and by setting up a set of guidelines specifying how to avoid bribery Principle no. 7: and corruption. Hartmann will also contribute to minimizing bribery A precautionary approach and corruption in companies forming part of the value chain to which Hartmann will support a precautionary approach to environmental the Group belongs. challenges. Principle no. 8: Environmental responsibility Hartmann will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle no. 9: Environmentally friendly technologies Hartmann will encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 20 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative Hartmann Sustainability business Report 2013 impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption 21 Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement APPENDIX 2. Verification statement VERIFICATION STATEMENT ClimatePartner hereby confirms that the accounting for the carbon dioxide emissions generated by Brødrene Hartmann A/S, Ørnegårdsvej 18, 2820 Gentofte, Denmark, was performed in compliance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The allocation of these emissions to the products was performed in compliance with the general requirements and principles of the Publicly Available Specification PAS 2050:2011 Specification for the assessment of the life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of goods and services. The organisational system boundaries were the production sites in Denmark, Germany, Hungary, Croatia, Israel, and Canada as well as the headquarters in Gentofte. The primary activity data reviewed reflects the production and administrative activities during the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. The operational system boundaries include all emission sources from Scopes 1 and 2, as well as relevant emission sources from Scope 3. The emission sources accounted for include (an asterisk indicates no data to be verified for the production site in Canada): Direct emissions from heating (steam, natural gas, district Scope 1 & 2 heating, LPG) Scope 1 Direct emissions from fuels (diesel oil, gas)* Electricity Scope 2 Production of fuels (for mobility and heating) Scope 3 Collection of recycled paper Scope 3 Production of the product labels* Scope 3 Plastic wrapping used for transportation* Scope 3 Transportation of employees with company and other cars* Scope 1 & 3 Transportation of employees by airplane* Scope 3 Additives (dyes, AKD size, release agents, etc.)* Scope 3 For the allocation of the emissions to individual products, the functional unit chosen is kg CO2 per kg product. The system boundary is cradle-to-gate, meaning that carbon dioxide emissions are included that were generated up to the point where the product leaves the organization. Additionally, there was no new verification needed of the methodology for calculating carbon dioxide emissions from the transportation of the products from the production site to the customer, which was approved last year based on a sample calculation for one customer. The carbon accounting performed by Brødrene Hartmann A/S accurately portrays the carbon dioxide emissions related to the company’s productions at the different production sites. It is an appropriate basis for offering climate neutral products by offsetting the carbon dioxide emissions of particular production volumes. ClimatePartner Deutschland GmbH Munich, November 19, 2013 Ainmillerstrasse 22 80801 Munich Germany Sabine Kunz, Assessor Moritz Lehmkuhl, Managing Director climatepartner.com | Berlin | Munich | San Francisco | Athens | Tokyo | Vienna | Yerevan | Zurich 21 CEO statement | Hartmann at a glance | Sustainability timeline | Highlights 2013 & Outlook 2014 | Progress initiatives Relative business impact of Global Compact themes | Human rights | Labour rights | Environment | Anti-corruption Design and graphic production: meyer & bukdahls as Acknowledgements | Hartmann Group commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles | Verification Statement Brødrene Hartmann A/S Ørnegårdsvej 18 DK-2820 Gentofte Denmark Tel. (+45) 45 97 00 00 Fax: (+45) 45 97 00 01 e-mail: bh@hartmann-packaging.com Web: hartmann-packaging.com CVR no. 63 04 96 11
