SUSTA I N A B I L I T Y RE P O R T 2014 Year ended March 31, 2014 CREATING A BRIGHT FUTURE SINCE 1964 USHIO believes in the almost infinite possibilities that light can illuminate and accomplish. We are pioneering new markets that use light to not only illuminate but also to power modern life, using ultraviolet light to create photochemical energy and infrared light for thermal energy. Xenon short arc lamp—a light that has been described as a “miniature sun.” A product that made xenon lamps the recognized standard for color movies. （the left image is a xenon projector at the time） Editorial Policy ① CSR Report In choosing the material for this Sustainability Report 2014, we made an For the USHIO Group’s detailed CSR report, please see the section of our effort to report in greater depth on the correlation between website entitled CSR/Society & the Environment. management and corporate social responsibility (CSR) issues. We have http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/ also tried to create links so that the report will serve as a gateway to our CSR website and Online Annual Report. We have edited the report to make it easy to read for a wide stakeholder audience. 2 Sustainability Report 2014 Contents C2 USHIO Group Management Philosophy 04 Top Message 08 FEATURE: Amazing Invisible Light 10 VUV Radiation Also Offers Answers to Environmental Problems 12 USHIO’s CSR 14 Governance Corporate Governance and Compliance 16 People Working Together with Employees 18 Quality Business Partners 20 Environment Environmental Activities 22 Society Relationship with Society 24 Business Overview 25 Third-Party Opinion The USHIO Group’s approach to CSR can be seen in the Response to Third-Party Opinion management philosophy underpinning all activities of USHIO and USHIO Group members. In 1965, the year after the Company was founded, four key emphases were created based on the desire to make USHIO an indispensable company for everyone by drawing on the wisdom of employees to grow. The wording of these four key emphases has been revised over the years to reflect the changing times. ② Online Annual Report Scope of Report For information about the USHIO Group’s business activities, please see Time period: This report basically covers from April 1, 2013 to March 31, our Online Annual Report 2014, and our Group website. 2014, but also includes some continuing activities from fiscal http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/ar2014/ 2012, and some activities in fiscal 2015. Organizations: All USHIO INC. business sites and Group companies worldwide 01 FOR THE NEXT FIVE DECADES On April 1, 2014, we marked the 50th anniversary of the establishment of USHIO INC. The tiny “light” that we created in 1964 has growth into a major source of energy, used across a wide range of fields from semiconductors and liquid crystal displays to visual and lighting equipment, medical and environmental applications. Now as a professional in the field of light, we will continue our journey to seek out its possibilities and to provide solutions that illuminate the future for the planet and the people who live on it. • Formulated the 10 Action Guidelines • Acquired ISO 14001 (Harima) • Acquired ISO 9001 (Gotemba) • Acquired ISO 9001 (Harima) 1964 1990 (1965) (1972) (1975) Solar simulator for the University of Tokyo Dirt incineration system / waste fluid and waste Large-scale solar simulator for testing satellites Solar Simulator 1 delivered to the University of Tokyo oil incinerating system Delivered to the National Space Development Institute of Space and Aeronautical Science A foray into the field of pollution prevention Agency of Japan (currently the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency) Also participated in the Japanese government’s Sunshine Plan (1968) (1974) (1982) IC exposure tool “Unimask” UV water sterilization system UNILIZER high-powered UV sterilization system The first commercial application of the projection A UV water sterilization system using an inbuilt The world’s first mass produced system with a method in the world and the origin of the current low-pressure UV lamp ten-fold increase in sterilizing performance UX series compared with conventional systems. Developed for sterilizing food packaging and containers, as well as water purification (1971) (1974) (1994) Standard halogen light bulb UNICURE system UV curing and drying device Excimer VUV/03 Cleaning System USHIO’s halogen light bulb is recognized by the The UNICURE system cures using light. USHIO’s A fine cleaning system that uses light. Achieves more International Commission on Illumination as the best-selling product, it was initially developed for use than 10-fold increase in cleaning speed and global standard with labels and stickers cleanliness over wet cleaning using water or chemicals, or dry cleaning uses ultrasonic waves or low-pressure UV lamps, and consumes only 1/3 of the electricity while enabling low-temperature processing 02 Sustainability Report 2014 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 Form an infrastructure for Complete integration of Dig deeper into MEDIUM-TERM PLANNING FOR CSR CSR initiatives, gather management strategy with CSR issues information CSR issues • Integrated ISO renewal examination • Announced a Basic Policy Statement for Conflict Minerals (conducted survey) • Signed the United Nations Global Compact • Changed the name of the Environmental Committee to the CSR Committee • Start of a wide-area accredited collection • ISO integrated survey business for semiconductors and LCD lamps • CSR Action Plan • Launch of integrated ISO (quality and environment) • Formulated the USHIO Group Management • Started collection and recycling of cinema projector lamps Philosophy • Started publishing the Sustainability Report (Changed from the Environmental Report) • Established CSR Department USHIO’S ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 • Acquired ISO 14001 (Companywide) • Started publishing Environmental Report • Started risk avoidance at business sites • Environmental tasks incorporated at productivity improvement meeting • Launched Environmental • Introduced material flow cost accounting Committee • Risk Management Guidelines established • Introduced electric power monitor system • Introduced environmental management • Introduced waste measurement system (Harima) information system • Transition from in-house company system • Established the USHIO Group Green to business division system Procurement Standards 2000 2010 2014 Net sales ¥157.8 billion (1998) (2008) (2010) (2013) NSH lamp for LCD projector 24 Mercury-free fluorescent lamp XEFL® UX-5 series modular steppers for 37 Point Reader® blood analyzer These lamps can be used with DLP® (digital light The world’s first mercury-free light source able semiconductor package substrates The first system in Japan to achieve Employees processing)-type projectors to increase their to select the required wavelengths of light from The UX-5 developed in 1999 upgraded to meet the quantitative measurements of screen size or picture quality. A high-luminosity the UV spectrum performance requirements of the current generation. serum ferritin using the 5,470 light source developed based on super-high In the future, it will be possible to upgrade and immunochromatography method pressure UV lamps customize functions selectively as required (2013) (1999) (2008) (2011) Photo alignment system Digital Cinema Project Energy-saving fish-luring light U-BEAM.eco LED Modules for Office Automation Controls the direction of light in First used in the U.S. to screen Star Wars. Winner of the Eco-Products Awards Minister of Equipment for Reading Documents non-contact cleaning by light, Today, USHIO has a 40%* share of the market Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Prize, and Achieves the same level of brightness as greatly improving yield and product the Environment Minister’s Award for Global conventional rare-gas fluorescent lamps using performance Warming Prevention Activity. only 1 or 2 LED chips per unit, enabling a 75% saving in electricity (2008) (2012) TheraBeam UV308® excimer UV phototherapy device (2009) Min-Excimer excimer irradiation unit The TheraBeam® treats patients with skin diseases such as psoriasis, vitiligo, and atopic dermatitis LED Spot UV Irradiation Unit SPL-1 An A5 paper sheet-sized excimer irradiation by irradiating them with UV light in the 308 nm band from an excimer light, which offers First use of an LED light source in the SPOT unit that enables table-top excimer light improved therapeutic effects. It is the first UV phototherapy device with an excimer filter, which CURE light-concentrating UV irradiation unit, experiments. The unit enables excimer light reduces the risk of damage to healthy skin to provide safe, effective irradiation therapy which has been continued since 1972 experiments such as inducing hydrophilicity or form changing simply and flexibly *Percentage is as of the end of March 2014. Based on USHIO data. 03 Top Message USHIO promotes light-related businesses that solve social issues while growing together with society My name is Kenji Hamashima. On October 1, 2014, I was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of USHIO, INC. In April 2014, USHIO celebrated the 50th anniversary of its founding. The small ray of light that USHIO brought into being in 1964 has grown into a source of both illumination and energy for a variety of industrial fields. As I assume leadership of the USHIO management team, rest assured and expect that we remain as committed as ever to contributing solutions to society’s issues through a focus on cutting-edge technologies that push the possibilities of light, together with highly transparent management. Net Sales Operating Income / Operating Income Ratio Net Income / Return on Equity (ROE) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) （%） (Billions of yen) （%） 200 20 9.7 20 10 8 157.8 7.7 6.2 6.0 145.1 150.0 7.1 150 143.4 15 14.0 7.5 15 5.6 6 119.0 12.1 4.7 6.1 5.3 10.6 10.7 100 10 5 10 9.5 4.3 4 8.7 7.2 7.5 7.1 7.0 50 5 2.5 5 2 0 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Operating Income (left scale) Net Income (left scale) Operating Income Ratio (right scale) Return on Equity (right scale) 04 Sustainability Report 2014 Fiscal 2014 Performance New Cinema-Related Business and In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, sales and New Light Sources income increased year on year in both the light sources In the imaging equipment sector USHIO will launch business and the equipment business segments. Net a new audio business offering high sound quality in sales were ¥157.80 billion, ordinary income was ¥15.94 cinemas to further build up a business offering a onebillion, operating income was ¥12.11 billion, and net stop solution. Currently, we are also investing actively income was ¥10.77 billion. in development of laser diode-based laser projectors. Since these projectors offer numerous benefits to Medium-term Management Plan cinemas and their customers in terms of outstanding In our three-year medium-term plan announced in environmental performance and deliver extremely bright April 2014, we set a net sales target for the fiscal year images, they are expected to gain popularity all over the ending March 31, 2017 of ¥210.0 billion, an increase world in the future. of approximately 30% compared with net sales in the High-Definition Displays Leading to fiscal year ended March 31, 2014. Expansion in Optical Equipment To meet this target, we will position the fields In the LCD panel market for smart phones and tablet described below in the electronics, imaging, and PCs, USHIO has launched its photo-alignment system, medical and life sciences markets as growth drivers, which went on sale during the fiscal year ended March then move to further ramp up the pace at which we 2014. USHIO’s photo-alignment technology uses the develop both new markets and our one-stop solution action of light on liquid crystal, a distinctive difference business. We also hope to earn trust as a company that from conventional technologies. It produces an contributes solidly to global society through high-quality extremely high yield while enabling high-quality panel products and services backed by superior technology. manufacture that conserves energy and achieves high We will do this through innovation and a deep precision. Meanwhile, we intend to invest actively in commitment to management that prioritizes speed not product development targeting the next generation in only in our products but also across all operations—from the semiconductor and electronic component fields. R&D through to sales and distribution. Specifically, we will invest in high-tech equipment, as In the drive to realize this goal, it is essential to well as automotive and medical equipment—all of put management systems and a working environment which offer good prospects for future growth. in place that can optimally draw upon the sensitivity, Promoting Early Commercialization of Solidcreativity, ideas and passion of all of our employees. This State Light Sources is the source of our innovation, and we will make every In the light sources business, we are actively working effort to address it as an urgent management issue. in the environmental field such as using UV and VUV MEDIUM-TERM MANAGEMENT PLAN 2014 (actual) 2015 (plan) 2017 (plan) Net Sales ¥157.8 billion ¥170.0 billion ¥210.0 billion Operating Income ¥12.1 billion ¥14.0 billion ¥21.0 billion Operating Income Ratio 7.7% 8% 10% Return on Equity (ROE)(%) 6% ─ More than 8% 05 light for sterilization, disinfection, deodorization, and From my stint as CFO at USHIO AMERICA in denitration. We also plan to offer a lineup of value1990 until my recent appointment as President and CEO, added LED light sources developed primarily through I have served for many years as part of the management our partnership with an architectural design firm. team at USHIO AMERICA and CHRISTIE, both in the Moreover, we restructured our solid-state light United States and Canada. Referencing that experience, sources business into a new, independent organization allow me to introduce the Group governance on April 1, 2014, in order to hasten its development approaches and mechanisms USHIO adopts as a global into a commercially viable business. Looking ahead, we company with respect to diverse regions and people. will make even greater investments in development to ensure that the business has products to market and Organizational Governance Based on Renpo starts commercial operation as soon as possible. Keiei Group Management Philosophy An Independent Business Unit for Biomedical Roughly translated as “Mountain Peak Management,” Operations Renpo Keiei has been the USHIO Group management We are taking a similar approach in our biomedical philosophy since day one. Rather than a group operations, where we aim to accelerate growth by structure topped by USHIO INC., the image is one of a making the relevant business unit into an independent group comprised of all companies, each representing organization. It takes time to obtain pharmaceutical individual “peaks” that form an optimal group licenses for medical products, and one current task is configuration. This promotes respect for the spirit therefore to work on obtaining the necessary licenses of self-reliance, independence and the diversity of in each country. At the same time, however, we are each company, while also sharing common values. stepping up our efforts, including development of Today, USHIO has developed under this philosophy new reagents. To this end, we are strengthening the mechanism for organizational governance our collaboration with academic and governmental described below. organizations including university hospitals. In future, We have a system for sharing information such we intend our biomedical operations to rank alongside as our corporate ethics and basic approach to CSR. our visual imaging and electronics operations in terms In this system, the top management of each Group of scale, and we are actively committing resources to company share information at a CSR-related session achieve this. provided in the meeting of the Group Coordination Council, while the respective Group Communication USHIO as a Global Company and CSR Committee representatives share information at This year USHIO celebrated the 50th anniversary of committee meetings. Finally, all employees share its founding. Today, we have more than 50 Group information through the Group in-house bulletin. companies in Japan and overseas, and almost 80% of In addition, each Group company we respect each our consolidated net sales are accounted for by sales to Group company’s policies based on individuality, overseas customers. Of the Group’s 5,470 employees, independence, and autonomy to ensure that day-to-day 3,089, or more than half, are employed by Group operations are in keeping with local culture, history, and companies overseas, and our management itself is other background aspects. becoming more global. 06 Sustainability Report 2014 Furthermore, to ensure that this system is Promoting Light-Related Businesses that effective, USHIO has established a CSR Committee, Solve Social Issues which I chair as the president, to decide on overall In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, Company policy. We also established separate USHIO made both its solid-state light sources subcommittees for each initiative and issue that we business and biomedical businesses into a new are addressing, and these are linked with our business independent organization in order to accelerate divisions and Group companies. light-related businesses that can solve social issues. Currently, the organization is not very Group Companies Meet Diverse Social Needs large, but in the future, we plan to develop it into To improve the quality of life for employees, our Hong a third main earnings source. Kong subsidiary has reformed rooms in the singles There are still many possibilities of light that have dormitory, making them useable by many more not yet been discovered, representing a vast, untapped employees now, including those with families. We potential. As a leading light technology company, we will have also been the first among other companies in our combine the latest research results and previous industrial park to create a staff cafeteria, which has knowledge with society’s needs in order to pioneer new helped to reduce absences from work. These examples applications for light. We are already developing a series show how much progress our Group companies have of products to solve pressing issues. One example made in putting a working environment in place based appears in the feature section of this report, where we on an understanding of local needs. The subsidiaries introduce a light device that enables mass volume in North America where I spent many years engage in exports of fresh, high-quality Japanese agricultural both social contribution, most notably cooperation with produce, and another that can breakdown atmospheric local volunteer organizations, and local communication pollutants with extremely high efficiency. I hope you will activities. In addition to active participation in these take a look through this section. programs by many employees each year, they also provide corporate support for various causes. At the juncture of our 50th anniversary, I would like to Meanwhile, in Japan, we are facing reaffirm our commitment to continue to contribute to different issues. The direction of government society by providing “light” solutions as USHIO has done action has shifted markedly from responding to a thus far. My aspiration for my appointment as president decline in the working population, to promoting is to convey to all of you our desire to continue growing greater participation by women in the workforce. together with society. I hope you will continue to support At USHIO we have further advanced our existing our efforts even further. measures, such as a system for supporting working while also raising children, a childcare leave system, and a policy of gender-blind October 2014 appointments to management roles. By doing so, we are confident that we will see an increase in opportunities for women going forward. Kenji Hamashima President and Chief Executive Officer 07 FEATURE Amazing Invisible Light Have you heard of vacuum ultraviolet (VUV) radiation? It is found in sunlight, but as it travels through air it is absorbed by the oxygen, so it doesn’t reach the surface of the Earth. It was given its name because it can exist only in a vacuum. Of all types of light, VUV has the shortest wavelength, packing the greatest punch in terms of energy. It is known that it can trigger a variety of photochemical and biological reactions and it is used in a wide range of contexts, including semiconductor manufacturing and photo-cleaning of LCD panels. Now it is attracting attention as one way of tackling issues of global concern, including those relating to the environment, agriculture, and energy. Invisible Light Makes Plants Grow? So, what uses might there be for this VUV radiation of 200 nm Light plays a major role in the growth of plants, and its benefits or less that doesn’t reach the Earth’s surface? differ according to the wavelength: Infrared light has the greatest effect on photosynthesis, while UV light is believed to Mass-Exporting Strawberries be necessary for normal development of leaf shape. Recent Japanese strawberries are mouthwatering and are especially research demonstrated that UV radiation with a wavelength of popular elsewhere in Asia, where they fetch high prices. But 320 nm (UVB radiation) increases the content of an antioxidant strawberries easily lose their freshness and go moldy, so they enzyme known as anthocyanin in leaf lettuce, enabling can be exported only by air. The problem is that air transport is particularly nutritious lettuces to be grown. Remarkably, costly, which limits the quantity of strawberries that can however, it also showed that UV radiation of the same be exported. wavelength can hinder growth, depending on the plant’s stage of development. Ethylene gas encourages BUT it also causes ripe So, if VUV radiation is used to strawberries to ripen strawberries to deteriorate generate ozone… VUV radiation Right… w rot! ter… ♡ No wee ts Ge Eth Ethy ylen Ethylen Ethylene lene Ozone e e Ethyle Ethyle ne ne Ozone e rip ly Ful The ozone preserves the strawberries’ freshness in two ways: controlling mold as well as breaking down ethylene gas. 08 Sustainability Report 2014 That is why exporters are currently looking into ship-based Generating Clean Ozone with VUV transportation methods that could deliver greater quantities of Radiation strawberries to consumer locations overseas. The key issue is There are several methods of producing ozone, and the one how to prevent the strawberries from after-ripening (ripening most commonly used these days employs electrical discharge. further once they are picked) and curb the growth of mold. However, production of ozone using electrical discharge also This is where VUV radiation and ozone come into play. generates nitrogen oxide (NOx), which is extremely harmful to human health. An alternative method, therefore, is to expose Ozone Prevents Deterioration? oxygen to UV radiation. This method can produce clean ozone, The maturation hormone ethylene enables fruit to grow. Once but UV light contains a mixture of wavelengths, some of which the fruit is harvested, however, it will continue to after-ripen, generate ozone, while others break the ozone down, making releasing ethylene gas that then causes deterioration or conventional UV lamps extremely inefficient. USHIO addressed rotting, and spoils the surrounding fruit as well. this problem by developing a VUV lamp that can deliver Despite being essential for growth, therefore, precisely the 172 nm wavelength light that generates ozone, ethylene gas also causes ripe fruit to deteriorate. However, the excluding all other wavelengths. USHIO is already collaborating gas can be broken down, and its effects halted, using ozone, with fruit producers and shipping operators to start developing which breaks ethylene down into water and carbon dioxide and testing ozone generating devices incorporating this lamp (see figure below). If a shipping container holding fruit is filled for use in containers. Perhaps it won’t be too long before with ozone, the ozone can prevent ethylene-induced USHIO’S light-based technology enables Japan’s juicy deterioration of the fruit within the container and preserve the strawberries to be mass-delivered to people all over the world. fruit’s freshness. And it is VUV radiation that is necessary to produce ozone. Ozone breaks ethylene gas down into water and carbon dioxide Mechanism by Which Ozone Breaks Down Ethylene Carbon dioxide Water Carbon H O H Mixes O dioxide C O O O O Water H H (H2O) Ozone Carbon Dioxide C C (O3) (CO2) C O H H Breaks H O H Water O O Ethylene down O O Mixes Water Ozone (C2H4) Ozone (H2O) (CO2) (O3) 09 FEATURE VUV Radiation Also Offers Answers to Environmental Problems Air, soil, and water pollution are now serious issues for countries all over the world. However, technologies to combat that pollution are steadily making headway, and this is another field in which USHIO’s VUV technology is playing an active role. Breaking Down NOx, the Cause of treat exhaust gas at 900°C or higher. It is now possible, Photochemical Smog however, to directly expose exhaust gas containing a There are a whole range of substances that cause atmospheric combination of NOx, ammonia, and oxygen to VUV radiation, pollution, but NOx is the one that causes photochemical smog thereby rendering the NOx harmless at an ambient and acid rain. It is emitted from the diesel engines of cars, temperature and without the need for an expensive catalyst. ships, and other vehicles, as well as from thermal power This new technology* offers potential for use with such stations and garbage incineration plants, among other sources. pollution sources as diesel engines, which emit exhaust gas at However, this harmful NOx can be broken down into harmless a low temperature, making the use of previous denitration nitrogen and water vapor using a technology known as technologies difficult. denitration. In the past, this meant using an expensive catalyst * Developed jointly by USHIO, Gifu University, and ACTREE Corporation that had to be constantly replenished, or using ammonia to Denitration Using VUV Light Denitration Using VUV Light Exposure to VUV Light Denitrify by exciting the ammonia gas with VUV VUV Lamp light, causing it to react with the exhaust gas Exhaust gas Mixed gas Clean gas Exhaust gas is denitrified and discharged as clean gas Mix in ammonia gas that Ammonia gas will react with exhaust gas 10 Sustainability Report 2014 Is That Incinerator Ash Really Safe? VUV Radiation Can Also Reduce CO2 When garbage comprising a variety of materials is Emissions? incinerated, the majority of the resulting ash (including fly It is known that when the wavelength of VUV radiation is ash) is disposed of via landfill. However, this ash contains shorter than that at which ozone can be generated, it contains traces of lead chloride and cyanide, which are easily soluble light with a distinctive ability to break down carbon dioxide. In in rainwater and groundwater. Lead is known to cause fact, it has been suggested that we could use this particular poisoning, and ingestion of even a small amount can cause light to break carbon dioxide down into oxygen and carbon, anemia or neurological disorders. In the past, therefore, soil releasing the oxygen into the atmosphere and using the and water pollution was prevented by mixing in chemicals carbon for energy. This may sound like a pipe dream, but that render metals less soluble, or covering the ash with a considering that coal is derived from plants that took in carbon sheet to avoid scattering, then letting nature take its course dioxide, used photosynthesis to grow, and subsequently for years, or even decades, until the lead oxidized. But transformed themselves over time, maybe it is not so faroperators of incineration plants are now seeking a more fetched after all. efficient, safe, and reliable disposal method. At USHIO we believe that light offers limitless potential, and that it can provide the answers to several of the Both Lead and Mercury Can Be Treated issues currently facing humankind. We will continue to rise to Using VUV Radiation the challenge of unlocking that potential. Research is currently being conducted into the efficacy of causing a chemical reaction between ozone and the lead in incinerator ash, turning the lead into lead oxide, which is USHIO’s VUV lamps not easily soluble in water. In addition, research has started on a new method for treating mercury, which is also harmful to human health. In both cases, generation of ozone using VUV radiation is regarded as the most promising method. It is considered to be the best way of resolving environmental issues because it can generate clean ozone without emitting any substances harmful to either humans or the natural environment. Excimer lamp UV-XEFL lamps 11 USHIO’s CSR Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR*) We consider it natural that a corporate citizen Society should observe laws and regulations, contribute to society, and take steps to protect the environment. These are the foundations of all corporate activity. In addition, a corporation should build good relationships with its various stakeholders* and advance Create and provide new value to society by creating and offering new value to contribute to society. This is the kind of corporation that USHIO is USHIO Group Stakeholders working to become. Build good relationships Compliance* CSR Promotion Framework CSR Promotion Framework USHIO has established a CSR Committee, which is chaired by the president. The committee decides on policies for the whole Company relating to CSR CSR Committee (Chairperson: president) initiatives. The CSR Committee establishes subcommittees as needed to oversee practical implementation of the policies it has decided, and discusses CSR Department specific initiatives and ways to promote them. At the 21st CSR Committee meeting held in October 2013, Separate subcommittees Group the members confirmed current priorities to be UGN* for each initiative companies addressed and initiatives to be taken going forward. Furthermore, at the Group CSR Council held in March 2014, the top management of Group Business divisions companies attended from bases around the world, reporting on diverse social needs and sharing their respective priorities with the entire Group. The attendees confirmed their commitment to carrying out specific activities under the Group CSR plan. United Nations Global Compact’s* Ten Principles USHIO has declared its support for the United Nations Global Compact of principles concerning human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We have joined the local UN network supporting the compact, Global Compact Japan Network, and have taken an active role in various sectional activities, including our involvement in co-sponsoring a proposal on supply chain management as one of the participating companies. We have joined the local UN network supporting the compact, Global Compact Japan Network, and are working to promote all facets of CSR among the many other participating companies. To this end, we have taken an active role in sectional activities for sharing information on necessary specific measures, and enhancing the activities of each company. Please see the separate glossary for explanations of words marked with an asterisk (*). 12 Sustainability Report 2014 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csrprogram (Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society) Medium-term Plan for CSR The results of the survey were as follows: USHIO established the CSR Department in 2009, and formulated Survey Requests for which Inquiries Were Received (USHIO Group) a medium-term CSR plan aimed at fusing the Company’s man20 agement strategies through to 2016 with its CSR tasks. USHIO’s medium-term CSR planning comprises three phases over a seven15 year period. In phase-1 (2010 to 2012), we focused our efforts on “forming an infrastructure for CSR initiatives” and achieved our 10 initial targets. We are currently in phase-2 (2013 to 2014) during which we are working to “dig deeper into CSR issues.” 5 Phase-2 0 CSR in general Conflict minerals BCP Chemical substance In phase-2, the current phase, we have started off a PDCA cycle for management system fusing the actual business operations of our business divisions and Customers Government agencies/universities/industry groups, etc. Group companies with CSR aspects, by ensuring that the activity infrastructure we built during phase-1 is functioning effectively. Specifically, under the direction of the president, who is the chairCSR Action Plan person of the CSR Committee, in fiscal 2013 we strenuously proIn formulating the CSR Action Plan, the CSR Committee and other moted these respective CSR initiatives within our business confines, related organizations investigated CSR factors of the USHIO’s treating the CSR Action Plan as a guiding principle for fitting in our business activities from various angles, while giving consideration five CSR pillars harmoniously with the business plan and momento the seven core subjects of ISO 26000 and many other sources tum of each division and department. Each department brought up of guidance and guidelines. As a result, the Group’s issues were a host of measures and plans relating to human resource developclassified under the five pillars of governance, people, quality, ment, customer satisfaction, diversity, environmentally responsible society, and environment. These items are then broken down products, and so forth, which were discussed. further into action policies. Currently, the CSR Action Plan shows In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we conducted USHIO’s CSR framework while forming the underlying philosophy a survey of all Group companies and business sites regarding CSR for business planning at each business division and Group comtasks in each Group company. We plan to use this survey as a pany. The Action Plan is modified each year to reflect the results starting point for stepping up our stakeholder engagement across of the listening survey. the entire Group going forward. Formulation of a CSR Action Plan under the Five Pillars Five Pillars Issues Fiscal 2015 Action Plans Governance • Promulgation throughout the Company • Internal control* Establish a compliance system that • Global measures • Promotion of risk management encompasses international standards in global • Take steps to promote observance of laws and regulations • Formulation of BCP* corporate activities, work to publicize CSR• Strengthen information security • Compliance and ethics related information and establish stakeholder • Protect and make strategic use of intellectual property rights • Strengthen information security • Formulate a business continuity plan communication, and strengthen and enhance • Protecting property rights the governance framework • Fair and impartial business activities • Promote formulation and implementation of human resource development plans based on a long-term perspective People • Human rights • Promotion of diversity • Promote diversity (development and utilization of local human resources, Considering workplace environments, human development and utilization without regard to gender or race) • Promotion of work-life balance rights, and diversity of values in hiring and using • Total work hour reduction to promote work-life balance • Health and safety • Promote safety measures human resources • Human resources • Conduct human rights education (avoid contributing to human rights issues, conduct due diligence) • Increase customer satisfaction through quality improvement Quality • CSR procurement • Strengthen supply chain (promote green procurement and CSR Initiatives to meet the needs of customers, • Quality procurement) shareholders, and business partners based on • Creation of solutions to meet new social • Promote business in emerging countries based on social priorities and needs, needs* pioneer new applications and develop new products observance of market rules, and regulations • Product safety assessment • Targets and Proposals Based on Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan ･ Implement initiatives to conserve energy and resources • Expanding sales of environmentally Environment conscious products ･ In product development, use substitute technologies and gather information in anticipation of environmental regulation trends Engage in corporate activities to protect the • Global warming countermeasures ･ In product development, use designs that reduce the number of environment. Strive to meet both environmental • Chemical substance management components and the amount of labor in manufacturing and business needs, including addressing global • Resource conservation — Biodiversity ･ Use environmentally responsible products when selecting components and preservation environmental problems affecting biotopes materials ･ Construct systems that support efficient operations • Strengthen chemical substance management Society • Increase corporate value by proactively contributing to society Engage widely with society at all levels from ･ Implement community interaction and volunteer activities local to international, cooperating and • Social contribution activities ･ Promote business that contributes to social issues through links with NPOs coordinating with other groups in contributing and NGOs to education, culture, welfare, development • Promote business in emerging countries and other aspects of society 13 Governance Corporate Governance and Compliance The basic policy of the USHIO Group is to ensure the transparency and efficiency of the Group’s management, and increase corporate value to meet the expectations of all the Group’s stakeholders. To this end, we place the establishment and maintenance of systems of internal control, incorporating compliance with laws, regulations, social norms, corporate ethics, and J-SOX regulations, as a top management priority and make every effort to promote these systems. Corporate Governance* Framework USHIO uses a management structure that includes a Board of Corporate Auditors. Management and administrative responsibilities are divided among three governance units. The first is the Board of Directors, which determines management policies and makes decisions about other matters of the highest importance. The directors also oversee the management of business operations. The second is the representative directors, who are responsible for conducting business operations. The third is the Board of Corporate Auditors, which is responsible for audits. To assist the Board of Directors in reaching decisions, the USHIO Group has three advisory units that examine and discuss management strategies and medium and long-term management policies with respect to the entire Group. The units are the Executive Council and Group Coordination Council. In addition, the USHIO Group has a business unit structure and an executive officer system for the purposes of strengthening and speeding up the execution of business operations by the representative directors. USHIO’s Internal Control Framework General Meeting of Shareholders Election and Election and Election and dismissal dismissal dismissal Reporting Board of Directors Reporting Independent Auditing Firm Auditing Board of Corporate Auditors • Approval of appointments and Election and reappointments dismissal Auditing Reporting •Appointments Reporting • Evaluation of appropriateness of and removals financial audits •Supervision Reporting Representative Directors Reporting Reporting Reporting about Security Export Control Committee Instructions and important supervision matters Business Auditing Department Corporate Social Responsibility Department Compliance Committee Executive Council Group Coordination Council Auditing (Deliberation on important matters) Instructions and Reporting about Submitting policy Authorization of policy supervision important matters proposals and plans proposals and plans Divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates 14 Sustainability Report 2014 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/governance (Corporate Governance System) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/compliance (Compliance) Board of Directors and Outside Directors view to issuing recommendations for streamlining management, The Board of Directors comprises a total of 11 directors: 9 interimproving business operations, safeguarding assets, and improving nal directors and 2 highly independent outside directors. Internal the management structure while minimizing risks. directors with complete knowledge of the Company’s business details ensure prompt decision making, while the appointment Compliance of independent outside directors strengthen monitoring and It is widely recognized that breaches of compliance can undermine help maintain the objectivity of management. Based on the the very foundations of the public’s trust in a company or governTokyo Stock Exchange’s rules for protecting general shareholdment, and carry a risk of significant losses through claims for damers, USHIO has filed a notice stating that its outside directors ages, and sharp declines in sales. At USHIO we have established a are independent directors who have no conflict of interest with Compliance Committee to address compliance-related concerns, general shareholders. including potential risks, across the entire Group as early as possible. We have also established the USHIO Helpline as a point of *Interviews with newly appointed an outside director can be contact for external consultation and reporting. viewed on our website. http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/ar2014/governance/interview.html Information Security USHIO often handles customers’ private information or is entrusted Audits by Corporate Auditors with their important company information and other information USHIO has a Board of Corporate Auditors with five members that assets in the course of its business activities. We consider it a top include three outside auditors who are independent of the USHIO priority to safeguard such information from threats such as leaks Group. The outside corporate auditors are professionals in fields and modification. Moreover, because we recognize that informasuch as finance, accounting, and law. The inclusion of outside tion is an asset that generates value, and is a source for increasing corporate auditors makes it possible to perform audits from an corporate value, we are taking measures such as raising awareness objective and neutral perspective. The board submits reports conof information security among our employees and improving our cerning legally required items and other matters to the Board of risk management systems. This kind of management requires three Corporate Auditors. Other matters include items that may have a interlocking initiatives: rules must be determined, a framework significant impact on the entire Group, important items concerning must be created for observing those rules, and awareness must monthly business operations, and other information that should be be raised. We implement these based on our information security reported. The outside corporate auditors submit an annual auditmanagement rules. Our next step will be to make sure these ing plan to the Board of Corporate Auditors and explain its specific rules are applied uniformly and consistently for the USHIO Group auditing objectives to the corporate auditors. In addition, the outthroughout the world. side corporate auditors provide the corporate auditors with reviews Specific examples include the promotion of countermeaof quarterly and year-end financial reports as well as reviews of the sures, such as having a certain secure area at each business site financial audits and summaries of audit results. This forms the basis where access is controlled with IC-embedded ID cards, antivirus for periodic meetings of the outside corporate auditors and Board measures for PCs, encryption of hard drives, authorization manof Corporate Auditors. agement of operation systems, and strengthening the capacity to respond to disasters and faults. Other measures include reducing *Interviews with newly appointed an outside auditor can be the risk of leaks by encrypting technical documents, setting up viewed on our website. automatic encryption for external email attachments, functions to http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/ir/ar2014/governance/interview.html prevent sending emails to the wrong recipient and keyword filtering functions, replacing PCs in conjunction with the end of support Business Audits for Windows XP, enhancing security control by replacing our PC The importance of internal audits has increased along with the asset management tool, strengthening Internet access control, and enactment of the Companies Act and Financial Instruments bolstering data access privileges by integrating our file services. and Exchange Act of Japan, and in order to prevent corporate It is also important to enhance information security impropriety. Besides compliance audits of laws, regulations and awareness and skills for each individual employee in order to preso forth, and assessments of the design and operation of internal vent information leaks. We have therefore taken steps to increase controls, internal audits must now also serve as a consulting funcawareness among employees of the various threats and opportunition with a view to improving business processes and other aspects ties where leaks may occur, by implementing a companywide of the company. At USHIO, we conduct various audits, including e-learning program, and conducting level-specific training for new compliance audits and audits of export controls, both internally recruits. In fiscal 2014, we will promote these initiatives by operatand at our Group companies. To ensure the quality and raise the ing a PDCA cycle to ensure that this awareness penetrates our effectiveness of these audits, the corporate auditors coordinate entire organization at every level. with relevant departments at all times. The theme and inspection items in our internal audits are selected in accordance with the Fair and Equitable Business Transactions situation of the organization to be audited from the perspectives The USHIO Group’s 10 Action Guidelines expresses our commitof the Company’s business aims and minimizing management ment to always respecting the position and rights of the other risks. We take care to ensure that the audits provide value by party in business dealings, to conducting transactions fairly and helping USHIO achieve its organizational objectives. Moreover, equitably, and to not taking advantage of a dominant position to the indications and recommendations raised by the internal audits impose inappropriate terms or conditions. We also promise to are followed through periodically until the required improvements work to prevent corruption and carry out appropriate business have been made. We will continue to have audits conducted in transactions in line with socially accepted practices. close observation of actual frontline business conditions with a 15 People Working Together with Employees By working to fulfill its responsibilities to society, the USHIO Group aims to create a company where employees can work with enthusiasm and a sense of purpose. As is clear from the first item in the Group’s management philosophy: “Build both a prosperous Company and prosperous employees,” this goal has remained the same since the Company’s foundation. Respecting Human Rights The USHIO Group respects the International Labor Organization’s* Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. USHIO also declared its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2010. The principles relate to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. USHIO is promoting initiatives to ensure adherence to them. In addition to this, CSR procurement, conflict minerals* survey, and diversity are also important themes related to human rights. Initiatives to promote diversity have been increasing in Japan guided by national policy, and USHIO is following a longterm plan to ensure that the Company does not discriminate based on nationality, gender, or any other such factor when offering employment or promotion opportunities. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, USHIO established the Basic Policy Statement for Conflict Minerals, recognizing its responsibility in using a large quantity of tungsten for lamp electrodes. The policy statement is designed to be considerate of the human rights issues in conflict regions. During the fiscal year, we actively promoted measures to realize a society where all human rights are observed, such as conducting human rights education aimed at achieving respect for human rights in our business activities and establishing a CSR Procurement Policy to ensure consideration of human rights in the supply chain. Diversity* Utilizing Global Human Resources Overseas sales account for almost 80% of the USHIO Group’s total. Human resources capable of blending in to communicate and understand local needs are indispensable in promoting business overseas. We are therefore working to develop and utilize global human resources by conducting international study programs, hiring international students, sending personnel from Group companies overseas to the parent company in Japan, and providing opportunities for interaction between Group companies. Employment of People With Disabilities In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, USHIO achieved a ratio of employees with disabilities of 1.96%, slightly below the legal requirement of 2.0%. We will continue taking steps to make our workplaces barrier free, including installing sliding doors in restrooms and handrails on stairways, and to promote employment of people with disabilities going forward. Re-Employment System USHIO actively supports employment for seniors. We have established extended employment programs (Senior Partner Program and Senior Expert Program) that are conducted through our re-employment system. These popular programs allow employees to work up to the age of 65. Support for Working Women We believe that new talent pools are needed in order to generate new business amid the matured economies of the industrialized nations. Consequently, we have more than doubled the percentage of female employees in sales and technical positions since 2007 in our effort to recruit human resources without regard to gender, and in January and April 2013, we held talks between our Chairman and female employees to make sure that their voices are being heard by senior management. We have also taken steps to encourage and motivate employees on an individual level. For example, in December 2014, we invited a female sales manager from outside the Company to come and run a study and networking session for female sales staff. The average service period of USHIO employees continues to 用語集year, and in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, the service period for female employees increase each exceeded that of their male counterparts, reaching 16 years. 16 Sustainability Report 2014 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/peoples (Working Together with Employees) USHIO’s Work-Life Balance Support Program (Balancing Work and Parenting) Prior to Birth Birth Post Natal Childcare •Leave of absence for fertility treatment •Paternity leave •Childcare leave •Short working hours (childcare) •Shortened working hours (pregnancy) •Antenatal/postnatal leave t Women may take up to two years leave •Excused from work outside of regular •Leave of absence for maternity clinic visits t 8 weeks each two times for each child, regardless of hours, or amount of over-time work •Pregnancy discomfort leave whether their spouse is working limited •Amount of late night work limited •Nursing care leave •Childcare leave •Hospital visit leave •Preschod / daycare suppot Work-Life Balance* options), so that each employee can enjoy a more fulfilling and Support Programs meaningful life. The system is also intended to provide backup and USHIO aims to be able to flexibly accommodate diverse values support for employees so they can achieve even better focus in and working styles regardless of employees’ lifestyles and gender. their jobs. As part of this, we have a support system for childcare leave that offers much more than the legally required level of support. In Education and Training for Human Resources March 2009, we created the Work-Life Balance Handbook, which Development contains information on programs for balancing work. It also conVarious training programs have been established to facilitate the tains information on child-raising and maternal welfare, how mandevelopment of personnel capable of acting independently and to agers should respond, and other tips for employees who would make it possible to align “Build both a prosperous Company and use the programs and for their managers. In July 2011, we revised prosperous employees.” our system for working shorter hours to extend the eligibility of In addition, revisions were made to the skills required for each choosing to work shorter hours until a child is six years old. Moredivision and type of job, and a system established at each office over, in an effort to build an environment conducive to supporting which will facilitate training and evaluation of employees. gender equality, we uploaded stories of male employees and their Regardless of the type of job, all employees are trained to experience with childcare leave and interviews with female employdevelop their ability to maintain an awareness of the problem, a ees to view on our intranet portal. Consequently, in June 2012, problem-solving approach that is not limited by past experience and for the third time we earned Kurumin* certification under the Act the ability to independently develop and implement new proposals. for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. The ratio of women returning to work after taking maternity leave Support for Self-Development is virtually 100%, and several male employees also take childcare Business English School: To help our human resources achieve leave each year. results on a global stage, we support them in improving their English language capabilities—which is the common foundation Employees Using Childcare Leave underpinning such endeavors. Employees who wish to take classes 2012 2013 2014 can join in-house classes at each worksite. The classes are graded Men 2 5 4 Women 27 32 29 by proficiency and have between three and six students. External Total 29 37 33 teachers (Japanese and native English speakers) are invited to teach the in-house classes, which are run once a week after work. The Paid Vacation and No-Overtime Days system was started in October 2013 and in six months 28 employBased on a commitment to work-life balance, we designate certain ees have taken the classes, which have been highly rated. days as no overtime days and prearrange paid vacation days to give TOEIC testing: TOEIC tests are given to employees who want to employees time to spend with their friends and family or on their gauge their English ability and further improve it. The Company own pursuits and to help create a more dynamic working environpays a portion of the testing fees. A total of 125 employees took ment. We believe that performance improves when employees the test in the fiscal year ended March 2014. maintain their physical and mental health by taking time off to relax and rejuvenate. Big Sister and Brother System This system provides one-on-one support for new recruits’ develCafeteria Plan (Selective Benefit System) opment, provided by senior colleagues acting as mentors to new As the social environment changes and lifestyles diversify, employrecruits for one year after their initial assignment. The guidance ees’ needs are also diversifying. In response, in April 2014, we covers day-to-day working, as well as issues that occur in comintroduced U’s Club, a system that allows employees to select a pany life and even personal issues. To help the senior colleagues wide range of benefits that they wish to use from a menu. approach their recruit guidance roles with enthusiasm, we conduct By linking the Company’s system with services provided big sister and brother training. The system has helped new recruits by a benefit service provider company we have expanded the to build trust with their senior colleagues, enabling them to work range of options beyond what the Company’s system has provided with confidence, and has helped to increase the rate of new (including childcare, nursing care, health, and self-development graduate recruits who stay with us into their third year. 17 Quality Business Partners To accurately grasp the needs of our customers, we think from their perspective, then work as one with our business partners to improve our product development and quality. In this way we provide products and services with appealing quality that goes above and beyond the run-of-the-mill. Quality Policy USHIO has created unified quality policies for the entire Group and continued its efforts to improve quality. UPS (USHIO Production System) UPS (USHIO Production System) is the name of a new initiative aiming to establish a unique Basic Philosophy new production system at USHIO’s Harima DiviUSHIO regards product quality as an overriding priority and will promptly provide global markets with high quality, sion from fiscal 2011. Amid a rapidly changing safe products and services that are highly reliable and business environment, it is important to be able economical in order to fulfill the requirements of customers. to efficiently supply high-quality products in Action Guidelines any environment. To achieve this, we saw the 1. We will act rigorously in putting the customer first and need to think outside of the box and promote putting quality first, and will develop appealing products improvements from a broad-ranging perspective with cutting-edge technology to fulfill the requirements by integrating our ongoing UPS, TPM and TQC of customers and earn their trust. improvement activities, rather than repeatedly 2. We will strive to further improve quality by developing entity-level quality management systems and continually going over the same ground. working to improve their effectiveness in order to meet The main thrust of the UPS movement the needs of customers. is ZD (zero-defects) activities, which seek to 3. We will work to share information with customers, eliminate defective work by stimulating individmake cost improvements, develop new products, pioneer new markets, and promptly provide global markets ual autonomy and enthusiasm among employwith high quality, safe products that are highly reliable ees and fostering creative thinking. Traditionally, and economical. the movement consisted of three pillar groups. October 1, 2014 Namely, the Manufacturing Technology Group, Kenji Hamashima the Quality Assurance System Reform Group President and Chief Executive Officer and the Education and Enlightenment Group. USHIO INC. However, we have now reformed the activities within our business sites, and from April 2014 we started a new initiative of small group activities within business sites to carry out specific improvement activities by thoroughly promoting “full participation by all people at business sites” and “visualization.” We have formed 91 groups within business sites and have also been proactive in appointing younger employees and female employees as activity leaders in order to develop human resources to promote autonomous management while conducting specific improvement activities. The activities have also contributed to reforming employee awareness of the front lines. Through these activities we aim to establish a foundation for more visible, efficient manufacturing, to invigorate our workplaces, and continuously to maintain our activities. Customer Service Center Initiatives In our Customer Service Center we prioritize stable operation of customers’ equipment and customer satisfaction. We work to provide them with confidence and safety, on time, while aiming to ensure that we retain their trust and reliance. Recently, more and more of the end users for our equipment products have tended to be overseas, so we are taking steps to enhance our local service systems through links with our bases in South Korea, Taiwan, and China. The need for this is being driven by an increase in the product groups that these bases can handle, for example medical equipment, as well as further development of proposal-based services. We will deepen the connection of customer service with product sales, while striving to increase customer satisfaction even further going forward. 18 Sustainability Report 2014 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/supplier (Working Together with Business Partners) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/customer (Working Together with Customers) Launch of the Quality Assurance Center With regard to the Point Reader® blood analyzer, in addition to the From April 2013, the separate Quality Assurance Divisions that had original blood serum ferritin measurement and applications such been established at each business site were integrated to launch as countermeasures for endemic diseases in developing countries, the Quality Assurance Center. With this move, USHIO will exploit we have also opened new frontiers for application, including blood the good aspects of quality control knowhow developed at each test diagnoses for animals, and we continue to expand the scope business site, to achieve even more attractive quality and efficiency. of potential. Currently, we are moving ahead to create infrastrucThis will enable us to meet the exacting demands for quality ture to support medical equipment manufacture, sales, and repair, required by our lineup of medical equipment, which has continued pharmaceutical manufacture and sales, and veterinary pharmaceuto expand in recent years. Moreover, we will use our accumulated tical manufacture, among others. We will continue to prepare a knowhow in making products for industry to strengthen our activifoundation for providing value through light in various ways that ties in line with ISO 13485 (an international standard for quality contribute to improving quality of life. assurance of medical equipment. The content of the standard has been modified from the ISO 9001 standard, and additional Promoting CSR Procurement requirements inherent to medical equipment have been added), From the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013, the Green Procurein order to deepen our relationships with overseas manufacturing ment Committee was renamed the CSR Procurement Committee, companies going forward and create an integrated Group-wide as we implemented green procurement as part of our CSR Action スーパーグリーン製品マーク quality assurance system. Plan. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, we analyzed our customers’ expectations of us in terms of CSR initiatives. For Promoting Green Procurement and Compliance the fiscal year ending March 31, 2015, we have established a with International Environmental Laws and CSR Procurement Policy to further ensure that we conduct CSR Regulations procurement. To ensure the smooth, stable supply of its products in the face of a diversifying body of overseas laws and regulations, USHIO is focusChecking for Conflict Minerals* ing on timely collection of information, and building a value chain* In accordance with the clause on conflict minerals in the U.S. designed in response to these requirements. We hold explanatory Securities and Exchange Commission’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street meetings with our suppliers to deepen mutual understanding and Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012, a final rule gain their cooperation in responding to purchasing policy, green was adopted requiring companies listed on securities exchanges in procurement standards, RoHS, and REACH regulations. We also the U.S. to disclose and report on their use of conflict minerals in conduct continuous activities based on dialogue with suppliers their products. Conflict minerals include tantalum, tin, gold, and to avoid problems arising with delivery schedules and product tungsten, produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or quality. Through these activities we aim to raise overall customer adjacent countries. The law has been enforced since January 2013. satisfaction. USHIO uses significant quantities of tungsten in its electrodes, and In recent years, there has been a rising demand for has therefore responded by strengthening its surveys on suppliers’ compliance with RoHS regulations, and we are strengthening our use of materials, and has started surveys using the EICC/GeSI* initiatives in this regard. Conflict Minerals Reporting ledger sheet. In November 2013, we formulated our Basic Policy Contributing to Society with USHIO Products Statement for Conflict Minerals, and we have been promoting Having started out as a manufacturer of light sources for industrial coordination on this policy within the Group, including with Group applications, USHIO has continued to develop products to meet the company USHIO Lighting. needs of the times. Recently, an important theme for us in fulfilling our corporate social responsibility is contributing to society through BCP* Initiatives our main business. In line with this, we have been aggressively The Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 taught us a launching products to solve issues in a variety of fields through the powerful lesson on how entire industries can be impacted by the application of light. inability to supply just one component. USHIO INC. commands In the year ended March 2014, we focused on broadly extraordinarily large market shares for many of its light source extending the scope of our ‘super green’ products, which have products used in various industries. Recognizing our important environmental assessments from the product development stage, responsibility to ensure stable supplies of these products, we have and have been strengthening our initiatives to renew the perforbeen actively promoting business continuity plans (BCP). mance of our products. We will use the light technologies we have In April 2012, we established a dedicated, companywide developed through the years, applying them and developing them committee to formulate a business continuity plan, mainly for the to address problems that must be solved at the global level such light source business, including building systems to enable minias medicine, health, the environment, energy, water, security, and mization of damage and swifter recovery and enable coordination food. At the same time, we will provide products and services that between each business site in the event of a major disaster. In April offer high added value to meet our customers’ needs. 2014, we formulated the USHIO INC. BCP (business continuity plan). With respect to information security, for example, we have Product Development Related to Biomedical QOL made our business process systems more robust against disasters Improvement and faults, and have bolstered our network infrastructure and From fiscal 2013, we have established an independent business internal data assets as part of an ongoing effort to ensure stability unit for biomedical operations. We began development of medical across all aspects of our operations. equipment starting with the TheraBeam 308® excimer light phototherapy device, and since obtaining various medical approvals, we have been developing a range of business infrastructure. 19 Environment Environmental Activities The USHIO Group has defined a vision of where it wants to be in 2020, and is strengthening its initiatives to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through its core operations. 2020 Environmental Vision The USHIO Group formulated its 2020 Environmental Vision with the goal of becoming a company able to contribute through its business activities to the realization of a low-carbon*, recycling-oriented*, biodiversity-preserving* society by the year 2020. Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan In setting our objectives for Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan, we focused on production efficiency assuming power shortages in light of the power supply situation following the Great East Japan Earthquake, and set out the following four key themes. In particular, we focused on contributing to society by reducing CO2 at business sites and through our electrical products, and peripherally to these, by developing a material database and Super Green products. We will also enhance our activities to increase actual sales of the environmentally conscious products such as LEDs that we steadily developed during the Third Phase, while in chemical substance management, we are aiming to comply with international standards and remain firm in this approach. We will also take our coordination with Group companies a step further. Further details of our activities and progress during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 are available on our website. Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan Expand Sales of Global Warming Chemical Substance Resource Conservation Environmentally Countermeasures Management and Biodiversity Conscious Products Preservation • Reduce CO2 emissions • Enhance reliability and • Create Super Green at business sites efficiency of CMS • Reduce waste emission products • Reduce CO2 emissions • Enhance customer volume by unit sales • Increase ratio of due to distribution response regarding • Promote stakeholder environmentally chemical substance engagement* conscious products management • Social contribution among net sales activities and biodiversity preservation Committees for Each Measure Promote Activities Global Warming Green Products 3R activities at each CSR Procurement Countermeasures Committee business site Committee Committee SCOPE 3* Initiatives Up until now, companies have been required to accurately grasp the volume of CO2 directly emitted by their business activities and the amount of energy generated indirectly from electricity usage and so forth, and to make an effort to reduce these. However, CDP and other social demands now call upon companies to correctly recognize factors that have an even greater impact, such as total energy consumption across the entire value chain, including environmental resources used by the products, and to strive to also improve these. In response to this situation, from fiscal 2013 we started keeping count of our energy consumption in line with SCOPE 3 requirements, and we will now widen our scope for data collection and improvement activities to include all Group companies. We have widened our view to include the entire value chain and taken our first step towards better environmental activities. 20 Sustainability Report 2014 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/environmental (Environmental Management System) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/energy (Global Warming Countermeasures) Acquired Clean Producer Designation modules for the backlight. The new sign uses only about one third of the electricity of the old fluorescent lights, and the light sources will not need to be replaced for 10 years. Yokohama Division At the Yokohama Division, we have been upgrading our fluorescent lighting with LEDs in stages. Currently, we are replacing around 100 lamps every six months in planned stages, focusing mainly on the floors for business operations such as the reception room and conference room. USHIO PHILIPPINES, INC. (UPI) At UPI, around 10% of the company’s total electricity usage was In September 2013, USHIO. (SUZHOU) CO., LTD. received the related to lighting, so we began changing the conventional 72 W “Clean Producer” designation from the Suzhou Environmental fluorescent lights to 20 W LED lights as part of our energy conserProtection Office and the Suzhou New District Economic vation activities. We expect to achieve a significant energy saving Development and Reform Office. The designation is awarded to with our plan to successively change allスーパーグリーン製品マーク of the approximately 1,800 companies in China, and was formally announced by the Chinese fluorescent lamps in our factory to LEDs. government. The company was highly evaluated for improving productivity by automating its onsite facilities, reducing its power TAIWAN USHIO LIGHTING, INC. (TULI) consumption by replacing its lighting with fluorescent lights, and At TULI we completed changing over the lighting for our productaking other autonomous actions to conserve energy. tion lines, changing around 50% of the lines from the conventional 40 W fluorescent lamps to 26 W T5 fluorescent lamps, and USHIO INC. Business Sites Reduce CO2 Emissions changing the remaining 50% of the lines to even more efficient One of the four themes of Phase Four of USHIO’s Environmental LED lamps. Even when the T5 lamps and LED lamps are used in Action Plan is global warming countermeasures. During the fiscal combination, the visual brightness is undiminished, and they proyear ended March 31, 2014, USHIO took steps to reduce CO2 emisvide a uniform light throughout the factory. sions at business sites and due to distribution seeking to achieve a 1% reduction in emissions per unit sale versus fiscal 2012. By conUSHIO ASIA PACIFIC PTE. LTD. (UAP) tinuing to replace the lighting at each business site with LEDs, USHIO At UAP we have also started changing our office lighting to achieved a 9.5% reduction in emissions per unit sale versus 2012. LEDs. Once we have completed changing the 80 fluorescent Looking ahead past the 2020 Environmental Plan, USHIO lamps in the entire office, we plan to change the fluorescent will continue its current efforts to reduce CO2 emissions, aiming to lamps in the warehouse. achieve a further 10% reduction over the next 10 years until 2025. CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS USA, INC. (CDSU) and Replacing Lighting at Each Business Site with LEDs USHIO AMERICA INC. (UAI) Introduce Solar Power Upgrading USHIO’s rooftop sign with LEDs Generation Before 1987 Daytime Night CDSU and UAI have installed 2,190 solar panels on their three office roofs, and expect to generate 832,981 kW in their first After 2013 fiscal year. A monitoring system has been installed to keep track of the power generation status, and the monitored items can be Himeji City in Hyogo Prefecture is USHIO’s birthplace and the site viewed over the Internet as well as on a micro-tile video wall that of the Company’s largest business site, the Harima Division. To has been newly installed in the lobbies of both CDSU and UAI. mark our 50th anniversary, we changed this rooftop sign in front Displaying the monitor output in the lobbies enables both visitors of JR Himeji Station to an LED sign. We used waterproof LED modand employees to see at a glance the solar power generation ules from USHIO Lighting, using 615 high-power, wide-angle modstatus and CO2 reduction volume, helping to raise awareness about ules for the USHIO logo section, and 2,022 narrow, thin-profile LED energy conservation. 21 Society Relationship with Society As a member of the international community, USHIO will contribute to the development of respective regions where it conducts business. The Group has a growing body of contribution examples following its expansion in Japan and overseas, and in addition to the initiatives reported here, is engaged in various activities in the fields of education, culture, disaster support, and exchanges with local society. These areas are vital aspects of sustainability. The USHIO Foundation The USHIO Foundation was established in 1994 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the founding of USHIO, and in 2014 the foundation marked its 20th anniversary. As the globalization progresses, the foundation will contribute to society by assisting the development of the next generation of human resources, including overseas students, who will be responsible for leading the world in the future by providing scholarships to assist with their studies, and promoting further interaction and mutual understanding between Japan and other countries. In fiscal 2013, the foundation provided scholarships to 40 graduate students (including overseas students) and 11 students in specialized courses at colleges of technology. So far, 457 scholarship students have been accepted, and we continued to focus on calling for scholarship applicants from schools in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. USHIO INC. Family Day at Head Office and Tokyo Sales Headquarters On August 7, 2014, we held our first family participation event, “Family Day 2014,” at Head Office and Tokyo Sales Headquarters. Families who participated commented that it was a good opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of USHIO by listening to an explanation about the company’s products and being able to encounter them up close. Factory Tours at the Harima and Gotemba Divisions. For children of employees we held the Summer Holiday Children’s Open Day at Harima on August 9, 2013, and the Family Tour at Gotemba on August 30, 2013. The children all showed immense interest in the site with its many large machines, the office with its rows of computers, and at the sight of their parents working. At Gotemba, the parents also participated, creating an excellent opportunity for communication. Participation in Tsukuba Science Edge 2014 On March 21, 2014, USHIO participated in Tsukuba Science Edge 2014, which was held at the International Congress Center. After the contest at which junior high school and high school students presented their ideas relating to science, there were workshops at which USHIO An experiment using a mini excimer device offered all participants a chance to experience “welding with light” using a mini excimer device. By trying out the system, which welds different materials together without adhesive using only light, participants encountered some of the possibilities of light. 22 Sustainability Report 2014 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/contribution (Working Together with Local Communities) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/society (USHIO Group Support for Culture and Learning) Market in Support of Areas Affected by the Great Second Round of the School Supply Backpack East Japan Earthquake Campaign In the summer of 2013, the employees of CDSC cooperated with the Global Interior Foundation to give backpacks filled with school supplies to children living in the town of Stanton (the neighboring town to Cypress, where CHRISTIE USA is headquartered). This time they were able to buy 45 back packs. On March 14, 2014, an Earthquake Support Market was held in the buildings of the Head Office and the Tokyo Sales Headquarters. This year the event was again attended by many people. It was the third time we have held the market, and there were stalls selling CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS USA, INC. (CDSU) products from Iwate, Fukushima, and Miyagi prefectures, as well as Donation to California Cypress High School FBLA the Oraga Otsuchi Recovery Diner from the town of Otsuchi on the Program southern coast of Iwate Prefecture. It was a lively event, including The Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) program is a sales of famous produce from the sea around Sanriku, and Sashiko non-profit educational organization comprising 250,000 students embroidered T-shirts made by local women in the hope of supportpreparing for future careers in business or in fields related to busiing the region’s recovery. ness. The organization runs a contest where students can pit their business knowledge and skills against one another. This year, we CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA, INC. (CDSC) supported the students of Cypress High School as they participated CHRISTIE Community Garden in the national FBLA contest. Helping to Pack Food for Children Facing Starvation This year, CDSU continued to support the humanitarian food aid organization Stop Hunger Now through volunteer activities, with around 80 employees managing to pack around 13,196 meals. These meals were sent to facilities and schools in Central Asia and Southeast Africa under the International School Feeding Program. USHIO AMERICA, INC. (UAI) Relay for Life* At the illumination event, each team lit their “dream lanterns” before releasing them into the sky. In April 2013, CDSC invited all of its employees to a new project called “Health, Wellness, Green Initiative Participation Drive.” At the CHRISTIE Community Garden, which has been created on the company site, approximately 30 volunteers brought in 55 cubic yards of new topsoil from a garden supplier, and a custom-made This year again, the USHIO Angels* from the Oregon Division rainwater storage tank was supplied along with a storage area for participated in the Relay for Life event run by the American Cancer the required tools. Many varieties of vegetables and flowers are Society in June. In one year, the Oregon Division managed to raise now growing beautifully, and the garden has become a popular US$2,045 (approximately ¥20,000) through their activities. new spot at this business site. Supporting an Electric Car Race at a Local High School and Bluebell College In May 2014, the students of a local high school and students from Bluebell College formed the Bluebell CHRISTIE Team to enter a race at the National Electric Cart Association with an electric car they designed and assembled themselves. CDSC supported the team not only with funding, but also with a design and provision of production technology. 23 Business Overview Breakdown of Sales Breakdown of Operating Income Breakdown of Assets (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Other Businesses 2% Other Businesses 1% Other Businesses 16% Equipment Equipment Equipment Business Business Business 58% 21% 44% 2014 2014 2014 ¥157.8 ¥12.1 ¥255.3 Light Light Light Sources Sources Sources Business Business Business 40% 78% 40% Equipment Business Light Sources Business Other Businesses Imaging equipment Discharge lamps Machinery for industrial uses • Digital projectors for cinemas • UV lamps for manufacturing semiconductors, flat and others • Digital projectors for general imaging panel displays, and electronic components • Plastic forming applications, peripheral (control rooms, simulators, signage, virtual • A range of lamps and industrial LEDs for use in machinery reality, and others) cinema projectors, data projectors, office • Factory automation systems equipment, illumination, and other optical • Others Optical equipment equipment • Optical equipment for manufacturing semiconductors, flat panel displays and Halogen lamps electronic components (exposure tools, photo• For use in office equipment cleaning units, photocuring systems, and others) • For illumination applications (commercial • UV phototherapy devices, blood analyzers and facilities, stage and studio lighting, specialized other medical equipment lighting, and others) • EUV light sources for inspection and • Halogen heaters development applications Sales and Segment Income Sales and Segment Income Sales and Segment Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 100 6 100 9.3 10 4 0.15 94.5 91.2 85.9 80 7.6 80 3.3 3.2 3 3.0 4 6.1 0.11 0.10 60 60 64.1 0.10 52.5 54.6 5 2 40 2.7 40 0.07 2.5 2 0.05 1 20 20 1.1 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Sales (left scale) Sales (left scale) Sales (left scale) Segment Income (right scale) Segment Income (right scale) Segment Income (right scale) Corporate Data Established March 1964 Employees: 5,470 (as of March 31, 2014): Paid-in capital ¥19,556,326,316 Parent company 1,793 President and Chief Executive Officer Kenji Hamashima Subsidiaries • Japan 588 • Overseas 3,089 24 Sustainability Report 2014 Third-Party Opinion In light of the senior management changes announced in October Company established its “Basic Policy Statement for Conflict Minerals” 2014, I read this report with a great deal of anticipation, curious about in relation to the use of substantial amounts of tungsten in the the ways in which USHIO’s stance with respect to CSR and electrode components of its lamp products. On one level, this is a sustainability would continue and evolve. This time around, the report global trend in terms of what is expected for responsible raw material offered what I see as at least four major take-away points: (1) the procurement. But looking ahead, together with the full-scale development of a sustainable, top-led CSR promotion structure development of structures for examining the use of conflict minerals at (incorporation of CSR issues as part of management strategy), (2) the production sites, USHIO is expected to show leadership by modeling promotion of supply chain management centered on CSR, and, after and promoting CSR procurement not only for direct suppliers but also soliciting information from departments responsible for CSR (3) the for secondary and tertiary levels across the entire supply chain. There is inclusion of “human rights in global society” as a component of risk no question that from the beginning, guaranteeing transparency in the management training for internal, section and general managers, and supply chain and ensuring traceability has been a daunting task for the finally (4) progress on preparations to create an integrated report for electronics industry. In confronting these issues, engagement with the disclosure of non-financial data. For the remainder of this opinion, diverse stakeholders, including NPOs/NGOs, government agencies, and I want to discuss the future outlook and issues, with emphasis on university research institutes as specialist organizations, has proven points (1) and (2). effective; it is also likely necessary to have connections to and crosscutting industry measures related to the social and environmental Merger of Management Strategy and CSR Issues initiatives of existing mining companies. The diligent process of As has been stated in past opinions, messages and leadership from top seriously garnering opinions from investors and a diverse range of management are essential elements in the promotion of CSR and other stakeholders, presenting those opinions to management as sustainability. Understanding and responding to new rules and feedback, and disclosing the results is, I contend, the way to enhance standards in the global market is especially important given the sustainability of USHIO and the key to winning the trust of its globalization in the entire integrated flow encompassing everything stakeholders. from funding procurement to manufacturing, distribution and sales, as well as the fact that some 80% of USHIO’s consolidated net sales are from outside of Japan. In that sense, the message from top management has a clear global perspective, reflecting the new president’s ample experience in the United States. As such, we can expect to see the promotion and evolution of CSR management going forward. From next year onward, it will be crucial that managers in Masaatsu Doi each segment take the top message in this report to heart, and share Associate Professor their assessment of the situation and issues with respect to CSR in their Graduate School of Social Well-being Studies, Hosei University own words. I say this because USHIO, as suggested on page 13 of the Dr. Doi holds a PhD in commerce. In 2009, report, hopes to completely merge its management strategy with CSR he became an associate professor at the issues by 2016 as part of its medium-term CSR plan now under way. At Takasaki City University of Economics after graduating from the Hitotsubashi the same time, for a top-led medium-term CSR plan, it is important to University Department of Economics and tweak and clarify points based on feedback from the frontlines of completing post-doctoral research at the Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of operations by grasping the current situation on the ground in each Commerce and Management. Dr. Doi has segment and determining what kinds of issues to address next. been in his current position since 2014. He has written several books, including CSR Keiei—Kigyou no Shakai teki Sekinin Promoting CSR-centered Supply Chain Management to Stakeholders (co-author, CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, INC.), and Social As mentioned earlier, USHIO is making steady strides in measures Enterprise—Shakai teki Kigyou no Taitou regarding CSR procurement. More specifically, in November 2013, the (co-author, CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, INC.). Response to Third-Party Opinion Atsuyuki Kobayashi Director, Officer in Charge of CSR, USHIO INC. We appreciate receiving valuable feedback once again this year from breaking down CSR issues into our business planning, and to utilize the Dr. Masaatsu Doi, Associate Professor of Hosei University, on our thinking and values of a variety of stakeholders connected to global Sustainability Report 2014. Along with offering a highly favorable procurement and markets as feedback that we combine into drivers of evaluation of USHIO initiatives and progress with respect to CSR and improvement in our corporate value and sustainable growth. sustainability, Dr. Doi has provided us with concrete guidance and As stated at the outset of the feature section, USHIO will issues to consider regarding our efforts to merge management strategy celebrate its 50th anniversary on April 1, 2015. By addressing CSR with CSR issues, as well as supply chain management. In our CSR issues identified from the past 50 years, we hope to devise a policy that promotion activities, we will continue to execute said activities by will usher in our next five decades in business. 25 CSR Department, Risk Management Office USHIO INC. 6409 Moto-Ishikawa-cho, Aoba-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 225-0004, Japan Tel: +81 45-901-2812 Fax: +81 45-901-2814 E-mail:kankyo@ushio.co.jp http://www.ushio.co.jp/en 1409S①
