Sustainability Report 2012/2013. …it is our natural role to help our clients to face the challenges of today and preparing them for tomorrow… Contents INTRODUCTION Letter from the Executive Board 4 Letter from the Supervisory Board 5 The status of our commitments 6 Our year in highlights 7 Our vision on reporting 8 About this report 9 SECTION I: OUR COMPANY About Deloitte 10 Sustainability at Deloitte 13 SECTION II: OUR PERFORMANCE Serving our clients 16 Our people 18 Our impact in society 23 Our ecological footprint 26 SECTION III: ANNEXES Annex I: Assurance report 30 Annex II: Reporting basis 32 Annex III: GRI reference table 34 Letter from the Executive Board Rotterdam, 12 July 2013 Dear reader, The economic downturn that we are witnessing is unprecedented for the current generations. It brings uncertainty and instability to companies, governments and society at large. There is no simple cure to improve the economic situation as the underlying causes of the current recession are too complex and too diverse. The current situation might even be the new reality. As a professional services provider, it is our natural role to help our clients to face the challenges of today and preparing them for tomorrow: we are convinced that many of our clients will emerge from the current crisis as stronger, leaner and more agile organisations. At the same time, through our audit activities, we are working hard to restore public trust in business. This is not something that can be done overnight as it requires hard work, increased quality and an open ear to criticism from our stakeholders. Helping clients and restoring trust requires a lot from our people and we are proud of the energy and professionalism that thousands of Deloitters are displaying on a day-to-day basis. If ever there was the opportunity and the necessity to excel, today is the day and our people seem to be well aware of this. Sustainability is more important than ever as it has everything to do with survival. A focus on sustainability decreases the likelihood that global or local economic, ecological and societal circumstances can harm your organisation and ensures that organisations are prepared to capture the opportunities in an ever changing business environment. As such it is a subject that is discussed in the Executive Board of Deloitte as it is with many of our clients. Last year, we announced our new targets in the area of sustainability. We have made good progress on our targets concerning people and in the further reduction of our ecological footprint. In the area of serving our clients, however, we are not yet on track so we will increase our efforts to reach our 2016 objectives. In addition, we did not meet our previously announced objective to publish an integrated report as it took us more time than estimated to prepare the various content elements that we believe to be crucial for a truly integrated report as defined by the International Integrated Reporting Council. You can read more about this in the section “Our vision on reporting” in this report. Through our current Sustainability Report, we aim to inform you on our sustainability activities and achievements in the period between 1 June 2012 en 31 May 2013. We have done a lot, but the work ahead of us is still tremendous and new insights and technologies emerge all the time. To keep our sustainability agenda fresh and relevant to all stakeholders, we continue to actively seek your feedback. In the new reporting year, we will organise a new structured stakeholder dialogue as a sequence to the dialogue that we concluded in October 2011. Deloitte remains committed to live up to its responsibilities by making our organisation more sustainable. Among others this is demonstrated by our continued commitment to the UN Global Compact as well as to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). As in previous years, this report is qualified as GRI A+ on the basis of the GRI Guidelines 3.0. As from next year, we will be using the new reporting guidelines version 4.0 that were issued by GRI in May 2013. We hope you will enjoy reading this report and that it contributes to your understanding of our organisation. Mr P.J. Bommel, Chief Executive Officer 4 Letter from the Supervisory Board Rotterdam, 12 July 2013 Dear reader, With the Dutch economy in a continuing recession, it has become increasingly difficult to formulate a long term outlook of our markets. Like many companies in the Netherlands, Deloitte has had to work hard; not only to address the impact of the economic downturn, but to become better prepared to face the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. The Supervisory Board is proud of the progress that has been made towards fulfilling our commitments in the areas of people, planet and profit. However, it also recognises that the current conditions demand that tough choices be made along the way, and that the pace at which we aim to reach our goals be aligned to the realities of the market. This should not result in loss of focus, and as a highly visible and leading company in its sector, Deloitte will remain transparent towards its stakeholders by explaining its course of action. We are pleased to see that no such loss of focus has occurred, and this report outlines the broad stakeholder dialogue we will implement during the new fiscal year. Our previous stakeholder dialogue, which was the basis for the targets we have today, concluded two years ago when the recession was still fresh. Today, we must ensure that Deloitte’s sustainability agenda continues to respond to the expectations of all our stakeholders and that we are taking the necessary steps to guarantee that it will continue to do so. Much has been done to meet our 2016 targets and the Supervisory Board wishes to thank the many partners and employees who have helped make this possible. The road ahead will be equally challenging, and so we call on all our people to maintain their focus and continue contributing their time and expertise towards creating a prosperous and sustainable future for Deloitte and its stakeholders. F.G.H. Deckers, Chairman Supervisory Board 5 The status of our commitments We remain fully committed to enhancing the sustainability of our organisation and our clients. You can read about our vision, mission and strategy on sustainability in the chapter “Sustainability in Deloitte”. Last year, to channel our activities, we have published concrete and measurable targets for the areas that we feel are of particular importance to Deloitte and our stakeholders. These targets are to be achieved by 2016. Throughout this report, we provide insight into the activities that were executed in pursuit of our targets. We realise that in some areas we still have considerable ground to cover over the coming years whilst in other areas we are ahead of planning. The fulfilment of all our targets, however, remains a top priority for our organisation. For the sake of transparency, in this chapter we provide an overview of all targets and their current status. Target 2016 Status 2013 Level of completion Deloitte is highest ranked professional services Deloitte ranks 3rd in peer group (companies company in the Transparantiebenchmark with a comparable scope of services) 70% of clients are familiar with Deloitte’s We will include measuring familiarity and sustainability activities and appreciation score is appreciation as per FY14 >7.0 as measured by our Client Service Assessment Sustainability is addressed in 75% of our We will start measurements in FY14 engagement letters Development, improving and testing of a The decision was taken to start collaboration methodology to calculate the monetary value for with a University to reach the target by 2016 the impact of our services on sustainability Each year, 10 new and innovative service offerings We performed 3 innovation tracks that that contribute to the sustainability of our clients included sustainability are developed 75% score in employee engagement as measured In the reporting year, the Talent Survey was by our Talent Survey not conducted Eight diversity initiatives are embedded in business A total of 5 diversity initiatives have been practices embedded since 2012 Sick leave below 3.0% as measured on an annual Sick leave amounted to 3.1% basis 70% of office space BREEAM certified to the level Pilot for BREEAM In Use has started of at least “very good” 15% reduction of carbon emissions caused by 8.4 % reduction of mobility caused carbon mobility reduction has been achieved Deloitte to reach advanced level in Global Gap analysis performed Compact 100% of major suppliers in conformity with Deloitte Deloitte Supplier Code launched and Supplier Code implementation under way Total of 1,500 volunteers deployed. 12,500 Over 430 volunteers deployed reaching over children in underprivileged areas have benefited 4,000 children and young adults from the foundation’s activities 6 Our year in highlights This section outlines a selection of the sustainability activities and achievements in 2012/2013 that we are particularly proud of. June 2012 Deloitte publishes a report on sustainability and municipal real estate. The report finds that municipalities can save up to 30% on CO2 emissions in 2020 July 2012 The Zero Impact Growth Monitor 2012 is launched. According to this monitor less than 10% of the leading global companies are ready to transform to a ‘green economy’ August 2012 Deloitte launches the Eat@Work programme, offering employees concrete and individual advice on how to improve their lifestyle September 2012 200 children follow a lesson on money in the Deloitte HQ in Rotterdam, organised by the Fair Chance Foundation. Amongst others, board members Sandra Heuts and Peter Bommel act as tutors October 2012 The new Deloitte office in Utrecht is officially opened. The new Utrecht office holds the Greencalc-A label and features innovative sustainable solutions such as heat/cold storage and a zedem roof November 2012 Impact Day 2012, involving almost 500 Deloitters in 40 different projects, takes place on November 15. The concluding Maastoren challenge, a race to the 44th floor of the Rotterdam office, raises a staggering € 11 thousand for Champs on Stage. December 2012 An internal campaign in support of the Deloitte Alumni Network is launched. Through the alumni network, Deloitte aims to support the exchange of ideas between present and past employees January 2013 As kick-off of a broader internal employee awareness campaign, Deloitte publishes all current sustainability initiatives in the area of facility management on its Intranet site on its intranet site March 2013 On March 23 during Earth Hour, the lights went out in our Rotterdam and Amstelveen offices 7 Our vision on reporting In an era of economic uncertainty, transparency is a prerequisite for the restoration of trust The current economic downturn, the increasing globalization of our economy and the magnitude of the social and environmental challenges that lay ahead, more than ever demand economic operators to be truthful, open and complete in their business communication. The current economic crisis was preceded by the financial crisis and has caused the downfall of institutions that were previously perceived as robust. In this reporting year, we have again witnessed how a large Dutch private bank had to be nationalized and how European governments are struggling to get their finances in order. The decreased spending power from the public sector is creating uncertainties in the business environment of many private sector companies. The restoration of public trust in the management of private sector companies and governments alike is crucial for the recovery of our economy. Creating a well-founded positive economic outlook, will boost both investments and consumer spending. The traditional way in which organisations communicate on their state of affairs, seems inadequate and largely focuses on past time performance. Obviously, such information will always remain necessary as Boards have to justify the decisions to stakeholders. As for traditional sustainability reports, they often address the contribution that an organisation makes towards the resolution of issues that are much bigger than its direct sphere of influence but in many cases do not address how these big issues, such as climate change or social inequality, are likely to impact their continuity. What is lacking in all traditional communication, is a clear indication of the direction that the organisation is heading towards in a changing operating environment. As the sense of direction is lacking, so is a description of the route it has chosen to reach its objectives. Integrated reporting as defined by the International Integrated Reporting Council seems to fill the reporting gap as it combines trend analysis, strategy, performance, risk assessment and financial and non-financial impacts. The integrated report, however, in our view will not fully replace current financial and sustainability reporting: organisations will always need to provide adequate accountability information that fulfils legal requirements and specific sustainability information to their stakeholders. We therefore see a continued necessity for such reports. Deloitte supports the establishment of the IIRC Framework and expects that it will greatly contribute towards the restoration of trust in business. We also fully support the new Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines G4 which allow for greater adaptability by and comparability between economic operators. We are committed to discuss the impact of both the IIRC framework on our business and our own reporting with our main stakeholders over the coming year and to assist our clients in the same process. 8 About this report Our Sustainability Report – which is published annually contains an overview of the sustainability activities and performance of Deloitte Netherlands and its subsidiaries between June 1, 2012 and May 31, 2013. It contains, amongst others, an overview of the activities we have undertaken as follow up to the targets that were published in our previous report that was published on July 18, 2012. The current report has been compiled using the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, version 3.0, as published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI. Please refer to Appendix III (pages XX – YY) for the GRI Reference Table. As a result of our strict application of the GRI Guidelines, this report is categorised A+. Our Sustainability Report also serves as the Communication on Progress, as prescribed by UN Global Compact, to which Deloitte Netherlands is a signatory. As in the preparation of this report, the new GRI G4 Guidelines were not yet formally adopted, we were unable to use this newer release. We intend to publish our next report in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Scope In this report, Deloitte refers to Deloitte Holding B.V. and its fully owned subsidiaries as listed in the ‘Notes to the specific items on the balance sheet’ in the Annual Report 2012/2013. Deloitte Holding B.V. is the Dutch member firm of Deloitte Touch Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited by guarantee, hereafter to be referred to as ‘our global office’. Please refer to www.deloitte.com/about for a detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Like all member firms, Deloitte Holding B.V. is a separate and independent legal entity that provides its services subject to applicable local law and regulations. Like all member firms, the results of Deloitte in The Netherlands are reported to DTTL to facilitate the publication of the DTTL Corporate Responsibility Report. Materiality In 2011/2012, we concluded our comprehensive stakeholder dialogue on the basis of our 2009/2010 Sustainability Report. This dialogue served to determine materiality and to set our targets for 2016. In the reporting year, no feedback was received from stakeholders that would affect our previously determined materiality. In the reporting year 2013/2014, we plan to conduct a new structured stakeholder dialogue in order to discuss the progress we make on achieving our targets and to re-assess the materiality of our sustainability agenda. Reliability We have collected the relevant performance data from our business information systems and suppliers as supported by our internal controls system. This was centrally recorded and reviewed by our internal audit department and externally assured by Ernst & Young on the level of reasonable assurance. The conclusions of Ernst & Young can be found in the Assurance Report in Annex I. 9 Section I: our company About Deloitte The downbeat prospects for the Dutch economy and on-going decline of the public sector, offer limited Our vision growth prospects for large parts of our highly mature Our vision is to be the Standard of Excellence in the markets. In this environment, we understand that markets in which we operate. growth will primarily be achieved through greater market penetration, by increasing the number of services available to our clients and by innovation. At the same time, acquisition opportunities may also European network arise, enabling us to increase scale and benefit from The Deloitte firms of Denmark, Belgium, Germany, expected growth in the consulting and financial Austria, Luxembourg, Central Europe and the advisory services markets. Netherlands work together internationally within In FY13, we continued with our 'As one' strategy, our Deloitte Société Européenne (DSE); a regional roadmap to fulfilling the vision to be the Standard of cooperation focused on servicing clients seamlessly, Excellence. This strategy has three drivers: quality, across borders. France is participating as an associate growth and return. For each of these drivers, strategic member. Next to DSE, Deloitte in the Netherlands is a initiatives have been defined. In FY2013, we fully member of the European Cooperation Agreement, a focused on these strategic initiatives and will continue cooperation of the 10 largest EMEA member firms. to do so in the coming years. Regional cooperation Quality The Deloitte member firms in Europe, the Middle East It is vitally important to maintain and improve the and Africa jointly form Deloitte EMEA, a regional quality of our services at all times. To be the ‘Standard cooperative organisation that acts as a platform for of Excellence’ means that Deloitte has to meet the mutual cooperation and the provision of services to highest professional standards. We seek to strengthen clients who have a presence in this region. our quality by investing in our people, who are our Global cooperation most valuable asset. Specific quality programmes have been implemented in the areas of talent, performance Deloitte in the Netherlands is a member of Deloitte management and the quality measurement. Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL). Together we deliver Growth integrated expertise and innovative services on a global and local level with professionalism, quality and Growth is challenging in today’s market, in particular integrity. for more mature businesses such as Audit and Tax. This is mainly being caused by price pressures. We Legal status are aiming for sustainable growth by building on deep Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche industry knowledge, dedicated account teams, and an Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company ongoing commitment to innovation. In Consulting, we limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, have been able to deliver on this growth potential. each of which is a legally separate and independent We are making sure that we develop new added value entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/about for a services based upon market trends, such as data detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte analytics and digital services. Touche Tohmatsu and its member firms. With a globally connected network of member firms in more We invest over 1% of our revenues in Innovation than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world class programmes to develop new value propositions for our capabilities and deep local expertise to help clients clients, enabled by breakthrough technologies. Some succeed wherever they operate. Deloitte has more examples are Assuring the Cloud, Hacking as a than 195,000 professionals, committed to becoming service and Process X-ray. the Standard of Excellence. In the fiscal year 2012/2013, Deloitte acquired IT Deloitte’s professionals are unified by our shared services provider Vivens, a specialised technology values: integrity, outstanding value to markets and service provider. Through this acquisition, Deloitte has clients, commitment to each other and strength from become the market leader for Salesforce.com services cultural diversity. They enjoy an environment of in the Benelux and internationally it strengthens our continuous learning, challenging experiences and position as one of the largest Salesforce.com partners. enriching career opportunities. Deloitte’s professionals Return are dedicated to strengthening corporate responsibility, building public trust and making a positive impact in This year we started a ‘Radical Cost Reduction’ project their communities. that will substantially reduce our cost base going forward, and allows us to continue investing in quality Strategy and growth. 10 Our services Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of Deloitte offers services in the areas of audit, tax, recommendations made by the Supervisory Board. consulting and corporate finance. These core functions collaborate across specialist industry and market The General Meeting of Shareholders brings together segments. the entire group of shareholders. The meeting helps maintain Deloitte’s “checks and balances” system by exerting its influence on the policies of the Executive Governance Board and the Supervisory Board. The company’s Deloitte is managed by an Executive Board budget, the company’s long-term policy and various responsible for creating a strategic and policy other matters referred to in the Articles of Association framework and objectives, monitoring the require the approval of the General Meeting of implementation of policies and maintaining cohesion Shareholders. between the company’s various units and disciplines. The Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board and the General Meeting of Shareholders. For a more detailed description of our corporate governance, please refer to the Annual Report 2012/2013. The Supervisory Board oversees and advises the Executive Board and supervises all general developments at Deloitte. The Supervisory Board is collectively responsible for the performance of its tasks and reports to the General Meeting of Shareholders. 11 Shared values and ethical principles Deloitte’s shared values define the underlying beliefs that bind Deloitte and its member firms together. Our ethical principles further determine the specific standards of behaviour expected of all Deloitte’s leaders and people. The shared values are: Our ethical principles give guidance on appropriate professional conduct, covering the following issues: Honesty and integrity Fair business practices “We act with honesty and integrity.” “We are committed to fair business practices.” Responsibility to society Professional behaviour “We recognise and respect the impact we have “We operate within the letter and the spirit of on the world around us.” applicable laws.” Respect and fair treatment Competence “We treat all our colleagues with respect, “We bring appropriate skills and capabilities to courtesy and fairness.” every client assignment.” Accountability and decision making Objectivity “We lead by example, using our shared values as “We are objective in forming our professional our foundation.” opinions and the advice we give.” Confidentiality “We respect the confidentiality of information.” 12 Sustainability at Deloitte Vision Ambition Over time, our insights into the mutually dependency of In line with our overall vision, our sustainability systems and organisms that make up our world has ambition is to be the Standard of Excellence in making grown tremendously. Additionally, mankind has Deloitte and its clients sustainable for the future. obtained an understanding that natural resources are not endless. Deloitte is fully aware that the creation of economic value can sometimes lead to the destruction Strategy of the well-being, habitats and dignity of others. We In line with our ambition, Deloitte has two main focal also know that the current growth in the world points: impacts from services and impacts from population and increasing global wealth means we are operations. rapidly approaching barriers caused by stress factors. Continued growth, necessary for the continuity of our Impacts from services organisation, requires us to rethink what we do and The impact from our services by far exceeds our how we do it. operational impact. We act as financial auditor, consultant or sparring partner to around 20,000 clients, As a professional services company, our operational all of which have an impact on their own business impact on the economy, society and the environment is environment. We serve our clients using a holistic relatively small. However, as an active and integral approach where sustainability is an integral part of our part of society, we do not believe this exempts us from work, rather than a bolted-on activity. This means that making a continuous effort to reduce negative direct our Lead Client Service Partners are responsible for and indirect impacts and enhance positive ones. To detecting sustainability opportunities with their clients this end we will keep investing in greener offices, the inside and outside the scope of their assignment, and more sustainable use of energy sources, and in the to then help design solutions. The Sustainability communities in which we operate. Although our Advisory Team is continuously supporting our business operational footprint may be somewhat limited, our with new and innovative service offerings that influence on the footprint of others is potentially larger. contribute to the sustainability of our clients and acts We are committed to helping our clients adapt to new as a solid sounding board on sustainability internally. market realities making their organisations fit for a new Through awareness and learning programmes, era, creating business opportunities for both Deloitte partners and consultants are kept up to speed with the and our clients. By integrating sustainability throughout latest developments. our core business services, Deloitte is fully equipped to be change leaders; a knowledgeable, visionary and inspirational team that can convey a sense of urgency to others and provide logical solutions, making human activity more sustainable. Target 2016 Target 2016 Deloitte is the highest ranked professional services 70% of clients are familiar with Deloitte’s company in the Transparantie Benchmark sustainability activities and their appreciation score is >7.0 as measured by our Client Service Assessments Activities  Performed self-assessment and submitted the Activities results on the basis of our 2012/2013 Report but  We have not yet structurally included were informed that the Transparantie sustainability in our Client Services Benchmark 2012 did not take this into account Assessments, however plan to start this activity due to the publication date of September 2012 in 2013/2014 Result Result Deloitte ranks 3rd in Transparantie Benchmark 2012 No measurement has taken place in 2012/2013 (compared to similar organisations) 13 Operational impacts Enabler In reducing harm to our business environment and We believe that being transparent about our business maximising positive, operational impacts, we have helps to refine our strategy and improve our operations identified four areas that we believe are material to through the feedback we receive from our Deloitte. These areas are: stakeholders. We publish a wide range of financial and non-financial information on our activities and 1. Integrity performance and our publicly available reports provide It is vitally important that our business is a trusted a truthful reflection of our practice, externally assured partner to our clients and society at large. To ensure to the highest level. Using a wide variety of feedback the integrity of our services, we maintain robust mechanisms, such as employee and client surveys, programmes to secure our independence and the social media, webcasts, face-to-face meetings, and quality of our work. In addition, we have desktop research, we actively seek the opinions of the implemented strict procedures for client acceptance. people and organisations that shape our business We actively maintain our Code of Ethics and our environment. staff are regularly trained in the application of our ethical principles. Governance 2. Our people We hire the best talent in order to provide high Responsibility for our sustainability agenda and related added value to our clients. Through extensive activities is with the Executive Board that is in turn training and career development programmes, we guided by the Supervisory Board. Deloitte has created continuously harness and develop the talents and an internal Sustainability Board to help manage the skills of our people. We challenge our diverse implementation of sustainability as an integral part of workforce to form multidisciplinary teams that utilise our business. This Board consists of representatives the wealth of experience within Deloitte in order to from our business areas as well as specialists within meet and exceed the expectations of our clients. Deloitte. Our internal Sustainability Office that reports into our Risk and Reputation Leader, co-ordinates and supervises our internal sustainability priorities. Finally, 3. Our impact on society it is the responsibility of our business to deliver our We are a knowledge based company and we want sustainability services to the client in an integrated the broader community to profit from the knowledge manner. and experience we have in-house. We aim to make a positive contribution to the development of people in the communities in which we operate. Our way to Measuring performance achieve this goal is the Deloitte Fair Chance Foundation. The Foundation offers a variety of Last year, we announced the restructuring of our data educational initiatives to help underprivileged collection process to facilitate sound tracking of our children shape a better future for themselves and sustainability targets. Unfortunately, we were unable to their families. We also aim to contribute to a better complete this project in 2012/2013. The main obstacle world through the implementation and maintenance in the set-up of our performance dashboard is the of our Supplier Code and sustainable specifications timely availability of reliable data from external data for the products and services that we purchase. providers. We expect to resolve all obstacles in 2013/2014. 4. Our ecological footprint Although our energy consumption is limited, we believe we are all responsible for preserving natural resources for future generations. Furthermore, there is overwhelming evidence that CO2 emissions are driving climate change. We maintain strict policies regarding mobility with the aim of reducing fossil fuels consumption and related financial costs. Where we can, we power our offices with energy from renewable, CO2-neutral sources. In the minority of cases where we do not purchase the energy that we need ourselves, we buy certificates to offset CO2 emissions. When designing new offices, state-of-the-art technology is used and high standards, such as BREEAM, are met. We see waste as a raw material for new products and aim to conduct separated waste collection in all our premises. When we organise events, we do so in accordance with high sustainability standards. 14 15 Section II: Our performance Serving our clients As with all the services Deloitte provides, innovation is a crucial differentiator in our sustainability offerings. The combined impact of our client base on people, We work with our clients in a number of ways to planet and profit, far exceeds our own operational connect sustainability and innovation: impact. As such, we work with our clients to improve their sustainability performance, which not only means  In Fast Tracks we make existing products and good business sense for Deloitte as an auditor or services more sustainable advisor, but also allows our people the opportunity to  In Innovator Tracks we develop new products and contribute to a more sustainable world. Moreover, we service ideas for our clients aim to make sustainability an integral part of all our  In Growth Tracks we stimulate participants to service offering to clients. This means that in addition think out of the box and to move the barriers to our specific sustainability services, we are including the effects on sustainability in all our engagements. For a professional services provider in the area of sustainability, it is vitally important that we remain at We still have considerable ground to cover until we the forefront of industry and sector debates. Therefore, reach this objective. Building the knowledge and we spend considerable time and effort in the understanding of sustainability for all Deloitters working development of fresh thinking on sustainability with on client engagements is crucial to achieving our organisations such as the Global Reporting Initiative, objective. In 2012/2013 we continued our focus to the International Integrated Reporting Council, and empower Deloitters to include sustainability in their MVO Nederland. In addition, we participate in MBA client proposals. The result is that now 35 partners and curriculums and alumni programmes of Universities, directors are capable of actively addressing and and facilitate serious gaming sessions related to discussing sustainability issues with their clients. sustainability. In our specific sustainability work, we perform a holistic The success of our integrated approach is set of services that cover all the important aspects of demonstrated by the growing number of sustainability sustainability management. This is in full alignment related activities that are employed by our service with Deloitte’s international approach: from strategy to lines. reporting to assurance, and from supply chain management to human capital deployment. In our client engagements, we are able to mobilise our international network for our assignments. Our international network is enables us to cooperate with colleagues, either through being actively involved and providing expertise in client projects or by acting as a sounding board for new proposals and activities. This enables us to work on a local level with SMEs with the same expertise that we provide to our multinational clients, where international teams are a prerequisite. Target 2016 Target 2016 Sustainability is addressed in 75% of our Development, improving and testing of a engagement letters methodology to calculate the monetary value of the impact of our services on sustainability Activities  Tools for proposals to address sustainability Activities have been developed We took the decision to start work on this project in 2013/2014 where we will collaborate with the Result academic world In 2012/2013, sustainability was addressed in many of our engagement letters yet we have not yet stared Result measuring on a structural basis Project to start in FY14 16 Audit Consulting For the preservation of the value of an organisation, Deloitte Consulting supports many clients, for example healthy financial results are no longer sufficient. Nonin the area of supply chain management. Our Supply financial aspects such as sustainability, governance Chain Strategy team is specialised in rationalising the and risk management are of increasing relevance to supply chain, minimising transport and reducing organisations. With this trend, the importance of energy consumption. transparent reporting on non-financial information through sustainability and integrated reporting is still For a client in the area of animal feed, we were able to increasing. With our broad knowledge and experience realise an optimisation of the allocation of products and in the area of non-financial reporting, Deloitte supports clients to factories. As a result, total transportation its clients in making their reporting more robust. We kilometres have decreased by 12%. We are continuing offer a wide range of services, ranging from GRI Gap our work with this client to further improve business Analysis and training in the application of the GRI planning, which will result in an additional 10% saving Guidelines, but moreover we see that external of transport kilometres. assurance on sustainability reports is increasingly part and parcel of assurance assignments. For a number of health facilities, we have optimised the transportation of clients from their homes to the day care centres. This has resulted in a strong Financial Advisory Services reduction of the number of transport movements. As a Our Real Estate Advisory team part of Financial consequence, cost reductions between 40-60% were Advisory Services has undertaken various initiatives reached as well as a CO2 reduction of 30%. that support sustainability. For example, Deloitte has supported the Kwaliteitscentrum Woningcorporaties Huursector (quality centre for housing co-operatives in the rental sector) in establishing a Sustainability Label for housing. The Sustainability Label is a measurement that provides the co-operatives with insights in their sustainability performance, allowing them to further improve and develop in this area. The Label does not only concern relevant quantitative data, but also takes into account qualitative elements such as policy processes, the level of embedding of sustainability into daily operations, communication and management information. The Sustainability Label was piloted with three co-operatives and was officially launched on 15 May 2013. Next to the Sustainability Label, Deloitte Real Estate Advisory has performed a study into the relevance and level of sustainability of municipal real estate portfolios. To this end, city council representatives from the 25 major Dutch cities were interviewed. In these interviews, questions were asked into the way in which the sustainability performance of the municipal real estate portfolio is enhanced and what critical success factors can be identified. This study was published digitally and has been circulated widely in the market place. We use the insights and expertise that we gained in the performance of the study on a daily basis in assignments that we perform for Dutch municipalities. Target 2016 Each year, 10 new and innovative service offerings that contribute to the sustainability of our clients are developed Activities We actively approached clients to participate in innovation tracks. This resulted in three tracks that were organised on Integrated Reporting, sustainable housing and life cycle assessments Result In 2012/2013, a total of 3 innovation tracks were conducted 17 Our people Deloitte needs the right people in order to provide excellent service to our clients. The recruiting, development and retention of people, is at the heart of our talent strategy. Even in the tough economic circumstances that we currently experience, we still actively hire new employees. This is important to our growth strategy as new talent deliver new insights and new experiences, which are vitally important to remain an innovative professional services provider. Table 1: Employment and turnover 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 Average FTE’s 4,341 4,475 4,472 Average headcount 4,704 4,847 4,836 Total experienced hires 160 164 190 (incl. partners) Total partner hires 4 6 8 Total graduate hires 427 546 546 Total internship 204 240 226 Total exits 736 669 741 Total divestments 0 0 0 Table 2: Part-time / Full time population (%) Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time 2012/2013 2012/2013 2011/2012 2011/2012 Population of Fee-earners 19 81 19 81 Population of Support 43 57 47 53 Population of Deloitte 24 76 25 75 Business ethics The Code of Ethics was updated during 2011/2012 and entered into force during the reporting year. The Our Code of Ethics is based on our Shared Values and Dutch version of our Code is available to our Ethical Principles. The Code of Ethics determines our employees on our intranet and in the course of attitudes and behaviours as a professional business 2013/2014 we will also make an English translation services provider. The National Ethics Officer heads available. In addition we also implemented our Social our Ethics Office and is responsible for the design and Media Policy and developed an Alcohol & Drugs Policy roll-out of our national Ethics & Compliance that will be implemented in the year 2013/2014. Programme, which is fully aligned with the Deloitte Activities of our Ethics Office include, but are not Global Ethics & Compliance Programme. limited to, being available for our colleagues to report 18 and/or discuss ethical dilemmas. This main task is a employees when searching for new talent. Around shared responsibility with our internal counsellors. 30% of our experienced hires were attracted with the As part of our internal policies, the National Ethics aid of our referral programme, a programme designed Officer is also involved in the performance to attract new staff out of the networks of our 4,500 management process for the Audit Function. For all employees. For the attraction of new – inexperienced – partners, ethical behaviour is a compulsory element of hires, our recruiters actively organise events on the annual appraisals. During the reporting year, our university campuses. ethics programme has focused on training and awareness. To clarify our Code of Ethics, ethical Retention of talent behaviour has been included in the Summer school The most important element of our retention strategy is curriculum for the Audit function. In addition, the development of people within Deloitte. Our talent is mandatory e-learnings have been developed and offered continuous learning and development to further implemented for Tax and Risk Services. Related develop their skills and competences. A crucial role in issues such as privacy and security were also covered the development of people lies with the manager: he or in these e-learnings. All new employees are introduced she acts as a coach, motivator and sounding board. to our Code of Ethics during the business game in the Our managers help to determine what is best for his or National Introduction Day that takes place every first her direct reports, a process that we refer to as working day of the month. management mastering. One activity that deserves special attention is the workshop on honour related violence that sometimes To be the standard of excellence, our learning and occurs in various cultures. To better pick up on signals development vision is the co-creation between Deloitte that may indicate that an employee has become a and the individual employee of a learning environment victim of honour related violence, professionals from that builds the leaders of the world. The co-creation Talent, our support organisation and our internal learning environment is built on four pillars: counsellors were trained in the do’s and don’ts in this specific area.  Relevance: learning must contribute to and drive Employees, clients and other third parties have the strategy and provides current skills and attitudes possibility to file a complaint about unwanted that needed to provide excellent services to our behaviour, or they can ask the Ethics Officer or one of clients the counsellors for advice. Clients and other third  Leadership: We aim to maintain a culture of parties are encouraged to solve an issue with their leadership at all levels in our organisation with counterpart within Deloitte, but can also address the high performing teams Complaints Committee if the issue is not solved  Integrated: Learning, innovation, organisational according to their expectations. Table 3 provides an development, career management, performance overview of the number of incidents that were brought management and strategy are all connected to the attention of the Executive Board by Ethics  Self-directed: pull and push of learning where we Officer. offer the most innovative, flexible learning support Besides the incidents mentioned in table 3, in 26 that is characterised by a modular, journey style instances the Ethical Officer was pro-actively consulted approach. by the organisation. Our learning curriculum components are designed as a Table 3: Incidents, number of occurrences continuous learning journey, including various delivery Type 2012/2013 2011/2012 methods (such as class room, online, simulations and Sexual harassment 2 4 on the job) and blended learning to achieve the best Intimidation 8 3 level of embedding of the content. Stalking 0 1 Other disrespectful 38 20 To develop and implement our learning curriculum, treatment of Deloitte University EMEA (Europe, Middle East and colleagues (incl. Africa) has been established. With the aid of Deloitte bullying) University EMEA, we offer our people the chance to learn in a challenging international setting. Additionally, Attraction of talent we offer local trainings to fulfil the specific needs for the Dutch market. We are active on the labour market with our highly innovative recruitment website. We support this site with social media such as twitter and facebook. Furthermore, we actively seek the support of our 4,500 19 Table 4: Headcount male/female 2012/2013 Employment category 2012/2013 Male ‘12/’13 Female ‘12/’13 2011/2012 Male ‘11/’12 Female ‘11/’12 Partners 245 226 19 249 231 18 Directors 241 216 25 227 202 25 Senior managers 517 411 106 502 403 99 Managers 698 501 197 697 499 198 Aspirant / Jr. Managers 1,076 723 353 1,098 723 375 Other Staff 1,926 887 1,039 2,074 981 1,093 Table 5: Gender diversity Diversity figures female (%) 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 Partners 8 7 7 Directors 10 11 10 Senior managers 20 20 18 Managers 28 28 29 Aspirant / Jr. Managers 33 34 32 Other Staff 55 53 54 Table 6: Turnover Turnover male Turnover female Employment category Turnover % male Turnover % female 2012/2013 2012/2013 Partners 6 3% 0 0% Directors 24 11% 3 12% Senior managers 49 12% 15 14% Managers 67 13% 48 24% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 113 16% 81 23% Other Staff 148 18% 182 18% Table 7: Ethnic Diversity Employment category % Foreign % Native % Unknown Partners 3% 72% 25% Directors 6% 84% 10% Senior managers 10% 78% 12% Managers 11% 78% 11% Aspirant / Jr. Managers 16% 73% 11% Other Staff 19% 68% 13% Interns 16% 73% 11% * ‘Native’ refers to persons whose parents are originally of Dutch descent. ‘Foreign’ refers to persons from whom one or both parents are not originally of Dutch descent. ‘Unknown’ refers to persons from whom it is unknown (not registered) what the place of birth or origin of one or both parents is. 20 Table 8: Average training days / FTE Table 9: Number of performance reviews Function 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 Performance reviews 2012/2013 2011/2012 2010/2011 Audit 13.4 13.9 14.8 Number of employees 4,704 4,847 4,836 Consulting 2.0 2.5 2.4 Number of 4,064 4,126 4,196 FAS 6.2 6.0 5.8 performance reviews Tax 6.7 8.4 6.6 Percentage of 86% 85% 87% performance reviews Others 1.9 2.3 2.5 Diversity Besides the development of people, our Career, To support our high performance culture, Deloitte Remuneration and Labour Conditions Policy is an believes in a culture where diverse talent thrives. important strategic element of our retention strategy. Diversity is critical to innovation and long term Our policy enables us to remain competitive and success. We see diversity not primarily as a supports our high performance culture. Flexibility and demographic issue, but as variety in thinking, feeling career choices are crucial elements. Our new policy and acting. Gender, ethnic background and sexual allows for a more mature relationship between the orientation are all indicators of potential diversity. company and the employee, amongst others by Deloitte recognises and appreciates these differences. introducing a new approach to performance reviews As diversity covers so many aspects, it is impossible to and financial incentives. In our performance review, we catch all the different elements of our definition of have raised the level of transparency by emphasising diversity in measurable performance indicators. In the the importance of personal development, continuous tables and graphs below, we present the data that we feedback and clear expectations. Through this do collect. approach, we aim to get the best out of our people. As diversity is included in our Targets 2016, please refer to page the text box on this page for an overview of our activities in this area during the reporting year. Target 2016 Eight diversity initiatives are embedded in business Flexibility practices Deloitters are highly trained and educated and each employee is a specialist in his or her own area of Activities In order to meet our target on diversity, we have expertise. Part of our services, however, is performed the following activities: characterised by seasonable patterns or a standardised approach. Hence we seek flexibility in  Research into and publication of a report on order to best serve our clients within a reasonable time diversity in Supervisory Boards with the title “The frame and try to avoid the deployment of our Future of Leadership” specialists for work that does not have a clear added  The publication of our internal booklet “Careers value to our clients. Customized” One way of achieving the desired flexibility is part of  Training and support of our nomination our Career, Remuneration and Labour Conditions committees via “Mindbugs-workshops” and on Policy, which offers the opportunity to work more hours the job observation per day during the busy season and less hours in  Active deployment of Belbin team role calmer periods. methodology in the composition in internal and external team composition Another way to meet our clients’ needs is using the  Audit Excellence Lab where we introduced the flexible workforce that Deloitte deploys in its offices in notion that viewing issues from different India. Highly trained professionals in India act as a perspective enhances quality buffer that enables us to perform our tasks timely and  Train the trainer session for inclusive leadership, in accordance with our vision, to be the standard of a two hour training that was developed excellence. Active co-operation with other Deloitte internationally with the support of Deloitte member firms is also sought in order to achieve  In March, in the USA the Deloitte Centre for greater flexibility and offers the opportunity to deploy Inclusive Leadership was launched specialist knowledge to meet the expectations of our Result clients. To date we have embedded diversity in 5 business practices 21 Alumni ambition that our former employees remain lifelong ambassadors of our company and remain in contact As Deloitte puts a lot of effort in learning and personal with their former colleagues. To this end, we have development, Deloitters enjoy a certain degree of established the Deloitte Alumni Network. To date, popularity on the labour market. It is inevitable that at a nearly 2,000 people have registered to the Alumni certain moment in their lives, our people will leave Network, which is an increase of approx. 500 people Deloitte to pursue their careers elsewhere. It is our as compared to the previous reporting year. Target 2016 75% score in employee engagement as measured by our Talent Survey Activities In order to address the areas of improvement that came out of our Talent Survey in 2012, we have Target 2016 initiated the following activities: Sick leave below 3% as measured on an annual basis  Investments in new Growth areas (Data Analytics, Cyber Security etc) Activities  Improved communication such as the In order to meet our target on sick leave, we have introduction of Deloitte TV, As One updates and performed the following activities: iD, our new internal magazine  Development of a new Deloitte Competency  Active and structured guidance from health Framework including excellence profiles coaches to executives from the first day of enabling a careerpath based on the sickness competencies of our employees  The use of preventive measures such as workshops and coaching sessions for managers to recognise and prevent downtime of Furthermore, business practices initiated for their employees units various actions to address specific areas of  Good operating model with company doctors, improvement health coaches and managers working together on cases Result Result As we did not perform our Talent Survey during this In reporting year, our sick leave amounted to 3.1% reporting year, we are unable to report on the result 22 Our impact on society We have an impact that reaches beyond our employees, clients and the environment. Many social actors are somehow affected by our work and we therefore feel a deeper responsibility that merits a focus beyond our core business activities. In our role as a customer, we can exercise a certain influence in our supply chain and where necessary stimulate our suppliers to enhance their own sustainability performance. Furthermore, we feel that by sharing our knowledge and experiences in the communities in which we operate, and by supporting organisations that share our vision, we can contribute to a better world and life for many. Supply chain responsibility We purchase goods and services to run our business. In addition to the organisational requirements as set We aim to prevent buying goods and services that out in our Supplier Code, we want to strengthen our jeopardise our ambition to be the Standard of sustainability performance by looking at relevant Excellence. Some of our major contracts already sustainability elements in the specifications that we include terms that are related to sustainability. For maintain for the goods that we purchase. In example, we maintain a strict policy on the types of 2013/2014, we will pilot such specifications that are lease cars that are available to our employees (see based on the Dutch Pianoo database, for a number of ‘Our Ecological Footprint’) through the lease car product categories. scheme. Yet, we were so far lacking a common framework that sets out requirements for all our Corporate Social Investments and the Fair suppliers. Chance Foundation In order to fill this gap, in 2013 we have launched our The Fair Chance Foundation is our main platform for Supplier Code of Conduct. This Code contains the community investment. The focus of the Foundation’s basic organisational requirements that we want our activities is to support underprivileged children in the suppliers to comply with in the areas of environmental Netherlands and to help to improve their knowledge management, human rights and business ethics. Each and skills through a range of educational initiatives. It major supplier is asked to submit a self-assessment benefited around 4.000 young people in 2012/2013. based on our requirements and – if non-compliant with Deloitte leverages the time and expertise of its one or more provisions – to indicate what measures he employees to run projects for the Foundation and also will take to reach compliance as well as the timeframe provides funding. within which full compliance is expected. As we started this process in April 2013, we cannot report at present By engaging our own people in the Foundation’s on the level of compliance in our supply chain. We activities, we offer them great learning and personal expect to be able to do so in our next report. development opportunities, enhancing both their emotional intelligence and social skills. Part of the Target 2016 strategy of the Fair Chance Foundation is to fulfil its 100% of major suppliers in conformity with Deloitte mission in partnership with other organisations with Supplier Code common goals. In these partnerships, the Foundation inputs people, knowledge and financial support. We Activities have opened up the Foundation to our clients and  Deloitte Supplier Code approved business relations so that they too have access to this  Reporting framework developed meaningful learning and development opportunity.  Started roll out of compliance statements to major suppliers and inclusion of Supplier Code in With society is becoming significantly more complex new tenders financially, money is increasingly intangible and the temptations of advertising are many – especially for Result No measurements are presently available, yet we feel children. Ordering through the Internet, paying by debit confident that we are on track to meeting our target card and downloading apps are all common goods. For young people, it is often difficult to oversee the consequences their financial transactions. Young people’s debts are an increasing social problem with sometimes dramatic consequences. 23 For this reason, Deloitte Netherlands has developed a support Young People’s Advisory Councils for children Money Exam for primary school pupils in partnership aged between thirteen and sixteen. Children from with NIBUD (National Institute for Budgeting) and these Councils are involved with issues that affect their publisher Thieme Meulenhoff. The Fair Chance neighbourhood and they receive mentoring in valuable Foundation donated the NIBUD Money Exam to all skills such as listening, debating and decision-making. primary schools in socio-economical underprivileged Foundation volunteers assist these children with this neighbourhoods in the Netherlands. In addition, process and inspire them to resolve issues. Deloitte together with Deloitte, the city of Rotterdam has volunteers also act as guest teachers and coaches. offered the NIBUD Money Exam training to all 300 primary schools in Rotterdam. Unfortunately, not all On November 15, 2012 our annual Impact Day took schools have implemented the training in their place. During this day, more than 432 volunteers from curriculum. In more cities in The Netherlands (Capelle Deloitte and our clients took time to reach out to young aan den IJssel, Dordrecht and Amsterdam, Deloitte people offering a wide variety of programs. These has teamed up with the city councils in supplying the programs included social media training, lessons on NIBUD training to students. the sustainable consumption of water, money lessons and job interview training to teenage mothers. Impact The Fair Chance Foundation also participates in the Day was concluded by the Maastoren Challenge, a activities of JINC, an organisation that aims to help race up the stairs of our 44 floors offices in Rotterdam. youngsters from socially and economically The Maastoren Challenge raised € 11,117 for Champs marginalised neighbourhoods get a good start in the on Stage, an organisation with similar goals as the Fair labour market. Through the Foundation, Deloitte offers Chance Foundation. In total, our volunteers coaching, internships and training for job interviews. participated in 40 different projects reaching a large Moreover, Deloitte contributed to the development of amount of children. the ‘Ondernemen doe je zo’ curriculum that offers pupils in the final year of primary school the Finally, in 2012/2013 the Fair Chance Foundation opportunity to experience what it takes to be an teamed up with Deloitte Recruitment in the context of entrepreneur. The Foundation has supported IMC in the business Course Tax & Audit. During this course, professionalising their growing alumni network by 27 students have raised funds for Champs on Stage in helping to define their mission and vision, products, Istanbul (Turkey) but have also shared their knowledge and service offering, as well as implementing an and experience on entering the labour market with 40 innovative social media strategy. Our volunteers also vmbo students. Table 10: Economic Value Added Component € in millions Explanation Direct economic value generated Revenues 632.1 Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets Economic value distributed Operating costs 253.6 Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties and facilitation payments Employee wages and benefits 283.7 Total monetary outflow for employees (current payments, not future commitments) Payments to providers of capital 5.9 All financial payments made to the providers of the organisation’s capital Payments to government 0.4 Gross taxes Community investments 0,4 Voluntary contributions and investment of funds in the broader community (incl. donations) Economic value retained Economic value generated less 88.1 Equity release economic value distributed 24 For the new fiscal year, the Foundation intends to users of the report the chance to compare and analyse focus on reducing the number of secondary school data electronically. Additionally, the electronic format dropouts. In 2012/2013, Deloitte spent a total € 373 can assist the reporting organisation in the data thousand in cash on Corporate Social Investments collection phase, as XBRL can be linked with existing either directly or through the Foundation. In addition, data information systems that the reporting Deloitters have spent over 3,300 hours working as organisation may use. We have used the taxonomy to volunteers on projects for the Fair Chance Foundation, publish our XBRL Sustainability Report 2011/2012 in reaching around 4,000 children and young adults. September 2012. This current report is also made available in XBRL format and can be found on our Partnerships company website www.deloitteannualreport.nl. Deloitte Netherlands fully supports the commitments MVO Nederland made by the global DTTL organisation to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the World Economic We are an active member of the network of Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Sustainably Responsible Organisations (MVO) in the Principles, the Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative Netherlands. (GCCI), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). World Economic Forum Wherever possible, we translate these initiatives into local activities and initiatives and share our knowledge Deloitte supports the World Economic Forum and its and experience with other member firms and our initiatives. In 2012/2013, we contributed to its Resilient clients. Dynamism initiative, which is intended to look at ways to catalyse dynamic growth and enable organizations Our support for these commitments enables us to: to embrace strategic agility and risk resilience.  Have an understanding of sustainability initiatives International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) undertaken by other member firms and identify opportunities to leverage and learn from these Deloitte has joined the IIRC, an international body that activities aim to develop standards for integrated reporting. Integrated Reporting is a new approach to corporate  Translate the commitments made by DTTL to the reporting that demonstrates the linkages between an UNGC, World Economic Forum’s PACI Principles organization’s strategy, governance and financial and Global Corporate Citizenship Initiative and the performance and the social, environmental and GRI, into activities for Deloitte Netherlands economic context within which it operates. By  Set targets for Deloitte Netherlands. reinforcing these connections, Integrated Reporting UN Global Compact (UNGC) can help business to take more sustainable decisions and enable investors and other stakeholders to The UNGC is a voluntary international network of understand how an organization is really performing. corporations, UN agencies, trade unions and nonOn an international level, Deloitte is part of both the governmental organisations that supports ten universal Council and the Working Group. Deloitte Netherlands principles. Deloitte has made a public pledge to has seconded one of its staff members to the IIRC to promote corporate responsibility in the areas of human help develop the framework and has committed to the rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. publication of an integrated report in a pilot that involves around 80 companies. The Netherlands Network of the UNGC is an initiative of Dutch business leaders that aims to further the Target 2016 contribution of private business – within its sphere of Total of 1,500 volunteers deployed and 12,500 influence – to sustainable development. We actively children in underprivileged areas have benefited from participated in the Steering Committee of the the foundation’s activities Netherlands Network. This sustainability report serves as the annual communication on progress regarding Activities the UNGC.  Active internal campaigns were conducted to increase the number of Deloitters involved with GRI the Foundation  NIBUD Money Exam made available to primary We are an organisational stakeholder of the Global schools in the city of Rotterdam Reporting Initiative (GRI) and this report follows GRI  Scaling up Impact Day and opening up activities 3.0 Guidelines for the sixth consecutive year. Based on to clients and other business relations self-assessment and external verification by our  auditor, this report classifies as a GRI A+ level report. Result In 2012/2013, over 400 volunteers have contributed In 2012, Deloitte Netherlands launched the GRI to the work of the Fair Chance Foundation reaching Taxonomy which allows sustainability reporters to around 4,000 children. report on sustainability in an XBRL format. This gives 25 Our ecological footprint Compared to the footprint of the entire Dutch economy, our ecological footprint is very limited and consists mainly of the energy that we use and the goods that we consume. Nonetheless, we feel that it is our obligation to use scarce resources in the most efficient way and to actively search for alternatives that are better from an environmental perspective. To this end we maintain an environmental policy that is built on the hierarchy: reduce – reuse – recycle – recovery –disposal. General However, it has not been feasible to reach our ambition to achieve an excellent certificate in To underpin and sustain our commitment to the 2012/2013 as set out in our previous report. reduction of our environmental footprint, we have adopted the Deloitte Environmental Policy Statement. For a professional services provider such as Deloitte, It is our intention to seek ISO 14000 certification of our mobility is vital. However, mobility (lease cars, flights Environmental Management System in the second half and public transport) is an important contributor to our of 2013. carbon footprint. For lease cars Deloitte maintains a green lease policy that encourages eligible employees Energy and CO2 to choose energy efficient lease cars and discourages We consume energy to run our servers, to heat, cool the lease of cars that do not meet our criteria. This and light our offices and for mobility. Our energy policy was amended as per February 1, 2013 to consumption results in CO2 emissions. To limit these include stricter limits for CO2 emissions. In practice emissions, we purchase green electricity and gas, this means that we only include cars with a meaning that there are no direct and indirect emissions predetermined fuel economy on our preferred lease in relation to our consumption. Our energy coordinator car list and in addition to a maximum allowed CO2 is responsible for periodically measuring the energy emissions of 165 (was 175 in 2012) grams per data of our offices. Sometimes, this can be difficult as kilometre our lease car programme includes an in multi-tenant buildings it is not always clear how environmental correction in the form of a bonus/penalty much of the energy consumption should be attributed scheme. In addition, we have added electric cars to to Deloitte. In 2012/2013, our energy manager started facilitate the employees’ desire to limit their own to examine the possibilities for more efficient lighting carbon footprint. solutions. This resulted in the identification of two Target 2016 locations that are eligible for more efficient lighting 70% of office space is certified to the level of at least solutions. In the new fiscal year, we will enter into “very good” negotiations with the owners of the two buildings and reserve the necessary funds to implement the Activities increased efficiency solutions.  Deloitte Real Estate has conducted a quick scan of our offices in order to determine which office To underpin our commitment to green energy, Deloitte buildings are suitable for BREEAM in Use participated in Earth Hour on 23 March 2013. During certification to the level of at least ‘Very Good’. Earth Hour, the lights in and on our offices in Their findings serve as input to achieve our Rotterdam and Amstelveen were completely switched target. off while we also switched of the Deloitte signs on the  We started a pilot with BREEAM in Use for our Amsterdam and The Hague offices. offices in Eindhoven. When successful, Deloitte We maintain strict design and operations criteria for will be the first organisation that has achieved the buildings that we rent. To this end we make active such a certificate based on its national policy use of the framework that is offered by the Dutch rather than a local one. We intend to use our Green Building Council based on Building Research experiences from the Eindhoven pilot in the Establishment Environmental Assessment Method scaling up of our efforts. (BREEAM). During the reporting year, we have made good progress with our pilot on the application Result BREEAM In Use for our current offices in Eindhoven. Although currently we still stand at 0% of office space under BREEAM certification, we are confident that we will reach our 70% target by 2016. 26 Average CO2 emissions have been determined for each fuel type in each lease category. The employee receives a bonus if he opts for a company car with lower CO2 emissions. A penalty is calculated in the event of higher CO2 emissions. On an annual basis, the CO2 emissions are monitored – and where possible further adjusted. Additionally, all employees are issued an NS Business Card which allows them to travel by train. The use of the NS Business Card provided for over 39 thousand journeys by train, accounting for a total of 2.1 million train kilometres. Table 11: Energy consumption and related emissions Related emissions 2013 2012 2011 2013 Housing Total electricity consumption 14,209,605 kWh 13,865,809 kWh 15,442,108 kWh 0 tonnes CO2 Specific electricity consumption 125,6 kWh/m2 125,3 kWh/m2 134,9 kWh/m2 Total thermal energy consumption 37,436 GJ 78,018 GJ n/a 0 tonnes CO2 Specific thermal energy consumption 0.33 GJ/m2** 0.74 GJ/m2 n/a Mobility Total kilometres driven by lease cars 86,992,049 km 88,445,227 km 93,624,678 km Number of lease cars 2,951 2,957 3,231 Kilometres/lease car 29,474 km 29,910 km 28,977 km Total petrol consumption 4,168,667 l 4,760,122 l 5,618,675 l 11,589 tonnes CO2 Total diesel consumption 1,529,567 l 1,482,539 l 983,455 l 4,795 tonnes CO2 Total LPG consumption 238 l 4,044 l 23,694 l 0.4 tonnes CO2 Total kilometres travelled by air* 25,367,314 km 27,345,619 km 19,506,864 km 3,041 tonnes CO2 Kilometres by air per FTE 5,843 km 6,112 km 4,362 km Total kilometres travelled by train 2,115,383 km 2,363,060 km 2,675,287 km 63.4 tonnes CO2 Train kilometres/FTE 487 km 528 km 598 km Total kilometres by taxi N/A 2,947 km 7,241 km Taxi kilometres/FTE N/A 0,7 km 1,6 km Totals Total direct energy consumption 278,070 GJ 231,167 GJ n/a 16,384 tonnes CO2 Total CO2 emissions 19,489 tonnes CO2 21,658 tonnes CO2 n/a * The data for air travel in 2012/2013 exclude tickets that were purchased on behalf of DTTL. As the 2011/2012 data include such tickets, results between the two years cannot be compared ** Due to a change in measurement methodology, the 2013 figure cannot be compared with the 2012 figure 27 Other impacts • Swill (such as food remains) • Cardboard We only use FSC certified paper for printing and in • Small hazardous waste (such as batteries) 2012/2013 reduced the amount of paper we used to • Refuse (remaining after the separation of recyclable 284,198 kilograms, from 299,900 kilograms in elements) 2011/2012. Office waste is categorised as the follows to allow for recycling: Paper, refuse and cardboard are collected on every • Paper office floor. Swill and small hazardous waste are collected centrally per office building. Table 12: Other environmental indicators 2013 2012 2011 Total water consumption 23,232 m3 27,037 m3 n/a Specific water consumption 5.4 m3 6.0 m3 n/a Total paper consumption 284,198 kg 299,900 kg 315,901 kg Paper consumption/FTE 65,5 kg 67.0 kg 70.6 kg Total collected waste 455,833 kg 475,608 kg n/a Total waste collected for 260,968 kg 278,625 kg n/a recycling Waste recycling % 57% 59% n/a Hazardous waste 282 kg 531 kg n/a Target 2016 15% reduction of carbon emissions caused by mobility Activities  We have adopted a new travel policy that limits air travel in business class or higher.  We made preparations to facilitate the choice of electric cars into our lease policy as per 1 July 2013. We will establish more loading platforms in our offices to enable employees to charge their cars whilst at work.  We have adjusted the maximum CO2 emissions Target 2016 related to our ‘bonus/malus’ scheme. The Deloitte to reach advanced level in Global Compact maximum permitted level was lowered from 175 grams/km to 165 grams/km. Activities  We will continue to develop and stimulate the  Gap analysis performed and timing of necessary use of alternative means for physical meetings activities determined (such as videoconferencing, conference calls  Deloitte Supplier Code adopted and webinars). Result Result Deloitte is still on basic level in Global Compact but In 2012/2013, our mobility related CO2 emissions target will be reached before 2016 were 8.4% lower than in the reference year 2012 28 Section III: Annexes Annex I: Assurance Report 30Error! Bookmark not defined. Annex II: Basis of Reporting 32 Annex III: GRI Reference Table 34 28 Annex I Assurance Report To: Shareholders, Supervisory Board and Executive Board of Deloitte Holding B.V. Engagement Our assurance engagement is aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance that the information in the sustainability report 2012/2013 of Deloitte Holding B.V. is, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate representation of the policy, activities, events and performance with respect to sustainability during 2012/2013. Our engagement did not include any quantitative of qualitative information relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their achievability. Criteria We assessed the sustainability report 2012/2013 against the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) published by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Guide to sustainability reporting of the Dutch Accounting Standards Board (Raad voor de Jaarverslaggeving) and Deloitte Holding B.V.’s own reporting policies. We believe that these criteria are suitable for our assurance engagement. Management’s responsibility Management is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability report and the information therein in accordance with the criteria mentioned above. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of a sustainability report that is free of material misstatements, selecting and applying appropriate reporting policies that include the GRI reporting principles and using measurement methods and estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. The choices made by management, the scope of this report and the reporting policy, including any inherent limitations that could affect the reliability of information, are set out in the report. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion with regard to the sustainability report based on the engagement described above. We performed our procedures in accordance with Dutch law, including Standard 3410N ‘Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’. We have performed all the procedures deemed necessary to obtain the evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our main procedures were:  Assessing the acceptability and consistent application of the reporting principles used, and the significant estimates and calculations made in preparing the sustainability report 2012/2013.  Assessing whether all relevant topics have been addressed.  Examining the reliability of the information in the sustainability report 2012/2013 of Deloitte Holding B.V. by: o obtaining an understanding of the sector and the relevant sustainability issues specific for the organisation; o obtaining an understanding of the design and operation of the systems and methods used to collect and process the reported information, including the consolidation process; 30 o identifying inherent risks relating to the reliability of the information and investigating the extent to which these risks are limited by internal controls; o assessing the concerning internal controls for their operating effectiveness, insofar as this was relevant for our assurance engagement; o performing based on a risk analysis further procedures related to the quantitative and descriptive information in the report, by a combination of:  interviews with relevant staff on strategy, policy, communication and management combined with document analysis to substantiate the related descriptive information in the report;  quantitative analyses to assess the quantitative data;  reconciliations with audited financial statements and underlying environmental and social data systems;  detailed checks of the data themselves on a test basis, using internal and external sources of information to substantiate the reliability of the information provided; o evaluating the sufficiency of the sustainability report 2012/2013 of Deloitte Holding B.V. and its overall presentation against the criteria mentioned above. Opinion Based on our procedures performed to obtain a reasonable assurance and taking into account the choices made by Deloitte Holding B.V. as reflected in the reporting policy, we believe that the information in the sustainability report 2012/2013 of Deloitte Holding B.V., in all material respects, provides a reliable and sufficient representation of the policy, activities, events and performance with respect to sustainability during 2012/2013, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Guide to sustainability reporting of the Dutch Accounting Standards Board (Raad voor de Jaarverslaggeving) and the documented reporting policy of Deloitte Holding B.V. Rotterdam, 12 July 2013 Ernst & Young Accountants LLP Signed by H. Hollander 31 Annex II Basis of Reporting The information presented in this report is collected LPG: 1 litre equals 1.86 kilogrammes CO2 from various online and offline, internal and external resources. In many cases, interviews with partners and As we do not separately monitor business trips, employees took place in order to write the text. For the commuting and privat use of lease cars, our data data, a variety of systems were used, including but not includes all these elements limited to our SAP systems, the Runbook scenario for  For the conversion of fuel consumption to MJ, we sustainability that is part of our quality controls and used the following conversions as mentioned in specific project data. the GRI protocol for EN3, except in the case of LPG where we have opted for a locally accepted conversion value: Our people Natural gas: caloric value per m3 is 39,01 MJ Absentee rate is calculated by dividing the number of Petrol: caloric value per litre is 32.256 MJ absentee days including weekends by the total Diesel: caloric vale per litre is 35.964 MJ employee population (in FTEs) in one year. LPG: caloric value per litre is 24 MJ  Total kilometres travelled by plane are obtained Ecological footprint from our travel agents. For the calculation of the related CO2 emissions are calculated using the The data included in the ecological footprint chapter of conversion factors as provided by DEFRA this report is gathered through a number of means: (www.defra.gov.uk) using a classification that distinguishes economy, premium economy,  Total electricity consumption is measured through business class and first class and categorises air metering in our offices. In multi-tenant buildings travel in domestic, short-haul international and the electricity consumption of public spaces is long-haul international flights. For the various allocated on the basis of the relative share of the subgroups, the following CO2 conversions are surface we rent in such buildings. All occupied used: offices have metering installed meaning that the figures for 2012/2013 can be compared with those Domestic average: 0.16513 kg CO2/kilometre per for 2011/2012 but not with the preceding years passenger  In single tenant buildings, the total gas Short-haul international average: 0.09429 kg consumption is obtained by reading the available CO2/kilometre per passenger gas meters. In multi-tenant buildings, gas Short-haul international economy class: 0.08985 consumption is allocated on the basis of occupied kg CO2/kilometre per passenger office space by Deloitte Short-haul international business class: 0.13478  In buildings where Deloitte has full control, we kg CO2/kilometre per passenger purchase green electricity and gas. For other Long-haul international average: 0.10789 kg buildings, CO2 emissions are offset by purchasing CO2/kilometre per passenger green certificates so that total CO2 emissions are Long-haul international economy class: 0.07876 zero. kg CO2/kilometre per passenger  Total kilometres driven by lease cars as well as Long-haul international premium economy class: the number of lease cars in use are obtained from 0.12601 kg CO2/kilometre per passenger our supplier Long-haul international business class: 0.22840  Total litres of petrol, diesel and LPG are obtained kg CO2/kilometre per passenger from our supplier. For conversion of petrol to CO2 Long-haul-international first class: 0.31504 kg emissions we used the conversions as published CO2/kilometre per passenger by SKAO (www.skao.nl):  The total kilometres travelled by train are obtained Petrol: 1 litre equals 2.78 kilogrammes CO2 from our supplier Nederlandse Spoorwegen. For Diesel: 1 litre equals 3.135 kilogrammes CO2 the calculation of related CO2 emissions, we used 32 a conversion factor of 0.030 kg CO2/kilometre per diesel engine cars. This figure is 0.205 kg/driven passenger as published by Nederlandse kilometre. SpoorwegenTaxi kilometres are gathered through  In multitenant buildings, we do not have expense reports. For the conversion of kilometres individual metering for water. This means that to tonnes of CO2 we have used the conversion water consumption in such building is attributed factor as published by SKAO for the average of on the basis of the surface that Deloitte has in use 33 Annex III GRI Reference Table GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior Letter from the Executive Board 4 decision-maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and Sustainability at Deloitte, strategy 13opportunities. 14 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation About this report, scope 9 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or About Deloitte, our services; 11 services www.deloitte.nl 2.3 Operational structure of the Annual Report, governance 20organisation 23 2.4 Location of organisation’s Back cover 49 headquarters 2.5 Number of countries where the About this report, scope 9 organisation operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report, governance 2023 2.7 Markets served About Deloitte, our services 11 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Annual Report 5 2.9 Significant changes during the Annual Report 20reporting period regarding size, structure, 23 or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting www.deloitte.nl period 3. Report parametres 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar About this report 9 year) for information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if Our previous report was published any) on 18 July 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this report 9 34 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding Letter from the Executive Board 4 the report or its contents 3.5 Process for defining report content About this report, materiality 9 3.6 Boundary of the report About this report, scope 9 3.7 State any specific limitations on the About this report, scope 9 scope or boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, About this report, scope 9 subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques Annex II Reporting basis 32 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reNo restatements have occurred statements 3.11 Significant changes from previous Annex II Reporting basis 32 reporting 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Annex III GRI Reference Table 34 Standard Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with About this report, reliability 9 regard to seeking external assurance for the report 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the Sustainability at Deloitte, governance 14organisation 15 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Sustainability at Deloitte, governance 14highest governance body is also an 15 Executive Officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary Not applicable as Deloitte board structure, state the number of does not have a unitary members of the highest governance body board structure that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Annual Report, governance 20employees to provide recommendations or 23 direction to the highest governance body 35 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Annual Report, other notes to the 58 members of the highest governance body, financial statements; senior managers and executives (including Transparantieverslag 2011/2012, p. departure arrangements) and the 55-59 organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Transparantieverslag 2011/2012, p. governance body to ensure conflicts of 31-38 interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the Annual report 20 qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of About Deloitte, shared values and 12 mission or values, codes of conduct, and ethical principles principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Sustainability at Deloitte, governance 14 body for overseeing the organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Annual report 22 governance body’s own performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Annual report, risk management 16precautionary approach or principle is 17 addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, Our impact in society, partnerships 25 environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Our impact in society, partnerships 25 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability report 2011/2012 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection Sustainability report 2011/2012 10 of stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder About this report, materiality 9 engagement 36 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have About this report, materiality 9 been raised through stakeholder engagement GRI performance indicator Reported?* Reference to Additional comments or GRI A+ disclosure in external reference report Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value Yes Our impact in 24 generated and distributed, society, including revenues, operating Corporate social costs, employee compensation, investments and donations and other community the Fair Chance investments, retained earnings, Foundation and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other Yes Annual Report, 16No material risks related to risks and opportunities for the risk management 17 climate change have been organisation’s activities due to identified in the risk climate change assessment performed by the RRL. Specific risks related to our services are assessed as part of an ongoing key initiative ‘service impact assessment’ EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s Yes Annual Report 37 defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance Yes In 2012/2013, Deloitte did received from government not receive government subsidies EC5 Range of ratios of standard No Not material, as the ratio n/a add. entry level wage compared to between standard entry local minimum wage at level wage and local significant locations of minimum wage is not a operation relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. The remuneration system is 37 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference based on function level and performance EC6 Policy, practices, and Yes Our impact in 23 proportion of spending on society, supply locally-based suppliers at chain significant locations of responsibility operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Yes Our people, 21 proportion of senior diversity management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of Yes Our impact in 23infrastructure investments and society, 25 services provided primarily for Corporate social public benefit through investments and commercial, in kind, or pro the Fair Chance bono engagement Foundation EC9 Understanding and describing Yes Serving our 16add. significant indirect economic clients 17 impacts, including the extent of impacts Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or Yes Ecological 28 No raw, associated process volume footprint, other or packaging materials are impacts relevant to Deloitte services and products EN2 Percentage of materials used No Not material, as this that are recycled input percentage is not significant materials for materials used considered significant, please refer to EN1 EN3 Direct energy consumption by Yes Ecological 27 primary energy source footprint, energy and CO2 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Yes Ecological 27 primary source footprint, energy 38 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference and CO2 EN5 Energy saved due to Yes Ecological 26add. conservation and efficiency footprint, energy 27 improvements and CO2 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy Yes Ecological 26add. efficient or renewable energy footprint, energy 27 based products and services, and CO2 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect Yes Ecological 26add. energy consumption and footprint, energy 27 reductions achieved and CO2 EN8 Total water withdrawal by Yes Ecological 28 All water used by Deloitte source footprint, other comes from the municipal impacts grid EN9 Water sources significantly No Not applicable, as no water n/a add. affected by withdrawal of water is directly withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte EN10 Percentage and total volume of No Not applicable, as no water n/a add. water recycled and reused is directly withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte EN11 Location and size of land No Not applicable, as Deloitte owned, leased, managed in, or does not own, lease or adjacent to, protected areas manage land in or adjacent and areas of high biodiversity to protected areas value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant No Not material, as Deloitte impacts of activities, products, services and products have and services on biodiversity in no direct impact on protected areas and areas of biodiversity high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored. No Not applicable, as Deloitte n/a add. does not own, lease or manage land in or adjacent to protected areas 39 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference EN14 Strategies, current actions, and No Not applicable as Deloitte n/a add. future plans for managing does not have significant impacts on biodiversity direct impact on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List No Not applicable as Deloitte n/a add. species and national does not have significant conservation list species with direct impact on biodiversity habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect Yes Ecological 27 greenhouse gas emissions by footprint, energy weight and CO2 EN17 Other relevant indirect No Ecological Not applicable as no such greenhouse gas emissions by footprint, energy emissions occur weight and CO2 EN18 Initiatives to reduce Yes Ecological 26add. greenhouse gas emissions and footprint, energy 27 reductions achieved and CO2 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting No Not material, as Deloitte substances by weight does not have significant emission levels of ozone depleting substances EN20 NO, SO, and other significant No Not material, as Deloitte air emissions by type and does not have significant weight NO, SO or other emissions EN21 Total water discharge by quality No Not applicable, as no water and destination is directly withdrawn or discharged by Deloitte EN22 Total weight of waste by type Yes Ecological 28 and disposal method footprint, other impacts EN23 Total number and volume of No Not material, as no significant spills significant volumes of hazardous substances are processed by Deloitte EN24 Weight of transported, No Not applicable, as no n/a add. imported, exported, or treated significant volumes of 40 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference waste deemed hazardous hazardous substances are under the terms of the Basel processed by Deloitte Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, No Not applicable, as no water add. and biodiversity value of water is directly withdrawn or bodies and related habitats discharged by Deloitte significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Yes Serving our 17 environmental impacts of clients products and services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold No Not applicable, as Deloitte and their packaging materials services and products do that are reclaimed by category not involve packaging material EN28 Monetary value of significant No fines and total number of nonNot applicable as no such monetary sanctions for fines were received noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental Yes Ecological Only transporting members add. impacts of transporting footprint, energy of the workforce is products and other goods and and CO2 applicable to Deloitte materials used for the operations organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection No Not available, as n/a add. expenditures and investments expenditures or by type investments for protection are not specifically recorded and tracked. 41 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference Initiatives to reduce Ecological footprint are disclosed under EN26 Human rights performance indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of No Not applicable, as human significant investment rights aspects are not agreements that include human directly relevant to rights clauses or that have operations in the undergone human rights Netherlands screening HR2 Percentage of significant Yes Our impact in 23 We are in the process of suppliers and contractors that society, supply implementing our supplier have undergone screening on chain code. No screening has human rights and actions taken responsibility taken place to date HR3 Total hours of employee No Not applicable, as human n/a add. training on policies and rights aspects are not procedures concerning aspects directly relevant to of human rights that are operations relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of Yes Our people, 18discrimination and actions business ethics 19 taken HR5 Operations identified in which No Not material, as no related the right to exercise freedom of significant risks apply to association and collective Deloitte’s direct operations bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations identified as having No Not material, as no related significant risk for incidents of significant risks apply to child labour, and measures Deloitte’s direct operations taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. HR7 Operations identified as having No Not material, as no related 42 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference significant risk for incidents of significant risks apply to forced or compulsory labour, Deloitte’s direct operations and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. HR8 Percentage of security No Not material, as no related n/a add. personnel trained in the significant risks apply to organisation’s policies or Deloitte’s direct operations procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of No Not reported as violations n/a add. violations involving rights of of rights of indigenous indigenous people and actions people are not applicable to taken operations in the Netherlands Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment Yes Our people 18 type, employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of Yes Our people, 20 employee turnover by age diversity group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time No Not material, as the n/a add. employees that are not indicator is no relevant provided to temporary or partsteering instrument for time employees, by major Deloitte. The basic benefits operations provided to all employees are in compliance with Dutch laws and regulations LA4 Percentage of employees No Not material, as Deloitte covered by collective makes only collective bargaining agreements agreements that are valid for all employees LA5 Minimum notice period(s) No Not material, as standard regarding operational changes, notice period(s) are in 43 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference including whether it is specified compliance with Dutch law in collective agreements and legislation and included in standard employment contracts LA6 Percentage of total workforce No Not material, as health and n/a add. represented in formal joint safety monitoring and management–worker health advisory is largely and safety committees that conducted in collaboration help monitor and advise on with our external service occupational health and safety providers programmes LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Yes Our people, 19diseases, lost days, and retention of talent 21 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, Yes Our people, 19prevention, and risk-control retention of talent 21 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics No Not applicable as Deloitte n/a add. covered in formal agreements has no formal agreements with trade unions with trade unions LA10 Average hours of training per Yes Our people, 21 year per employee by retention of talent employee category LA11 Programmes for skills Yes Our people, 19add. management and lifelong retention of talent 21 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees Yes Our people, 21 n/a add. receiving regular performance retention of talent and career development reviews 44 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference LA13 Composition of governance Yes Our people, 20bodies and breakdown of diversity 21 employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to No Not material, as the ratio women by employee category between the salaries of men and women is not a relevant steering instrument for Deloitte. The remuneration system is based on function level and performance Product responsibility performance indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which Yes Serving our 16In general, our services do health and safety impacts of clients 17 not directly affect the health products and services are and safety of our clients. assessed for improvement, and However, in some cases percentage of significant we will specifically address products and services health and safety aspects categories subject to such as part of specific procedures sustainability engagements PR2 Total number of incidents of No Proprietary information. No n/a add. non-compliance with related administrative or regulations and voluntary judicial cases have been codes concerning health and brought against the safety impacts of products and organisation resulting in services during their life cycle, significant fines or nonby type of outcomes monetary sanctions for noncompliance to laws and regulations PR3 Type of product and service No Not material, as no 45 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference information required by regulations or codes are procedures and percentage of applicable to the significant products and information and labeling of services subject to such Deloitte services with information requirements respect to sustainability impacts PR4 Total number of incidents of No Not material, as no n/a add. non-compliance with regulations or codes are regulations and voluntary applicable to the codes concerning product and information and labeling of service information and Deloitte services with labeling, by type of outcomes respect to sustainability impacts PR5 Practices related to customer Yes Sustainability add. satisfaction, including results of Report surveys measuring customer 2011/2012, p. 17 satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to Yes Sustainability laws, standards, and voluntary Report codes related to marketing 2011/2012, p. 16 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of No Proprietary information. No n/a add. non-compliance with related administrative or regulations and voluntary judicial cases have been codes concerning marketing brought against the communications, including organisation resulting in advertising, promotion, and significant fines or nonsponsorship by type of monetary sanctions for nonoutcome compliance to laws and regulations PR8 Total number of substantiated No Proprietary information. An n/a add. complaints regarding breaches integral security policy and of customer privacy and losses corresponding governance of customer data process is in place to ensure customer privacy PR9 Monetary value of significant No Proprietary information. No 46 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference fines for non-compliance with related administrative or laws and regulations judicial cases have been concerning the provision and brought against the use of products and services organisation resulting in significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance to laws and regulations Society performance indicators SO1 Nature, scope, and No Not material, as no effectiveness of any significant direct societal programmes and practices that impacts are relevant to the assess and manage the communities in which impacts of operations on Deloitte operates. The communities, including indicator is not a relevant entering, operating, and exiting steering instrument for Deloitte. Indirect impacts of our services are assessed as part of an ongoing key initiative ‘service impact assessment’, refer to page 16 SO2 Percentage and total number of No Not material as corruption business units analysed for risks in the Netherlands are risks related to corruption relatively low SO3 Percentage of employees Yes 18Due to the relatively low trained in organisation’s anti19 risk, we do not provide corruption policies and specific training on antiprocedures corruption policy: it is part of our overall Code of Conduct training SO4 Actions taken in response to No Proprietary information. No incidents of corruption related administrative or judicial cases have been brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or non47 GRI performance indicator Reference to disclosure in report Page Additional comments or GRI A+ external reference monetary sanctions for noncompliance to laws and regulations SO5 Public policy positions and No Not material, as no publiclyparticipation in public policy expressed positions can be development and lobbying held that could affect the integrity of the practice SO6 Total value of financial and inNo Not applicable, as our n/a add. kind contributions to political charity related contributions parties, politicians, and related focus on educational institutions by country purposes only SO7 Total number of legal actions No Proprietary information. No n/a add. for anticompetitive behaviour, related administrative or anti-trust, and monopoly judicial cases have been practices and their outcomes brought against the organisation resulting in significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance to such laws and regulations SO8 Monetary value of significant Yes No related administrative or fines and total number of nonjudicial cases have been monetary sanctions for nonbrought against the compliance with laws and organisation resulting in regulations significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance to such laws and regulations 48 Deloitte Wilhelminakade 1 Postbus 2031 3000 CA Rotterdam Nederland www.deloitte.nl Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.nl/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Deloitte provides audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services to public and private clients spanning multiple industries. With a globally connected network of member firms in more than 150 countries, Deloitte brings world-class capabilities and high-quality service to clients, delivering the insights they need to address their most complex business challenges. Deloitte has in the region of 200,000 professionals, all committed to becoming the standard of excellence. This communication contains general information only, and none of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, its member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the “Deloitte Network”) is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services. Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this communication.
