RYNKEBY FOODS CSR REPORT 2013 Communication on Progress CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 2 Page 3 CONTENTS Introduction ....................................................... page 3 About Rynkeby................................................... page 4 UN Global Compact........................................... page 5 THEME 1: THE BUSINESS Procurement...................................................... page 6 Responsible Procurement................................. page 9 Code of Conduct ................................................ page 10 WE MUST THINK ACCOUNTResponsible Winning Culture............................ page 12 The Road Safety Council ................................... page 14 ABILITY AT HIGHEST LEVEL Fair Speak.......................................................... page 16 Quality and Food Safety..................................... page 18 I am proud to confirm that Rynkeby Foods again this year supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. THEME 2: PEOPLE In this annual report we describe our actions to integrate the Global Employees are the most important resource.... page 20 Compact principles to our business system, strategy, culture and Team Rynkeby.................................................... page 24 INTRODUCTION daily work. We are committed to communicating our efforts to stakeholders that includes employees, owners, customers and consumers – we also want the most open, transparent and honest communicaTHEME 3: HEALTH tion as possible. Healthy Work place............................................ page 26 During the year we have put our efforts into securing a future better communication platform that allows more dialogue with the outside world, mainly through digital media. THEME 4: ENVIRONMENT 2013 has been an exciting year, where we focused on our suppliers in New Environmental Approval............................ page 30 Brazil, employee health and getting accountability incorporated into Reduction of Power Consumption..................... page 32 the overall business strategy. Overview of Rynkeby Foods’ CSR Policies......... page 34 Overview of Rynkeby Foods’ CSR Targets.......... page 38 With Team Rynkeby today we have one of the largest charity projects in Denmark, which both promotes public health and at the same time supports a good cause. We are pleased that so many volunteers in 6 countries take an active part in a project that was originally started by a group of employees. Via our geographical expansion the responsibility for public health reaches farther out, and the possibility of charity increases. Marts 2014 Jørgen Dirksen CEO Rynkeby Foods A/S Finances Board Patrik Hansson, Responsible for 100% owned by Michael Kaalund Board members Arla Foods, this report Arla Foods. selected by the Vice President. Carina Jensen, Procurement shareholders: Nordic Quality Carsten Pedersen Board members Manager. Management Povl Krogsgaard, elected by the CEO Arla Foods Vice CEO. employees: Jørgen Dirksen Peter Giørtz-Carlsen, Leslie Lundehøj Supply Chain Arla Foods, Jørgensen, Lars Petersen Vice President. Product Developer. Kent Skovsager, Johan Høst-Madsen, Sales/Marketing Arla Foods Production Assistant. Mark Hemmingsen Vice President. CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 4 Page 5 ABOUT RYNKEBY OUR APPROACH TO THE Rynkeby Foods is the largest producer of juices and dilutables in the Northern UN GLOBAL COMPACT countries. In one year we produce more than 150 million litres based on approx. 50 different berries and fruits from around 25 countries. In January 2011, Rynkeby Foods joined UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. The first Communication on Progress report describes the actions and progress The company was founded in 1934, and since 1998 Rynkeby Foods A/S has been in relation to the principles (see page 37). 100 % owned by Arla Foods. From the beginning we have focused on making high quality products based on the best ingredients, and the goal is to be the Nordic Rynkeby Foods has incorporated the 5 basic values that all employees must follow: market leader in fruit-based foods, primarily juice and dilutables. We secure quality Today, we are the market leader in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, and well repreWe involve ourselves sented in Norway. Outside Denmark, the road to the end customers goes through We will win our sister companies in the Arla Foods Group. We develop We respect each other The strategy is to expand these positions over the coming years, and there are ongoing actions to support this ambition. These five values have been part of Rynkeby Foods’ culture for many years, why the work towards meeting the 10 principles was first integrated locally in the daily Competitive focus is on increasing brand value through marketing investments in lives of the employees, and later there has been more external focus. the markets and at the same time stay focused on continued efficiency improvements across the value chain. In addition, increased efforts on the company’s The main areas are divided into People, Planet, Profit and Health with top mavalues and especially winning culture will be further strengthened during the nagement as ambassadors for the individual areas. year (see later on this). Accountability is incorporated in the upcoming business strategy to create consistency, effectiveness and visibility through key strategic areas. RYNKEBY FOODS A/S FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT 950 275 Net turnover 900 250 Net result before tax 225 Number of employees 850 Amount in million DKK 200 800 375 750 150 700 125 100 650 75 600 50 550 25 500 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Primary axis: Net turnover Secondary axis: Net result before tax and number of employees CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 6 Page 7 1st Theme: THE BUSINESS Responsibility in the Global Code of Conduct and have ensured that Commodity Industry all our suppliers have signed this. The Target and Results 2010 2011 2012 2013 Target 2014 The juice industry in particular is a Code of Conduct requires compliance global business where the raw materials with applicable laws and covers, among SGF suppliers come from all over the world. Demand other areas: Human rights, labour stanof fruits, berries and vegetables 69% 71% 63% 75% in the EU for certain raw materials dards and anti-corruption. SGF raw materials has risen to such a high level, that the (fruits, berries and vegetables) 81% 84% 76% 70% 90% proportion of imports will account for SGF / IRMA and Code of Conduct Suppliers supporting Code of Conduct 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% a larger share of demand. This is the SGF (Sure Global Fair ) is a German case for the most actively traded juice professional organization certifying more concentrate – orange, but also grapefruit than 400 fruit cultivators and suppliers concentrate and pineapple are among in over 60 countries of raw materials for the most popular flavours, like passion, authenticity and quality of raw materials cranberry, mango and guava. Brazil proand Code of Conduct (human rights, vides well over 80 % of EU demand for labour standards and anti-corruption). Procurement orange concentrate. Source: www.aijn.org We see, however, that generally more At Rynkeby Foods we focus very much on and more raw material suppliers opt out sustainable production, quality, secuof membership of SGF, and we can see rity of supply and, not at least that our that the share has fallen from 2012 to suppliers observe our Code of Conduct 2013. These raw materials are primaand produce according to the principles rily from suppliers with whom we have of the Global Compact. With increasing a good and long trading relationship, globalization, this is an issue that must which contributes to the necessary conhave our constant attention, so we can fidence. Our greatest commodity orange Example of a Suspected Breach give our customers and consumers confrom Brazil comes exclusively from SGF on Labour Rights fidence and safety. certified suppliers. In January 2013 Finn Watch – a Finnish Supplier Approval and Evaluation We maintain our requirements and non-profit organization that studies We have a structured process for approcontinue to work to ensure that our accountability in global trade, published an ving new suppliers and ongoing supplier suppliers are members of SGF – IRMA article about suspected violations of labour evaluation so that we can ensure a su(Sure Global Fair), but must recognize rights with a specific named Thai pineapple stainable supply chain management. We that as a small player in the global juice producer. have in 2013 continued our co-operation market we cannot drive this work alone. with Arla Foods regarding the developTherefore we have in 2013 uncovered We do not buy from this manufacturer, but ment of supplier management and will alternative certifications and standards from another producer in Thailand, where continue the close dialogue. that can give us similar safety. On the we have a signed Code of Conduct. social rights alternatives may be: RFA , We took, nevertheless, immediately contact Rynkeby ’s Code of Conduct IFOAM , FLO , ISO 26000 , Fair Trade or to our supplier to clarify and focus on our We do everything to ensure that our National Ministry of Labour. requirements and we required documentasuppliers meet the requirements of our tion from any third party. Our manufacturer was able to demonstrate compliance via certificate from ”Ministry of Labour” verifying compliance with the requirements of Thai Corporate Social Responsibility. CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 8 Page 9 Corporate Social Responsibility relationship. Rynkeby Foods is dedicated What can we expect from our suppliers? Focus on Orange Commodity to working with our suppliers to ensure We work with suppliers from all over the world and they have great from Brazil that our business practices are contribuimpact on our commitment to quality, ethics and sustainability. Orange is the main raw material for Rynting positively to the orange cultivators keby Foods, and we are very concerned and pickers. We will continue to expand We expect our suppliers to comply with their social, ethical and about the working conditions associated our understanding of the issues surenvironmental responsibility, so that we together can achieve our with orange harvest and production. We rounding orange production and learn goal of purchasing of raw materials and services in a sustainable strive to manufacture our products how to best address questions on how manner. in the most sustainable way and we to improve and monitor the sustainado not tolerate abuse of human bility of all supply chains. We challenge and encourage our suppliers to support us in working rights. with and abide by our Code of Conduct. Our ambition is proactively As part of this work, we partiResponsible Procurement Our ambition is to proactively to influence our suppliers cipate actively in the recent ( SUPPLIER RESPONSIBILITY influence our suppliers and autumn 2013 ) established ”Fruit subcontractors to ensure that and subcontractors to Juice CSR Platform”, an industry n We strive to ensure that our suppliers observe the requirements they meet Rynkeby Foods’ Code ensure that they meet Rynkeby initiative started by the EU and of our Code of Conduct. of Conduct for suppliers. This Foods’ Code of Conduct for coordinated by AIJN ( EuroCode of Conduct governs the suppliers. pean Fruit Juice Association ) to n Key suppliers are contractually bound to comply with our ethical, social and environmental increase the visibility of CSR and requirements. We evaluate and follow up on their ability to responsibility. All our suppliers disseminating best practice and to meet our requirements. have signed Rynkeby Foods’ Code of work towards greater transparency Conduct, and all our orange suppliers in this area. More information can be from Brazil are SGF certified. found here: http://juicecsr.eu/ ETHICS In the spring of 2013 a public local In addition to the above mentioned actin We require that all employees are aware of and understand labour authority in Sao Paulo, Brazil, ons, we will continue the proactive diathe need for ethical behavior. decided to start up a legal process logue with suppliers and other stakeholagainst the Brazilian orange industry. It ders, presenting supplier visit to Brazil, SUPPLIER RELATIONS is our opinion that the core of the case that through contracts they have secured treat all new knowledge and await the is, that they want the three large orange compliance with same on the part of outcome of the judicial process. n We act not only efficiently, but also in a fair, producers to own the employment of their subcontractors. During our visits sustainable and reasonable manner where there is also a focus orange pickers on plantations owned by to factories and plantations in Brazil in We believe that the best way to help on integrity, honesty and responsibility at all times. third parties / subcontractors, as they autumn 2013, we have observed condiimprove the Brazilian orange industry there have found working conditions tions that fully meet our requirements is that we are making all efforts on the SELECTION OF COMPANY unsatisfactory. and legislation. ground and through the appropriate organizations such as the European juice n We select our suppliers on a professional, Immediately after we learned about the association AIJN, also in the light of the systematic and equitable basis. Our negotiations case in April 2013, we contacted our For example: fact that Brazil is an actor we cannot do with suppliers are honest and fair at all times. suppliers and addressed the matter, Orange pickers are retrieved and transwithout on the world market, and that conducted meetings and visited Brazil, ported on buses to and from farms, it includes over 10,000 farms and over both factories and plantations. Through training facilities and material, working 200,000 workers and their families. CONFIDENTIALITY this direct dialogue, where we have time of 40 hours per week / 5 days and n We recognize the importance of confidentiality, and we ensure clearly expressed our views and require1 hour mandatory lunch, good lunch that confidential information received from our suppliers ments, we have created a focus and thus and sanitation, working clothes and not be disclosed to unauthorized persons or companies. influence. Our suppliers have confirwages. In Brazil it is practice that labour med that they comply with our Code of authorities and the Ministry of Labour Conduct, the Brazilian legislation, and perform control and check of employee CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 10 Page 11 Rynkeby Foods in new CSR Platform The European juice association AIJN has in recent years worked to get EU funding for a larger project to help develop CSR activities throughout the juice industry. The project started in 2013, and along with a wide range of other stakeholders (juice manufacturers, specialists, NGOs (Non-Governmental Organization) and others) Rynkeby Foods will work for even greater sustainability. Rynkeby Foods have a code of conduct which The project has several objectives. It all contractors and subcontractors must comply with. will exchange best practices, so that companies, who are well advanced, are to inspire other companies. Also there will be worked with establishing the appropriate processes to assess, evaluate and realize the demands placed on fruit HEADLINES FROM OUR CODE suppliers. OF CONDUCT FOR SUPPLIERS Legal requirements a higher age if local legislation stipulates Code of Conduct Our suppliers shall at all times comply a higher age limit and/or longer compulwith applicable laws, rules and regulasory schooling. tions. Equal opportunities and forced labour Gifts, benefits and business ethics The supplier shall provide equal opporRynkeby Foods honesty, integrity and tunities for its employees and may not trustworthiness must never be questiodiscriminate or use forced labour. ned. Rynkeby Foods’ employees cannot accept any gifts or other benefits, which Trade unions, working hours and wages may influence decisions with respect The supplier shall respect the rights of to Rynkeby Foods’ relationship with the employees to form and join trade unions supplier. of their choice, including labour organiRynkeby Foods are involved in both sations, and shall comply with applicable projects and is already very active in CSR The supplier shall not reward or offer to laws, rules, regulations and industry work in AIJN. In the project dealing with reward any employee, agent or substandards concerning working hours and responsible supply chain management contractor of Rynkeby Foods for entering minimum wages. representatives from the NGOs Rain into a contract. forest Alliance, UTZ Certified, GlobalGap, Health and safety SGF, and many more are participating. Human rights Our suppliers shall provide a safe and The idea is to develop tools for assessOur suppliers shall respect human healthy working environment, which ment and securing of suppliers around rights as defined by the United Nations. complies with or exceeds the requirethe world. ments of all applicable laws, rules and Child labour regulations. We look forward to further work and Our suppliers shall respect the rights the opportunities that we can find when of children to develop and to receive Environment working together with specialists, an education, and cannot engage in or Our suppliers shall comply with, or exsuppliers and NGOs. tolerate the use of child labour, defined ceed the requirements of all applicable as work conducted by people under 15 laws, rules and regulations regarding years of age (14 years where this is allothe protection of the environment. wed according to ILO convention 138), or CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 12 Page 13 REPONSIBLE WINNING CULTURE WINNER CULTURE IN RYNKEBY We will win is one of five core values in other”, and ”we involve ourselves.” Based on a common set of values and Internally, this means that Which means that the manager through That the employee through his/her In relation to the world around us, Rynkeby Foods, an area we are working Winning culture is central in Rynkeby winning culture definition, the Winning Rynkeby Foods ... his/her own actions must ...... own actions ... it means that .... continuously to strengthen. In 2013 we Foods and related internally and exCulture Team train together and coach Have employees who take responBe a role model and culture bearer Takes ownership of own We set the standard in our markets established a Winning Culture Team, ternally closely with our attitude to do each other to act as responsible winsibility for the success of the responsibility / assignments consisting of 36 middle and senior mathings responsibly. ners. Through them this culture is later business Convert Rynkeby Foods’ strategy We will always win Leads the way, show initiative and nagers in Rynkeby Foods. spread out throughout the organization to milestones and actions Is a team of the best employees who think in solutions We are a responsible company Winning Culture in Rynkeby Foods does and all departments. Follow up consistently on targets inspire each other Challenges and develops procedures The Winning Culture Team is a managenot mean ”win at all costs”, but rather; and make visible, celebrate results We create value for our customers in search of ”best in class” ment forum, which has two purposes: playing each other good, be responsible, Further, we have with the new comIs constantly evolving and consumers Make timely decisions Accepts / learns from mistakes to promote a transverse common respect each other, and celebrate each mon definition of winning culture also We have the best products and the Works targeted and is ”Best in class” understanding of the winning culture in other’s successes, while at the same introduced the concept of ”creating folDelegate and secure that Backs up on common goals best quality and decisions Rynkeby Foods, partly as engine room time be proficient to dare to point out lowership”, which is also part of being a Is ambitious and realistic in responsibility is taken its objectives We create results for management to anchor the winning bad behavior in the right spirit. winner in Rynkeby Foods. ”Followership” Allowing employees to develop Takes responsibility for own development and motivation culture and Rynkeby Foods’ strategy covers two important objectives for our Visualizes and recognizes its We are a preferred partner throughout the organization, and partly One of the things we train with our organization: To take responsibility for successes Ensure next-generation leaders Plays his/her colleagues good We are the strongest brand in our as a training platform for our leaders to middle managers in Winning Culture further development of our employees Ensure employee motivation and Has confidence and expectation to industry deal with value and cultural dilemmas in Team is the ability to handle dilemmas and create future new talented manainvolvement in their work colleagues do their jobs daily life. in everyday life. It could be everyday sigers in Rynkeby Foods, and to encourage Is a role model in relation to We are proud of our company Facilitate cross-organizational tuations you experience with employees all employees to exercise ”role model cooperation Rynkeby values We are Team Rynkeby Also in 2013 we have in Rynkeby Foods or co-workers for example: Spreading behavior” and be inspired examples for Is an ambassador for Rynkeby Foods sought to make the definition of winof rumors and ’pointing fingers’ of other their colleagues through adherence to ning culture sharper, so all employees colleagues / departments. In such our values. Management words: Wellfare words: Image words: perceive this value in the same way. situations an employee or manager in Role model / inspiring Competitive / engagement We can + Our definition of winning culture is also Rynkeby Foods is facing a dilemma; what So all in all, we work continuously to live Results oriented / ambitious Take initiative We will + based on living our other values such as; would you typically do in this situation? a responsible and strong winning culture Developing Culture bearer We dare! ”we are developing”, ”respecting each And how would a winner react? in Rynkeby Foods. Involving Responsibility / pride = We will win! How can you CSR-report 2013 stop drinking and driving? CSR-report 2013 Page 14 Page 15 Plan yourself out of trouble! Agree in advance who is driving home or leave the car at home. Take action if you see someone who will drive when he/she has been drinking too much – even if it can be difficult. Ask if the person is sure that he/she can drive Offer to call a taxi or ask if he/she will spend the night. PROMOTION WITH THE ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL Alcohol is one of the main reasons why developed with Rynkeby products and as with ingredients like cinnamon sticks, people are killed or injured in traffic. Althe message would appear from juice ginger, and apples into cubes. Then cohol is the cause of every 4 deaths and cartons, it was obvious to link business there was the Yellow Cab, which can be every 6 injured in traffic. Two out of three and accountability together. enjoyed cold and besides apple juice and deaths and injuries are drunk drivers orange juice, vanilla sugar, fresh thyme themselves. Maria Schmidt, Marketing Manager, sprigs, and sliced apples and citrus says: ”When we were approached by fruits were added. Rynkeby Foods chose to participate in the Road Safety Council, we were in no the campaign as our products could be doubt that we of course wanted to supThe campaign had great power and linked with a solution to the problem and port the campaign: ”Do not drink and received great attention in the shops and in that way we could both act responsibly drive!”, which the Council had plans to at the Road Safety Council. and also involve business aspects. launch November-December 2013. The campaign aimed to make the Danes Recipes for these and other nonFocus on Juice aware that you should not drive home alcoholic beverages are available at Juice obviously is the basic ingredient after enjoying alcohol at for example the www.sikkertrafik.dk. in non-alcoholic Christmas drinks and Christmas party.” drinks in general. The Road Safety Council had developed two non-alcoholic Alternative to Alcohol beverages with, respectively, orange The two drink that was developed was a juice and apple juice. The recipes were hot drink, which is made of apple juice ”We supported the campaign by helping Facts about drunk driving: Road Safety Council spreading the good news. We promoted the campaign and The legal limit in Denmark is 0.5. One can be convicted of drunken driving, even if you have a BAC below 0.5. This happens if the police believe that you the two recipes on our two packages. We are not driving safely. developed signs to our campaigns and together with Road Safety Council we held A conviction for drunk driving can have serious consequences. Both for oneself, family and one’s job. If you are caught drunk driving several demonstrations handing out samples of the times your license is disqualified for three years, and you get a prison sentence. two drinks in a large number of shops in the areas of Denmark where Facts about alcohol related accidents: n 98% of Danes think that drinking and driving is unacceptable. drunk driving is most prevalent. n Every day there are approximately 10,000 drunk drivers on the Danish roads. All with the aim of reducing drinking and n Every 4th traffic deaths dies in an accident where alcohol is a factor. driving. It makes perfect sense.”. n Alcohol remains one of the biggest killers in traffic. Maria Schmidt, Marketing Manager, Rynkeby Foods. CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 16 Page 17 * 2012 s in Fact n now es k ed to jui ce l l D a d d of a is a 26% o sugar t n th a know l D a nes ruit f of al 00% FAIR SPEAK 31% uice is 1 that j 13 * RYNKEBY AND TETRA PAK GET TOGETHER in 20 Fact s of a l l D anes dded to is a know juice ABOUT THE WORLD’S BEST NEWS ) 26% o sugar in 80% n m that t 2014: e At Rynkeby Foods we believe in responThe new marketing for 2014 will (targ now es k uit D a n l fr sible marketing, which we usually call in a responsible manner focus on of al 00% ’fair speak’. ”Despite our many efforts increased attention on Rynkeby 30% uice is 1 0%) j 8 Foods. that t 2014: g we cannot always avoid situations where e ckin (targ n tra views a consumer or organization feels ofr ow r dB te fended by our marketing. This is due to Products lwar kly in *Mil on wee . a legislation that is very complex, and at The new products will focus on d s base he Dane the same time open in its interpretation health and accountability from difi t h t w of what e.g. misinformation is – and ferent angles. what is misinformation in Denmark, is not necessarily misinformation in other The common denominator of all products is as always fruit and naturalness, In 2013 Tetra Pak and Rynkeby Foods countries and vice versa. but in addition we have focused on how signed an agreement that meant that we can develop products that are tasty, the United Nations Organization World’s It is important to us that our products is and at the same time meet a growing Best News (VBN) could hand juice out presented attractively and can be sold, demand for an ”added value” such as to all of Denmark Friday, September but the messages must always be true lower calories. 13, 2013. The juice was specially made and not mislead consumers. for this purpose and contained one of This has resulted in a series of tasty the good news. The message was that Misleading Marketing products sweetened with extracts from the fight against poverty is bearing fruit Rynkeby Foods have not had any comthe stevia plant, which only have an with over 700 million people lifted out of plaints from consumers against decepenergy content of 50% as compared to extreme poverty since 1990. tive marketing in 2013. A company complained to the regional association for sugar-sweetened products. However, this is only the beginning, and we expect The juice provided a unique opportunity food control about lack of product name to focus further on the health aspects of to help VBN to communicate the positive on the front of Rynkeby Foods smoothie fruits and vegetables. messages to the people. Production products, but this was rejected. In adreached 180,000 juice boxes of 250 ml. dition, the Swedish retail store challenged that we used the term ”100% pure The House of Natural Sciences makes new school project with juice Rynkeby and Tetra Pak have previously squeezed fruit” in the marketing of our Rynkeby has partnered with the House of worked together on charity projects and juices from concentrate. The complaint Natural Sciences, which is a non-profit in 2012 the packaging supplier donated has not led to reprimands, but Rynkeby project and knowledge sharing organizapackaging for charity juice in favour of Foods nevertheless chose to remove the tion working to raise interest in science Team Rynkeby and Children’s Cancer word ”pure” from the products. and technology among children and Foundation . Consumers youth in schools and secondary schools in Denmark. Tetra Pak and Rynkeby would like to As shown in the figures below, the Dahelp spread the positive message nish knowledge that juice is 100% fruit Rynkeby Foods will in future supply providing the communication platform World’s Best News (VBN) consists of a unique collaboration between and no sugar added largely unchanged. juice concentrates to school groups who making it more efficient for VBN to get UN, Danida and more than 90 Danish development organizations – large and For economic reasons, we have been want to make juice experiments through the message out to the Danes. Consmall. forced to limit our marketing activities, House of Natural Sciences. For teaching sumers are fond of free juice and this which has resulted in consumers’ perpurposes, a video has been made dehelps to generate interest and insight. The World’s Best News also receives invaluable assistance from the Danish ceptions of juice has not changed . scribing the different chemical / physical business community and has formed partnerships with over 75 companies, who properties of the juice, and visualizing Rynkeby and Tetra Pak have been very help carry the message into the living rooms in various ways. Innovation and Product Development the relevance of different analyzes. pleased and proud of the cooperation In 2013, we have used many resources and have also decided to donate another World’s Best News informs about the concrete progress made in to develop products and new marketing juice to the campaign day in September developing countries. They will tell about the positive results that occur in the for 2014. 2014. efforts to fight global poverty. CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 18 Page 19 QUALITY AND FOOD SECURITY Rynkeby Foods remains certified in accordance with ISO22000:2005 and has at the same time official status as elite certified business. There has in 2013 not been any warnings or instructions issued by the authorities. There were also impressive results from verification of ISO22000: 2005, and the goal of”no major deviations” was met. Claims is developing a new screw cap where the Rynkeby statistics on claims from safety ring cannot fall into the product. Denmark , Sweden, Finland show a The new screw cap is expected to be downward trend in 2013. There are implemented in early 2014. several reasons why the trend is going in the right direction; the most imporOrganic flesh: Was a very big challenge in tant is that all claims are investigated 2013 due to organic oranges being very thoroughly in cooperation with our small and crop failures in several places production department. in the world. This meant that for a long time we were unable to provide flesh for Challenges our products and the quality level of the Screw cap: In 2012 we saw a customer products was significantly reduced. choking the safety ring at the screw As the oranges were very small, the cap. It meant increased focus on the white layer under the peel (albedo) and control and management of screw caps the peel from the orange came with the in cooperation with our suppliers. The flesh when this was filtered out – quite same type of screw is used in the rest simply, a quality that cannot be used in of Europe and it was the first time the our juices. The problem is solved again, problem was discovered. Despite increbut organic production is often more ased control, there was in 2013 a similar vulnerable, increasing the risk of being incident, which meant that Rynkeby short of products. Foods has demanded that the supplier CLAIMS Target Claims per 100 million litres 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Consumer Claims (DK Retail) 351 304 429 271 300 Consumer Claims (SE Retail) 2042 908 1070 811 700 Consumer Claims (FI Retail) – 89 2161 667 700 Complaints / claims local community 0 1 1 1 0 CSR-report 2013 Page 20 First Aid in 2013 6 persons have been on first aid for beginners with defibrillator (6 lessons). 6 persons have been on first aid for experienced with defibrillator (3 lessons). In 2014 we offer again first aid course with defibrillator for both experts and novices. 2nd Theme: PEOPLE Our employees are the most important resource in achieving our strategic goals and the achievements we set out to reach. Therefore, we prioritize job satisfaction, well-being, and health high Employees are the Most Important Resource in the way we run the business in Rynkeby Foods – in general and from a management point of view. Satisfactory Staff Turnover Employee Satisfaction Survey (ESS) Rynkeby Foods wants to maintain a good Rynkeby Foods each year carries out and stable staff with an adequate replaan employee satisfaction survey (ESS), cement to continually bring new ideas where the survey contains almost 75 and competences to the company. We questions to be answered from a scale of estimate a turnover of 12% to be a rea1 to 5, where the company’s goal is that sonable rate. We measure our employee satisfaction must remain above 4.0. turnover as the number of employees, who have left the company in relation In recent years we generally have had to the total number of employees. In a really nice turnout and in 2013, 99 % 2012, the turnover rate was very high at of employees responded to the survey. 18% – but mainly caused by major staff Satisfaction was in 2013 calculated at reductions during the year. In this light, ”4.1”, corresponding to the same result the staff turnover rate in 2013 dropped as for 2012. to just below 15%, here it is primarily the production and salaried employees who The result is a weighted average and have pulled down the figure, while there thus there are both improvements and has been a greater increase in logistics / relapses compared to 2012. One of the distribution. goals after the satisfaction survey in 2012 was to raise satisfaction with the The reason for the high staff turnover management and here it is encouraging in logistics is primarily due to staff reto see that the results for issues relating ductions in connection with new cooling to governance are raised from 4.0 to 4.1. warehouse and a rotation project that is carried out to give unemployed a chance In 2014, we will mainly work on four to get in touch with the labour market areas all of which (the sum of several sub-questions) have a total score of while our unskilled employees get an education. 3.8 or 3.9. These areas are: Accounting EMPLOYEES – TARGETS AND RESULTS The reason for staff turnover in produc(internal communication), business tion was primarily due to staff reductions applications (tools and IT systems), 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 in connection with increased productivity. Organization (general follow-up, shared responsibility for the problems, and Staff Turnover 17% 10% 18% 15% 12% There is a general satisfaction with the great ideas put into action), and finally Employee satisfaction decline compared to 2012. On the other Winning culture, the latter is relatively (total score) 4,1 4,2 4,1 4,1 > 4,0 hand, the company is still a long way from new in the survey and an area, that we in ”There is a good balance between our goal, why we in 2014 will continue to 2013 have highlighted, and which in 2014 your work and personal life” 4,1 4,2 4,2 4,1 > 4,0 focus on reducing staff turnover and here will come to affect the entire organizain particular within the logistics/distrition (see separate section). Psychosocial work environment bution group, but also partly for salaried (number of bullied) 4% 6% 3% 1% 0% employees, and the objective of a maxiFor all of these areas the individual ”I feel generally happy mum of 12 % is maintained in 2014. departments are responsible, and they and motivated” 4,5 4,5 4,4 4,4 4,5 Continued on page 22 CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 22 Page 23 have or will draw up action plans in Mobbing a scapegoat for the frustrations of a order to pull up the satisfaction to at ’The struggle’ against mobbing is an workgroup or a case to demonstrate its Skema vedr Fremmøde laves least 4.0. area that we at Rynkebyt Foods are power. very proud of as constant work against Communication on the overall ESS mobbing since 2006 has borne fruit and Mobbing can have serious health conresults takes place on common staff reduced the number of employees who sequences in both the short and long meetings, and later on departmental feel mobbed quite significantly. term, for example it can cause anxiety, meetings the results of the respective depression symptoms, stress responses, areas are presented and discussed In 2006, as part of a nationwide study on irritability, or helplessness. It is not only and finally focus areas are agreed. It is the psychological work environment it the mobbed, who is affected by the negaalso established where support from was revealed that 16% of Rynkeby Foods’ tive working environment, also other other departments is needed to improve staff felt mobbed. This high proportion colleagues’ well-being may fall, and the performance and thus make employees was of course quite unacceptable and consequence may be further failures, more satisfied. constituted in reality a ’ burning platlower productivity, and service levels, form ’, which in turn also made it easy increased absenteeism and higher staff Diversity to assemble the company (cooperation turnover. Rynkeby Foods wants in its staffing council, employees and management ) structure to reflect the surrounding in a common struggle to make it clear Policy on Mobbing society in terms of age, race, gender, that mobbing is not acceptable and not In the period from 2006 to 2013 the religion, and nationality as far as this is a part of the culture we want in Rynkeby topic has received consistent attention. possible with the existing workforce and Foods. This work resulted in a policy It has been an ongoing issue which we through new hires. Where possible we against mobbing, where we have defined have been focusing on throughout the also want to support people who have mobbing as: company’s departments and with mareduced working capacity for example by nagement. offering light and flexible jobs when we have functions that can support this and Workplace mobbing takes place when a person for a long time has been subEspecially in the relatively few departWORKING ENVIRONMENT where there may be relevant and real jected to repeated unpleasant and negaments that have experienced problems Søjlediagram vedr Fremmøde laves jobs. tive actions or behavior that it is difficult they have worked extensively with the In the departments (production, warehouse, engineering), where we have implemented to defend oneself against . Examples are issue and the understanding that we at ergonomics project we have in 2013 made an ergonomic boost in order to maintain focus on Senior Policy when important information is regularly Rynkeby Foods do not tolerate mobbing. the working methods we have learned through ergonomics project to prevent attrition. We On Rynkeby Foods we are proud to detained, excessive monitoring of seThe development has generally been will follow the development of physical discomfort and see if employees have less pain when have a senior policy. This means that lected employees, or persistent criticism very satisfactory with reductions in most we first quarter of 2014 have carried out health checks / Body Age. employee when have their 57th birthof their work and effort. Typical actions years (2011 excluded) and the number of day (8 years before retirement age) are by mobbing are exclusion of the social people who feel mobbed has decreased We will in 2014 focus on ”nearmiss” and do something about the problem before things go offered annual senior dialogue. At these community, rumors, gossip, ridicule or from 16% in 2006 to 3% in 2012 and 1% wrong. The goal should be 0 work accidents and gladly more than 100 nearmiss. meetings opportunities with regard to coarse banter. in 2013, where the latter is due to the job function, work hours, senior friendly employees indicating that they sometijobs, early retirement, etc. are discusMobbing often occurs as a result of mes have been mobbed, and none ( 0% ) Registrations Nearmiss Minor work accident Work accident sed. This ensures that senior age, conflicts that are not resolved, but indicate that they are often mobbed. pr. years (without absence) beginning five years before retirement, instead stepped up. The conflicts can be is planned as efficiently as possible, task-related, or professional or perAs a company this is a great success, 2013 31 3 4 considering both the employee and the sonal conflicts between employees. If which has been driven by all employees 2012 52 14 6 company. We feel confident that the senot resolved, conflicts can develop into and the cooperation council. 2011 62 12 5 nior policy can support our clear desire destructive interpersonal conflicts and samarbejdsorganer i virksomheden. 2010 18 19 6 to retain and use the older and more mobbing. Another type of mobbing is 2009 29 15 10 experienced workforce for the benefit of characterized by the fact that the victim the company and all its other employees. is chosen at random, for example as CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 24 Page 25 TEAM RYNKEBY Larger, more participants, and more n Selling lottery tickets story of Team Rynkeby that this creates Cancer remains the most common as well as various events on the children purpose, organization, safety concept money for children with cancer and their a unique platform for warm friendships, medical cause of death among children cancer departments all over Denmark. and the healthy lifestyle . families. n Sweating in spinning classes close relationships, close partners, – all aged 1-15 years. over the cold months in a forum where exercise and a healthy In addition, Børnecancerfonden gave At Rynkeby Foods there is not a day in In the hot month of July 2013 next to lifestyle is the cornerstone. When this There will be two new professorships in DKK 830,000 million in pampering schothe cafeteria, where just a few words are n Acquire various gadgets for the trip 1,000 riders and 200 service people is coupled with the fact that there can childhood cancer as a result of the millarships for children with cancer and not said about Team Rynkeby; a few cozy divided into 21 teams completed the trip n Plan for hotels be generated and donated incredible lion donation, which Børnecancerfonden their families. episodes refurbished, stories retold and to the city of cities – Paris – for the 12th amounts of money to a group of vulnehas recently awarded to children cancer new participants are looking forward to time. n Determine routes rable children ( in the context completely research. At Team Rynkeby we are continuously join the team. In all employee groups (between the hotels) innocent children and parents) who realreceiving inquiries from cities, regions, the interest to be part of it is high – and In fantastic weather (it has probably n Cycle ... ly need all the help and support that we The professorships constitute just businesses, educational institutions and at Team Rynkeby we all share the same never been hotter) 14 Danish, 6 Swedish can jointly create – then, yes it’s really under half of the DKK 19,814,197, which organizations that are all keen to have conditions, all are contributing and and a team from Finland made up the n Cycle and ... that the uniqueness of Team Rynkeby is Børnecancerfonden this year awards for their very own Team Rynkeby and be experiencing the rush, the fellowship caravan that stomped in an effort ”to do chiseled in granite. scientific purposes. The other half of just part of our now very large internatioand joy. something good for themselves – while n Cycle over DKK 10 million helps to fund onenal project. Up until 2014, it has been doing something good for others” Cycling – to be together in the pursuit off, Danish science projects for children decided to continue the development and The trip was a true triumph of yellow It’s amazing to see and experience the of a healthier lifestyle – is still rising cancer. thus continue the controlled ”rynker” that ended nearly 12 months creativity, the incredible energy level, in Scandinavia. We at Team Rynkeby growth. In practice, this of efforts in the good cause by breaking the persistence and the charisma that are still pleased to help promote this The professorships are the driving force means that in 2014 we all records. Since the teams were set ultimately in late summer 2013 triggered development. We note with great joy behind the research that takes place in will have new teams in around September 1, 2012 all teams a real money rain to our partners in the the forest of similar projects that are children cancer in Denmark right now. Norway, the Faroe Islands have worked admirably to get to know three countries (Barncancerfonden in springing up everywhere. And bicycle Therefore, Børnecancerfonden this year and Australia – in addieach other, take measurements of bikes Sweden, Sylva in Finland, and Børnecanexercise also has the fellowship in focus, decided to earmark a large part of the tion to two new teams in as well as cycling clothes... cerfonden in Denmark ) . which further motivates the individual fund for the establishment of two profesDenmark (Næstved and to take care of himself, pay attention to sorships. Holbæk ) . In 2012, it amounted to SEK 2 million in what you eat and drink – and that exern Develop training calendar Sweden and DKK 14.3 million in Dencise is essential for ”the good life” . Direct Support to Families And from all sides, we mark. Similarly, in 2013 it amounted to In addition to the approximately DKK 20 are praise and recein Take contact with various sponsors no less than amazing SEK 8.6 million in (get the many agreements in place The money for Børnecancerfonden in million for the research area Børnecanves recognition for the Sweden, Euro 65,000 in Finland and DKK Denmark is money well spent (and, of cerfonden also provided DKK 4,834,958 uniqueness of Team and logo registered) 15.3 million in Denmark – an overall course, applies equally in both Sweden for nonscientific purposes. The money Rynkeby – the feln Think though, plan and increase of approx. 44%. and Finland) – from the Danish website covers courses for doctors and nurses lowship, the unique implement a myriad of events It belongs certainly to describe the hiyou can find the following information: CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 26 Page 27 3rd Theme: HEALTH Rynkeby Foods wants be a healthy workplace and was in 2010 named the year’s Healthiest Company on Funen. In 2013, we have focused both on exercise and diet – but mental health has also been on the agenda. In January / February 2014, we have implemented a health profile, which forms the basis of the health results in this report. Healthy Workplace Health Check of Employees gonomics boosts” in production and the As this report also reflects there have warehouse where a physical therapist again in 2013 been many different health should verify and guide employees in the care offers to our employees. In early ergonomic working methods that preSleeping Event The idea came because we accidentally the morning, and the bedroom should be 2014, all employees were invited to have viously have been trained and instructed. We have in the last 4-5 years carried discovered that a night worker had major completely blacked out. In addition, there a health check and the results of this out a lot of different health activities on sleep problems, which also led to a gewere recommendations for diet, coffee, study form the basis of the 2013 results. We exercise a little more than before, but Rynkeby Foods, but here we would like to neral ill-being and poor eating / exercise noise, and sleep patterns etc. the target is not met yet. highlight a sleeping event that we conduhabits. Two types of test were offered: Body age cted in autumn 2013, and which probably The event was a huge success with apand Health profile. The results of the health profiles may be has been the most acclaimed initiative As the sleep is extremely important for prox. 25 participants from both produa little difficult to compare with previous that we have ever undertaken for our our general health, we decided to arction and administration and about half 82% of employees at Rynkeby Foods took results, since approx. 1/3 of the partiemployees. range a special event focusing on sleep. (13) of all night workers had wanted advantage of the offer, which is a very cipants are employed within a year and Everyone, who had an interest in good personal advice. The event caused a stir satisfactory attendance demonstrating have not entered into in the previous We invited all employees to an informasleeping habits, was welcome to particiin a particular degree and was highly that health is important for our emplostudies. tion session about healthy sleep patterns pate, and exclusive to our night workers praised by our staff, because they got a yees. with a sleep specialist Michael Rasmuswe offered individual counseling of 30 new perspective on their sleep habits and We will in the future focus on having betsen from the Center for Stress. min’s duration by Michael Rasmussen. were given new opportunities to optimize We have over the last 3 years made great ter activities and thus make the results The good thing about the event was that sleep. achievements in smoking and intake of even better. For practical reasons, the meeting was the employees were given some very fruit and vegetables, but there are still held at 9-10 pm with subsequent advisory specific tools for how they could optimize We have in the pipeline, to prepare a challenges with regard to obesity and agreements (at 11pm – 7 am) during the their sleep. E.g. the sleep hormones are booklet to all future night workers with physical strain. We have in 2013 had ”erworking hours of the night shift and it affected by light, and therefore it is a good the tips highlighted during the meeting. was free to participate in the whole event. idea to use sunglasses when it is bright in CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 28 Page 29 Healthy Canteen energy because the blood sugar was Again, in the past year we have tried to kept more stable. continue the healthy, varied and spicy diet. We have launched a number of The event took place on an anonymous new exciting salads. Open sandbasis and therefore, there are no wiches remain without butter on results for weight loss. the bread, and there is almost always a wide selection of fish ”Many people eat too few Smoking products . In 2013, a few employees again meals – so when you change have stopped smoking and some In early October, the canteen your diet, you do not go around with help from Rynkeby Foods. introduced a new concept where and are hungry all the time!” employees can order accessoSmoking is very unhealthy and in ries to bring home for the family no way compatible with a healthy Anna Munksø, slankedoktor.dk dinner. company, therefore we will continue to help smokers to become The goal of the project is to make it smoke-free. In 2014 we will continue even easier for Rynkeby employees to support employees who want to to live healthy. Only healthy accesstop smoking. sories are offered, and you are allowed to buy as many servings as you wish, DHL and Søsletteløbet enabling the rest of the family at home to Rynkeby Foods offer free participation in join you in your healthy lifestyle. the two jogging events “DHL” and “Søsletteløbet”, and in both events Rynkeby In 2014, we plan to have the canteen Foods is registered with approx. 60 parcertified in accordance with the “keyticipants. Søsletteløbet is a local event hole certificate” in order to make it even in Ringe, and you may run, walk or ride easier for consumers to make healthy vegetables to get the finishing touch at your bike and employees furthermore choices. home”. have the opportunity to invite the family to a sporting event. Order Accessories Home Dietary Changes The project is off to a good start, and 15Rynkeby Foods offered in 2013 all obese DHL is a relay race in Odense, where 30 employees take advantage of the offer employees a free dietary change course teams of 5 runners take turns runeach week. through slankedoktor.dk, an internetning 5km. Here Rynkeby Foods invite based dietitian counseling. The process all employees for a cozy evening with ”It is a very fine level as we can still get started with advice from a clinical dietibarbecue and exercise. Each team it fitted in with the other tasks in the tian Anna Munksø, and staff could also receives a ”lunch box” with food, drink canteen” says Karen Fejerskov (cafeteria invite a friend or a family member at a and snacks to 5 people. Rynkeby Foods manager), adding: ”It’s completely new favorable price. employees donated 13 food boxes to to us and we gradually find out, which “Reden”, which is a voluntary organizaof the dishes we are best suited to do. 21 employees accepted the offer and tion that supports socially disadvantaged Karen Fejerskov, Therefore, we have moved away from many saw quickly that they had more women. cafeteria manager. heated dishes and primarily sell salads/ CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 30 Page 31 4th Theme: ENVIRONMENT New Environmental Approval Rynkeby Foods received environmental in connection with the new environmenapproval in 1990 for the production of tal permit, which is valid until 2023. approx. 85 million liter juice / dilutables per year. The review of the approval in Fuel Consumption 2004 gave approval to increase producCompared to 2012, we had an extra contion up to approx. 150 million liter juice / sumption of diesel in 2013. We achieved dilutables per year. an average of 2.91 km / l diesel compared to the year before when we realized Because of Rynkeby Foods’ continued about 3 km / l, which corresponds to an expansion we have in December 2013 toexpenditure increase of approx. 3%. gether with the statutory reassessment of the environmental approvals between New rules that make it possible to load 1990 and 2004 received approval for a up to 54 tons are the reason for this inproduction of 250 million liter juice / crease. But since we have increased the dilutables per year. weight by 7-12% by changing our vehicles from 6 to 7 axle vehicles, we For the sake of simplicity the company have actually had a decrease in fuel and the municipality have agreed to consumption per ton transported. merge approvals between 1990 and 2004 in a new authorization, which also deals The increased weight per transport has with the application for approval for correspondingly lowered the number production expansion. of shipments from the factory, which further has the advantage that the road In connection with the new environmennetwork is less strained. tal permit a screening with regard to lasting impact on the environment caused In 2014, the focus is therefore to exploit by the production expansion has been a proposal to increase the total weight prepared. The screening has not given further to 56 tons, a proposal which has any reason to require a more in-depth not been finally approved by the traffic report, and there have been no objeccontrol. tions from residents or other authorities CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 32 Page 33 THE POSITIVE TREND IN REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION CONTINUES IN PRODUCTION Sewage and Water Even though we had a big drop in water WASTE WATER AND consumption in 2012, we have in 2013 WATER CONSUMPTION managed to continue this trend. 0,983 0,937 0,77 0,74 The main reasons are the increased use of pigging where product and water are Power Consumption POWER CONSUMPTION separated in the pipelines in connection The positive trend in Rynkeby Foods’ electricity consumption continued in in kWh per 1000 liters of product with product changes. Pigging is now 2013, with a marginal increase. The and line efficiency installed both on tap lines and raw matrend is mainly achieved through improterial tanks, which in addition to saving vements in the following areas: 52 52 60,5 61,6 water also has resulted in less product waste. 2010 2011 2012 2013 More efficient operation of the compressed air systems with continuous sealing Another reason for the decrease in 60,9 57,11 48,56 50,4 of leakages and focus on the closure waste water is that changes in cleaning of the air supply in each department at routines in the mixing plant in 2012 have the end of production, resulting in fewer had a substantial impact in 2013. hours of operation on our compressors, 2010 2011 2012 2013 and thus less electricity consumption. Natural Gas Electricity consumption Rynkeby gas consumption per produced per 1000 liter product In 2013, we decided to focus on increaLine efficiency in % ton is unchanged compared to 2012. Optimizations have been made in 2013, GAS CONSUMPTION sing line efficiency. Higher line efficiency means less gas and electricity consumpwhich are expected to affect consumpin ton per 1000 liter product tion when idling operation is reduced. tion downwards in 2014. In 2013, we took a new cold warehouse in operation, and in 2014 we will close 7,77 7,34 5,82 5,82 Increasing line efficiency by: We have focused on operational effidown the old cold warehouse. ciency / utilization of mixing tanks using n Train, retain and develop what have This together with a focus on stopping effective water rinse between mixtures been learned in the LEAN process the refrigeration compressor on weekand thus having more mixes between ends will lead to a further reduction in cleanings so that we minimize the conn Perform systematic Total Production electricity consumption in 2014. sumption of both chemicals and gas for Maintenance ( TPM) cleaning. n Daily monitoring of stop reports and Furthermore, we have insolated builfocus on areas to be improved in dings further in connection with the 2010 2011 2012 2013 production replacement of roofing (from 150 to 375 n Panel meeting in production, where mm). we follow up on targets and all contribute with suggestions for The installation of gas heat exchanger in improvement (blue notes) our chimney has also meant an increased boiler efficiency of 3%. CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 34 Page 35 We shall observe the UN conventions and prinWe have staff policies e.g. ensuring all our emplociples defined in the UN Global Compact, among yees development dialogues, and our seniors seothers. This means that we shall apply sustainable nior dialogues to plan the remaining work life. We principles in our work and seek solutions taking want diversity, to reflect the surrounding society CSR Policy human and environmental conditions into account. as to age, race, sex, religion and nationality. Particularly, we commit ourselves to show consideration for issues concerning the local commuWe include people, who despite wear, handicaps or nity surrounding our company and the highrisk accidents can still do a job on the labour market. countries, with which we co-operate. We will not make promises that we cannot keep and CSR should not be a showcase for all our good Rynkeby goes even further as to social responsibiinitiatives. It should be an objective tool to find lity. We play an active role in a number of volunweak fields that we can contribute to develop teer activities contributing to an improvement of and improve. some social and environmental fields. Small steps are better than none and we believe that if everybody lends a hand it is easier to solve some of the problems we face at home and abroad. At Rynkeby we consider a Unprocessed or semi-processed fruit and vegetabfinancially healthy business as les are often healthiest and the consumers should a prerequisite to long-term eat at least 600 g fruit and vegetables every day. Communication and Marketing Policy RYNKEBY FOODS sustainability. With no profit our company cannot exist. Many Rynkeby products can form part of this fruitand vegetable balance, as one glass of juice Therefore we apply marketing equals 100 g of fruit/vegetables (max.) and can CSR POLICIES and communication as a means therefore replace one of the six daily fruits or to generate a preference for vegetables (100 g) recommended by the Danish our products, to strengthen our National Board of Health. Water is the healthiest business and image – and thus drink. Nevertheless, many consumers drink difto increase sales. We want our ferent types of less healthy drinks. We see our marketing and communication products as a healthy alternative to our stakeholders to always be decent and honest. Generally, we Employees Health Policy call it »Fair Speak« and this term We currently select focus areas to improve covers correct information the health of our employees. We are convinced that presented in an honest and exercise and healthy food have a positive impact on decentway, etc. both the work life and the private life and we support events contributing to a better state As to marketing, communication of health. and behavior in general we take an ethic precautionary approach. We have set some health targets, e.g.: If law allows it we would also like to communicate healthy stories. Less physical inconveniences However, we do not promote Healthier food high-calorie products (e.g. Health check syrups with added sugar) to Less overweight children under 13 years. More exercise and Less smokers We apply Fair Speak in all types of communication with our We realize that it takes time to improve health in stakeholders and in this way we our company. It will be a long hard road that we will can always face each other. Our walk by currently selecting some actions. target is that Rynkeby shall have no cases or accusations by the authorities of having mislead the consumers. CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 36 Page 37 Rynkeby manufactures fruit Training and Education Nearmiss and Work Accidents Work Environment Policy drinks and other liquid fruit-based We will inform, train and educate We will introduce and maintain products in our factory in Ringe. our employees to act in accordance procedures to efficiently handle The work is done in a responsible with our work environment rules nearmiss situations and work acciway and in consideration of the and to make an effort to secure dents. We will also make sure that safety, health and well-being of our a work environmental mindset contractors and guests know and employees. This also applies to our among our employees. We will observe relevant demands in our external staff and guests. We chemake sure that our work environwork environment management UN GLOBAL COMPACT rish our good work environment, ment policy is communicated to system. which we believe is the basis of a and understood by our employees good and efficient production. and we focus especially on departWell-being ments with a higher risk potential. We will make an effort to secure A Safe Place to Work that our employees are feeling Rynkeby wants to be a responsible Work Environment Organization good and that nobody feels mobUN Global Compact is based on international company as to work environment We apply our work rules to know, bed when at work. All leaders and conventions on human rights, labour rights, and as a minimum we will conform control and reduce the work envemployees are informed of the five environment and anti-corruption. to actual rules and regulations ironmental impact caused by our Rynkeby values and all employees within this area. We will make production. Furthermore, we make must observe them. Should there sure that we are pro-active as to a risk assessment in co-operation nevertheless be employees feeling The 10 principles for social responsibility are the core regulatory requirements and other with our work environment orgabad or discriminated we address a in Global Compact. Global Compact has two requirements by having an open nization, on the basis of which we preventive and corrective action. dialogue with our stakeholders, set concrete goals and actions for purposes: to encourage companies to support including authorities and partners, the improvement of our work with and implement the 10 principles in their practice, about the work environment activiwork environment. and to encourage companies to provide voluntary ties of our company. initiatives to promote UN’s goal on sustainability. The Global Compact is aimed at both large and small It is the objective of Rynkeby to become a more green and Rynkeby makes demands more sustainable company. This means that we should on our suppliers – both companies. avoid waste, optimize our processes and always seek the for ethics and for quality most sustainable solution. In practice, this means that we – and we do our utmost to The 10 principles of the Global Compact are: Supplyer Policy consider where to gain the greatest environment secure that the international benefits, and then we focus. rights in the UN Global Compact and quality and Human Rights Environment Policy Energy food safety agreements 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of We want to save energy and we are always seeking energyare observed. internationally proclaimed human rights, and friendly solutions, both in existing and in new processes. We are aware that our 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. small company cannot Waste of Food and Resources solve the social problems Labour Standards We consistently try to avoid any kind of waste, including of the global community 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the food, materials, fuel, energy, raw materials and other but our focus on human effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, kinds of operation resources. Furthermore, we secure rights in high-risk countries 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, recycling, re-use and recovery of our waste when possible. etc. contribute to 5. the effective abolition of child labour, and Should waste occur we secure a sustainable disposal. secure compliance with 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Over-consumption causes waste. Therefore we currently the requirements. occupation. the first guarantee that the suppliers supervise and optimize operation and consumption. Environment Equipment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to We erect new production machinery and buy equipment environmental challenges, that as a minimum meet the demands of relevant 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environment standards. responsibility, and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Climate Changes friendly technologies. We contribute to the reduction of global heating to a minimum by currently striving for a reduction of the emission Anti-corruption of greenhouse gasses. This, among other things, takes 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, place via our focus on resources and energy optimization. including extortion and bribery. CSR-report 2013 CSR-report 2013 Page 38 Page 39 CSR targets – full list CSR targets – full list 2010 2011 2012 2013 Mål i 2014 Involvement in local No. of participants (incl. family) at 42% 38% 38% 30% Min. 100 person 2010 2011 2012 2013 Mål i 2014 events the local race “Søsletteløbet” incl. family eller 50% Values All Rynkeby employees should know/ 4.2 on a 4.3 on a 4.4 on a 4.2 on a Min. 4.2 on a Consumer health Share of consumers knowing that 12% 33% 28% 30% Min 80% follow our five values. “Are you follow5.0 scale 5.0 scale 5.0 scale 5.0 scale 5.0 scale juice is 100% fruit ing our values in your everyday life?” 29% 24% 26% Min 80% Consumer health Share of consumers knowing htat juice holds no added sugar Fair Speak 0 commands/judgments concerning 0 1 0 0 0 misleading marketing First Aid classes Free first aid classes must be offered Offered to all Offered – incl. Offered – incl. Offered – incl. Min. 1 time per to work environment and health employees defibrillator – to defibrillator – to defibrillator – to year Leadership Good leadership must be maintained and 4,2 4,2 4,0 4,1 Min. 4,2 for coordinators, preferably during work all employees all employees all employees measured in the employee satisfaction spm. (MTA) hours analysis, Quesions about Leadership Employee safety “Near miss situations” registered 18 62 52 31 + 100 SGF Share of supplers (fruit and vegIngen data 69,2% 70,7% 63,0% 75,0% etables) approved by the SGF Employee safety Minor accidents (no absence) 19 12 14 3 0 registered SGF Share of supplers (fruit and veg80,5% 83,8% 75,8% 70,0% 90,0% etables) approved by the SGF Employee safety Work accidents registered 6 5 6 4 0 Code of conduct Share of suppliers having signed the 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Share of employees with physical 71% Not measured Not measured 68% Max. 35% Employee health Rynkeby, Arla or SGF CoC inconveniences Audits Share of major deviations 0 0 0 0 Majors 0 Majors Employee health Share of smokers 23% Not measured Not measured 16% Max. 15% Local Claims from local communicy 0 1 1 1 0 claims Community (no. of citizens) Employee health No. of cigarettes (average per day) 11 stk. Not measured Not measured 13 stk. Max. 10 stk. Employee satisfaction Employee turnover 17% 10% 18% 15% 12% Employee health Share of “overweight” employees 30% Not measured Not measured 23% Max. 22% Employee health Share of “very overweight” employees 23% Not measured Not measured 32% Max. 18% Employee satisfaction Total average score of the company 4,1 4,2 4,1 4,1 Min 4,0 Employee health Share of employees eating min. 46% Not measured Not measured 72% Min. 57% Employee satisfaction “There is a good balance between 4,1 4,2 4,2 4,1 Min 4,0 2 fruits and vegetables every day your work and private life?” Employee health Share of employees exercising at 50% Not measured Not measured 44% Min. 60% Mental work environment No. of employees feeling mobbed 4% 6% 3% 1% 0% least 30 min. per day Employee satisfaction Employees feeling generally well and 4,5 4,5 4,4 4,4 Min 4,5 motivated Employee health Share of employees participating in 38% 42% 30% 31% Min. 50% the local race “DHL-stafetten” Education days No. of days per year 1 week (3 weeks 2 weeks 1 week (+ 1 day 1 week (+1 day 1 week per em(blue collars) for coordinatorer) workshop per workshop per ployee/ 3 weeks Work presence No. of employees present as a 96,0% 96,8% 96,6% 96,8% percentage of no. of employees >97,0% (timelønnede) coordinator) coordinator) per coordinator Environment Fuel consumption (trucks) 2,73 km/l 2,96 km/l 3,00 km/l 3,00 km/l Min. 3,21 km/l Consumer claims Denmark – per 100 million litres 351 304 429 271 Max. 300 sold product Environment Electricity consumption per ton product 60,9 kWh 57,11 kWh 48,56 kWh 50,4 kWh Max. 53,96kWh Consumer claims Sweden – per 100 million litres sold 2042 908 1070 811 Max. 700 Environment Waste water per ton product 0,983 m3 0,937 m3 0,77 m3 0,74 m3 Max. 0,85 m3 product Environment CO2 consumption per ton product 17,0 kg 16,52 kg 13,1 kg 12,9 kg Max. 14,56 kg Consumer claims Finland -per 100 million litres sold 89 2161 667 Max. 700 (excl. Fuel) product Environment Gas consumption 7,12 m3 7,568 m3 7,336 m3 5,82 m3 Max. 6,408 m3 Customer satisfaction B2B – Factum analysis groceries No. 4 Not measured No. 4 Not measured Top 3 Environment Raw material waste – share of raw 2,44% 2,07% 1,61% 1,50% Max. 2,10% målt material consumption Customer satisfaction B2B – Factum analysis chilled No. 1 Not measured Not measured Not measured Top 3 Environment Packing waste – share of raw 1,45% 1,25% 0,88% 0,98% Max. 1,05% products material comsumpton Planet Health Miljø/klima Sundhed Forretning Mennesker Profit People
