UNITED NATIONS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 GLOBAL COMPACT ABOUT NIRAS NIRAS is an international, multidisciplinary NIRAS was founded in Denmark in 1956. engineering consultancy company with over Today, NIRAS is one of the leading consul1,400 employees located in offices around tancy companies in Denmark. Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. We are not affiliated with contractors, We provide sustainable technical solutions manufacturers or suppliers, and we are a within construction and infrastructure, public member of the Danish Association of utilities, environmental and natural resources, Consulting Engineers (FRI) and the Internaclimate change and energy, planning and tional Federation of Consulting Engineers development consulting. Our special (FIDIC). trademark is an interdisciplinary and innovative approach to projects, and we take pride in transforming clients’ visions and challenges into sustainable solutions. 2 COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Carsten Toft Boesen Chief Executive Officer Sustainable development is the backbone of NIRAS’ As a consultant we develop and integrate sustainable service delivery. and environmentally sound solutions for our clients relating to buildings, infrastructure as well as water, We are committed to excellence in improving social energy, wastewater systems and development and environmental issues for our clients meanwhile projects. In 2013, we carried out Denmark’s first supporting a balanced and developing life for our Environmental Profit & Loss account in financial terms employees. We are constantly working to improve our and were responsible for the largest Danish nature external as well as internal conduct in order to live up and climate project. to our responsibility as a global company and employer. Supporting Global Compact is hence a Consequently, in 2014 we will continue to improve natural part of doing business. and commit ourselves to further sustainable development. The issue on Human Rights and the importance of compliance pervades all NIRAS activities, as does  compliance with NIRAS’ Business Integrity Policy to prevent corruption. Requirements for compliance are Carsten T. Boesen emphasised in all contracts with employees, manChief Executive Officer agers, sub-consultants and agents. As our solutions towards clients are provided by our employees we recruit, train and develop our employees to act responsibly. We continuously improve our responsibility to support the needs of the individual. In 2013, e.g., we intensified focus on work-life balance by establishing an education programme for managers and employees in order to prevent stress. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES NIRAS’ approach is to become the ‘good example’ by 1. Businesses should support and respect the having full transparency in management and deciprotection of internationally proclaimed human rights. sions, and by respecting and applying the rights of all 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not human beings assigned by NIRAS or benefitting from complicit in human rights abuses. the projects that NIRAS is engaged in. The performance and targets for 2013 have been met ACTIONS AND OUTCOME at satisfactory levels. Full subscription to charters and conventions on Human Rights is reflected both internally in the organisation, i.e. as an integral part of NIRAS’ human REFERENCE TO POLICIES resources policy, and in the projects and programs NIRAS fully subscribes to all charters and international that NIRAS implements internationally. conventions on Human Rights. This encompasses Rights of the Child, Rights of Indigenous People, In 2013, NIRAS was present in about 40 countries, gender related issues including Elimination of All carrying out more than 150 development projects Forms of Decimation of Women as well as the Rights outside of Scandinavia. The issue on Human Rights of LGBT. and the importance of compliance, penetrates all NIRAS activities; and where possible NIRAS, through NIRAS ensures all present and future employees equal instruction to its employees, seeks to promote and opportunities, regardless of gender, age, race, religion, encourage respect for human rights and for fundanationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political mental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, or sexual orientation and family status. sex as well as sexuality, language and religion. NIRAS considers diversity to ensure clients a better Prior to entering into contracts and agreements, quality of service and promotes inspiration in-house. projects are being screened for issues related to The culture and values in NIRAS are based on respect human rights. for the individual and this also implies acceptance and tolerance of diversity among colleagues and clients. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Personal Development Meetings between employees 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of and managers. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. NIRAS does not employ children who are under age. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. The performance and targets for 2013 have been met 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of at satisfactory levels. child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupaREFERENCE TO POLICIES tion. NIRAS wishes to take a holistic approach, making space for “the whole person”. Our aim is to be ACTIONS AND OUTCOME reflected in the way in which we relate to and act During 2013, NIRAS continued the implementation of towards one another. information, guidelines, principles etc. for employees and managers. We continuously improve easy access NIRAS’ employees are free to enter into associations to relevant information for all employees in NIRAS. and to enter into collective bargaining with management. All NIRAS employees have individual contracts, We have intensified our focus on work-life balance by and the employment conditions comply with current establishing an education programme for managers national legislation and requirements. and employees in order to prevent stress. NIRAS must be a safe and healthy workplace, where In 2013, we extended our internal management employees have good job satisfaction and good training programmes to involve communication and potential for development. leadership related to team management, project management and sales management. Activities related to NIRAS’ projects and in-house operations must be performed such that the health, Besides, we have developed competence profiles safety and welfare of the affected human beings are related to professional expertise as well as project ensured to the greatest possible degree. management in order to improve the dialogue during 5 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Furthermore, in order to save materials and energy, 7. Businesses should support a precautionary NIRAS is very active in creating industrial symbioses approach to environmental challenges. including development of new technologies and 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote business plans. greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development At our Danish headquarters we have streamlined the and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. disposal of food waste. A grinder in the kitchen transforms waste from production and leftovers into ACTIONS AND OUTCOME biomass, which is then used to generate heat and NIRAS develops sustainable and environmentally power. sound solutions for both our clients and own organisation. The performance and targets for 2013 have been met at satisfactory levels. We integrate environmentally friendly technologies into an increasing number of client projects relating to buildings, construction in general and industry as well REFERENCE TO POLICIES as water, energy and wastewater systems. NIRAS accepts responsibility for society and the environment. That was e.g. the case when NIRAS in 2013 was responsible for the largest Danish nature and climate NIRAS maintains an open dialogue with clients and project, Sillebro River Valley, combining the need for stakeholders and seeks solutions that are compatible environmental action due to pollution with nature with the principles of sustainable development. restoration of the bio system. NIRAS supports the International Federation of At the forefront on environmental accounting, NIRAS Consulting Engineers’ (FIDIC) recommendations on has taken part in carrying out Denmark’s first the environment and sustainable development. Environmental Profit & Loss Account in financial terms. The study was conducted for the pharmaceutical company Novo Nordisk A/S in collaboration with Ministry of the Environment. 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES REFERENCE TO POLICIES 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its NIRAS has a Business Integrity Policy as well as an forms, including extortion and bribery. internal Business Integrity Management System, which is a tool for preventing corrupt behaviour and the ACTIONS AND OUTCOME promotion of integrity. Requirements for compliance with NIRAS’ Business Integrity Policy are strongly emphasised in all contracts NIRAS agrees with and has adopted the Code of with employees, managers, sub-consultants and Ethics and Code of Conduct as defined by the agents. International Federation of Consulting Engineers (FIDIC). NIRAS’ Business Integrity Policies are also emphasised whenever NIRAS expands its business through joint ventures or acquisition of companies and activities anywhere in the world. NIRAS has further developed its business integrity management system (BIMS) to encompass a very short response and action time in case incidents or suspicions of fraud and corruption are being reported. All employees, joint venture partners and sub-contractors are thoroughly instructed and sign for how to comply with and report on NIRAS’ BIMS. The performance and targets for 2013 have been met at satisfactory levels. 7 OUR WORLD GREENLAND SWEDEN FINLAND NORWAY DENMARK UNITED POLAND KINGDOM UKRAINE GERMANY SERBIA BULGARIA TURKEY NEPAL PALESTINE EGYPT ABU DHABI VIETNAM LAOS THAILAND CAMBODIA UGANDA ETHIOPIA MALAYSIA KENYA TANZANIA ZAMBIA MOZAMBIQUE NIRAS A/S Bulgaria Finland Mozambique Tanzania Sortemosevej 19 www.niras.bg www.niras.fi www.niras.com www.niras.com 3450 Allerød, Denmark Denmark Germany Norway United Kingdom T +45 4810 4200 www.niras.dk www.niras.de www.nirasnorge.no www.niras.com/uk F +45 4810 4300 Estonia Greenland Poland Vietnam www.niras.ee www.niras.gl www.niras.pl www.rcee.org.vn Ethiopia Kenya Sweden Zambia www.niras.com www.niras.com www.niras.se www.niras.com www.niras.com
