2014-04-29 COP Global Compact CEO STATEMENT I am pleased to confirm that Keolis Sverige AB will keep on supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Keolis Sverige AB will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. Sincerely Magnus Åkerhielm CEO Keolis Sverige AB presentation of organization and short organizational facts Employees App. 6 300 Drivers: 6000, Mechanics: 400, White collar: 500 Vehicles App. 1900 Turn over App. 410 M€ Performs 265 million passenger trips per year Keolis business idea: We offer such an attractive locally adapted and clean urban transport that public transport use will increase. We provide locally adapted and attractive public transport solutions in Sweden. Locally adapted means we co-operate with customers, businesses and the community where we operate our business. We do this to assure that we provide a service that is in accordance with what our customers and stakeholders require. Attractive means we operate professionally and service mindedly towards our customers and provide accessibility to all travelers. The use of public transport is in it self a step towards a more environmentally friendly society. Keolis also takes further steps to ensure that our base product (public transport) has as low impact as possible on the environment and our common recourses. We do this by setting up adequate standards and policies, educating all staff on how to act and perform, equip all our vehicles with measurement technology and reduce our usage of fossil fuel in our fleet and we invest in modern technology. Our organization is constructed to give the best support for our common processes and also to give leadership and control throughout a geographically spread company. In the picture below our organization is represented in a graph. Our production areas are made up of locally situated garages in different locations of Sweden. The garages are organized in two different business areas that unite their special needs and interests. On the left are the representations of the common support functions located to our main office. These different functions are meant to give operational and administrative support for the different needs in operations. Stockholm May 2, 2014 2 The function QS (Quality, Sustainability) is organized under finance with specialists and managers for these areas. The purpose is to have strong leadership and support for the whole organization. Among others the Manager for Sustainability is a part of the function and has the responsibility and authority to set and follow up common and local goals. The position is also responsible for Keolis different certifications, among which is the system certification (EMS) for ISO 14001:2004. The overarching responsibility for our progress on taking a full grip on measuring and reducing our carbon footprint is also controlled by our Sustainability Manager. Stockholm May 2, 2014 3 Developing Sustainability strategy Keolis has in the current situation, made an extensive internal sustainability efforts with a focus on the environment and safety. The work is led by the specialists in quality and environment. Areas that need strengthening is the link between sustainability and business and the external brand communication. Keolis has a need to develop a sustainability strategy that is integrated into the business strategy and where the management takes holistic approach in order to move from a reactive to a proactive sustainability initiatives that deliver higher business value. Keolis has bought the services of an external consulting firm to facilitating workshops with management. After a number of workshops and a stakeholder dialogue in the spring, we will in the beginning of June present a strategy document and the results of the stakeholder dialogue ORGANIZATION'S PERFORMANCE We have a substantial environmental work in our company. We present environmental outcomes and targets separate below. In the areas of human rights, labor rights and corruption we have made following steps internal in the company. During the year we have ISO certified our operations Hisingen thats means that hole of Gothenburg now is certified according to 9001 and 14001. We have investigated risk and opportunities in our supply chain. Areas likely at risk • Garments (Uniform) • Oil • Chemicals We have substituted our supplier of uniforms due to lack of information from the supplier about the supply chain. Introduction of compliance program called Konformité We have introduced a Compliance Program witch is a pro-active risk prevention and management strategy, focusing on three fundamentals. They are the core commitment for the Group’s management. Strict respect of free and fair competition Prevention of corruption and fraud Protection of personal data Stockholm May 2, 2014 4 An application of those fundamentals specific to operations, to give all employees a clear set of principles and rules, providing an effective reference system so that they can adopt the «right attitude» within the scope of their particular responsibilities. A dedicated organisation and systems set up to drive the program and ensure that it is applied on a daily basis and in the long term. *Given the Swedish legislation and labor agreements and the low spread of corruption, we see that the potentially most significant risks for violations ought to be outside Sweden in the areas of human rights, labor rights and corruption. To find the potential risks and opportunities in compliance with the Global Compact's requirements, we believe that working with our suppliers will give the most result. Time Finished Improvements CSR 2013 Decision Responsibility plan (Y/N) A continued focus on suppliers on the grounds that Increased communication of GC Procurement 2013 ongoing the main social risks we can influence the purchase and focus on uniform, oil and manager from high-risk countries. chemicals. Agreements we sign will have to take into account Take our obligations into Procurement 2013 ongoing our requirements for our customers. account when signing contracts manager Keolis 2012 supported Stockholm's City Mission in Renewed decision comes as it CEO 2013 Y their efforts to combat exposure challenged as being too locally. Stockholm May 2, 2014 5 ORGANIZATION'S ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Reduction of fossil CO2 (tons) through the use of renewable fuel in the buses shown in the diagram. The reduction is recieved by substituting fossil fuel with renewable fuel such as biogas, ethanol and RME. We have also introduced electric hybrid buses. Stockholm May 2, 2014 6 Sparsam Work on eco-driving has been successful, since the work really accelerated last summer, one could see the results on:  Percentage of drivers who log on  Increased proportion of rolling  Reduced proportion of braking  energy saved Stockholm May 2, 2014 7 WASTE Stockholm May 2, 2014 8 Stockholm May 2, 2014 9 The goal of <2% landfill and mixed waste is not achieved. Note that Söderort account for almost half of our mixed waste. A lot of effort to correct this have been done. And hopefully we have found out the problem it was combustable waste that was classed as mixed because of an old order. We have corrected this and the number for this quarter looks fine. Mixed waste is the waste is unsorted and includes example scrap metal, glass, hazardous waste, landfill waste (eg gravel, brick, etc.) it counts as mixed and not combustible waste (Combustible is essentially, plastic, wood and non-sortable paper) The mixed waste costs more money to take care of compared to the sorted waste because RagnSells forced to sort it manually at the recycling center. Mixed waste should not really exist at all. Sort all materials that can be recycled (eg scrap metal, cardboard etc materials we get paid for!) Throw PTP (Paper (not sortable paper), Wood and Plastic) in container for Combustible Landfill material go to landfill! (we want to reduce the landfill, but the material is really landfill should also be put in landfill-vascular and nowhere else). Stockholm May 2, 2014 10 HEATING AND ELECTRICITY One of our environmental aspects is heating of depots and electricity consumed. Measuring is conducted in order to find ways of improvement. HEATING AND ELECTRICITY IN KWH 2013 Business travel by train 2013 Environmental Report of business travel by train 2013 Comparison with Comparison with car airplane Train Car Train Airplane Total number of kilometers travelled 678086 678086 574471 487836 CO2 kilogram 1,42 129514 1,21 75614 1695 trips of which 955 is to Gothenburg copaired to 2012 1350 trips of which 686 to Gothenburg. This is a increase of 32 procent probably due to the start up of traffic in Hisingen. While 205 tons of CO2 is a good saving the trips stands for 921kkr. Are we using video in full? Attention, car and air travel and hotel not included. Stockholm May 2, 2014 11 Bilan Carbon INTERNAL EMISSIONS LOCAL EMISSIONS GLOBAL EMISSIONS Keolis has made a Bilan Carbone analysis of Stockholm's inner city based on facts from 2009-2011. Keolis environmental impact based on this analysis are summarized in the figure below. Based on this survey, we can conclude that fuel emissions from 76,688,789 journeys made by bus in central Stockholm in 2011 amounted to 11,893 tons of CO2 giving 155 grams of CO2 ( carbon dioxide equivalent) per trip and is equivalent to about 72 grams of CO2 per passenger kilometer . When compared to a similar trip with a passenger car emits about 180 grams of CO2/km and transports 1.27 people , according to statistics from 2011 , we get 298 g of CO2. This means that the bus journey is almost twice as good as the car for the environment , Stockholm May 2, 2014 12 this is without taking into account that the average car journey is longer once you take the car . Although the most of greenhouse gas emissions come from the buses fuel we also have the energy consumption in our depots, and real estate is a big influence. Without the depots the emissions from bus is substantially less than for the car. For the corresponding number of trips was GHGs in central Stockholm 2011 5 334 tonnes of CO2 lower for bus service including heating depots etc. In order to find new approaches to reduce emissions from the energy supply of our depots so have Keolis at management review decided in 2013 to implement an energy survey of the depot in Stockholm, and in particular depot Söder. In the performed analysis excluded a number of factors due to the lack of information in the travel survey we were conducted . These included the Greenhouse gas emissions from employee business travel ( plane, train ), visitors of the Company ( representatives , suppliers, delegations ) Greenhouse gas emissions generated by freight from suppliers Greenhouse gas emissions by the traveler travels to reach its route network in the Stockholm City Greenhouse gas emissions linked to transport and treatment of waste from Keolis The Bilan Carbone analysis also includes an analysis of the emissions incurred in the construction of property under 20 years as well as computers and printers that are younger than 3 years. These emissions are amortized reported in the graph above as depreciation. Keolis will continue to analyze the environmental impacts of our activities , we are planning in 2014 to measure the effects of training in economical driving ( Economical ) undertaken to minimize our internal environmental impact and to review and implement changes in our suppliers' transport systems to minimize the local environmental impact. Next Bilan Carbone analysis will be done in 3 years according to the GHG Protocol ( greenhouse gas protocol ) that is the scheme that is most often used by governments and leading companies to measure the carbon dioxide and the like, and is recognized internationally. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS No changes in the significant environmental aspects. However, if we succeed in converting the fleet from fossil fuels to environmentally friendly fuel that solved our second most important environmental aspect get grade up energy in depot. Continued focus on attracting motorists to use public transport in order to reduce air pollution. Reducing the use of fossil fuel and general consumption through Sparsam. Studying solutions for saving energy on bus heating and in buildings. Reduce the risk of contamination through good selection of chemicals, embankments and paved surfaces. Stockholm May 2, 2014 13 GOAL FULFILLMENT Time Finished Improvements Environment system Decision Responsibility plan (Y/N) We work in X2, doubling project Management 2013 ongoing with the industry. Detailed measurable goals for 2013 in the To attract motorists to use public transport is our company to increase travel in most important environmental aspect. Sundsvall, Gothenburg, Jönköping and E19. Reduction of fossil CO2 by a further 10 000 tonnes. OK 2013 Y Fuel economy and in the financial and performance Management project by Sparsam Case 3000 tonnes of fossil CO2. Conversion of 145 diesel buses to RME can give a maximum of 11 000 tonnes, given that we do not use clean diesel the effect will be lower. OK Management 2013 N Goal 2012: Reduce number of unsorted waste and landfill to <2% of total waste Energy audit carried out in 2013 in the depots to OK Premises 2013 ongoing have target practice and plans ahead for next year. If we continue our successful reduction of fossil fuel, will energy issues in the depots becoming an important environmental aspect and the next question in line to work with. Focus on the chemicals needed goal in 2013 of OK Procurement 2013 Y halving the number of chemicals and suppliers. A reduction of suppliers today 48 and Articles 299 today that risk assessment and training can be held, contracts can be signed and cost reduction. Cooperation with Argentum. Peter Hansen Sustainability manager Stockholm May 2, 2014 14
