COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS (COP) 2014 The United Nations Global Compact Danoffice IT in brief 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses operating worldwide. With Danofﬁce IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime and anywhere. Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations and World Bank as clients. Our 3 business units I T Solutions Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Mobile Data collection tools We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey solutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Civil Drone The Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT in brief 3 Our Company vision is to “Improve the world through IT”. Hence, we have designed our logo to represent two hands embracing the entire World for a better future: For more information, please visit www.danoffice.com and contact us at danoffice@danoffice.com. Submitted, March 11th 2014 by: Per E.E. Svehag, eMBA President & Partner Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Contents 4 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & Global Compact initiative 5 Communications on Progress (COP) 2013 8 • Human Rights 8 • Labour standards 8 • Great Place To Work initiative 10 • Environment 11 • Anti-corruption 13 Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 5 & Global Compact initiative The 6th of June 2007, Danoffice IT joined the UN Global Compact which is the world´s largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network-based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact involves all relevant social actors: companies, whose actions it seeks to influence; governments, labour, civil society organizations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. The UN Global Compact state ten principles based on a universal consensus about what comprehensive CSR ought to contain. All 10 principles are part of the Danoffice IT policies and have been so for some years. With the UN Global Compact initiative we have increased our focus on CSR and feel proud and humble to be member of an organization whose mission is to create a world where nature and people live in peace and harmony. An organization where committed partners recognize, that if we really wish to make the world a better place we need to start with ourselves. We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organizational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our COP report will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Danoffice IT COP 2013 report is a part of the ”Statutory Statement of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the annual report for 2013, cf. the Danish Financial Statement Act, § 99a.” Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT CSR activities 6 Being part of the global society, Danoffice IT believes it is important to have an active Corporate Social Responsibility policy and operations. In this respect, in 2013, we have heavily worked in non-for-profit activities which fall under our corporate vision “Improving the World through IT”. Firstly, we have joined a CSR activity called Against Poaching which aims at bringing technology to the fight Against Poaching. Secondly, we have supported Humanitarian activities after the devastating typhoon Haiyan in Philippines with our Unmanned Aerial Vehicle and staff. Against Poaching: Elephants have lived for 50 million years in the African savannah, but at the current record levels of poaching, they could be extinct in the next 12 years. Against Poaching is a Corporate Social Responsibility activity from Anthea Technologies, Danoffice IT and the Danish UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) manufacturer Sky-Watch. Together, we wish to : 1. Make awareness. Our Facebook site currently gathers more than 38.000 likes https://www.facebook.com/AgainstPoaching. 2. Use our core competencies to equip the rangers with an innovative UAV/IT solution in their fight against poaching. We want to give access and facilitate the use of valuable innovative technology. This way, many lives of rangers can be saved, the rangers can be more efficient in the fight against poachers and stop the horrifying killing of animals. 3. Donate UAV and related IT equipment and raise funds for the purpose. Through this activity, we intend to participate in the protection of our heritage for next generations. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT CSR activities 7 Unmanned Aerial Vehicle for Disaster Relief: In November 2013, Typhoon Haiyan destroyed part of the Philippines: razed houses, destroyed bridges, blocked roads, disrupted communications and tens of thousands of people to heal and refugees to support. For international rescue teams who joined the archipelago, one of the major challenges is access to affected areas and organization of priorities. On this difficult ground, the Huginn X1 UAV proved its effectiveness in various missions: Base camp implementation, Hospital recovery, Access to buffer zone, Food related damages, Body search. Our humanitarian partners testify on the added value of such activity: “The drone really helped relief teams to cut down on wasted time and work, and make them more accurate in their targeting of assistance. In the future, we can think out in advance to make sure that drones are part of standard equipment of disaster response” Andrew Schroeder, Direct Relief’s Director of Research and Analysis (member of NetHope) “Using a drone can be very helpful in these kinds of situations, especially in the first phase of an emergency” Ronald Christiaans, EU Civil protection Expert and member of a combined UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination / EU Civil Protection Team Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT Communications On Progress 8 (COP) 2014 Our CSR and progresses on the subject are communicated to our partners and staff through company staff manual, posters placed within our premises and on the Danoffice IT corporate web site: www.danoffice.com. Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We shall respect all people regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT intends to promote social interaction between people and cultures and aim at a mix organizational culture. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Danoffice IT is committed to comply with all international export control regulation and legal requirements. Within 2013, we have increased our workforce on this topic in order to support our clients’ compliance. We strive to serve United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540's goal of protecting the world against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Danoffice IT strives to contribute to the fight against terror“ and to build a safer world by complying to US Export rules known as Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and enforced by U.S. Depart of Commerce / Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS), EU-regulation no. 428 of 5 May 2009 and the international Wassenaar Arrangement. Danoffice IT supports all human and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same. Danoffice IT is a responsible company which tries to help others. So, we make annual donations of equipment or contributions to humanitarian organizations who work for the improvement of life quality. In 2012, employees have chosen to run for the children´s hospital in Odense, Denmark. Thanks to their efforts, Danoffice IT has donated computers, a printer and a projector improving Children daily life and enabling them to keep contact with family and friends via Skype and play games. Labour standards: Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, clients, vendors, investors or competitors. Continuously, Danoffice IT strive to educate and develop its employees professionally and personally through seminars, workshops, educational courses and the daily influence. For instance, every Monday morning, management gather all members of staff to share knowledge of professional character, develop competences and learn about cultural differences in order to understand the diversity of the international world we live in. Such meetings have definitely an educational aspect. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 9 Communication within the company is key for success and employee satisfaction. In this respect, 2013 has been a year with many initiatives. First, Danoffice IT management refreshed and communicated the company global strategy for the 3 years to come . On top of re stating our Vision and our Mission, employees are made aware of the main objectives. Before revenue and profitability, the first of the Danoffice IT objectives is directed to employee satisfaction: “to make Danoffice IT a Great Place to Work”. Another company initiative undertaken to support employees satisfaction is the project called “Danoffice IT United”. This project focuses on improving communication between different Danoffice IT offices. Among many detailed activities, it was decided to invest in webcam equipments so that employees interactions would be more personal. In order to be as informative as possible and to make sure that all employees are given the same information, possibilities and rights we have issued a Staff Manual. The staff manual includes our values, company profile, history, corporate philosophy, global strategy and of course other valuable information towards a positive working environment : overtime work, illness and absence, staff development interviews, flexible working hours etc. Once a year we review the manual with regards to new regulations, new trends, new opinions and new initiatives the document will always be up-to-date. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Danoffice IT workers have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, contract termination and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies. The Danoffice IT staff has a representative who works as a contact person between employees and management and whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees have a contact person to turn to for ideas for improvement of health or safety conditions. We constantly implement new policies and standards to create a safe, likeable and motivating physical workplace. Since 2009, we have implemented a healthy diet program in our canteen following the World Health Organization recommendations on healthy diet to maintain health and prevent risk of obesity, heart disease and diabetes. The diet program is combined with a company sports club. Danoffice IT has a work-life balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Great Place To Work initiative 10 During Fall 2013, Danoffice IT participated in the exciting ”Great Place To Work” initiative including in depth surveys, culture analysis, employee feedback and satisfaction questionnaire followed by an achievement and assessment conference with great success! Achievements and survey: Our main goal was to gain an in depth knowledge of what our employees are thinking, doing, believing and achieving in their every day balanced work-life. We completed Employee Trust Surveys and Culture Assessment analysis tests and received very positive results throughout all country offices, disregarding official managerial and employee assignments, roles or job titles. We are proud of being awarded the 28th best employer in Denmark and 10th within the IT sector. In light of the survey, questionnaires and feedback we have developed individual training programs, competence programs and aided the possibilities to achieve more and be more in the workplace. On basis of many employee satisfaction statements we have added alleviation days to conform to illness and child care which we believe to be of big significance for a balanced work-life environment. Next Steps: Our next step is to pursue the “Great Place To Work” initiative in the years to come. Our aim is to understand and learn. We want to improve with a solid foundation and with purpose. Our passion for our workplace comes from our employees. Each and every person in our company is an invaluable asset who reminds everyone partners, colleagues and clients that we work and perform via our Danoffice IT 7-P system: • Personal • Proud • Passionate • Positive • Persistent • Proactive • Professional • Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 11 As an evidence of Danoffice IT efforts towards employee satisfaction, we have created cARPE dIEM as an association for all employees, where we arrange social and educational events after working hours. The cARPE dIEM association is addressing and working with issues which reinforces and supports cultural differences and promotes the understanding and diversity of the international world we live in. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Danoffice IT does not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to confirm the same behavioural policy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Danoffice IT does not use child labour nor do we accept partners who encourage the means of child labour. The Danoffice IT labour policy is not to employ any in our organization under the age of 16 or to have partners that are engaged in child labour in any form. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation With presence in Europe, Africa and USA, our HR department constantly strives at building a workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Our latest analysis in 2012 showed a good balance between the groups. All employees receive equal conditions and equal rights, regardless of the physical location. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 12 Environment: Mother Earth is a wonderful place, which we must guard and hand over to the future generations with care. Environmental friendly practice is also about business efficiency – it´s about optimal usage of valuable raw Materials. This gives through everyone’s participation to sustainable policies and business processes. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Danoffice IT only works with internationally recognized vendors with environmental friendly policies. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Since 2009 Danoffice IT has implemented the “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from missions all over the World and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have reached 22 000 units collected so far and counting . • Danoffice IT has an environmental friendly packing policy: we pack consignments to reduce weight and volume to a minimum, recycle what is possible and destroy waste in environmental friendly conditions. • All packaging materials are 100% bio-degradable, • It is in our nature to save energy via responsible use of energy efficient appliances, conforming to the latest standards of energy efficiency. We use low Watt LED bulbs for indoor and outdoor lighting. Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT COP 2014 13 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Danoffice IT encourages its clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on Environment (TIE). A cost saving solution combined with a green solution with minimum environmental impact. We always strive at a TCO/TIE solution with low power consumption, minimum of consumables, best quality and longest sustainable lifespan. Anti-corruption: Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption is damaging for the world growth and creates yet a bigger gap between rich and poor. Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top management. “Danoffice IT Corporate Social Responsibility program is built on our corporate shared Values, and the commitment of our employees and shareholders to live those core Values. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have on colleagues, partners, clients and communities around the world. Our membership and support of “The Global Compact” is a part of our CSR program and the Communications on Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do, how we operate and how we invest. The COP drive us to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through all products and services.” Per E.E. Svehag, eMBA President & Partner Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com
