2014 communication on progress human rights labour environment anticorruption 2 2014 communication on progress 3 “implement At Noble, we continue to develop and responsible and sustainable management across our global supply chains and strive to align our entrepreneurial culture with the highest standards of integrity ” ceo’s message about noble group Dear Stakeholders, Noble Group is a diversified supply chain manager of agricultural and energy products, You can find more information about our corporate responsibility work at as well as metals, minerals and ores. Operating from 140 locations and employing more than www.thisisnoble.com/responsibility I am pleased to confirm Noble’s continued support of the UN Global Compact and work I feel it is important to stress that as a public company and a supply chain manager for 70 nationalities, Noble facilitates the marketing, processing, financing and transportation towards its 10 principles in human rights, labour practices, environmental protection and numerous natural resources, we are conscious of the need to understand and mitigate our of essential raw materials. Sourcing bulk commodities from low cost regions such as South anti-corruption. At Noble, we continue to develop and implement responsible and sustainable social and environmental footprint and maintain sustainable supply chains. Many of the America, South Africa, Australia and Indonesia, the Group supplies high growth demand management across our global supply chains and strive to align our entrepreneurial culture industries we are involved in require care and attention to ensure they will be productive for markets, particularly in Asia and the Middle East. In order to ensure the integrity of its with the highest standards of integrity. Noble, our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate in. supply chains, the Group has a portfolio of interests in strategic logistics and processing assets which form an integral part of facilitating its key trade flows. Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2010, these 10 principles have increasingly become At a time of mounting social and economic instability, environmental challenges and part of Noble’s way of conducting business. As examples of this commitment, a growing climate change, all companies must endeavour to do their best to try and create a business This Communication on Progress (COP) provides an update on the important non-financial number of our value chains have revised policies to engage suppliers on sustainable practices environment that is sustainable to all stakeholders. This is in many respects what we believe aspects within the Group’s global operations and wholly owned subsidiaries for the period and our businesses make active contributions to support local communities in a range of ways, the UN Global Compact aims to encourage and at Noble we are fully committed to this goal. from June 2013 to June 2014. These aspects are broadly illustrated around the areas of human with special emphasis to facilitate access to quality education and healthcare. These actions rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption and reflect our commitment to demonstrate that the principles that form the basis of the UN Global Compact are not simply the universal principles of the UN Global Compact. In determining the reporting elements, mission statements but are put into practice by Noble. we considered the material sustainability issues across our value chains and sought to align our reporting framework with internationally recognised protocols. This is accompanied by a brief description of our policies and management systems, as well as our activities and their Yusuf Alireza impact on our day-to-day business. Chief Executive Officer 4 2014 communication on progress 5 Roles and Governance The Noble Group Code of Conduct applies to all Directors, officers and employees of the Group and each of its subsidiaries. The Code of Conduct sets out principles to guide employees, The Board of Directors is committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance directors and officers in carrying out their duties and responsibilities to the highest standards Governments and Regulators of personal and corporate integrity when dealing with the Group, its customers, suppliers, within the Group. Good corporate governance establishes and maintains a legal and ethical Shareholders environment, which strives to promote and preserve the interests of all stakeholders. competitors and the community. At the Board level, the Corporate Governance Committee identifies, monitors and implements We are committed to a high standard of ethical conduct. The Group has adopted and Employees implemented a policy wherein employees may, in confidence, raise concerns regarding unlawful good corporate governance practices and procedures for the Group. The Corporate Social Responsibility & Government Relations Committee is responsible for reviewing the social activity, policy or practices, suspected fraud, corruption, dishonest practices or other matters. Customers and Suppliers and environmental issues which affect the Group’s business, and approves or recommends, Our policy is in line with our commitment to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Local Communities Human Rights and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. as appropriate for the Board’s approval, the Group’s involvement with and sponsorship, or support, of activities which further the Group’s social responsibility objectives. Senior management in global human resources and technical operations implement Noble’s The Corporate Social Responsibility & Government Relations committee also oversees environmental, health and safety management programmes. This is complemented by locally government relationships, monitors and responds to government actions as appropriate, defined and plant specific requirements, depending on the operating activity of the respective and builds where possible greater recognition and goodwill with governments. The committee business line. In keeping with our dedication to professionalism in our operations, we seek is comprised of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, and is supported and to secure applicable industry certifications in Noble’s owned assets. The implementation of advised by a number of senior executives, representing key functions in major locations. our policies regarding ethical conduct is overseen by our risk, compliance and internal audit functions. Key Corporate Responsibility Development in 2013/2014 Climate change presents not only a risk to the supply of products, but also creates potential introduction This Communication on Progress (COP) report marks the fourth year of Noble Group’s market opportunities. As the UK government’s energy policy steers the country’s transition to a low carbon economy, Noble is exploring the emerging opportunity in low carbon electricity. commitment to the UN Global Compact. Over the past 12 months, we have continued to In February 2014, Noble increased its shareholding in Watt Power, an independent developer Understanding our Responsibility Governments and Regulators set the legislative frameworks and statutory requirements for integrate the 10 universal principles of the UN Global Compact into our commodity of flexible gas-fired power generation assets. Power plants fuelled with natural gas emit our sector, covering market access, product flows, labour and environmental standards, property supply chain business. almost 50% less CO2 than coal and reduced emissions of other harmful substances. Our approach to responsible business is fostered by our desire to understand the concerns and rights and taxation. Our governance structure and Board procedures ensure appropriate supervision and control over these processes. We work alongside governments and regulators in A successful corporate responsibility programme is underpinned by a sound strategy and Noble’s 2013 response to CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project), a global expectations of our key stakeholders. We engage with our stakeholders across a wide spectrum product offtake and financing contracts, which result in direct stimulus to local employment and management approach. We have formalised a Sustainability Policy that defines responsibility investor initiative to collate and monitor corporate carbon emissions, was awarded the of topics so as to improve decision making and the accountability of our partnerships. It is our economic activity and contribute to social development goals. in the context of Noble Group. Supporting Noble’s strategy to create value for our stakeholders, highest score in Hong Kong and South East Asia, 99 out of a possible 100 points for responsibility to create long-term value for shareholders, which cannot be achieved without this policy further describes a set of principles and crucial focus areas for our operations in climate information disclosure and likewise achieved an “A-” rating in carbon performance consideration of the interests of customers, employees and communities at large. Employees share our values in recognising entrepreneurialism and the benefits of high managing potential risks associated with social and environmental issues. leadership. Noble has qualified as a Disclosure Leader (Asia ex-Japan) for three consecutive Shareholders invest in Noble’s recognised track record in value creation, best-in-class performance teamwork. Town hall meetings, regular newsletters and employee surveys ensure years. The scores highlight our performance in reporting, governance, verification and good information flow within Noble. Our focus is on honing performance and reward planning, We ensure that we only do businesses with those who share our values. Starting this year, emissions reduction activities in response to the risks and opportunities presented by commodity market insight and robust governance and risk management systems. The Board staff development as well as providing a safe and healthy workplace. These drive our aspirations we have been establishing a dedicated Counterparty Acquisition team to strengthen climate change, as well as an in-depth understanding of the broader environmental issues welcomes the views of shareholders on matters affecting the Company, either at shareholders' to attract and retain the best. All employees receive regular performance and career Noble’s compliance with Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering due diligence facing the company. meetings, or on an ad hoc basis. Queries may be raised with the Director, Corporate Affairs development reviews. requirements. The team is mandated to perform the initial review of new counterparties via the Company’s website. There are regular meetings with investors, fund managers and and periodic reviews of existing counterparties in accordance with Noble’s policies We maintain our priority to invest and engage in various community projects and initiatives analysts, and quarterly conference calls which are entirely open to anyone who wishes to use Local Communities are impacted by our operations. Relationship and engagement programmes and procedures. to foster relationships and partnerships in the locations from which we operate. Through the publicised toll free numbers. in our key locations are led by dedicated personnel to serve and benefit the communities in the Noble Foundation and our local operations, we seek to identify where we can best create which we operate. To minimise our environmental footprint, our operations follow international Supply chain sustainability drives our corporate strategy with increasing focus on social and shared value for suppliers, partners and communities. These include educational assistance, Customers and Suppliers partner with Noble because of our understanding of their standards in environmental management. We regularly meet with our communities via formal environmental impact across our value chains. Noble has completed its first comprehensive health support services and rural development. Our current community work is illustrated requirements and needs. Supported by our customer-focused culture and global supply and informal consultation to understand their interests and concerns and safeguard our supply chain mapping assessment of a key supply chain to identify sustainability risks areas. in the following chapters. networks, we engage with our customers on a daily basis. Ensuring a smooth flow of products corporate reputation. Close interaction with the communities in which we operate continues This mapping has provided insight on the relevance of various sustainability risks, such as and capability to deliver a diverse range of products is vital to our goal to build long-term to shape our programmes addressing the key challenges of poverty and underdevelopment. labour conditions, product integrity and supplier-buyer and government relationships. relationships across our global customers and supplier bases. 6 2014 communication on progress 7 We have a dedicated internal audit team conducting systematic audits across all Noble’s operations. Its role is defined and overseen by the Audit Committee. The review and audit of Noble’s operations is a continuous process. The team engages in discussion and consultation with various operations addressing any financial, operational, compliance and information technology risks. It provides independent assurance of our overall systems of control and also makes certain that all locations are adhering to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. When we acquire a new asset, the business and financial service functions are responsible for investigating any past, current or potential future liabilities and breaches of human rights as part of the due diligence process. Across all locations, Noble remunerates employees at least to the level of their respective country’s minimum wage. As we expand our supply chains into new territories, valuable investments are made in infrastructure improvements which help to nurture vibrant and stable communities. Such developments have taken place in Argentina, Brazil, China, Cote d’Ivoire, Indonesia, and South Africa amongst others. Public amenities, hospitals and schools are built, and improved, to serve our employees and Over the past six years, the heritage management community members. programme has contributed to almost 10% of recorded archaeological sites in the Northern Territory, Australia We are fully aware that we operate in some regions that have a history of difficult relations between resource extraction, farming industries and indigenous peoples. A lack of respect for cultural places, with no meaningful employment opportunities and environmental negligence, human rights are often the reasons for poor relationships in the past. We endeavour to build relationships with local communities by addressing their needs and concerns before operations begin. We are pleased to report that in 2013/2014 that we received no formal complaints of any Principle 1: Our Commitment Supporting Human Rights in Noble’s Policies and Actions violations of the rights of indigenous peoples. Businesses should support and respect the Noble is committed to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Every employee at Noble is informed about our company policies and practices, and hence protection of internationally proclaimed Furthermore, many of our community investment projects, which are often initiated by our The Declaration is a universal standard that proclaims that every individual, man and their rights, as reflected under existing policies. Our global policies are reviewed and updated local operations, are aligned with Noble’s business strategy. We address basic needs such as human rights; and woman, is born free and equal in dignity and rights. on a regular basis. In our offices, training on business ethics and conduct is regularly held in education, health and wellbeing, while always encouraging our local employees to contribute order to affirm the procedures for reporting any such violations in the workplace. new ideas and initiatives. In 2013, we invested over USD 2.9 million in our global outreach and Principle 2: Our Code of Conduct – and other Group Policies – demands that all Noble employees comply community projects, not including the costs of our administration. Through our partnerships make sure that they are not complicit in with the law in every jurisdiction in which we operate. This applies to all directors, officers We maintain our commitment to control risks and improve the safety performance across all on the ground, we leverage local efforts and use their expertise and networks to deliver the human rights abuses. and employees of the Group and each of its subsidiaries. The Code and other Policies set of our assets and operations. Building on the results of Noble’s Group-wide health and safety needed services. out ethical principles to guide employees in carrying out their duties and responsibilities. assessment, we have achieved a significant reduction in work related injuries over the last These principles require the highest standards of personal and corporate integrity when several years by investing in further safety training for employees and contractors. dealing on behalf of the Group with its customers, suppliers, competitors and the community. Across our operations in Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay, annual health checks and Human rights are high on our agenda; we strive to go beyond the legislative requirements. vaccination programmes are also offered. In April 2014, more than 2,600 employees in Brazil We invest in real actions to advance access to quality education, health and safety, water and participated in the Noble’s Brazil Health Week, a health check-up programme aiming to assist sanitation. We do not tolerate human rights abuses within the scope of our business operations. early diagnosis of health risks and helping to ensure a healthy work environment. 8 9 Ensuring a Safe Workplace Respectful Partnerships with Indigenous Peoples and publishing of a new book, “Getting to Know the Dayaks – Lawangan, Ma’anyan, Bakumpai and Biaju”. The book describes the origins, religions, folktales and cultural Health & Safety is a key part of Noble’s sustainability strategy. In order to improve our Noble recognises its responsibility to foster a respectful and enduring relationship between practices of the four main Dayak tribes, and is written in Indonesian, Dayak and English. employees’ and contractors’ work environment, we ensure the necessary focus on safety traditional land owners and our operations. Our engagement programmes are designed to To serve as a record of history and an inheritance for our younger generations, we are systems at work, risk management, medical aid and the correct use of personal protective respect the significant cultural values of the areas where we originate resources. Regular sending over 300 copies to nearby schools and libraries in Central Kalimantan. equipment. These are the fundamentals which are becoming mandatory within our meetings with indigenous groups in the host regions provide an open platform to align operations through a set of key performance indicators for employees and contractors, business practices with community needs and expectations. Gaining Public Acceptance such as Accident Severity Rate, Lost-Time Frequency Rates, Medical Aid Frequency Rate and a Safety Index. Indigenous Engagement The recent announcement of Cockatoo Coal’s Baralaba expansion project in Central Queensland, Australia was welcomed by the Baralaba community. Through our extensive Sugar Noble's Territory Resources Ltd iron ore mining operation is located 200 km south of community consultations in the past six years, the development has seen a sound Darwin in the Northern Territory of Australia. The mining operation lies on the western partnership established with the local population. Within Noble’s sugar mills in Brazil, we have developed a well-structured team of experts margins of the Jawoyn people’s traditional lands and has consistently operated under a The Baralaba Coal Mine, located 3 kilometres north of the township of Baralaba, has to manage occupational health and safety (OHS) hazards and risks. We have mandatory strong ethos of community engagement and development. a population of 300 people who are predominantly indigenous Wadjs Wadja/Yungulu OHS programs in place, such as risk prevention plans, health monitoring plans, respiratory We are committed to ensure that the rights and interests held by particular indigenous Aborignal people. Most people live and work locally and the economy is supported by the protection plans, emergency response plans and an accident prevention committee. We people are recognised. Our operation is regarded as industry leading with a 20% existing mining operations and farming industries. The mine’s expansion will significantly also have specific procedures for hazardous work, including working at certain heights, indigenous participation rate (comparative industry ratio of 5-10%) with a policy to boost local employment opportunities and support businesses that supply goods and working in heat, working with electrical systems and working in confined spaces, which prioritise local recruitment. Employment opportunities are often hindered by a low skill services to the mine. must be followed by the hazardous works permitting procedure. base, as less than 10% of the local indigenous people complete secondary school education. Noble increased its minority shareholding in 2013 to support the production ramp-up. Every year, we provide young Aboriginal people with a 6-month mining skills trainee Grains and Oilseeds With few social services available in Baralaba, Noble has set up a 3-year community plan programme and long-term employment opportunities upon graduation. Some of our for Baralaba in the last few months. The programme has been designed to improve school Aboriginal trainee graduates have become well-respected supervisors and others Noble’s management of health and safety matters, including the design and attendance, health service and recreational facilities in the township. highly-skilled mine equipment operators. implementation of policies and procedures to minimise potential safety risks, has resulted in excellent safety records in our Grains and Oilseeds division. For example, Lost-Time Frequency Rates of all our Chinese plants was zero in 2013 and 2014 and both Cultural Heritage Management the Qinzhou and Longkou assets have worked over 2 million accident-free hours. The In Indonesia, where Noble operates mining industry services in Central Kalimantan 20% overall safety performance of each site – as well as the training hours – is monitored each month and recorded in the operational safety report. This data forms part of Noble’s Province, Dayak indigenous groups live around our operations in the East Barito and Aboriginal Australian overall monitoring of OHS performace from our global operations. South Barito Regency. Cultural traditions and folklores of the Dayak people, often Participation Rate passed down by word of mouth over generations, have been challenged by outside A key focus on operational health and safety to improve our work environment and prevent societies and development activities. accidents from occurring is essential for us to ensure a safe workplace for Noble employees and contractors. Our cultural heritage management programme is focused squarely on preserving the local heritage and language in Noble’s operating sites. Collaborating with the Dayak In Brazil, over 2,600 employees leaders, regional government and scholars, Noble Foundation has funded the writing participated in voluntary health screenings in 2014 10 2014 communication on progress 11 Number of Permanent Employees and Contractors by Region and Gender 1,150 female Asia Pacific male 2,950 363 Europe, the Middle East & Africa 713 208 North America 391 102 South America 464 In October, Richard Elman, Chairman, The annual Noble Day brings employees from 854 attended the opening ceremony of the offices and assets around Argentina, building Brazil Rondonópolis Biodiesel plant in Brazil stronger relationships and teamwork 8,490 Total 15,685 labour Number of Employees by Employment Type and Gender Principle 3: Our Commitment Implementation of Labour Standards in Noble’s Policies Businesses should uphold the freedom of and Actions 2,618 Permanent Noble’s Code of Conduct sets forth the requirements for compliance as well as the guidelines association and the effective recognition of 12,913 on key labour issues, which are an integral part of the principles advocated in the the right to collective bargaining; Our people work across multiple functions, locations and languages. A culture of diversity 59 UN Global Compact. Contract and equal opportunities is one of our greatest strengths allowing us to operate cohesively 95 Principle 4: across borders and businesses. In 2013, amongst 15,685 permanent employees and We support the freedom of association and collective bargaining for our employees in the contractors, more than 99% of our workforce is entitled to permanent employment positions. Grand Total 15,685 the elimination of all forms of forced and countries in which we operate and diligently comply with local labour laws and regulations. In terms of gender diversity, female representation reaches 37% in our global offices with compulsory labour; Forced or compulsory labour of any kind is not tolerated at Noble, nor do we exploit child a total of 17% of our overall workforce being female. labour in any of our global operations. Principle 5: We have clear policies and training practices to combat discrimination. Our managers are the effective abolition of child labour; and We value diversity at every level of our organisation and respect the rights of our 15,000 responsible for ensuring that the Equal Opportunities Policy and other labour principles are 37% employees who comprise more than 70 nationalities across 37 countries around the world. adhered to in their departments. In our offices, education on business ethics and conduct Principle 6: Our Equal Opportunities Policy applies to every employee in the Group and commits Noble is undertaken. Employees receive regular mandatory training on workplace conduct. We Percentage of women the elimination of discrimination in respect to eliminating discrimination, harassment and victimisation in the workplace. encourage and promote procedures for reporting any unwelcome attitudes in the workplace. in Noble’s Offices Moreover, Noble takes any alleged breach of discrimination incidences seriously. In 2013/2014 of employment and occupation. we received no credible complaints of discrimination in any location. 12 13 About 63% of Noble employees, especially in countries such as Brazil, Argentina, China and South Africa where key installations are located, are represented by trade unions or similar bodies. Noble respects the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining as the Promoting Health and Wellbeing core constituents in the International Labour Organisation conventions. We seek to cooperate In Brazil, where we have a major presence in our sugar mill operations, we run a with unions on the collective bargaining agreements which stipulate labour conditions and number of programmes targeting health awareness and wellbeing of our employees. eliminate any kind of forced or compulsory labour. As we celebrate Pink October, Noble launched an education campaign to stress the Noble has adopted and implemented a whistle-blowing policy through which employees importance of breast cancer prevention and early detection among women. Through may, in confidence, raise concerns regarding matters of unlawful activity, policy or practices, a series of workshops, educational booklets, t-shirts and gifts were given out to all suspected fraud, corruption, dishonest practices or other similar matters. There are also employees and contractors to raise awareness. arrangements for an independent investigation of such issues and for appropriate follow up actions where necessary. Another long-standing family planning programme continues to provide guidance and health tips to mothers-to-be on the importance of pre-natal care. More than 500 Talent Development pregnant mothers have participated since the project’s inception. We have teamed up with a university in São José do Rio Preto to identify innovative Regular performance appraisal procedures are in place for all employees. The review focuses ways to disseminate Noble’s news. Together, we began the Radio Bioenergia on employees’ career development and succession planning, and is critical to ensure employee programme. Over the past year, Radio Bioenergia has gained popularity in bringing engagement. In line with our business growth, we have continued to expand our trainee news, information and entertainment to employees working in rural areas programmes. Building on the structured apprenticeship approach, we hired 32 trainees across in Brazil. our global trading operations in 2013, of which over 80% have successfully graduated from their programmes. This 30-minute programme is broadcasted on our shuttle bus service, and includes pre-recorded “Special Interviews” hosted by Noble’s managers and directors, Through last year’s office-wide initiative which worked with managers to identify high “Musical Moments” which allow employees to send song dedications. potential individuals in their teams, 459 employees worldwide, more than double of last Meanwhile “Journal Bioenergia” covers press releases and “Time Listener” hosts year, were identified as having high potential, leading to focused training and development raffles and prizes to lucky listeners. opportunities. Across our global operations, we offer extensive training for Noble’s employees and contractors. Over 422,772 hours of technical, health and safety, and leadership training were provided in 2013. Employee Team Building Creating a healthy working environment benefits our employees and increases productivity. Noble promotes an active lifestyle in our worldwide offices through various sporting activities and volunteering. Basketball, football and other sports activities are organised at many of our locations. From cycling to running, Noble’s team features regular participants in charitable sporting events, supporting our objectives to raise funds and awareness for educational or other relevant causes. Monthly educational leaflets and a baby kit are distributed to The Pink October committee every participant in the Health Pregnancy Programme led a series of breast cancer awareness workshops 14 15 Our Standards and Management Systems When we undertake investments in new assets, labour-related risks and compliance with local labour laws and regulations form part of our due diligence and risk analysis. In our Building Food Security & Crop Diversity In West Africa we are investing in diverse and resilient ecological farming to improve “agroforestry Responsible farm practices through helps farmers stabilise their existing asset portfolio, we seek to pursue applicable industry certifications. As an example, farmers’ productivity and their adaptation to climate change. We are proud to our grains processing facility complex in Argentina is certified with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 be working with over 16,000 farmers in developing good agricultural practices, microclimate, mitigate the effects of and GMP+B2 to achieve the highest standard of operational health and safety and product safety as well as emphasise our overall environmental responsibility. diversification and gender awareness. We endeavour to go beyond simply independent climate change and ensure higher ” certification by helping ensure more resilient farming and therefore greater food security. In the past year, Noble has directly sourced 22,000 tonnes of independently yields in the long term certified and traceable cocoa in West Africa. Working with Smallholder Farmers Through farmer field schools, business training and health and safety sensitisation, We recognise the strong correlation between poverty and child labour. Limited access to we are advancing the transfer and exchange of knowledge and skills to help suppliers appropriate education for minors jeopardises their future and as a result, we support reach Rainforest Alliance and UTZ Certified sustainability standards. In Ghana, 11,953 initiatives in regions at risk to increase the overall income of producers. Raising household cocoa farmers have already received premium payments in 2014 for their production incomes helps to improve farmers’ livelihoods with extra income streams available to invest in of sustainable cocoa beans. education and healthcare. In order to improve the benefits of certification for farmers, we are providing Likewise, we are working with smallholder farmers across our agriculture network to provide smallholders with specific gender awareness training to increase female participation short-term financing for crop purchases as well as longer-term financing for investments in in cocoa production, as well as distributing cassava and plantain plants to enable farming inputs to improve quality and productivity. Providing access to finance helps advance farmers to run more diverse and profitable farms. Growing cassava and plantain rural development and overcome a major challenge for suppliers. alongside their cocoa helps farmers improve soil quality, increases shade cover and greatly aids family food availability. It can also provide farmers with an extra income stream, increasing overall household income in rural areas. Responsible farm practices through agroforestry – increasing tree cover on farms and Tonnage of Certified Coca Sold conserving soils – helps farmers stabilise their microclimate, mitigate the effects of climate change and ensure higher yields in the long term. Over the next four years, we intend to work with a further 20,000 farmers as part of this climate-smart 2013 > 22,000 tonnes agricultural programme. 2012 > 9,500 tonnes 2011 > 260 tonnes Farmers enjoyed a traditional dance in Ghana during a ceremony in which they received bonuses for producing sustainable cocoa for Noble 16 2014 communication on progress 17 Reducing our Environmental Impact The release of the fifth report on climate change from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has brought a clear message. Climate change caused by human activity has the potential to lead to destruction and economic loss. Anticipating this risk, we have been working systemically on climate and environment measures since 2007. Noble’s Carbon Neutral Project was initiated as a step-by-step approach to reduce the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, all Noble offices worldwide, Noble’s publications and top management events once again achieved carbon neutrality. More than 1,014,000 tonnes of CO2 have been offset since project inception. We compensate for our environmental impact by investing in verified carbon credit projects that generate renewable and low carbon energy and bring positive socio-economic benefits. In 2010, we launched a centralised environmental data assessment system to monitor our impact on energy use, water and waste across our global operations. As a signatory to the CDP, an investors’ initiative to collate and monitor carbon emissions from major corporations, we have publicly reported our Group-level carbon and energy performance for a number of years. environment We set ourselves ambitious energy and carbon reduction targets. Efficiency targets in our assets and operations are aggregated into the Group targets. All employees are encouraged to reduce the company’s environmental footprint through Noble’s annual performance Principle 7: Our Commitment Implementing Measures to Protect the Environment appraisal. Our business travel policy has been revised to sustain our progress in cost savings Businesses should support a precautionary and emissions reduction. Being a leading commodity supply chain manager that inherently relies on natural resources, Across our operations, we comply with all relevant laws and regulations applicable to the approach to environmental challenges; Noble understands the fundamental importance of managing our impact on the environment. production and service of the relevant product and seek to manage our environmental In 2013, we exceeded our 10% Group level target by cutting 300,000 tonnes CO2e from base Principle 8: We seek to protect our assets and operations from an array of environmental challenges, impact through our resource management programme. Regional environmental policies year 2010. Our performance is on track with our current targets to reduce our emissions on including water and air pollution, climate change and resource depletion. and plans are complemented with site-specific requirements. Environmental impact business travel and oilseed processing facilities operations in China. undertake initiatives to promote greater assessments are conducted according to legal requirements and principles before we environmental responsibility; and Above all, the company supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and purchase new installations. works intensively to minimise its environmental footprint across supply chains. We do this by Our 2013 response to CDP was awarded the highest score for a Principle 9: deploying our resource management systems and controls and seeking industry collaborations As a commitment to continuous improvement, Noble works to achieve internationally company in Hong Kong and South East Asia, 99 out of a possible to address broader environmental issues. To secure our long term energy demand and help recognised certification on its environmental management systems. Technical staff, quality encourage the development and diffusion 100 points for carbon information disclosure, and we achieved customers reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, we support the development and diffusion of managers and other dedicated staff are present in all key locations and play a leading role in of environmentally friendly technologies. environmentally friendly technologies. the implementation. For example, the dry bulk export terminal in Brazil, Chinese crushing an “A-” rating as a carbon performance leader. Noble has also been listed on the Disclosure Leader (Asia ex-Japan) for three mills and Lazaro Cardenas port terminal in Mexico have attained the ISO 14001 certification consecutive years. This result highlighted our capability in and a number of verification audits are scheduled in 2014 to reaffirm the results. Other assets reporting, governance, verification and emissions reductions are currently evaluating the needs of applicable certifications. as well as identifying risks and opportunities presented by climate change. 18 19 Carbon and Energy Performance in our Operations # Water: A Precious Resource Water is essential to agricultural and industrial processes, and Noble endeavours to Greenhouse Gas Emissions* 2013 2012 2011 CO2 preserve clean water in our rapidly transforming world. The preservation of water quality is a global challenge, and not enough attention is made to counter the degradation of Total emissions (Mt CO2e ) 2.23 2.11 2.77 Total Carbon clean water. Emissions Noble pursues the reduction of freshwater withdrawal by developing operational practices 12% CO2 emissions per products traded (Mt CO2e / Mt) 0.0095 0.0094 0.0126 to water recycling and investing in water saving infrastructure. Operational targets are CO2 emissions on business travel per employee set in our assets as part of the resource management programme. In Noble’s owned 5.97 6.23 6.02 sugar mills in Brazil, a new effluent treatment facility and a new vinasse concentrator (t CO2e / office employee) Since 2010 were installed, resulting in a decrease in freshwater withdrawal per tonne of sugarcane processed by 20%. This scheme has not only resulted in cost savings, but has also optimised the quality of effluent disposal. The long established MasterCana 2013 Award of the Brazilian sugarcane and power industry acknowledged Noble’s efforts as best in class Energy Consumption (MWh) 2013 2012 2011 in sustainability and environmental performance. Fuel ^ 14,697,899 7,930,368 19,657,703 We contribute funds to key research studies in water stewardship and the development of better water accessibility. In Hong Kong, where nearly 70% of its water is imported, we have partnered with an independent public policy think tank, Civic Exchange, on multiElectricity 149,646 185,003 292,455 Carbon Emissions year water policy research. The latest report, released in 2013, reviewed the historical and from Business current water management network and provided recommendations for sustainable water Heat 9 70 49 policy making in Hong Kong. Travel per Employee 24% Elsewhere, our Indonesian coal operation has set up a water treatment processing facility Steam 104,400 140,595 291,329 in a Kalimantan village. The facility serves the needs of the community and improves access to clean and safe water. Cooling 1,154 1,053 699 Since 2010 # Noble Group greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory is defined by adopting the operational control approach in the GHG Protocol. The GHG inventory is assured by TÜV NORD CERT GmbH according to ISO 14064 standard. * Data includes scope 1 and 2 emissions in all reporting periods ^ Includes both fossil fuels and renewable fuels consumption Setting up a water supply and treatment system in the village of Rantau Nangka, Indonesia 20 21 Sustainable Agriculture Sourcing Strategy Renewable Energy Technology Set Sail for Responsible Shipping We are aware that land use and deforestation are key sustainability challenges in soybean Noble has invested in renewable energy technology projects. A recent investment in a biodiesel production. Responsible practices and environmentally sound management are essential. plant which Noble procured for its crushing plant in Brazil started operating in October 2013. Noble Chartering is recognised for providing high-quality, safe and efficient logistic As a result, Noble Argentina integrates certification schemes into its supply chain – such as Similar to the biodiesel plant in Argentina, soybean oil produced onsite will provide the energy solutions. A major component of its success comes from our strategy to use modern the International Sustainability & Carbon Certificate (ISCC), the Biomass Biofuels and the feedstock for the plant. In Paraguay, Noble acquired a number of biomass powered silos ships responsibly. In expanding its owned fleet of ships to meet the growing demands of Sustainability Voluntary Scheme (2BSvs) – to help ensure greater transparency and integrity. dryers, reducing greenhouse gas emissions compared to conventional fossil fuels dryers. its integrated supply chain strategy, Noble is acquiring and building ships that are more Other investments in biomass-fired cogeneration units generate clean energy for our assets energy efficient. Our chartering service and commercial ships operate under a robust In sourcing our cocoa and coffee, we partner with UTZ, Fair Trade, 4C Association and the in Argentina, Brazil and the Ukraine. These investments aim to reduce our reliance on fossil management system certified with the ISO 9001:2008 standard. Rainforest Alliance to support long-term sustainable production programmes for smallholders fuels for heating and power needs and position Noble as a significant producer of ethanol and worldwide. The training programme includes the transfer of agricultural and business skills biomass power, supplying the grid with electricity. A Vessel/Barge Chartering and Vetting Policy is adopted to ensure that all vessels that increases productivity, improves labour standards and protects forest habitats. Upon chartered for the transportation of petroleum, petroleum products, chemicals and LPG entering the palm oil business in 2011, Noble became an approved member of the Round Table meet certain specified criteria and undergo screening by external vetting experts. As a for Sustainable Palm Oil to focus on improving labour practices and minimising the ecological measure of emergency preparedness, an Emergency Oil Spill Response Plan is in place impact in the production of palm oil. to respond in the unfortunate event of an oil spill. Noble’s owned tonnage, depending on various factors, frequently sails at the “Super Eco Supply the Growing Demand in Clean Fuels Speed” and/or “Eco Speed” since 2012. Running at optimum speed of fuel consumption not only contributes to fuel and monetary savings, but also reduces greenhouse gas Noble trades a broad mix of energy products. Our integrated supply chain strategy capitalises emissions. The monitoring parameter – Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator has been on the rising regional demand and shifts in consumption patterns of clean fuels. Our Clean applied across our fleet to measure and improve our overall fuel use efficiency. Likewise, Fuels division is dedicated to providing solutions to alternative fuel sources while reducing our ships comply with regulations to increasingly use more low sulphur fuel. As a result, environmental impacts. We produce ethanol and biodiesel that are made from renewable a 19% reduction in emissions per distance travelled was achieved compared to 2012. sugar cane and soy in Latin America. To leverage our ethanol and biodiesel marketing business in North America, we formed a partnership to acquire a number of terminals which enables Moreover to demonstrate a commitment to transparency, we voluntarily rated our ships us to blend and market ethanol from over 200 trading locations. for “Greenhouse Gas Emissions” by RightShip. One of Noble’s owned ships has recently qualified for the Environmental Awareness (EA) notation, indicating that practical actions Across the United States and Europe, we are increasing deliveries of natural gas to our are being undertaken to go beyond regulated measures to prevent air and marine pollution. customers. In early 2014, we acquired a significant share in an independent flexible gas-fired We intend to launch this programme across our entire fleet. It is this commitment to power generation company. When natural gas is used to generate electricity, it emits around perform responsibly which has seen us as a finalists at both the environmental protection half of the CO2 of coal. Gas-fired power provides the crucial backup needed when renewable In the UK, Noble is investing in gas energy to meet and corporate social responsibility categories at the Seatrade Asia Awards 2014. resources are not available. It also has the potential to significantly reduce coal dependency future electricity requirements and support the and serve as a national strategy for energy security in the transition to a low carbon economy. country's transition to a low-carbon economy Noble is modernising its fleet with fuel efficient engines and ballast water treatment systems 22 2014 communication on progress 23 information are circulated among employees and set out in a separate policy. This includes a procedure for good faith reporting of any infringement of the Code or other Noble Policies. Concerned employees are encouraged to report without fear to the Compliance or Legal departments when any suspicions arise. Additionally, Noble has appropriate systems and controls in place, such as regular check procedures conducted by our internal audit team. This department engages in continuous discussions and consultations with various operations in the Group to ensure compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption measures. Our policies are regularly updated to comply with laws and regulations which are progressively tightened, particularly in dealing with new customers or counterparties. World-Check risk search forms a key component of mandatory risk screening for any new counterparties before entering into new contracts. In Europe, our Compliance division currently focuses on managing Noble’s compliance with the new European Market Infrastructure Regulation Noble’s Polymers division partnered (EMIR) regarding over-the-counter trading. Likewise, a new counterparty acquisition team with NATPET in the past Chinaplas exhibition in China has been added to strengthen our due diligence procedure in the Group’s anti-money laundering and Know Your Customer policy. Within our sphere of influence, we may not have direct control over the development of anti-corruption national policies and instruments on corporate governance, but Noble is a member of the Asian Corporate Governance Association (ACGA) and actively participates in their conferences and advocacy. Principle 10: Our Commitment Precautionary Measures to Prevent Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in Noble operates with utmost integrity to fortify its position as a market leader. Our policies Noble has an experienced Compliance Team which is dedicated to ensuring that our business all its forms, including extortion and bribery. emphasise anti-corruption, anti-bribery or anti-trust behaviour strongly. We are a publicly is undertaken in conformity with applicable laws and regulations. Compliance Team personnel listed company and acknowledge the fact that our actions are constantly under scrutiny. are based in our largest trading offices and serve as a valuable resource for providing technical Beyond our obligation to statutory or regulatory requirements, we hold onto our core values of assistance in the regulatory sphere. being accountable and responsible, which extends to our shared commitment to prevent fraud and corruption. Our Group-wide policies clearly state that all our business functions must comply with the legal obligations and laws in every jurisdiction in which we operate. Noble employees worldwide are given explicit guidance on ethical business practices, such as conflicts of interest, entertainment and gifts. Their acknowledgment is part of the induction process which is mandatory for every new employee. Refresher training is regularly organised to maintain the effectiveness of compliance programmes and highlight some of the perception gaps and possible “grey areas”. Noble’s Code of Conduct imposes specific obligations in the areas of anti-corruption, anti-trust, anti-money laundering, combating financial crime, terrorist financing, sanctions and fraud. Specific rules on securities trading when in possession of internal, confidential, 24 25 Ongoing Training on Responsible Conduct Noble employees are given constant updates on rules and regulations relevant to Centralised Platform of Counterparty Acquisition In an environment in which financial crime and anti-corruption laws and regulations “anti-bribery Refresher training covering AML, sanctions, & corruption, US Foreign Corrupt their particular markets and jurisdictions. Education and training on compliance, are being tightened, a global review of Noble’s new customer, counterparty acquisition anti-bribery and anti-money laundering (AML) is delivered either via classroom or and maintenance procedures was undertaken during the first quarter of 2014. Practices Act and case studies are offered in the video-conferencing. New joiners are also given compliance training. Asia Pacific region, and all US staff receive annual As a result, Noble is establishing a dedicated counterparty acquisition team responsible Over 500 employees attended training in the past 12 months. Refresher training covering AML, sanctions, anti-bribery & corruption, US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and case studies are offered in the Asia Pacific region and all US staff receive annual recertification for performing the initial review of new counterparties and periodic reviews of existing counterparties in accordance with Noble’s policies and procedures. This will further strengthen Noble’s compliance with Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering recertification of the US compliance manual ” of the US compliance manual. due diligence requirements. Specific training required by different business functions is also catered to, such as The project also includes the development of a new Counterparty Management technology members of front office and the risk team are trained on market abuse and manipulation to facilitate automatic compliance screening, monitoring and surveillance through of indices. Other training includes regulations related to manipulation, disruptive trading integration with business intelligence providers. This will allow Noble to respond quickly practices and reference to anti-trust and corruption. to ever changing developments. An online classroom is offered for some programmes to allow employees the flexibility to complete training at their own pace. Noble consistently works towards implementing new systems to suit the needs of its people. Compliance is in the process of launching its new e-learning module in July 2014 which will automate training requirements. 26 2014 communication on progress 27 the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally page 6 proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective page 10 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour. outlook Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are delighted to be able to communicate the progress achieved so far, both locally We continue to focus on gaining an even better understanding of the risks and opportunities in and globally. Noble’s supply chains to prepare for the challenges we face today and the future. To prioritise areas of risk and elevate our sustainability standards, we are looking to set up a supply chain environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental page 16 As new policies and initiatives continue to reinforce our stand, we engage with our stakeholders sustainability risk assessment framework. Complementing this, we are expanding the scope challenges. to align their expectations with our value creation process. We identify customers in growth of our commitment to the UN Global Compact by assessing our activities in the context of the markets and aspire to build mutually beneficial relationships. Global Reporting Initiative framework for sustainability. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Through measuring and managing our health and safety performance, we have achieved significant improvements in avoiding injuries and accidents in our operations. We carefully Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly monitor our sustainability performance to ensure any gaps and inefficiencies are rectified technologies. and addressed. Notably, our emission reduction targets have been met and we look forward to meeting further goals that will reduce environmental impact. anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion page 22 and bribery. This publication is printed on FSC™ certified paper with soy ink.
