Sustainability Report 2013 Metering. Understanding. Acting. ab OUt tHE rEPO rt COntEntS a b tRanSpaRency thinking SuStainably Making aWaRe MeteRing. iSta at pRoductS & undeRStanding. acting. a glance SeRviceS This report is the fourth sustainability report published by ista. With this report, we would like to provide our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders with transparent information about our sustainability progress in 2013. In our reporting, we comply with the internationally recognised G3.0 6 transparency is our Dna – ista worldwide 21 management approach Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reporting of 10 Our objective: Efficiency gains 22 Everything under control! – ista International GmbH satisfies the Advanced Application Level B+. 14 Guest article by Prof. Dr. Claudia Kemfert “Saving money through Clever Heating” This has been examined and confirmed by the GRI. You will find the 15 Our strategy: Sustainability 26 Selection of suppliers & Cri indicator index on page 46 ff. This sustainability report is based on the 19 three questions for ... Günther meggeneder 26 Progress table key performance indicators of the 2013 calendar year. The assurance C D of selected environmental KPIs for the 2013 financial year was performed by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. The copy deadline for this report was June 11, 2014. In addition to this print edition, you will find detailed figures in a year-on-year comparison as well as more detailed background inforacting conSciouSly coMMunicating openly mation on our website at www.ista.com/sustainabilityreport2013/. The changes in the reporting period – for example, the new definition of the regions worldwide, the basis of the report and report boundaries as well as notes on calculations and survey methods for the key eneRgy & eMployeeS & environmental and HR figures – are itemised online. ReSouRceS Society This report is regarded as a “Communication on Progress” (COP) as part of ista’s membership in the UN Global Compact. W W W. i Sta . C O m / SUStainabilityrEPO rt2013/ 29 management approach 37 management approach 30 Efficient on the road – Ecodriving 38 Energy managers wanted – Employer branding 34 Consumption figures & trends 42 ista symposium 34 Progress table 42 Progress table 2 3 Transparency is our DNA Dear Readers, T ransparency is in the DNA of our company. With our prodergy efficiency and therefore to environmental and climate protecucts and services, we make energy consumption visible, tion: in other words, products and services, energy and resources as thereby helping consumers to save energy. At the same well as employees and society. time, transparency is a central component of our corporate responWe achieved a lot in the reporting period, as evidenced by sibility. We are therefore reporting in detail this year for the fourth the key figures. We managed to anchor our sustainability strategy time on our commitment to the environment and society. This even more firmly at our 26 national organisations – and will con­sustainability Report is based on the guidelines of the Global Retinue to drive this strategy forward in future. This process entails a porting Initiative (GRI) and meets the Advanced Application Level wide variety of country-specific challenges and therefore progressB+ (see page 45). es at different rates from country to country. However, we are very confident of being able to achieve all the objectives we have set Metering, understanding, acting ourselves. In our 2013 sustainability report, we would like to show you how greatly transparency determines ista’s business and social actions. New growth opportunities We not only meter consumption, but also make it visible. EveryThe fundamental change in the global energy balance, in particular one can therefore better understand their individual consumption with regard to climate change, is a major key political and societal behaviour and, as a result, optimise it themselves. We also demand project of our times – which also has a considerable influence on this from ourselves: we constantly optimise our consumption of our business model. The demand for solutions for more efficient resources, and every year, we record progress in the field of sustainuse of energy is increasing all over the world. In Europe, for example, ability. We also apply transparency to our HR policy. We maintain the European Energy Efficiency Directive (EED) prescribes that enan open-door culture based on trust, support and promote personal ergy consumption of multi-family houses will have to be metered involvement as well as critical, yet constructive feedback. We are individually with appropriate devices in the medium term. Tenants also committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, are to receive a consumption-based bill and be regularly informed which, among other things, set working standards and serve to preabout their consumption. vent corruption. Today, we are already making an important contribution to We repeatedly find in talks with customers, consumers, politthe future of energy and facing up to our responsibility to the enicians, NGOs and the media that there is great interest in our comvironment and society. We will create greater awareness of energy pany, coupled with an increasing need to explain our services and efficiency using innovative technologies. We concentrate on both innovations. This year, we are therefore devoting the first chapter acting sustainably and growing profitably. of our sustainability Report entirely to the question of who we are I wish you informative and entertaining reading and would and what exactly we do. The subsequent three chapters then probe delighted if you would share your impressions with me and my vide details on the three pillars of our commitment to greater en­colleagues. Please write to us at sustainability@ista.com. Walter Schmidt C EO i sta I n t e r nat i o nal Gm b H 4 5 Walter Schmidt {CEO i Sta i ntEr nati Ona l G m bH} “The efficient use of energy and water is one of the major issues of our time. Transparency is the key to success and our daily motivation.” 4 5 a thinking SuStainably iSta at a glance 6 Who we are 7 Energy becomes transparent Energy data under control – with submetering Metering Submetering Property Meter-reading People can only save energy in a targeted manner if they know how much they are consuming! It is therefore so important for residents of multi-family houses to be informed individually and regularly about their energy and water consumption. As a global energy service provider, ista makes a substantial contribution to consumption Info Energy transparency. utility User list and Total and Accurate individual billing cost list individual bill of energy consumption makes savings potential Individual visible for everyone. Conbill sumers can directly counProperty manager teract high consumption by responsible use of energy. Bills (energy, water, running costs) Who we are commercial properties. Whereas energy utilities provide the toEnergy efficiency and sustainability have long been in the focus tal consumption figures for an entire building, ista records, using of corporate action at ista. Even as far back as the late 1950s, when modern radio metering technology, how this consumption breaks Johannes Schultz and Karl Völker founded the company, one thing down for the individual units in the building. Tenants receive their was clear: people have to know their consumption so that they do individual bills every year; at the same time, landlords obtain the ment in the form of heat allocation meters, heat and water meters, ness of energy consumption must be created worldwide. Radio not waste heating energy. Operating in 26 countries, the company,­ bill for the total consumption of the building. The result: people radio and M-bus system technology as well as the appropriate actechnology and energy data management can make a crucial cononce a supplier of heat allocation meters, is now a leading global only pay for what they have actually consumed. Individual billcessories. So-called Energy data management is particularly fortribution to this. They permit information to be made available to energy service provider with an extensive product portfolio – ing results in greater transparency and gives the consumer the ward-looking. Here, all consumption data are transmitted by radio consumers quickly and during the year. Additional savings poten­ a real “hidden champion”. possibility to save energy in a controlled manner. The European and visualised on an online portal or by app. The great advantage: tial: 5 % to even as much as 20 % of energy, CO2 and costs. And that Commission estimates the energy savings potential in buildings tenants receive their consumption information every month and, is exactly what the new Energy Efficiency Directive prescribes. What we do through submetering at 15 % to 25 %. ista has already been making on this basis, can proactively control their own consumption. The EU is therefore acting on the realisation that consumers who ista’s business model covers the consumption-dependent metera major contribution towards leveraging this enormous potential are regularly informed about their consumption behaviour verifiing and billing of energy and water. “Submetering” is the technifor several decades. What we want to achieve ably reduce their consumption. Tenants and property owners can cal term for this and includes the individual metering, billing and The basis of consumption-dependent billing is cutting-edge As natural resources are becoming increasingly scarce and the make a contribution themselves to the energy turnaround as ista visu­alisation of consumption data for multi-family houses and technology: ista’s product portfolio comprises metering equiprestructuring of our global energy systems is vital, greater awaremakes consumption transparent. History of ista and the energy market Laying of the cornerstone: the Danish brothers ista takes over the Daista makes the largest acquisition in the Odin and Aksel Clorius found the company nish company Clorius. company’s history: by taking over the Transposition of the EED Clorius which is now part of the ista Group, French market leader, Comptage Immointo national law for all and invent individual heat metering. bilier Services (CIS), ista becomes the The first German law on EU member states market leader in Europe. Johannes Schultz and Karl Völker found saving energy in buildings. ista. A short time later, the company reEnergy is now metered and ceives its first patent for heat allocation billed throughout West meters in Germany. Germany. 1902 The builder’s merchant 2006 By-mid 2014 1957 1974 Raab Karcher takes over ista. 19 /20 centuries th th 1970 1981 1994 Increasing urbanisation and the pro1976 2013 gress of industrial production require the individual billing of heating costs. 1973 2005 The first hot-water meter CVC Capital Partners increases its minority shareis developed in Germany. By 2016 The oil crisis and the first car-free Sunday Introduction of the Heating Cost Ordinance to regulate 1990 Merger of ista and Clorius to holding, held since 2007, to a majority shareholding. the billing of heating and form Raab Karcher Energy Serista-relevant hot water costs in Germany. vices. The company now also ista is called ista again – Installation of meters general taps the European market. all over the world! in all EU households 8 WheRe We aRe 9 WoRldWide 02 04 03 01 06 03 05 03 03 04 04 04 04 transparency is the first, yet deciding step in any action to conserve resources and protect the environment. For you can only change your behaviour if you know what you are consuming – regardless of 01 Region euRope centRal whether you are in Sweden, Dubai or China. Germany, Luxembourg, Our overarching objective is to increase enAustria, Switzerland 03 Region euRope WeSt, 04 Region 05 noRth aMeRica ergy efficiency worldwide and thereby make a eaSt & South eMeRging MaRketS USA contribution towards climate protection. Our 02 Region euRope noRth Belgium, Bulgaria, Italy, NetherBrazil, Turkey, China, employees are committed to this at our locaNorway, Denmark, UK, lands, Poland, Romania, Spain, United Arab Emirates (UAE), 06 fRance tions in 26 countries worldwide. Sweden Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary Belarus, Russia France 10 Company profile 11 Our objective: efficiency gains However, it is not just consumption-dependent metering that plays Workforce by region Legend a crucial role in ista’s long-term business success. The development of new products and services for mass use is equally important. For Europe Central 327 this reason, the development of sustainable solutions for sa­ving Europe North resources in the real estate sector is anchored in the corporate 722 1,416  urope West, E strategy. Advanced technologies such as energy data management East & South already permit further significant savings today. Thanks to data 155 Emerging Markets With our products and services, we help to save energy and cut CO2 emissions and costs sustainably. The better transmission by radio, consumption data can be made available France 659 237 we do this, the more successful we are on the market. Today, as the world market leader, ista already operates in in a transparent way during the year, in particular in the cost-­ North America 26 countries all over the world. intensive heating period. Users are therefore given the possibility ista Shared Services 169 1,177 to actively control their own consumption. For they can see every ista International month whether their energy consumption is rising or falling and how much they will be billed. T he European Commission believes that the individual (see overview on page 12). In total, the company’s portfolio comDifferent countries, different markets metering and billing of energy consumption saves as ­ prises nine service areas with 16 individual services. The range The ista Group operates in 26 countries. Sweden was added to the much energy as virtually every other measure with comcontains 58 modular individual products. list in 2013. Its head office is located in Essen (Germany). In addition paratively low investment costs. The reduction in consumption is to numerous European countries, such as Denmark, the Netherestimated at a figure of 15 % to 25 %. ista is the global leader in inWith radio into the future lands, France, Italy, Spain, Belgium and Poland, the company is also creasing energy efficiency. Last year, the company read and billed In Europe, buildings now account for almost 25 %* of primary en­ represented in Russia, Brazil, China and the United Arab Emirates water, heat and ancillary costs with roughly 48 million devices ergy consumption, 80 %** of which is attributable to heating and (see page 8–9). Europe forms the company’s core market. in about 12 million households all over the world. The more than hot water. ista’s solutions for energy data management can signif­ ista is the leader in most markets where the company is rep450,000 customers include property managers and owners as well icantly reduce the consumption of energy and resources – without resented, including France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, the as energy utilities. Thanks to consumption-dependent billing, ista major investments being necessary. At the same time, ista is making Netherlands and Poland. In Germany, ista is in a very strong second saves roughly 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 emissions every year in an important contribution to protecting the climate and conserving 58 individual products place. Almost everywhere, ista offers products and services for the Germany alone. resources by doing so. If the national and global climate objectives in the ista portfolio consumption-dependent billing of heat and water. However, as the We provide the entire spectrum of our industry’s services, are to be achieved, it is crucial to cut heating energy and hot water company focuses on meeting the local requirements in each counfrom delivery and installation to the commissioning of the devices consumption. Individual consumption billing sensitises people to try, the offering also varies from country to country. and billing. ista not only analyses energy and water data, but also the more responsible use of water and heat. The market potential for consumption-dependent billing deinspects and optimises heating systems. Furthermore, the com-­ pends on the proportion of multi-family houses and the import­ance pany offers products and services for tenant safety, such as smoke of district heat and central heating in the particular energy supply detectors and drinking water analyses. ista also provides individu450,000 customers market. In principle, ista sees two areas of growth here: European al solutions for energy consumption and energy cost management legislation is leading to a distinct trend towards the standardisation were convinced in 2013 of the ista prodof products and services for individual consumption metering in Energy management ucts and services for the consumption-­ dependent billing of heat and water. It the European market. The European Energy Efficiency Directive from A to Z is for good reason that ista is the leader (EED) in particular has set crucial standards for this which now in most markets where the company is have to result in changes in the individual European member states. represented. At the same time, the need for low-investment measures for greater Operating energy efficiency is also growing in the major emerging countries, in 26 countries especially China. Around € 744 million in sales 4,862 employees, one common goal In 2013, ista achieved worldwide sales of EUR 743.9 million. That is an increase in sales over 2012 of 4.8 % (see table on page 12). In in 2013 the reporting period, capital expenditures were EUR 92.7 million, of which EUR 68.5 million was in rental devices. ista acquired ­customer contracts of Präzisa Wärmemessdienst Tetzner e.K. and in 4,862 Source: the last quarter acquired the French metering service providers SAC Eau S.à r.l. and SAC Chauffage S.à r.l. With this acquisition, the energy employees cf. Eurostat 2009 * cf. UK Department for Business, Innovation and Skills **  service provider further extended its market leadership in France. 12 Company profile 13 Global service – the ista energy management portfolio Flexible: With ista EDM mobil, property Real estate industry Contracting Analysis Installation Consumption Reading Data Visualisation managers and tenants have access to consumption figures and costs for Gas & Electricity Concept Maintenance Consumption Billing Energy Pass heat, water and electricity. Financing Ancillary Cost Billing Energy Control Systems Tap Maintenance Payment Processing Heating ECG Energy Consulting Energy Procurement Consulting Value A total of 4,862 employees worked for the Group as at December 31, 2013. In the reportControlling & chain Supply Property Survey Hardware Reading & Billing Optimisation ing period, ista employed an average of 4,647 full-time equivalent employees, representing a slight increase compared with the previous year (4,477). In 2013, women accounted for almost half the workforce, with a share of 47 %. In some countries, ista cooperates with Energy independent service partners. In Germany, these partners perform meter installation and Info Industry Analysis Installation Consumption Reading Data Analysis reading, for example. The takeover of the majority sharehold­ ing by funds advised by CVC Capital Concept Maintenance Consumption Billing Reporting Partners and the first issue of corporate Management triumvirate bonds marked a new milestone in the The management of ista International GmbH is responsible for the strategic and operacompany’s history in 2013. IT Infrastructure Payment Processing tional control of the entire Group and also has overall responsibility for risk management. The individual regions are responsible for the operational identification, assessment and Electr. Data Interchange intern­al control of risks. Legend The management of ista International GmbH is made up of three managing directors: IT Solutions for available in most markets Billing & Data Walter Schmidt, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Christian Leu, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), available in some markets Management and Jochen Schein, Chief Operating Officer (COO). The remuneration of the management consists of fixed and variable components. The variable pay component is performanceand cash-flow-driven and calculated according to the company’s overall success. The following are members of the Supervisory Board of ista Deutschland GmbH: Christian Leu, CFO of ista International GmbH, as the Supervisory Board Chairman, and Jochen Schein, COO of ista International GmbH. ista in proven hands In 2013, funds advised by CVC Capital Partners acquired the majority shareholding in ista; the management continues to hold shares in the company. Subsequently, ista issued corpoKey figures rate bonds for the first time in its history. The bonds are listed on the Irish stock exchange in Dublin; investors can purchase and trade ista’s notes. ista regularly informs its investors in the form of quarterly reports and investor calls about the latest financial results and de2012* 2013* Change velopments at the company. Sales of ista International GmbH EUR 710.1 million EUR 743.9 million +4.8 % The consolidated financial statements of ista as at December 31, 2013 included 48 companies in which ista holds directly or indirectly the majority of voting rights or determines Employees worldwide (average FTE) 4,477 4,647 +3.8 % the financial and business policy directly or indirectly on the basis of a controlling position. More detailed information on data and changes regarding the company and workforce * As a result of the sale of the ista Group to CVC Capital Partners in June 2013, and to improve comparability with prior periods and show meaningful key figures, the 2013 financials shown in this table are based on pro forma financials only, assuming the transaction took place as at January 1, 2013. No adjustments have been made to the 2012 financial figures. structure can be found at www.ista.com/sustainabilityreport2013/. 14 Sustainability strategy 15 Don’t forget heat in Our strategy: Sustainability the energy turnaround The energy turnaround is a done The way in which the energy turnaround is being practised today is more like a change in Sustainability is our business. We contribute to saving energy, costs and emissions worldwide. We create transdeal in Germany. The entire elec­ the supply of electricity. It is resulting in the electricity supply becoming ever more decenparency by determining and managing individual energy and water consumption. Everyone therefore finds out tricity supply is to be changed tralised. Small and medium-sized plants for renewable energies or combined heat and powwhat they are actually consuming. This transparency and knowledge lead to the efficient use of energy and water over to renewable energies within er generation are increasingly being used instead of large-scale power stations. However, – on quite a considerable scale. just four decades. Wind power, too little or no consideration is being given to the subject of “energy efficiency”: attention is solar energy and renewables will currently not focused on considerably reducing individual energy consumption, especially then replace fossil fuels such as “building energy” or “energy for mobility”. Tremedous potential lies hidden here. coal and gas. The aim is also to improve energy efficiency – Identifying major savings potential above all in the building sector. Above all, the effects of the heat market have so far been completely underestimated. Space heat and hot water account for 85 % of total energy consumption in private households in Germany. But why is everybody still talking mainly about a “cap on electricity costs”? In ­order to safeguard the success of the energy turnaround, there must be greater public awareness of the relevance of the heat sector and politicians should support this area much F more than before. or ista, sustainability is more than just lip service and more For ista, it is quite natural for men and women to be treated equally than just a part of our operations. As a company, we are total– in terms of job opportunities and pay. For all these reasons, ista The fact is that if we reduce our energy consumption, we are less dependent on fossil rely committed to sustainable thinking and action. Our prodreceived the “Top Job” award in Germany for the third time in 2013. sources which are becoming increasingly scarce and more expensive. The government ucts and services help to save energy and water on a large scale. The The “Top Employer” award was again conferred on the ista Shared has quite rightly decided that the energy savings potential in the building sector has to be production processes and workflows at our company are designed Services Center in Poland. exploited. The EU Energy Efficiency Directive provides for measures which would oblige to achieve sustainable management and conserve resources. Our In 2013, ista implemented the corporate volunteering proenergy suppliers and distributors to save energy amounting to 1.5 % of their energy sales employees are passionate about acting in an environmentally comgramme “grow” for the first time – with the aim of encouraging Source: every year. Energy efficiency funds are also to be set up as independent organisational units patible manner and are active on behalf of society. As a result, so the voluntary commitment of its employees even more effectively. * BMWi, 12/2011; reference year 2010 and targets for restricting absolute energy consumption are to be formulated. each one of them is an ambassador for greater sustainability. To this end, the company combined the two programmes “energy Therefore, corporate responsibility (CR) is not pursued on the matters” (international) and “ista gets involved” (Germany). The sidelines, but at the heart of ista. When we develope new products heart of “grow” involves Corporate Volunteering Days. In this way, and services or establish them on the market, energy efficiency is the company aims to implement environmental projects which its our leitmotiv. The more energy and costs our products save, the employees have initiated themselves. more successful we are on the market. At the same time, we optimise our internal processes and thereby cut expenditure on reCV Claudia Kemfert heads the Energy, Transsources and materials. With both its current and prospective emportation and Environment department at ployees, ista sets great store by the respectful and careful treatment Holistic CR approach the German Institute for Economic Research (DIW Berlin) and lectures as a professor for of the environment and society, of colleagues, customers and other energy economics and sustainability at the relevant stakeholders (see diagram on page 16). This enables us to Hertie School of Governance in Berlin. Her Products & specialisations are energy research and clistrengthen our credibility as an employer and an internationally Services mate protection. Moreover, she is a member successful company. It is not without reason that ista is the indusof advisory councils of various research instiEnergy & tutions as well as federal and state ministries. try opinion-leader. Resources Commitment grows with “grow” Employees Society ista is so successful in the field of CR because of its employees’ Responsible Responibility in Responsible commitment. Their effort plays a key role in the successful impleManagement & Control Business Model Neighbour mentation of the sustainability strategy as well as in the company’s Berlin, economic success. That’s why ista takes its responsibility towards Corporate Responsibility Germany its employees very seriously, offering them a wide range of developProf. Dr. Claudia Kemfert ment opportunities in the fields of vocational and further training { e ne rgy eco n o m i s t } ista’s sustainability strategy encompasses responsibility in and health. For example, in 2013, every employee spent on average management, responsibility in the business model and being 3.4 days, in other words 27.2 hours, on further training programmes. a responsible neighbour. 16 Sustainability strategy 17 The key environmental figures serve the management as a yardstick to measure the company’s environmental performance. over, it is the contact for all sustainability questions and supports the operational units in implementing suitable measures. Sustainability institutionalised: The Management Board uses the key figures of the Corporate Human The Sustainability Council reports directly to the management the ista Sustainability Council is responsible Resources department to assess the company’s societal and social and advises the members of the management on sustain­ability for the successful implementation of international CR projects worldwide. performance. The analysis of staff turnover and further training issues. Here in Germany, there is still no procedure with which rates enables the company to identify optimisation potential in this the sustainability performance of the Management Board can be field. Furthermore, ista assesses projects completed in the field of ­assessed. At the other ista companies, the Council is supported by social engagement. sustainability delegates. These employees coordinate the implementation of all CR activities in the individual countries together A code offers guidance with the specialist departments. Furthermore, one member of the All ista employees are obliged to observe the Environmental GuideCouncil is an environmental consultant who is responsible for lines. In addition to compliance with legal requirements, these environmental questions at ista. He implements the environment Member of the Global Compact Guidelines prescribe the responsible use of energy and raw mater­ management requirements and advises all companies on matters of the United Nations ials. In addition, ista’s Code of Conduct is binding on all employees. relevant to the environment. It advises on how employees can avoid conflicts of interest and exferent demands on ista. It is the task of all departments to address and allow for plains that the company rejects corruption and bribery. Corporate Opinions and comments more than welcome their individual needs in their business processes. ista has been in open dialogue Internal Audit and Compliance supports the employees in applying ista’s most important stakeholders include customers, employees, with its stakeholders for many years (see table on page 16). The company selects all of ista’s guidelines and ensures their compliance as part of its owners, suppliers, associations and the media. They all place difInternational the stakeholders considered in the CR strategy according to their proximity to regular auditing activities. Employees who have questions about ­corporate the fields of action relevant to sustainability. In 2013, the stakeholders did not the requirements or do not want to discuss a topic with their superaise any concerns or questions relevant to this report. The relationship with the volunteering prorior can get in touch with the Senior Vice President Corporate Inowners is laid down in the articles of association and rules of procedure. Monthternal Audit and Compliance, Günther Meggeneder (see interview Stakeholder dialogue gramme “grow” ly reporting and consultation meetings ensure an exchange of views. Customers on page 19). All employees have access to ista’s guidelines on the are kept continuously informed of new developments at events, through newsIntranet. Information on avoiding corruption and bribery is reguletters as well as through personal support. Their wishes are included in stralarly brought to the attention of the management. Stakeholder Communication examples and aims ista and its employees act in compliance with the UN Declar­ EXTERNal ation on Human Rights, the UN Convention against Corruption Customer events, customer advisory council, Customers and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration of customer satisfaction survey, ­customer newsletter, Internet, personal customer care and support, Prin­ciples. The latter serves, among other things, to combat child corporate blog, newsroom ­labour, eliminate forced labour and prohibit discrimination. All Associations, employees have the possibility of reporting violations or a susMemberships, association work organisations, NGOs pected violation to the Internal Audit department. No instances Politics Discussions with political parties of discrimination were reported in 2013. In the reporting year, ista Owners Monthly reporting and consultation meetings ­became a member of the Global Compact of the United Nations and Press meetings / conferences, press releases, therefore pledged to gear its business activities and strategies to ten Press corporate blog, newsroom universally recognised principles relating to human rights, ­labour Suppliers Regular consultation meetings standards, fighting corruption and environmental protection. Students, University cooperations scientists Body of experts promotes sustainability action Info Sustainable management has a positive effect on the economy, sociINTERNal At ista, transparency is not only vis­ ety and the company. ista has therefore developed an international Employees Staff appraisal interviews, employee opinion ible in the business model itself, but survey, information events, management blog, CR strategy which, in institutional terms, is anchored in the Susalso understood by the company staff magazine, newsletter, Intranet as holistic, sustainable action in all tainability Council (see diagram on page 18). This body identifies areas of society. and promotes sustainability activities at all ista companies. It convenes three to four times a year. The Council develops standards, ista conducts an open dialogue initiates projects and gives recommendations on strategy. More­ with its internal and external stakeholders. 18 Sustainability strategy 19 CV Günther Meggeneder has headed Corporate Internal Audit and Compliance at ista as Senior Vice President since 2008. He is responsible for auditing processes in all 26 ista countries and in the central departments. Furthermore, Günther Meggeneder has been involved in the InstiSustainability Council can post their opinions. In the USA, the employees can send suggestute of Internal Auditors for some years. Before joining ista, he worked as a coach tions to the management of their location using a function on the and consultant in the auditing field. Intranet. The management of ista France invites the employees to CEO ista International GmbH breakfast once a month. They then discuss current issues together. In addition, works councils champion the needs of the employees Procurement & Products Logistics Internal Audit in Germany, France, Spain, Belgium and Denmark. In 2013, no cases Operations were reported where the freedom of association or the right to conista Group Environmental Corporate HR Management duct collective bargaining negotiations was jeopardised. Consultant Günther Meggeneder Regional Manager Corporate Marketing In demand as a discussion partner {S eni or V i ce P r es i de n t C o r po r a t e International Communications Inter na l Aud i t a nd C o m p l i a n ce } Thanks to its expertise and international market leadership, ista is Representatives of all departments relevant to sustainability issues get in demand as a discussion partner on the subjects of energy efficientogether and report direct to the management. cy and energy management for politicians, business, associations and organisations. In this context, ista repeatedly makes it clear that transparency is an essential requirement for reducing energy consumption and the resultant impact on the environment. tegic considerations through customer surveys and the customer ista is a member of various associations and organisations. advisory council. One of them is “Europäischer Verein zur verbrauchsabhängigen The interests of the employees are determined in surveys and Energiekostenabrechnung e. V.” (The Association for Energy Cost through direct feedback to superiors. Internal media keep the emAllocation), in which five subsidiaries are represented and Walter Three questions ployees regularly informed about current developments at the comSchmidt is the President. In Germany, ista is a member of the trade pany. ista has an “open-door culture”. Employees can voice their association “Arbeitsgemeinschaft Heizund Wasserkostenvertei01 What is Internal Audit? Internal Audit supports ista in achieving strategic and operFOR ... questions and ideas at events as well as in personal talks with manlung e. V.” (ARGE) and the environmental initiative B.A.U.M. e. V. ational goals. For this purpose, we examine business processes in the respective branches agers. The “get-together”, for example, is such an event held at the In France, ista is represented in the I.C.O. , an organisation for the or national organisations as well as, for example, contracts which ista has with partners head office in Essen to which the management invites employees to promotion of energy and environmental technology in buildings and suppliers. Before every audit, we draw up a detailed plan defining the object of the exchange views with them. The multilingual management blog on and technical plants. ista observes ethical standards both in politaudit and determining the workflow. We then analyse existing process data and conduct the Group-wide Intranet serves a similar purpose; here, employees ical lobbying and in marketing. Advertising which conflicts with Only companies which repeatedly interviews with employees. We examine whether the actual situation corresponds to the ista’s corporate values is not permitted. Moreover, ista does not sell subject their internal processes to target situation. If this is not the case, we develop measures to optimise the process. Furany products which are banned in certain markets or are the subject rigorous scrutiny and look for imthermore, we advise our colleagues worldwide on subjects such as corporate governance, of critical public debate. provement potential can be successcompliance and risk management. Moreover, the workforce receives guidelines and direct­ ful in the long term. When it comes ives from us. A step closer to the goal to these activities, ista places its ista’s core business is to promote energy efficiency. The managetrust in the expertise of the Senior 02 What are the special features of internal auditing at ista? ista has a long history. ment therefore carefully considers the opportunities and risks assoVice President Corporate Internal So, on the one hand, we are dealing with traditional markets where we have already been ciated with climate change. There are no risks from climate change Audit and Compliance, Günther successful for a long time. And, on the other hand, with new markets where we have only which threaten ista’s existence. Regulatory risks arise, for example, Meggeneder. He explains what his recently been operating. Here, many things are still in the start-up mode and the national Info in connection with heat insulation measures which have to be perwork is all about. organisations have, in some cases, not yet dealt in detail with certain issues such as risk formed in buildings belonging to ista. Due to the rising demand for management. Many processes are still undergoing change in the new markets, whereas the ista measures and can be meas­ ured – not least in terms of sustai­ products and services which conserve resources, ista benefits to workflows in the traditional markets are firmly established. We have to convince both of nability. Association work and its a certain extent from climate change but does not, however, gain the need for change, but in very different ways. ista has a very good communication culactive membership in internation­ ally renowned organisations are competitive advantages. The management of ista has not put a figture. Therefore, these special features are not a major challenge for us. important components of this. ure on the financial impact of climate change on the company. In 2013, ista came a step closer to its goal of becoming a com03 What importance does transparency have for you? Transparency enables us to see pany with a holistic sustainability approach. In the next few years, how workflows are actually functioning. As a result, we can identify improvement potenit is also important to further develop the CR strategy and anchor it tial and act accordingly. For me, transparency is the basis for the constant improvement of more strongly at all locations worldwide. workflows at ista. B 20 Products & Services 21 Making aware Management Approach Products & Services ista is constantly further developing its service and product portfolio on the basis of radio technology. Product and IT development are increasingly going hand in hand. The result: innovative technologies which create a significant increase in comfort and efficiency in the building sector with low investment. And, not least of all, the envir­ onment benefits from this. P eople who save energy sustainably do not just save money. of water, heat and ancillary costs. ista intends to further extend In these times of climate change, reducing CO2 emissions rethis lead in future. Using the development of financial and nonmains one of the most pressing tasks of our time. ista’s man­ financial performance indicators, the management monitors the agement therefore closely studies the opportunities and risks of implementation of the Group’s strategy and, where necessary, can climate change. On the one hand, legal developments such as the intervene directly. European Commission’s Energy Efficiency Directive are in­creasing The company values form the basis for the further strategic and the demand for offerings which contribute to greater energy effi­ operational development of the Group. They serve as a guideline ciency and the conservation of resources. On the other hand, me­ for all employees. The establishment and maintenance of valuable dium-size businesses such as ista are facing tremendous structural partnerships with customers are of key importance. ista therefore and organisational challenges with no competitive advantages regularly conducts customer surveys to find out how satisfied its being gained. On the contrary, competition will be further intensicustomers actually are. fied beyond industry boundaries. ista’s Code of Conduct reflects how the company fundamenOur advantage: today, ista’s products and services are already tally expects employees to act and serves as a guideline on how to playing their role in significantly cutting CO2 emissions – all over deal with sensitive issues, such as conflicts of interest or corruption the world. We create transparency through energy consumption and bribery. ista and its employees act in compliance with the UN and by doing so make it possible for people to to deal responsibly Declaration on Human Rights, the UN Convention against Corrupwith their own energy and resource consumption. It is this empowtion and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration erment of peo­ple to change the way they deal with resources which, of Principles. The latter serves, among other things, to combat child from our point of view, is one of the most important tools for active labour, eliminate forced labour and prohibit discrimination. climate protection. ista strictly complies with ethical standards both in political Energy savings through transparent energy data management and ista aims to safeguard profitable growth and increase the lobbying and in marketing. The Group therefore does not sell any regular information on consumption company’s value. Today, the energy service provider is already the products which are banned in certain markets or are the object of 1,400 world leader in the consumption-dependent metering and billing critical public debate. kWh per year * Info: Source: ... compensate for roughly 1,650 wash loads.** The washing of Based on 15 % savings of gas through the use of EDM Premium in an average * dena.de; based on an average, modern appliance **  a family of four could be done for about 6.5 years.*** rented apartment with a living area of 68.0 m2, www.stromseite.de in a normal washing cycle with a consumption of 0.85 kW / h *** A household with two adults and two children does about five loads of *** www.energieverbraucher.de washing on average per week, which is about 260 wash loads per year. 22 Products & Services 23 Award-winning: the ista energy app Since 2013, ista has been offering a mobile Everything under control! energy app for smart phones and tablets to provide property managers and tenants with considerably more transparency concerning their energy consumption. The presentation of the consumption figures and costs for heat, water and electricity was adapted for mobile applications. The Initiative Mittelstand (“Ini­ tiative for small and medium-sized enterprises”) judged the ista energy app to be one of the best and most future-proof ideas and products for SMEs in Germany and awarded ista the Innovation Prize IT 2013. The restructuring of global energy systems is one of the most ambitious projects of our times in economic terms. Ever rising energy prices are mostly the result. But there is a simple remedy for this: transparency. People who know what they are consuming can act. ista shows how that works with the “Saving Money through Clever Heating” project. Region Europe Antonio Fischetti Central {Hea d of M a r ke t i n g a nd P Bus i n ess D eve l op m e n t } eople’s annual heating cost bills have so far failed to answer their consumption data every month. “With this major project, we their questions as to when they have consumed, how much want to show that regular transparency is the key to saving energy and why. As a consequence, they often have to make high in the building sector. With monthly information on their individadditional payments for hot water and heating. However, there is ual consumption, all the tenants can actively perform their own engreat potential, especially in private households, to take the initia­ ergy management and systematically save energy – depending on tive and already cut consumption by very simple means. But how their own requirements,” says Antonio Fischetti, Head of Marketing can that succeed? The most important requirement for this is transand Business Development at ista. parency. If residents are regularly informed about their consumption, they can control their behaviour in a targeted manner and The “smart tenant” ing – naturally climate-adjusted. Another bonus point: the cost savings are also displayed. save energy and costs. “We determine the individual monthly heating and hot water en­ This creates maximum transparency and boosts people’s awareness of the actual amount ergy consumption for every apartment using the radio system. Very “Smart tenants” of energy consumed. “We are creating a real turnaround in attitude from the energy turnSaving energy can be so simple simple, manageable and easy for everyone to understand,” Fischetti around,” Antonio Fischetti stresses. “We are using transparency to counter the widespread Together with the German Energy Agency (dena), the German Tencontinues. The latest data are presented to the users every month feeling in the population of being powerless to do anything against rising energy costs. We ants’ Association and the Federal Ministry for Environment, Nature in graphs on a web portal, by app or in paper form, if requested. are ensuring that the consumer can take personal charge of saving energy, costs and also Conservation and Nuclear Safety, ista has therefore initiated the Thanks to ista, the tenants always have their current consumption CO2 with very low investment costs.” “Saving Money through Clever Heating” project. In cooperation for heating and hot water under control. They can compare their German Energy with the three real estate companies Allbau in Essen, Vaterlänfigures with those of the previous year, previous month and with Agency (dena) The “heat turnaround” discher Bauverein in Berlin and GWG in Munich, ista has invited the average consumption of the other apartments in their buildConsumers’ behaviour is so crucial because there is great energy savings potential, above 700 households to participate in Europe’s largest field trial for conall in the building sector. Heat and hot water consumption together account for roughly sumption information during the year. Some 200 households are 85 %* of total energy consumption in private households. We therefore need a “heat turn­ now checking their individual savings potential. With the aid of raaround” – more responsible use of energy in our own four walls. This is the only way we can dio-based metering technology, the participants in the study obtain master the restructuring of the energy systems in an acceptable manner. Unique Info pilot project Economy drive with ista energy data man­ In black and white agement. ista develops sustainable and afThe “Saving Money through Clever Heating” project is to cover three heating periods and fordable solutions in the field of energy data management (EDM). Using this web-based ends in 2016. A previous project implemented by the Institut für Wohnen und Umwelt (InAround Mobile consumption service, customers can retrieve the data of stitute for Housing and Environment) in Darmstadt determined an average savings effect the previous five billing periods from an on200 private recording line platform and view detailed evaluations. of 14 % as a result of providing monthly information on consumption. This is now to be The premium version of the EDM goes even confirmed. “I know of no other comparable project in the building sector,” says Antonio one step further: in this case, the consumption data of all the different types of energy Fischetti, “which has such a positive cost-benefit ratio. Just imagine that at a cost of EUR 1 can be metered and processed monthly to EUR 2 a month, you can cut your energy consumption by a total of 10 to 15 %; in other households thanks to modern radio technology. words, save more than EUR 100 a year.” Not to mention the impact on CO2 emissions. The introduction of compulsory monthly consumption information in Germany alone would Consumption Heat turnaround Info / Source: * BMWi, 12 / 2011; reference year 2010 save as much energy as a nuclear power station generates in a year. Or to put it another way: 7.28 tonnes of CO2 saved would be the equivalent of the total annual CO2 emissions transparency CO2-Rechner klimAktiv; calculation based on an average of **  11.1 tonnes of CO2 emissions per capita of a major city like Stuttgart.** 24 pRoductS & SeRviceS 25 Stephan Kohler {CHi EF EXECU ti VE, G Er m a n EnErGy aG EnCy} “The energy turnaround concerns us all. We are all feeling the changes which it entails. And we are all responsible for its success. By using energy efficiently wherever we consume it.” {G Er m a ny} 24 pRoductS & SeRviceS 25 ignacio abati { COUntry m a naGE r } “Saving energy is an ecological and economic megatheme. The statutory introduction of individual metering and billing of energy consumption could be a milestone for Spain. A milestone for greater transparency and lower costs.” {SPai n } 26 Products & Services 27 Selection of suppliers Examination of suppliers regarding 01 Human rights issues 02 Child labour 03 Forced labour ista places high demands on its suppliers. The company’s Supplier Code is based on the Global Compact of the United Nations, Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) principles of responsible corporate governance and the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). The Code forbids the employment of children and people in forced or compulsory labour. Quality Management examines compliance with the Code in regular supplier audits. Employees have the possibility at all times to report infringements to Corporate Internal Audit and Compliance. Of the major suppliers and service providers, 85 % have signed Savings of CO2 emissions through the Supplier Code including human rights standards. The suppliers CRI individual billing 1.5 are responsible for monitoring observance of the requirements in their own supply chain and offering optimum support. ista does not have a We gear our entire corporate action to our guideline according to which local suppliers are given preference. The customers. That is why the company has company organises hardware and material ­procurement centrally. The been conducting a customer survey accordengineering and production site is in Au (Germany). The hardware is ing to the specifications of the Customer also tested there. Retention Index (CRI) for three years now. A total of 11 national organisations participated in 2013. On a scale of ten, the satisfaction ratings were between 5.9 and 8 points. The latest survey has shown that customers in the Czech Republic are particularly million satisfied: 8 points were scored there. tonnes of CO2 emissions per year * Progress ... compensate for roughly table 440,000 return flights between Berlin and New York.** Aims & fields of action Measures Development of innovative, intelliMigration of the ista radio technology and Status gent products and services to boost greater use of EDM energy efficiency Premium (average energy savings of 14 %) From 2013 Increase in consumption transparency and sensitisation to the importance of the heat secFrom 2013 tor as a key factor for the sucSource: cess of the energy turnaround Performance of the study “Saving Money www.ista.de, ** www.atmosfair.de; with emis­sions of 3,410 kg of * through Clever Heating” to save heating CO2, based on a scheduled flight in economy class on an A330-300 energy and CO2 in Germany over the distance of 12,868 km C 28 Energy & Resources 29 Acting consciously Management Approach Energy & Resources At ista, resource conservation is a task which aims at the heart of our company. Just like our products, we are also committed in our workflows and processes to the conservation of nature and the environment. We are continu­ ously optimising our consumption of paper, water, energy and fuel. Moreover, many of our employees also pass on their knowledge outside work as environment ambassadors. In order to make its constantly growing commitment visible, ista measures its progress in the field of sustainability every year. i sta employees are bound by the company’s Environmental Guide­ moved into a building which is considerably more energy efficient lines. These Guidelines not only prescribe compliance with stathan the previous premises. And in Belarus, employees give lec­ tutory regulations, but also the responsible use of energy and tures as experts on the subject of energy efficiency at the country’s resources. Through articles in internal communication media or universities. training courses such as fuel-saving training programmes, our emSome years ago, ista began to set up a Group-wide environployees are given ideas on how they can use energy and resources mental management system. Responsibility for this system lies more responsibly in their everyday working lives. with the Sustainability Council, which reports direct to the CEO An integral part of the corporate strategy is to take ecological of ista. The Council is the contact for all sustainability matters and requirements into account. Therefore, saving energy and resources provides support in the implementation of suitable measures. One as well as cutting CO2 emissions are core objectives of the Groupmember of the Council is an environmental consultant who is reswide environmental management system. The focus is on reduc­ ponsible for ecological issues. The Council is supported by sustain­ ing the consumption of heating energy, electricity, water, paper, ability delegates in the implementation of the sustainability strafuel and production materials. ista also tries to produce as little tegy in the respective countries. Furthermore, key environmental waste as possible. data provide transparency on the progress made in this field. The Therefore, each of the 26 ista national organisations initiates recording of these KPIs is continuously being professionalised at projects which increase environmental awareness – either inside ista. In the reporting period, data collection was revised and data or outside the company. Our Swiss colleagues, for example, have processing optimised. Water savings at ista worldwide 2,836,482 litres of water Info: Source: ... correspond to roughly 18,910 bath fulls.* Based on an average bath size with a capacity of 150 litres * www.feelgreen.de * 30 Energy & Resources 31 Efficient on the road 5 technicians from ista Belgium are now driving hybrid cars. ista can’t do without cars: the ista service technicians need vehicles to visit their customers. To ensure its em­ ployees worldwide get from A to B in as eco friendly a manner as possible with the least impact on resources, the company is constantly searching for new, more efficient solutions. All 42 vehicles of the Belgian fleet are to be replaced by 2017. 40 cars W hen the ista technicians in Belgium set off to their The ambitious project was launched in mid-2013. Stroobants customers, they not only keep an eye on their speed, wanted to introduce hybrid cars even sooner. “But many models at ista Spain are fitted with a so-called Masternaut system. but also on fuel consumption. “Our technicians rely were too small. And our technicians need space in the boot for It provides the drivers with regular information on their on their vehicles. Therefore, we have to consider how to send them their work equipment,” says the 43year-old. Then Toyota launched driving style. If they drive too fast, an alarm sounds. off on the road in as eco friendly a manner as possible,” says Fithe Auris Hybrid on the market, a car which satisfies ista’s requirenance and HR Manager Alexandre Stroobants. The plan: by 2017, ments. “For us, the right moment to make our company car fleet the 42 vehicles of the Belgian company-car fleet are to be replaced even more environmentally friendly,” Stroobants explains. Five 12 hybrid vehicles are used by ista Brazil. by hybrid cars, i. e. cars with a combined electric motor and intern­ employees of the Belgian company now drive hybrid cars. When a They mainly run on ethanol. al combustion engine. conventional car has to be replaced, the more eco-friendly version However, Belgium is not the only ista company which is now optis the only choice. ing for an eco-friendly company car fleet. In France, the employees’ In addition, Stroobants is looking to raise the technicians’ company cars must not emit more than 120 grammes of CO2. “As awareness of their consumption. Since 2011, he has been inviting his a company that makes a contribution towards protecting resources colleagues to participate in a fuel-saving competition. The message: with its products, we must also pay attention to this with our ve­ “Each individual can conserve a lot of resources simply by modifyhicles,” says Najat Bouhnaida, Process owner. Taxes can also be ing his or her behaviour slightly.” The technicians who already drive saved as a result. In addition, ista France has tested an electric car. a hybrid car are very satisfied, according to Stroobants. “The new cars “It is so small that we can easily find a parking space in the centre have similar features to the old company cars and the same driving of Paris,” says David Fellous, Manager for Direct Purchasing and Car comfort,” he says, summarising the feedback received so far. Fleet. However, charging up the car is still a little problematic as the ista Spain has also bought a small electric car which the techconnection is not compatible with many charging stations. They nicians use in the city traffic of Madrid. “Slow-moving traffic is the are therefore currently looking for a different solution. rule here, especially at rush hour. That naturally consumes a lot of fuel. We drive more efficiently with the electric car,” reports Raista Belgium has worked it all out: the hybrid model is more expensive to buy than fael Ruiz Ruiz, Quality Manager at ista Spain. Another benefit: the the previous company vehicles, but fuel costs drivers do not have to pay any parking charges when they park are lower. “We spend just as much money as before, but are doing something good for the “As a company that makes their car. environment at the same time,” says Alexander Furthermore, the Spanish company has installed a so-called Stroobants. “If we only cut fuel consumption by 20 %, we’ll reduce our CO2 emissions by 36 a contribution towards Masternaut system in 40 of its vehicles which provides the technitonnes – a very good result.” cians with regular information on their driving style. For example, ­protecting resources with an alarm peeps when they are driving too quickly and fuel consumption rises considerably as a result. In addition, they receive ista its products, we must also ­detailed information about their individual trips every month. Belgium “With this system, we can visualise the technicians’ driving behavAlexandre Stroobants { F i n a n ce & H R M a n a ge r } pay attention to this with iour and encourage them to use fuel more efficiently,” Ruiz says. Ini­ tial successes can already be seen. ista Spain will be able to reduce our vehicles.” its petrol consumption by 10 % within one year. 32 eneRgy & ReSouRceS 33 benny mathiesen {rEGiOnal manaGEr rEGiOn EUrOPE nOrtH} “We are pushing the use of ultramodern radio technology so that our customers and users can save ever more energy. But ista itself also conserves resources: we are steadily reducing our paper consumption and use energysaving LED lights.” {D Enm a r K } 32 eneRgy & ReSouRceS 33 malgorzata Kisielewicz { tEa m l E a D E r an D SUSta i nab i l i t y D E l E Gat E } “We save resources where we can. To avoid business trips, we are making increasing use of web conferences. What’s more, we rarely print out e-mails. And when we do, only on recycled paper.” {P O l a n D } 34 WORLDWIDE +18.7 % Energy & Resources 35 Info ista’s most important consumption figures – Trends 4,192 The key consumption data for 2013 include figures of locations in a year-on-year comparison Heating energy in gigajoules 2012: 22,382** / 2013: 26,574* with rents billed as a lump sum which, just as in the 2011 and 2012 reports, have been uniformly extrapolated to -5.8 % the individual types of 5,548 consumption electricity, water and heating. Detailed information on the consumption Fuel in gigajoules figures is shown in ta­ 2012: 94,971** / 2013: 89,423* bles on ista’s website at www.ista.com/ sustainabilityreport 2013/. -4.1 % 3,008 +2.5 % 644 CO2e emissions in tonnes1 2012: 15,776** / 2013: 15,132* Paper (office consumption) in kilogrammes 1  produced by heating energy, electricity, Electricity savings at ista worldwide 2012: 121,633 / 2013: 124,640* of around 2.6 vehicle fleet, air travel and public transport Progress table Measures Introduction of new printing systems with automatic black / Status Aims & fields of action white and duplex printing at thousand gigajoules some ista branches in France, use of intelligent lighting sys2013 tems in Spain ... correspond to the Reduction in the consumption of resources Continuous annual electricity consumption of Continued rollout of the radio strat­ around 6,164 laptops.*** egy, replacement of old heat allocation ­meters with modern radio devices at Ecological rules at iSS Polska most ista locations worldwide which remind the employees to observe the environmental guidelines and conserve resources Continuous Replacement of the existing German company-car fleet with more fuel-efficient reference models By the end Reduction in CO2 emissions of 2014 Greater use of hybrid vehicles in Belgium and Brazil, implementation and further development of control mechanisms to save petrol in Germany and Continuous Spain, introduction of company car guidelines in France and Italy since 2013 Source: * These keys figures were subject to a limited assurance engagement by KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft in 2014. ** More accurate data for the period of the previous-year report 2012 are now available for individual key figures, which is why the corrected figures for 2012 are indicated at this point. *** Based on an average use of 4 hours per day, rating of 80 W, http://blog.123energie.de D 36 Employees & Society 37 Communicating openly Management Approach Employees & Society An open-door culture, regular satisfaction surveys and a lively exchange of views between employees and managers – it all shows that, at ista, transparency plays a key role in staff communications. i sta would not be successful without committed employees. ological and personal skills. The company’s own health manageTheir motivation, their vocational training and their expertise ment promotes employees’ fitness and health, for example, with are crucial for the company to reach its targets. ista therefore sports offerings and screening programmes. On average, every offers its employees comprehensive support and, at the same time, employee was absent on 8 days in 2013, compared with 8.4 days calls on them to express their opinions and aspirations. ista’s emin 2010. The sickness rate has therefore remained largely stable ployees can voice their views at any time in surveys and through at 3.6 %. direct feedback to their superiors. Many ista employees become involved outside their work. Once a year, staff appraisal interviews and target agreement The company promotes this commitment in resource conservatalks are held, in which great emphasis is placed on reciprocal tion and environmental education. Here, the employees gain new feedback. The employees are also given support in organising experience and, at the same time, help to make the individual ista worker representation bodies and representing their interests in locations an even more integral part of their neighbourhood. In collective bargaining negotiations. early 2013, the two sponsoring programmes “energy matters” and Men and women receive the same career opportunities at all “ista gets involved” were merged into the new international corista locations. Flexible working time models help staff to better porate volunteering programme “grow”. ista provides financial reconcile work and family. ista offers a wide-ranging further trainsupport for the “grow” projects and gives the employees time off ing programme to improve its employees’ professional, methodwork to conduct campaigns together. Balanced workforce structure 47% of ista employees are women, … which shows that ista offers men and women equal job opportunities. That cannot be taken for granted, particularly at an IT-oriented company. 38 Employees & Society 39 ista employed 4,862 people worldwide as at December 31,2013. 132 apprentices ista’s career websites record Energy managers wanted in Germany an average of some 7,000 visitors every month. (as at: March 2014) Anyone who gets to know ista as an applicant or new employee is soon really passionate about the company. But first of all, suitable candidates have to discover that this medium-sized enterprise even exists. A new inter­ national employer branding campaign is designed to help make ista better known and attract qualified employees. F ranziska Loos from Germany, Sarah Achatz from the USA and and implemented together with the HR department of the Region The amateur models had lots of fun, and the response to the result was very positive: “ The Daniel Gavrila from Romania – all three have smiles on their Europe Central, we were determined to feature real employees and fact that our brand ambassadors come from the company strengthens the we-feeling.” And faces. All three say: “The world runs on energy. And I manage not photograph professional models,” says Tanja Perbix, Senior that’s exactly what an employer branding campaign is supposed to do: in addition to adit.” And all three work for ista. Since March 2013, the company has Project Manager Corporate Human Resources. Our colleagues now dressing applicants, the aim is to strengthen the present employees’ bond with the combeen advertising itself as an employer with the faces of its own emshow their passion for ista in flyers, print and online advertisepany. The campaign is intended to attract skilled people who do not yet know ista to the Good advice ployees. “In our employer branding campaign, which we de­veloped ments as well as on the company’s career websites. medium-sized enterprise. “We are a very successful and steadily growing company. And so Since March 2013, ista has been our demand for qualified employees is also growing,” Tanja Perbix says. offering its employees in Germany external counselling. The Employ­ee Assistance Programme helps in the event of health, personal or “In our campaign, we were work problems and in difficult situations. determined to feature real “My job is full of energy because ...” ista’s employees complete this sentence in very individual ways. They can be seen employees and not photograph in short YouTube videos on ista’s channel. In these clips, employees from different national organisations describe their emprofessional models.” ployer and their daily work. Can be found at: http://bit.ly/1hqxDo5 Naturally, with such an international campaign, national specifics also have to be taken into consideration. “For example, in the USA, job vacancy descriptions must be much more detailed than in Germany,” Tanja Perbix says. “So we did not get very far with our original plan to design the job advertisements merely as eye-catchers with as little text as possible.” Internet presence also varies depending on the size of the national organisation: whereas the large ista companies have their own career website, the career section in the ­medium-sized countries is integrated into the general website. The small countries, which only rarely have a vacancy to fill, refer prospective applicants to the Group’s English webista Group site, career.ista.com. Info “Since the new career pages have been online, the applicants are so well prepared for More HR key figures of ista worldwide Tanja Perbix their interviews that our recruitment team sometimes can’t think of anything new to tell as well as information on the structure { S e n i o r P r ojec t M a n a ge r and development of the workforce in a them about ista,” says Tanja Perbix with a smile. The professional external presentation is year-on-year comparison are available at: C o r po r a t e H R } helping a great deal in the search for suitable employees, according to feedback from the www.ista.com/sustainabilityreport2013/ managers. And what is ista looking for? “We are looking for energy-charged, highly motiv­ ated employees who enjoy working in an international environment,” the HR manager says in summary. In return, ista offers a professional working environment in which the employees can make a big difference – as energy managers. 40 eMployeeS & Society 41 Karin argoud-Violeau {HEa D OF COntrOl l i nG } “The International LEADership Training programme made me realise what staff leadership is all about: long-term motivation and mutual respect.” {Fr a nCE} 40 eMployeeS & Society 41 anshul Garg {bUSinESS COnSUltant EmErGinG marKEtS} “JUMP gave me the platform to accelerate both my professional and personal growth. Individual coachings helped me to define my objectives, and training courses gave me new perspective on leadership, our business and workplace management.” {GE r m an y } 42 Employees & Society 43 Progress table Measures Performance of the employee Status Aims & fields of action opinion survey “People Survey ista” (PSI) Regularly, next survey in the 3rd quarter of 2014 Measurement of employee satisfaction, Wide-ranging employee programme involvement and commitment as well for active stress management and as implementation of the results preventive health care through sports, massage and seminar offerings Continuous Introduction in 2013, Further developCompany nutritional advice programme in cooperation with WeightWatchers continuous ment of health management External employee counselling (Employee Introduction Assistance Programme, CarpeDiem24), with in 2013, the aim of helping employees with health, continuous Continuation of the internationpersonal or work problems and in difficult al further training programme situations “JUMP” for high potentials Working together, Successful completion of the 2013 proSpring 2014 learning from one another 8.6 gramme; start of the 2014 programme Promotion of corporate with international participants volunteering and expanContinuous sion of corporate citizenOrganisation of more Corporate Volunteering Days, ship commitment further development of the programme Further development Rollout and presentation of the of the Shared Values in values at all locations worldwide Spring 2014 line with the corporate strategy Executive training courses on the From Spring 2014 subject of “Value-driven leadership” in some countries, e.g. Germany years is the average length of service at ista worldwide, New food for thought We must assume responsibility in all areas of life and towards all sections of society. For the obliga... which shows that the mixture of longserving employees and those who joined the Prominent experts talked tion to act conscientiously and to take responsibilcompany more recently is just right at ista. about responsibility ity for what we have done is equally important in politics, industry and society. at the ista symposium Therefore, ista called its symposium held in June 2013 “Responsibility – the key subject of our times”, with the aim of providing food for thought on responsible action. The event was held as part of the 10th Housing Industry Discussions held in Düsseldorf. More than 180 guests attended the talks by the philosopher Richard David Precht, the political scientist Gesine Schwan and the actor Hannes Jaenicke. In his address, ista CEO Walter Schmidt summarised as follows: “Responsibility should be part of the DNA of each and every company.” 44 ASSURANCE STATEMENTS 45 Independent Reporting criteria and assurance standards Assurance Report * ista applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.0 of the Global Reporting Initiative, supported by internal guidelines, as described in the section “About this report”, as reporting criteria. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance ­Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial ­Information, and the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3410: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance To the Management of Standards Board. These standards require, amongst others, that the ista International GmbH, Essen assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and professional competencies needed to provide assurance on sustainabil­ ity information, and that we comply with the requirements of the W e were engaged to provide assurance on selected enCode of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International vironmental performance information for the busiFederation of Accountants to ensure our independence. ness year 2013 in the “Sustainability Report 2013”, including the further information on the Sustainability Report Work undertaken 2013 on the website, (further ‘The Report’) of ista International Our procedures included: GmbH, Essen (further ‘ista’). Management of ista is responsible · A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant for the appropriateness of the determination and presentation sustainability aspects for ista in the reporting period. of quantitative indicators on environmental performance in The · Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems Report in accordance with the reporting criteria, including the and processes for the collection, processing and control of the identification of material issues. Our responsibility is to issue environmental performance information, including the con­ an assurance report on the selected environmental performance solidation of the data. ­information published in The Report. · Interviews with relevant staff at corporate level responsible for providing the data, carrying out internal control procedures and Scope consolidating the data in The Report. Our assurance engagement was designed to provide limited as· An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitsurance on whether the following environmental performance ted by all sites for consolidation at corporate level. information is presented, in all material respects, in accordance · Visits to Essen (Germany) and Schiedam (Netherlands) to assess with the reporting criteria: local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability · P  aper consumption: Office consumption (incl. recycled), of the reported data. ­ Production paper (incl. recycled), Notepads (incl. recycled), · An evaluation of the overall presentation of the selected envi­Envelopes (incl. recycled), Marketing materials (incl. recycled); ronmental performance information within the scope of our · E  nergy consumption: Electricity consumption, Heating energy engagement. (total), Heating energy I (gas), Heating energy II (oil), Heating energy III (district heating), Fuel for vehicle fleet (incl. diesel, Conclusion petrol and LPG), Fuel for rented vehicles (incl. diesel, petrol and Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing LPG), Fuel for private vehicles (incl. diesel, petrol and LPG); has come to our attention to indicate that the selected environ· Q  uantity of water withdrawn; mental performance information for the business year 2013 in · Greenhouse Gas emissions: through heating energy consumpThe Report is not, in all material respects, presented in accordance tion, through electricity consumption, through the vehicle fleet, with the reporting criteria. through rented cars, through private cars, through air travel, through train journeys and public transport. Düsseldorf, June 11th, 2014 KPMG AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less Simone Fischer Alexander Glöckner extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. Certified Public Accountant Certified Public Accountant Source: * Translation of the independent assurance report, authoritative in German language. Our engagement applies to the German version of the ista Sustainability Report 2013 46 GRI-Index GRI-Index GRI Index (G3 Indicators) Level of Compliance Pages 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation completely 13, 15 ff. 4.2 Indication whether chairperson is also executive officer completely 13 4.3 Independent members of the board completely 13 This table provides an overview of all indicators which the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) uses for the 4.4 Mechanisms for recommendations of shareholders / employees to the board completely 15 ff. 4.5 Linkage between compensation of the highest governance body and the organisation’s performance completely 13 certification of a sustainability report. The table shows which indicators ista complies with in its reporting. 4.6 Mechanisms to avoid conflict of interest at board level completely 16, 21 4.7 Qualification of the board in terms of sustainability issues completely 15 ff. 4.8 Mission statements, codes of conduct and principles completely 15 ff., 19, 21, 26 4.9 Processes of the board to control the sustainability performance completely 2 f., 15 ff., 19, 21, 29, 37 4.10 Processes for evaluating sustainability performance of the board completely 16 4.11 Precautionary approach principle completely 2 f., 6 ff., 15 ff., 19, 21, 29, 37 4.12 External agreements, principles or initiatives completely Cover, 2 f., 16 ff., 21 ff. GRI Index (G3 Indicators) Level of Compliance Pages 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations completely Cover, 16 ff. 4.14 Stakeholder groups completely 15 ff. 1. Vision And strategY 4.15 Selection of stakeholder groups completely 15 ff. 1.1 CEO statement completely 2 f. 4.16 Inclusion of stakeholder groups completely 15 ff., 19, 39 ff. 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities completely 2 f., 10 ff., 15 ff., 4.17 Questions and concerns raised by stakeholders completely 2 f., 15 ff. 21, 26, 29 ff., 37 ff. 5. Performance Indicators 2. Organisational profile Economy – Management approach partially 21 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation completely 6 ff. 2.2 Brands, products and / or services completely 6 ff., 22 f. EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed partially 10 ff., online* 2.3 Operational structure completely 6 ff. EC 2 Financial implications due to climate change completely 2 f.,6 f.,10 f., 18, 21, 25 2.4 Headquarter location completely 11 EC 3 Benefit plan obligations not at all 2.5 Countries in operation completely 8 ff. EC 4 Financial assistance from the government not at all 2.6 Nature of ownership completely 13 EC 5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum wage not at all 2.7 Markets completely 6 ff., 38 f. EC 6 Local selection of suppliers completely 26 2.8 Scale of the organisation completely 10 ff., online* EC 7 Local hiring for senior management positions not at all 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period completely Cover, 10 ff., online* EC 8 Infrastructure investment and services for public benefit not at all 2.10 Awards received completely Cover, 15 EC 9 Indirect economic impacts not at all Environment – Management approach partially 29 3. Reporting parameters EN 1 Weight / Volume of materials used partially 34, online* 3.1 Reporting period completely Cover, online* EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials completely 33, online* 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report completely Cover, online* EN 3 Direct primary energy consumption completely 34 f., online* 3.3 Reporting cycle completely Cover, online* EN 4 Indirect primary energy consumption completely 34 f., online* 3.4 Contact point for questions completely Cover EN 5 Energy conservation partially 30 ff., online* 3.5 Process for defining report content completely Cover, EN 6 Initiatives for energy-efficiency and renewable energy not at all 2 f., 15 ff. EN 7 Initiatives for reducing the indirect energy consumption partially 30 ff. 3.6 Boundary of the report completely 10 ff., online* EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source completely 28, online* 3.7 Limitations on the report’s scope completely Cover, online * EN 9 Effect of water withdrawal not at all 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, and outsourcing completely Cover, online* EN 10 Recycled and re-used water not at all 3.9 Data measurement techniques completely Cover, 2 f., 29, online* EN 11 Land assets in or bordering protected areas not at all 3.10 Effects of information re-statement completely Cover, online * EN 12 Impacts on biodiversity not at all 3.11 Changes from previous reports in the scope, boundary or measurement techniques completely Cover, EN 13 Protected or restored natural habitats not at all 29, online* EN 14 Strategies for protecting biodiversity not at all 3.12 GRI Index completely 46 ff. EN 15 Endangered species not at all 3.13 External assurance completely 44 f. EN 16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions completely 34, online* EN 17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions completely 34, online* EN 18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions partially 30 f. Source/Additional information: EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances not at all * ista Website: www.ista.com/sustainabilityreport2013/ EN 20 NOX, SOX and other air emissions by weight not at all ** The ista Code of Conduct is binding for all our employees and informs them that ista rejects corruption. There were not specific training sessions on this issue in 2013, EN 21 Wastewater discharge not at all however employees receive the guidelines in written form and have to respect them. They also obtain further information via intranet and printed materials. GRI Index (G3 Indicators) Level of Compliance Pages EN 22 Waste by type and disposal method not at all EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills not at all EN 24 Hazardous waste according to the Basel Convention not at all EN 25 Effects of wastewater on biodiversity completely online* EN 26 Initiatives for minimising impact on the environment not at all EN 27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed not at all Memberships Awards EN 28 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations completely online * EN 29 Impact of transport partially 30 f. EN 30 Expenditure on environmental protection not at all Labour Practices and Decent Work – Management approach partially 37 LA 1 Workforce by employment type and region completely 10, 12 f., 39, online* LA 2 Employee turnover by age group, gender and region partially 43, online* LA 3 Benefits for full-time employees not at all LA 4 Employees with collective bargaining agreements partially 37 LA 5 Minimum notice periods for significant operational changes not at all LA 6 Employees represented in labour protection committees not at all LA 7 Rates of injury, day absences from work and work-related fatalities partially 37 LA 8 Education and training on serious diseases not at all LA 9 Health and safety agreements with trade unions not at all LA 10 Education and training of employees partially 15, 40 f. LA 11 Programmes for lifelong learning not at all LA 12 Performance reviews and development planning of employees partially 37 LA 13 Composition of governance bodies and employees not at all LA 14 Remuneration by gender and employee category partially 15, 36 f. Human Rights – Management approach partially 21 Responsible Imprint HR 1 Investment agreements with clauses or screening regarding human rights not at all HR 2 Percentage of suppliers that have undergone screening completely 19, 26 Dr. Mirko-Alexander Kahre Publisher on human rights and actions taken Phone +49 201 459-7160 ista International GmbH HR 3 Training on human rights not at all Fax +49 201 459-4113 Grugaplatz 2, 45131 Essen, Germany HR 4 Incidents of discrimination and actions taken completely 16 Mirko-Alexander.Kahre@ista.com Phone +49 201 459-7160 HR 5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining completely 18 HR 6 Child labour completely 16, 21, 26 sustainability@ista.com HR 7 Forced labour completely 16, 21, 26 www.ista.com HR 8 Training for security personnel not at all Contact HR 9 Violation of rights of indigenous peoples completely online* Editorial staff Society – Management approach partially 21 Janna Carina Bülhoff Janna Carina Bülhoff SO 1 Mitigation of impacts of operations on communities not at all Phone +49 201 459-3113 fischerAppelt, Cologne SO 2 Corruption risks: percentage / number of business units analysed not at all Fax +49 201 459-4113 SO 3 Anti-corruption training: percentage of employees trained completely 16**, 21 JannaCarina.Buelhoff@ista.com Concept and design SO 4 Corruption cases and actions taken against corruption not at all fischerAppelt, Cologne SO 5 Positions and participations in public policy development and lobbying completely 16 ff., 25 SO 6 Contributions to parties and politicians not at all SO 7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour completely online* Photography SO 8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations not at all Thomas Gasparini Product Responsibility – Management approach completely 21 PR 1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products are assessed not at all Photo credits PR 2 Non-compliance with health standards completely online* ista International GmbH, Corbis GmbH, living4media PR 3 Principles / processes for product identification not at all Germany, iStockphoto LP, Plainpicture GmbH, PR 4 Non-compliance with product information standards completely online* zettberlin / photocase.de, morningside / photocase.de PR 5 Customer satisfaction completely 15 ff., 21, 26 PR 6 Programmes for adherence to laws and voluntary codes relating to advertising completely 18, 21 PR 7 Non-compliance with marketing standards completely online* © ista International GmbH, 2014, PR 8 Infringement of customer data protection completely online* Printed on Circleoffset PR 9 Sanctions for non-compliance with product and services requirements completely online* Premium White, FSC recycled from 100 % used paper www.ista.com
